[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar by hello i'm sam cedar and this is
the majority report today is Wednesday
January 16th 2019 we are playing today's
show we are playing a live show that we
did just this Sunday January 13th fairly
up-to-date certainly enjoyable so enjoy
today's majority report it is from
Sunday it was a live show that we
recorded at the Bell house in Brooklyn
New York
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard
acquisition of one more
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so majority
report
with Sam Sita
[Applause]
[Applause]
- mm
we are broadcasting from the Bell house
in Brooklyn New York
[Applause]
on the program today the shutdown the
longest in US history also illegal how
many days until the air travel comes to
a standstill and Trump and the
Republicans increasingly getting the
blame as the freedom caucus says no what
happened what did you do oh well you
know the news Thank You Chet when Putin
Tulsa Gannett declares Julian Castro
declares Tucker Carlson still reject and
all that
you may recognize some events here to my
right
Jamie back
also to my right literally of course not
metaphorically these guys mark advance
to my lab
and standing in the back near a video
camera has been informed
[Applause]
all right folks thanks so much for
coming out tonight play tonight this
afternoon really appreciate your coming
ok now I believe really appreciate
everybody coming out
we've got hopefully a good show planned
for you you know it's weird to do this
on a Sunday because I think I've only
done this on a Sunday one other day in
the 16 years more or less that I've been
doing this and that was two years ago
here at at the New York Podcast festival
but I want to thank the Brooklyn pod
Fest for having us here and all the
sponsors that float on Pandora now so if
you listen to you if you listen to stuff
on Pandora or not a great way to listen
to the podcast so here's what we're
gonna do we do you have a guest he is a
good friend of mine he's going to come
out a little bit later he's gonna why
you laughed at that right you guys can
pick up your microphones ready for us No
yeah but think about this I said Michael
you could pick it up I didn't say talk
into it yeah in steps and at the end
also we want to set aside some time for
some question answers
folks have travelled from God knows
where and IQ property rights them up and
we will go over an hour over schedule
exam has a torturous exhausting
generally beautiful engagement we we're
going to take questions but we're going
to anybody has some very localized
issues for places that are not here to
go first
if there is a city council election in
rural Indiana that's a little broad but
it's something a little bit more
specific than just a city council
election across the country but all
right well let's just update you on the
the shutdown it is now the longest in
history and we have never gotten to this
place where federal workers have not
received a paycheck that has been the
essentially the the the drop-dead date
in the past and because of labor law
essentially and out of court rulings
that came out in 2013 the fact that
there are people working specifically
the ones who are forced to work hundreds
of thousands of them and are not
receiving a paycheck is illegal and that
means nothing now we're just living in
an era where the idea there's a lot of
like you and what army
is is a big issue Donald Trump kids no
well I guess we can say this we're live
here it's 18 and over Fox about what
constitutes the law and apparently Mitch
McConnell doesn't either
and this has been the problem since the
middle of 2016 I would say that the
mainstream media and to a certain extent
the Democrats are just simply not
holding Paul Ryan's gone now but Mitch
McConnell responsible enough for these
things Chuck Schumer Chuck Schumer it's
true can always go on strike they don't
like how they're being treated some TSA
workers have walked out we're starting
to see that in terms of TSA workers I
mean the those people who are deemed
essential services I don't know actually
if they can go on strike without it
being illegal yeah that was a leading
question yes but I suspect we're gonna
start to see more work stoppages and
we're gonna start to see people just
basically leave I mean right now it's
the TSA they had to shut down one
terminal in Miami because of the TSA I
think we see this stuff going on you're
gonna start to see FAA controllers
Muslims being able to fly more easily
exactly
there's definitely thoughts on - let's
go
that casually did happen to my friend
the other day on his way back from LA
he's brown he has a beard he said they
didn't even bother to racially profile
him there you go yeah there it is that's
the upside the the dropping was sort of
like standard FDA inspections that could
be the downside so and frankly you know
we've talked about this on the show I
think Mitch McConnell is terrified of a
primary challenge and so he's not going
to it's going to take a long time before
he decides to allow a vote in the Senate
people forget in 2016
he was enemy number one of the
Republican base was talking about Mitch
McConnell as a huge huge sellout and so
I think he's terrified meanwhile on the
other end of the spectrum we talked
about David Perdue I think it was on
Friday or Thursday time is dilated as
the saying goes and Stacey Abrams was
visiting Capitol Hill on Friday talking
to Schumer and others ostensibly about
Iran in Georgia I don't know if that was
you know performative to put some
pressure on the the Georgia senators but
very well maybe but we're I mean we're
going to start to see as this drags on
the you know cuz we're in new territory
here we've never had a shutdown that's
last this long the implications of our
gonna be are going to resonate for a
while I think we still have 25,000
federal workers who are waiting to get
back pay from 2013 so and that in that
court case that made them get that extra
time and time and a half for overtime
when they worked because they were
essential workers in 2013 is the basis
of people's assessment that what's going
on now not paying people who are showing
up to work is illegal under US labor law
so I mean that's where we are in terms
of of the shutdown and it's really just
a question of putting more pressure on
on your Senators and even if you have a
even if your senators Chuck Schumer and
Kristen Gillibrand the more that they
hear from you folks the better and you
know we now have the polling in there
which is going to help in terms of
putting pressure on those Republican
those Republican senators because
they've got to go to Mitch McConnell and
just say you're gonna lose your caucus
because it's starting to kill us and the
one thing I would caution though as
these polling comes out the top line is
that Republicans are going to get the
blame big time for this even for those
people who think that Democrats should
not the wall should not be built most of
them are either Democrats or
independents incidentally the number of
Republicans who think the wall should be
built has gone up in the past six to
eight months by almost 12 percentage
points so this is the dynamic in this
country they are they'll come to their
senses though yeah it's kind of happen
which one of trumps very logical
arguments do you think change their
minds
all of them
it it is in the increase of 12 points
since January 2018 and so you're looking
at a shrinking group of people who are
becoming more sure that they represent
the country is really what it comes down
to and this is going to be the dynamic I
suspect going forward unless there's a
big change somewhere and I don't know
what that change could be I mean it's
possible Donald Trump would be like this
is actually going to be infrastructure
week and we're going to do this and
that's but probably not I mean we're all
waiting for the day that he becomes the
president the one thing that strikes out
and this strikes out to me in this
latest poll is that a 54% of Americans
who oppose the wall 27 percent say
Democrats should continue to resist
Trump's demands for 5.7 billion 23% said
they should compromise with the
president so that poll sounds very
promising I don't know is there any way
we could do a little bit of an
inheritance tax relief Facebook poll and
follow up my daughter told me that
there's a lot of room for negotiation
have you seen the Bailey's post on
Facebook I'll have to ask them they've
been posting like Craig a man whose I
could just say Matt Schumer lives not
far from here that's true and I'm just
scanning the audience now super
convenient for him to drop by whenever
we do anything that is outside the
office I always leave a ticket for him
and just protect your neck Michael yeah
maybe neck very picks it up maybe he
does but so that's you know that's where
we are and I don't know I would just
taking the temperature people in the
room because we never get a chance to do
this with 350 people in the studio I'm
curious if people would be fine with
let's just call it 10 billion for the
wall if we could get citizenship for
daca let's say what about also
continuing protected status for Haitians
as well let's just phrase that the
opposite who's against that it seems
like I would say 90% of you cannot
commit to either position
that's what it sounds like well that was
interesting I mean they are support what
I said I'm glad we did and the
interesting thing is is that by now I
think we thought frankly I thought at
Tuesday night and then I thought it
would be Friday night that Trump would
declare a national emergency build the
wall I think there were people in the
Democratic Party who were like that
seems to be the best-case scenario in
some ways because he builds the wall and
then he's like I don't care about the
budget and then the the continuing
resolution passes
the government's funded and then we just
wait for you know president Castro to
declare a national emergency and
nationalize the oil refineries or or
whatever it is right the real president
Castro Castro and the Castro Island
apparently the freedom caucus had the
same for them it wasn't a dream for them
it was a nightmare and the freedom
caucus basically came back and said wait
a second this may blow up in our face
and so the it appears that some of the
most conservative members of the
Republicans have told Trump don't do
this because you will be setting a
potentially a bad precedent it's an
interesting precedent when you think
about it because the Republicans and
there's a downside to this the only
thing that they would declare national
emergency for is probably just to
literally start the camps right that is
the what was the a little bit of a
downside right it's a little bit of a
downside but there's nothing affirmative
that they maybe somebody could come up
with something but there's not as big
ticket items affirmative that I think
the left would want for instance a
national emergency to deal with climate
change
a national emergency to deal with the
fact that tens of thousands of people
die a year because there's no health
insurance there's some big-ticket items
that if the president had that ability
we had the right president might work
out pretty well for the left right and
like Julian Castro said brain power is
the currency of the 21st century
who might run for president who actually
considers those things a crisis that's
true and don't know we don't know yet
who that's going to be but Tulsi
Gabbard
let's actually get to this so you know
there was a couple of things that I
really felt like we wanted to do for
this show right the you know the the
essence of what the show was but we we
had we couldn't find a like a fresh Dave
Rubin clip what's that
Onew yeah exactly here thinking about
shooting of a Pilates studio right it's
a stand up and we have and we had some
other clips that are sort of like not
that are a little bit more evergreen and
and we will get to those but we were
going to I was just going to mention
that Tulsi Gabbard is running we've
talked about her in the past Julian
Castro is also running he has come out
with a you know again generalities but
they are pretty he's he's gonna run in
the left lane
universal pre-k not a diamond PAC money
Medicare for all we haven't heard his
definition rejoin the Paris d'accord on
the first day in office that's not
really that big of a deal
four years after five years after we got
into it but yeah
yeah expand college his college
proposals trash yeah the other stuff is
good but he's gonna solid if you get a
B+ and you meet with a cow and a loan to
works on fulfillment center yeah it's
not good you gotta you gotta you gotta
pass a ropes course first and it there's
a trust across the route as Mohammed did
we're gonna take your college and make
it wider right he's gonna involve some
some type of major housing investment of
some kind based on his past that could
involve a lot of private equity but so
and a green new deal which is so there's
a lot of value in at least a guy like
this signing on to some of these things
and it's interesting it gives you a
sense of where the left is but here's
another sense of where the some of the
left is to Tulsi Gabbard announced that
she is running and you know we've
mentioned on this program like I I think
my the threshold from when I think
someone's stuff in someone's background
is problematic changes based upon what
position they're going for
smarter right yeah you run for Congress
there's 435 of them is that what is her
and you would know them and 450 to
whatever somewhere around there I can't
remember that I might and you know
there's so many I can barely remember
the specific number so if you run for
Congress the Thresher but if you're
running for president and you you belong
to a I'm in a hate group or you speak in
front of a hate group and you there's a
little bit of cult in your background
and maybe your foreground I start to get
a little nervous like I don't you know
and why anybody from the fellowship to
be in the presidency either right and so
but there's other people who have
different opinions and because I'm
people who oppose who's proposed
war right this clip is rich well let's
just play this because this is really
part of our core brand proposition too
I give you Jimmy door upon the
announcement coverage of Tulsi I love
tossie but if you read these pieces you
will learn some uncomfortable truth that
true left the Indian journalists have
pointed out looking forward to Lorraine
you know we're all about reading about
Tulsi and learning more about her
because it's Tulsi identifies Hindu I
need to hear from her about her stance
on Modi fascism a lot of Islamophobia
imperialism in Kashmir and whether she
agrees morally with the Keast
system that is incredibly sexist against
women thanks for the donation I don't
have any answers I can tell you one
thing if there's one thing I couldn't
care less about its what's happening is
in India is that wrong of me to not care
I mean how does that affect me yeah
there's lots of bad governments all
around the world why should I give a
 about another one I don't
understand right this isn't like saying
like hey it's not a good guy and so why
we should have troops there I understand
none of them are good guys look like
 Israel's doing sis medics on
their border that's our ally Turkey's
our ally look what we're doing in Yemen
with our allies Saudi Arabia I mean so
this idea of somehow but the people in
the ugly got her because she likes a guy
in a weird bed with Saudi Arabia
wow that's just ridiculous
they even have a different litmus test
now
and you have for every other
president including Barack Obama so why
do you oppose all those other
governments what happens in Yemen that's
not their version of their parody show
right we just couldn't change the logo
the issues not that she's Hindu like I
don't think she deserves any specific
extra scrutiny because but it's her what
she has done and her so you should not
trust that Hari Krishna's they've at the
airport they'll try to kidnap you
there's a nice boy of my neighborhood a
twisted he became an hour and he just
ate vegetables and never called his mom
do you see it was very very bad ballast
that's stuck in my mom's craw for a long
time with that kid like literally the 30
years later be careful at the airport
but aside from that I don't know really
how to respond to something like that
where you just the the desire for tulsi
gabbard to be somebody that she's not is
extremely intense and she does go
surfing that makes you a progressive
that's pretty cool
the yeah it's three o'clock
[Laughter]
can we get that in the studio did you
imagine if somebody's like uh-huh let's
talk about your view of the first
principle it's like it's 2:45 put down
the phone Sam let your people leave stop
torturing them Matt with the drop I just
to actually articulate those words like
I'm surprising and say I don't give a
 about what's going on in India or
and and I don't wake up in the morning
and turn to the India section of the
paper I do but I know you do but this is
pretty stunning stuff and I think like
you know this is you know I think an
example of what a concern that we've had
for a long time at our show and why we
spend so much time sort of policing it
you know frankly Jimmy's show it I don't
think it's terribly effective that video
will get a hundred and fifty thousand
views and there'll be a lot of people
out there who you know Jimmy reefer cake
will send in a song next week that will
sing about people think we should ban
Jimmy reefer dick
[Applause]
[Music]
well don't think we should ban them Wow
good there's the 90% in the middle of
everything yes that gesture like
whatever just go on with the show
just clap exactly he's also a
guy who's done a million videos on Syria
and a couple weeks ago is just like
watch Nava with the Kurds and no
dad he literally didn't know about the
Kurdish areas anyways it's not a leftist
he's not left us like I think he's I
think he is ideologically left I think
he's just not somebody who likes to read
I think you are you saying he's a
dum-dum I think he can read but I'm not
sure know like people complain about
leftist on leftist violence when we make
fun of jimmy dore if you don't care
about people all over the world
including on the other side of this
 thing we call borders you're
not a leftist sorry
well maybe this is a good time you know
when we're talking about identities to
share something with you folks there's
been a lot of talk about this and to
have an audience of this size I want to
share with you something that's been on
my mind for some time and we're going to
play a video that I think I'll have a
little bit of an announcement to make
here it is sorry and that's the show
hi I'm Sam cedar you know many people
have been asking me about what my future
plans are going to be well I'd like to
take this opportunity to make an
announcement I have decided that I will
be starting an exploratory committee to
look into running for the 2020
libertarian
a committee to look into the 2022
Senatorial primary nomination for the
Democratic Party and also I will be
looking into an exploratory committee to
look into running for Comptroller in
Columbia County New York State as a
moderate Republican so there it is for
the next two to six years I am going to
go on a listening tour to listen to you
the various voters to tell me what I
should do so until then I hope to see
you
or rather hear you
[Laughter]
Ronald Reagan already God it is get the
truck out yep get the truck out yeah I
just stand out this is a Ronald Reagan
sent this to the office and basically
for me my my calculus is if someone
sends me a banner that suggests I run
for something then I'll run for it so
that's basically it that's how it how it
works all right I want to talk about
this we've been talking about this in
the office for a couple of days and it
has actually gotten more attention in
the right-wing media then it has
anywhere else and it it's Tucker Carlson
exactly but oddly enough
Tucker is and I you know we've got
probably too much of this video he did a
fifteen minute monologue on Fox News at
8:00 p.m.
does he do this show I thought he was
wait yeah he's eight yeah and it is a
critique of the market and so it's sort
of fascinating because I'm not sure that
it's important at all but it also could
be I think the fact that the guy is able
to articulate these arguments and then
latch them on to like white nationalism
is actually pretty important yeah
there's some scary precedent for that
incidentally and we'll talk a little bit
more about it but let's this is the this
is the first clip what he starts as he
starts talking about Mitt Romney's
critique op ed the other day in the
Washington Post I think it was of Donald
Trump where Mitt Romney takes
it was about 500 words to say that
Donald Trump is super rude but I'm gonna
vote for everything that comes down the
pike that is even remotely close to what
he wants exactly yeah and Tucker takes
issue not with his critique of Trump as
being rude essentially but takes issue
with what is basically the Republican
agenda
ladies first corporate tax cuts are also
popular in Washington and Romney is
strongly on board with those to his
piece throws a rare compliment to Trump
for cutting the corporate rate a year
ago that's not surprising Romney spent
the bulk of his business career at a
firm called Bain Capital Bain Capital
all but invented what is now a familiar
business strategy take over an existing
company for a short period of time cut
costs by firing employees run up the
debt extract the wealth and move on
sometimes leaving retirees without their
earned pensions Romney became
fantastically rich doing this meanwhile
a remarkable number of the companies are
now bankrupt or extinct this is the
private equity model a ruling class sees
nothing wrong with it it's how they run
the country
Mitt Romney refers to unwavering support
for a financed based economy and an
internationalist foreign policy as the
mainstream Republican view and he's
right about that
for generations Republicans have
considered it their duty to make the
world safe for banking while
simultaneously prosecuting evermore
foreign wars modern Democrats generally
support those goals enthusiastically
there are signs however that most people
do not support this agenda and not just
here in America in countries around the
world France Brazil Sweden the
Philippines Germany many others voters
suddenly are backing candidates and
ideas that would have been unimaginable
just a decade ago these are not isolated
events what you're watching is entire
populations revolting against leaders
who refuse to improve their lives
something like this has been happening
in our country for the past three years
Donald Trump wrote a surge of popular
discontent all the way to the White
House does he understand the political
revolution that he harnessed can he
reverse the economic and cultural
that are destroying America those are
open questions but they're less relevant
than we think at some point Donald Trump
will be gone the rest of us will be gone
too the country will remain what kind of
country will it be then how do we want
our grandchildren to live those are the
only questions that matter the answer to
them use to be obvious the overriding
goal for America is more prosperity
meaning cheaper consumer goods but is
that still true does anyone still
believe that cheaper iPhones or more
Amazon deliveries of plastic garbage
from China are gonna make us happy they
haven't so far a lot of Americans are
drowning in stuff and yet drug addiction
and suicide are depopulating large parts
of the country anyone who thinks the
health of a nation can be summed up in
GDP is an idiot the goal for America is
both simpler and more elusive than mere
prosperity it's happiness there are a
lot of agree ingredients in being happy
dignity purpose self-control
independence above all deep
relationships with other people those
are the things that you want for your
children they're what our leaders should
want for us and would want if they cared
but our leaders don't care so it
with your head a little bit as it in
right cuz because they're vacillating
back and forth between this whiny
entitled guy and then saying stuff like
an oh yeah no he's right shall we
prayers it's French
the pivot when he went to fascists in
Brazil yeah that really was the giveaway
though was the towel yeah well there's
there's a lot of these things that he
drops in at certain moments right where
it's sort of he's going down a path and
then he sort of died and that's what's
interesting about all of this on some
level at the end of the day we're gonna
play a couple more of these clips at the
end there's there's a there's a rich
history of this sometimes it gets pretty
ugly but then he goes on to say that our
leaders don't care it's just a weird
there's at the end I mean if you follow
this he is trying to establish I guess
you could call it the patriarchy or sort
of the the the the the primary building
block for authoritarianism on some level
so it's all about these leaders who have
betrayed us in some fashion right you
can hear some distant distant echoes of
this stuff here is he goes on to say
that that Democrats slash libertarians
apparently most libertarians are in the
Democratic Party in totally chuckers
classical liberals and and social
conservatives have had had similar had
sort of two critiques that have come
from a different place but it ended up
in the same area which is that economics
and culture are separate play number two
yet the pathologies of modern rural
America are familiar to anyone who
visited downtown Baltimore in the 1980s
stunning out of wedlock birth rates high
male unemployment a terrifying drug
epidemic two different worlds similar
outcomes how did this happen well you'd
think a ruling class would be deeply
interested in knowing the answer but
mostly they're not they don't have to be
interested it's easier to import foreign
labor to take the place of native-born
Americans we're slipping behind now
Republicans now represent rural voters
they ought to be interested and here's a
big part of the answer mail wages
declined manufacturing a male-dominated
the industry all but disappeared over
the course of a generation although
remained in many places were the schools
and the hospitals and both of them are
traditional employers of women in many
areas women suddenly made more than men
now before you applaud that as a victory
for feminism consider some of the
effects
study after study has shown that when
men make less than women women generally
don't want to marry them and maybe they
should want to marry them but they don't
over big populations this causes a drop
in marriage a spike and out of wedlock
births and all the familiar disasters
that inevitably follow more drug and
alcohol abuse higher incarceration rates
fewer families form to the next
generation this is not speculation it's
not propaganda from the evangelicals
it's social science we know it's true
rich people know it best of all that's
why they get married before they have
kids so give everybody a warm
but increasingly marriage is a luxury
only the affluent in America can afford
and yet and here's the bewildering and
infuriating part those very same
affluent married people the ones who
make virtually all the decisions in our
society are doing pretty much nothing to
help the people below them get and stay
married
what have you done Sam this whole thing
is a sham it's a sham you know you're
gonna find Matt and Michael some wives
huh yeah exactly there's a lot to unpack
here part of it is that a problem
doesn't get real until it starts
affecting white people according to
Tucker that's one of the problems and
his his whole marriage calculation seems
a little bit muddled it is having kids
is expensive there's some things that we
could do in terms of broadly speaking
some government programs we're gonna
wait until we get to the end where he
announces like apparently there's no way
to help those people this right there's
no there isn't like a whole obvious set
of policies that would it's completely I
have no idea how to get there we have no
clue well this is what's so creepy about
Tucker Carlson because there's always a
grain of truth in what he's saying but
then his prescription to solve the
problems is like way the wrong way now
but even there you know what that
actually reminds me of you remember
Waiting for Superman yes right so that's
that's like peak Obama neoliberal school
propaganda and the the major thing in
that movie they say is it's it's like
it's not that Scarsdale had expensive
great public schools because they're all
loaded it's and you know the South Bronx
had schools that weren't tougher shape
because of class and race and
redistribution it was that Scarsdale has
amazing neighborhoods because the
schools were awesome and it just
happened like he's reverse engineering
the after effect of a social problem to
be the cause and they did that in the
Obama era with schools everybody
accepted that kind of delusional
second-order thinking now here is this
clip is a little bit less relevant but
it's a lot more fun
in this monologue and it's also sort of
like what I think is going to keep its
minoo what Tucker's up to when you hear
this this clip this is a clip number
three of this yes doubt against the
ugliest parts of our financial system
not all commerce is good why is it
defensible to lung people money they
can't possibly repay or charge them
interest that impoverishes them payday
loan outlets in poor neighborhoods
collects four hundred percent annual
interest we okay with that we should not
be libertarians tell us that's how
markets work and scenting adults making
voluntary decisions about how to live
their lives okay but it's also
disgusting I posit if you care about
yeah he's totally nailing it well I mean
he's totally nailing this point his
four-part series on the way that Mick
Mulvaney was pulling apart the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau was
devastating unfortunately they never
aired you got to be a deep deep Tucker
member to get access to that material
they you know there was a lot of inroads
made both statutorily in terms of
regulation about that I don't remember
him complaining about it but it's nice
to know that he's there now now that
there's no way any of that is going to
be held to account at least under this
administration but watch where he goes
here this is an interesting turn okay
but it's also disgusting
if you care about America you ought to
oppose the exploitation of Americans
whether it's happening in the inner city
or on Wall Street or what happens in
India and by the way if you really loved
your fellow Americans as our leaders
should it would break your heart to see
them high all the time
which they are
number of our kids especially our boys
are smoking weed constantly you may not
realize that because new technology has
made it all but odorless but it's
everywhere and that's not an accident no
wait a second we gotta go back over so
we have a massive opioid epidemic in
this country that is a function of a
pharmaceutical company that and the
entire supply chain delivery mechanism
that was corrupt to the core illicit and
just beyond reprehensible they should
all be literally charged with
manslaughter if not maybe second-degree
murder
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
somehow it's the odorless pot really can
I just say though following Tucker I
look out on all of you and feeling the
love we have for you I'm incredibly sad
that's really high audience I just go
back just a little bit because Matt like
is smoking weed right now that like
makes me depressed every hour especially
our boys are smoking weed constantly you
may not realize that because new
technology has made it all but odorless
but it's everywhere and that's not an
accident once our leaders understood
they could get rich from marijuana
marijuana became ubiquitous in many
places tax hungry politicians have
legalized or decriminalized it former
speaker the house john bainer now
lobbies for the marijuana industry his
fellow Republicans sing with that oh but
it's better for you than alcohol they
tell us maybe who can tell you how John
Bainer could definitely vow
that's right when you see painter now
he's not weeping anymore he's even his
emotional state out exactly yeah tell us
maybe who cares
talk about missing the point driving
dinner with a 19 year old who's been
smoking weed the life is gone
passive flat trapped in their own heads
do you want that for your kids try doing
a show every day with it smoke weed
trapped in his own Tucker having dinner
with a high guy the quarry might want to
know we don't know what he does in his
free time well I mean he could have a
night it's conceivably as a 19 year old
kid I bet he does boy just deal with it
at home dude this segment is dedicated
to you tonight son
you know I've done talk about the
 gypsies about you do people have
any idea what it's like how kids fight
over beanbag chair past two days have
been about who won they eat all your
folks have one I'm out of the house
right just so I don't have to hear them
yell about the beanbag chair
Ayers talk about missing the point
driving dinner with a 19 year old who's
been smoking weed the life is gone
passive flat trapped in their own heads
do you want that for your kids
of course not then why are leaders
pushing it on us
you know the reason because they don't
care about us when you care about people
you do your best okay that's a little
almost like white Malcolm X II it was so
weird he was like it is it is that was a
bizarre turn everybody's getting high
and they're flaccid he's gonna work for
the non sequitur he's a real good
pivoter all right and then in any
sentence which is why I want to talk
about and and he finishes with a direct
attack on the market I mean I'm back on
board yeah let's watch it
nothing divides us like the perception
that some people are getting special
treatment in our country some people
definitely are getting special treatment
Republicans should oppose that with
everything they have so the question is
what kind of country now pause it for
one second because I should say that
just before this he said that elites he
started you know he does everything very
quickly and so it's it's vague enough
that it can mean a couple of different
things to different people but it won't
point you right before they said you
know elites are just letting people into
colleges based upon what they look like
and blah blah blah and it was elites
just letting people into colleges based
on what they look like and he sort of he
he pivots
here - talking about the this notion of
special treatment and you know a big
part of the problem with special
treatment is the complete lack of
accountability for his folks I mean the
people used to work with the Fox for you
know for one the President of the United
States I mean there's a lot of different
special treatment comes in a lot of
different forms when he says special
treatment we may hear that one but I
think his audience here's another one
but continued questions what kind of
country do you want to live in well a
fair country a decent country a cohesive
country a country whose leaders don't
accelerate the forces of change purely
for their own profit and amusement a
country you might recognize when you're
old a country that listens to young
people who don't live in not so slow a
country you can make a solid living
outside of the big cities a country
where Lewiston Maine seems almost as
important as the west side of Los
Angeles the country environment I should
remind you there exactly this whole
formulation of normal people I went to
college in Lewiston Maine this is very
lacking in normal people like to remind
Tucker that per capita Lewiston Maine
gets a lot more representation in the
Senate let's say when folks living in
California I was gonna say no one in a
city has ever struggled to make a living
Tucker exactly all right but you go back
I just get fascinated by this use of
normal people like I've used that as a
joke to say like we need a normal
president not a black guy and a woman
president
right and this guy's using it I'm not
sure exactly what he means well I do
think you think in a really similar way
country you can make a solemn living
outside of the big cities a country
where Lewiston Maine seems almost as
important as the west side of Los
Angeles a country where environmental is
it means
outside and picking up the trash a clean
orderly stable country that respects
itself and above normal people with an
average education who grew up no place
special can get married and have happy
kids and repeat unto the generations a
country that actually cares about
families do of everything what would
take to get a country like that leaders
who want it for now those leaders will
have to be a Republican option at this
point
but first Republican leaders will have
to acknowledge that market capitalism is
not a religion market capitalism is a
tool like a staple gun or a toaster
you'd have to be a fool to worship it
our system was created by human beings
for the benefit of human beings we do
not exist to serve markets just the
opposite any economic system that
weakens and destroys families is not
worth having a system like that is the
enemy of a healthy society internalizing
all this will not be easy for Republican
leaders we'll have to unlearn decades of
bumper sticker talking points in
corporate propaganda they'll likely lose
donors in the process
they'll be criticized libertarians are
certain to call any deviation from
market Feminine month fundamentalism a
form of socialism that's a lie socialism
is a disaster it does not work it's what
we've been working desperately to avoid
but socialism is exactly what we're
going to get and very soon unless you
give responsible people
in a way that protects normal people if
you want to put America first you've got
to put its families first I love the
juxtaposition some really good right Wow
there's not many places for him to go
after this is there do you remember when
it's National Socialism right not real
socialism it's like you know social
democracy plus white supremacy equals
what he wants it's just about the
families yeah do you remember when uh
when they when it came out that Jeff
Sessions did have a problem with the
Klan do you guys remember why he had the
Klan because they smoked weed too much
weed that monologue was like a high Klan
session in touch with each other enough
bad markets to serve us because he is
identifying real problems and some of
these are real problems with liberalism
and with things that Democrats and
Republicans have done like we have these
stingy little means-tested programs like
I recently talked to someone who's an
expert on the welfare rights movement of
the 60s and 70s government workers would
come to women's houses mostly single
black moms and if they found a man
slippers they would kick them off of
welfare but the answer to that is
universal programs and more benefits
it's not to take them away or we could
do a Facebook optic
if you're single there could be a
sliding scale for a daycare as well as
an uber voucher which you'll reimburse
50% at the end of the month for a
replate at the end of the year which
will be given in the form of another
voucher and that's fresh thinking you
guys ready yeah well wet that it was
like okay for a couple of minutes yeah I
just you know I want the tucker carlson
thing it's gonna be interesting to see
where he goes from here I mean the you
know at first I was a little bit worried
about it but I just think that this is
maybe just more of a career thing for
him I just it's hard for me to see a
movement that gets built around the
criticism of market capitalism but
Republican daddies are our only hope
well his promise he doesn't have Steve
been and always keeps his pretends like
I wanted it all rich people have more
taxes and that's like his fake see I'm
the real deal and Tucker has none of
those we have at least one or two fake
policies that coincide with that art no
maybe that's that could be coming it's
coming
that's for Trump and we can build Dakota
I do worry that Republicans will adopt
more of this rhetoric even if they're
not actually creating any kind of
policies that help the working class I
think that's true I think it's gonna be
just mostly rhetorical Trump party that
write the blueprint I don't know if that
necessarily is is a problem for the left
or a problem for the right I mean this
is in my mind a defensive move I mean
there was a time where there was no
relationship between social
conservatives and the sort of market
fundamentalist Republicans I mean there
a long time right I mean prior really
until the sixties late sixties into the
70s the evangelicals were not terribly
associated with the Republican Party
these were not the same programs right I
mean I think Eric Levitz wrote I had a
graph in his response to this where you
know being against abortion does not
necessarily mean that you want tax
breaks for oil refineries you know these
things don't necessarily coincide but
they've been able to cobble together
this coalition and if anything this
breaks it apart and that's going to
further hurt the right it will infringe
perhaps a little bit on the left but
because there are people who but yet
that being said because they won't
follow through right like if if they got
into power and they exploited people
xenophobia and they actually pushed for
say like a public option on health like
just stipulate that Trump wasn't
complete scam artist than and
what if in the first couple of weeks you
had a Muslim ban you had all of these
things that paid to people's fear and
bigotry and you had a stimulus plan and
you had a public option and you a tax
increases for the rich that would be a
pretty terrifying that's the thing to
respond real question that is happening
in some Europe yes
I don't know well and I think when when
Trump got elected we were that was we
were concerned about that that was a big
question you know what if he comes in
with like a you know an actual
infrastructure program we're gonna we're
gonna put billions into training you
like you should be a little bit more
polite to Muslims but this
infrastructure bill is way too hard we
will be it would have been
interesting to see what happened but the
Donald Trump of course turns out not to
be fantasy Donald Trump that I don't
know who thought but well I do I have
ideas who thought that but we're not
revolution it all right well listen we
have a special guest I want to make sure
that we bring him out
and then we were going to open up some
questions and we also have a video of a
very disturbing thing that's happening
amongst listeners of the show but we got
there I want to bring out a very good
friend of mine ladies and gentlemen he
is the voice of the majority with
[Applause]
Benjamin
thank you so much thank you so good to
be here
how's it going hello gang hello looking
good
I'm a funny guy yeah you hear it's
really yes psyched psyched to be here in
Brooklyn it's like to be on a podcast I
love it loving it it's great to see you
I think for folks to see you in the
flesh as opposed to hear you that's true
yeah just a lot of people don't know
what I look like and has to be seen look
like John well I see you quite a bit so
it's true
I saw you probably like a couple days
ago right it's gonna say have you lost
some waiters I have lost weight in the
last like a couple months I've been
eating less trying to stay healthy and
and that's a big thank you thank you for
pointing that out
I have not even there yet but yeah no I
am I've been getting myself into some
shape and I think I've lost nine pounds
forehead is shrunk a little bit well I'm
not wearing my heart and I did get a
haircut actually this morning we got a
haircut yeah I was longer on the side
and it was actually shorter in the front
in fact I mean I think like I used to
push it back I think that's probably
what you not only didn't like push it
back it like almost wasn't there in the
front all right I I got a haircut this
morning and then I did take a nap and I
ran over here cuz I was late and I'd you
know have my cap on so it did not get a
chance to you know like fix my hair I
don't think I'm talking about your hair
what are you talking about let me see if
I can just pull something up here we
just pull up a picture of Stephen Mills
I just don't be so harsh reminiscing and
I just want to see if you see something
that might he may comment on something
yeah just comment on
that's the Stephen dollar or the guide
from that
yeah the Trump guy right that's the Tron
guy yes that's him on a Sunday morning
talk show we can get a picture of him on
a Monday afternoon show no does he look
like me or something or what because I
don't look like that
yeah but yo wow yeah I see what he did
there
that's pretty embarrassing like he
 with his hair or something we put
on fake hair I'm not sure you could have
shaved I mean you got to be an idiot to
do something like that if you're it's
like if it's gonna be so obvious I would
feel like there's my comment on that I'm
not a fan of its politics obviously
either but I do would say he is one of
the more stylish members of the trumpet
I mean if I had to rate them I you know
I like his skinny tie this is cotton
eighties ska by you know
and I have to say like he looks pretty
good you know with the with the with the
fake hair it'd be pretty vain to do
something like this you looking to do
more on-camera work these days yeah I
don't want to get my myself out there my
face out there a little bit more than I
usually do one second assistant
[Applause]
sorry I just said those are the vitamin
powder vitamins that I've been taking we
go to the same doctor you so you must
know about this stuff sure topic topic
is a powder - five minutes goes through
the scalp and absorbs it to the
bloodstream faster because the scalp
actually you know the other night nice
head of hair as as do I so you can
relate maybe yeah maybe it might be for
the best a little bit awkward around
here I'm sorry to make it awkward right
yeah let's show our show a tucker
carlson clip the whole show just show
her talking across and she'll live on
the on the big screen that's
that's I mean I've personally I've been
to a few Tucker Carlson show viewing
parties in my day and and it can get a
little crazy they have as much pedantic
interruptions or do you just watch this
is really interesting
I just went 10 seconds without pausing
it which I know is actually John now
you're here actually maybe maybe we
should play that little homage that I
did for you recently this is a clip I
got a phone call in the office I work at
the on the studio is where my desk is
and I don't know if folks have heard
about these fake IRS calls that people
are getting this is Agent Smith very
upset
you're going to jail like immediately
let's I'm gonna play two minutes it was
a bit of an oh my to you John
thanks here this is in between this is a
we pick up at the tail end of one person
I was talking to and then I get on the
other and like the first guy had
introduced himself as mr. mark Benjamin
you'll hear him he doesn't sound like a
mark Benjamin I don't know what a mark
Benjamin sounds like but probably
something like this
[Laughter]
that was my dad thank you for holding
the light your goal has been to us birth
to one of the Dean a supervisor you are
speaking with officer Rosenthal with a
batch number one seven one zero six
three
I believe I'm talking to you mr. John
Benjamin yes yes you are yes margin must
have explained you how the pavement what
do you owe the IRS no how do you okay
I'm sorry he didn't say a number let me
just say in my own defense this was
clearly a function of a new accountant
that I have and I'm going to fire him
immediately in this time I believe he
had explained you about your case the
lawsuit which has been filed against you
and about your arrest warrant no he did
not
I had no idea there was an arrest
warrant I obviously look I'm a voice on
some major cartoons I can't possibly be
arrested what can I do to get out of
this
see mr. Benjamin exactly the reason why
we are getting arrested while you are
getting arrested it's because the reason
why you are getting arrested is because
when I always always follow suit against
us it isn't even apply
they even apply for CP 5:03 notice an
investigation arrests over first of all
I have to tell you I philosophically
believe that income taxes are theft so I
I don't even subscribe to the notion
that you have the right to tax me but I
understand if I'm I understand I have to
compare it to your laws well that's for
me is it's virtually nothing I mean I
extremely
all right yes I understand mr. Benjamin
see today itself if I already gave you a
charge to resolve this case would you be
able to come up with this total amount
today till today do you need it today
of course it's cash would cash be okay
if you have a cash we have no problem
but you have to make two years how would
I get you the money
mr. Benjamin you aren't gonna send this
money to me your Anna pay this amount of
the IRS at least IRS official official
website okay that you have to follow let
me just be clear let me just be clear
this will get the charges dropped if I
pay the money against you that charges
will be dropped immediately okay thank
you for doing that when the guy said
mark Benjamin the only thing I could
respond with oh my god I'm John Benjamin
did you say that's yeah but that won't
we'll post on the YouTube channel but
that's funny John I'm glad you're here
did my yeah you didn't mean me just say
that was funny but that was funny oh
that was very sweet of you
those good stuff anyways just get off
the hair already it is long gone yeah it
is pretty amazing now get to the rig oh
yeah I'm going to right now it's
actually terrible because I'm I've been
held a lot of black dust
and it's black mucus out of my nose I'm
like I've now black lung disease from
the topic vitamins
okay well John I'm not sure if you're
aware of the walkaway movement I'm sure
I spent a lot of time and I am I'm sure
that you have heard of the saying what
comes around goes around and we mocked
Brandon strong strong canons dry let's
try hadn't strident about his walk away
movement I went on to his YouTube show
and pathetically steamroll a
pathetically steamrolled him and you can
be smug and condescending only for so
long apparently at least 52 years and
but then one day the the Bell Tolls and
it tolls for you this was intense I have
become recently aware of this video and
movement that has started amongst
listeners of this program
and I by recent I mean like last night
it was sent to me and this is some
upsetting stuff but let's play it
[Music]
once upon a time I was a majority
reporter I was a majority reporter
[Music]
let's be honest I was actually just
watching a libertarian debate playlist
right before I made this video but
that's kind of beside the point the
point is I became a member of the
majority report so-called majority
report her because I felt like I'd found
a tribe whose values aligned with my own
I detest callers who use Bluetooth I
detest those who ask is this me cuz this
me this me Sam cuz that you is this me
yes cause you I detest callers who go
off about nothing in particular for 15
minutes and then say the real reason I
called in today was
[Music]
it just Richard from Ohio but he's
really funny by accident sometimes I
wish he would call in more where's he
been actually Janet did German by the
way these are the reasons I became a
majority reporter and these are the same
reasons why now I've got to jump for
years now I have listened even though
some of the callers are clearly insane
illogical hatefulness guided
ill-informed an American hypocritical
ageist racist menacing callous ignorant
narrow-minded and at times blatantly
under the influence of black-market
prescription painkillers for years now
I've sat on hold while Sam became more
and more patient with his bad colors
making the rest of us to languish behind
the same self are claimed victims of bad
cars now turning on the good color
community who attach themselves to the
majority report to advance their agenda
namely the Krista Paco dissident peasant
Ronald Reagan I have listened as
majority report has become hypnotized by
Judy cold yelling her cell phone
for an hour before Matthew film guy
comes on and gives you his shitty
Netflix recommendations for an hour and
that's before some shitty caller from
Scotland calls in on fire RTC can't hear
anything he's saying but he's trying to
give you his shitty Netflix
recommendations sorry callers can't get
to alia today anyone who does not comply
with their prejudicial recommendations
and follow their orders is a racist a
bigot and nazi the white supremacist in
the phobic Islamophobic xenophobic
misogynistic
and really needs to see sorry to bother
you
really you should check it out sometime
it's pretty good system sham of
meritocracy blatantly biased favorite
minimum calls for two months they barely
get to me they probably won't get to all
of you sorry callers I know some of you
have been on hold since that whole weird
night thing the majority report now
believes that there's no need to jump
when someone calls in to discuss a
o'seas 2032 presidential one the next
local DSA meeting or if someone's just
breathing too heavily into the
microphone they were calling from
[Music]
the majority report has now decided that
their point of view is the only correct
point of view but they're really eager
to hear you out if you can get through
and suppressing lopaka Raygun and
dissident peasant is fair to callers who
aren't as good as us
sorry collars were running out of time
oh wait it's Blake from Arkansas he
thinks we should euthanize your
grandmother because her pills are too
expensive
emma has adopted a deleterious belief
system happily and without skepticism
separating people into groups based on
their area codes and organizing them
into camps of bad collars and good
collars with hot takes who you'll never
get to hear from they do this so they
can bombard us with ads for Casper
mattresses and Harry's razors just
copied
[Music]
les substantiate for the rest of your
show if you'd like me to go they will
tell you that they need you they will
tell you that you are only safe under
their supervision they will promise to
liberate you from Joe Rogan and then
[Music]
once upon a time I was a majority
reporter but Mr has changed I will no
longer be part of the call-in show that
contradicts my values equal opportunity
brevity tasteful patreon plugs in
patience for and dancing on
George HW Bush's grave so I got a jump
so I've got a job so for these reasons
and many others that are definitely not
ridiculous very well founded and recent
logic and encourage all the other colors
to do the same job going once going
twice
gotta jump besides I got better things
to do with my time they got a kid and
wait a minute actually
is this David Pakman I did it this is a
barbarous Bush shout-out to Chris lopaka
Ronald Reagan a dissident peasant
there's another version that just went
up before show time so you can go check
that out at Chris the Chris lopaka
youtube sharing also check out dissident
peasants podcast
and of course redirected Ronald Reagan's
podcast both worth listening to and
obviously check out the crystal Packo's
show on YouTube all right listen we got
a little bit of time I think we got to
at least part of what most of the stuff
we want to talk about today so let's
take some questions again if you have
something about a specific issue in a
small city that is in a different please
come to the front got a lot of opinions
on now I didn't know about it the paw
Sox things happening that's what's going
ok way to stay in touch with your
community dude yeah you're like big
Arby's now you don't even care hey
that's where I discovered Arby's
I that's the gold star Boulevard on
right
yeah let's limit it to Wooster questions
if we could
all right Julie see my sister everyone
can't hear you all right Julie's giving
us an update on the Patriots game
bats are winning
it's like no success in this room a mile
bloodsport concussions for the cause
bunch of bunch of takers not makers like
this is what they're talking about
resentment politics and whatnot it's
like WEEI in here I have an announcement
about that we should tell people the
question have we settled on a venue or a
date for the boxing match presumably
between Michael Brooks and I and Michael
we have an announcement
well now due to my own hard work and
independent efforts I have health
insurance so anywhere anytime anyplace
where the part of the parks Obama you
will do it at the Armory right up the
road I just checked my email and the
sponsorship has just come through it
will be sponsored by toxic masculinity
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
the question a question for Obama Tim
Scott rejecting Steve King's comments
Ted Scott so diluted he's the first
black man that came out of the cave
let's keep it real Jakob was
experimenting on his great-great
grandparents and that's what created all
of you I see a stunning monochromatic
nature of this room reflects very poorly
on you Samantha oh yeah we will take
them thank you sir
[Applause]
wait right now okay he's rusting the
stage so Jimmy door fan Oh No thank you
thank you well yeah I wanted to point
out that somewhere in the room the
vendors are here where is it
hey isn't this time for you to talk
about how much better the produce the
something nicely is Matt hey Matt and
dad dad boom boom do over the last time
when you're just like this is certain
degree of competence in the show now oh
hi Matt
[Music]
well you know look the moon could always
fall into Lake Michigan and could Yuri
watch that debate a month I haven't had
to because it's it's etched in my mind
every time I go to bed exactly no can we
have five more five more minutes we open
all right well hands up means yeah that
in our office and no joke where there
will be like in the will be doing show
prep and something really serious and
Horrible's happened like it does every
day and Sam will just be sitting there
and he'll just play Jimmy
like the first six months after that
debate but there was a good eight to
twelve months well you picked up the
mantle now just be sitting there just
going like this and you just come in
like that's
it's completely irrational I mean I
don't think that Jimmy door is
responsible for Donald Trump's election
but we you know like what we do we don't
we can't delude ourselves that we're
responsible for anything all we can do
is just work in our limited space and
hope that some butterfly wings
you know we can push a little bit of
butterfly wing velocity tortured analogy
devil well
and and that's why I think like within
that our space it gets very frustrating
to see that type of stupidity and
toxicity because it really we do fish in
the same waters and you don't want
somebody dumping you know Drano into
your your stream patreon.com slash TMDs
is where you were trying to say right I
got you know I mean I think that I mean
obviously I mean I think that's true
it's it's it's tough when you're in a
room and you know every day to to see
outside of it but yes people should be
doing that I mean the key to sort of
maintaining the the energy that exists
now is to build real world relationships
in as broad a fashion from yourself as
possible everybody has their own
limitations obviously but you know push
yourself to do that and it's really the
only way to sustain this because at one
point Donald Trump will be gone and the
future is going to belong to the people
who stay engaged and a lot of times it's
damaged so just be aware of that yeah
people say we preach to the choir but
we're also arming the choir with
knowledge right that's true yes I am
fully informed to say oh competition
would start kicking
between UPS and FedEx and Amazon and
drones and blah blah blah DHL
[Laughter]
I love that blah blah blah delivery
service what I want to use for Public
Works alone
no I would want Daka I mean I just don't
think look the the five billion dollars
for the for the wall is is a meaningless
gesture except for how it's going to be
heard by a huge portion of Americans and
how it's going to be seen around the
world I mean it's it's it's symbolic and
I am just not a wind down of the white
family I I feel like at one point we're
gonna be able to get that if I had to
guess at what fifty billion dollars
worth of public works with a Republican
Senate and a Republican president looked
like it looks like a whole lot of
privatization to me I'd want a path to
citizenship so that real people can
really directly benefit that's that's
I will say Nancy Pelosi has not asked me
and they can stop agreeing with
Republicans that we need more border
security
[Applause]
[Applause]
do you have tickets to something else
yeah I don't want him there
we are planning an anti pata live show
maybe now we're talking there you go
[Applause]
keep him out you know get him back home
early cuz he gets really grouchy it gets
very grouchy it's an evening show that's
a problem the show starts at 7:00 yeah
that's late my back hurts oh my god well
let's just an applause for that
that's what I'm gonna show my kids when
they're old enough to yeah because they
got blue flame coming out my eyes I two
more two more questions
good the beauty is I can pick both my
libertarian run could set me up pretty
well all right one more question go
ahead
how do you talk to a libertarian how do
you talk to a hardcore libertarian
YouTube yeah well you could start them
with our playlist on libertarians but I
think I I think the idea the easiest
thing for for you to ask your friends is
just sort of you know how did they get
to where you know how are you talking to
them if you're talking to them on the
phone remind them that it was a
government that that built a lot of that
infrastructure if you see him in person
remind them they took the subway to go
and talk to you or they they drove on a
road that was built by a government and
that's where I would start and then ask
them how they'd like to enjoy their
dinner without an FDA they may have the
opportunity soon but I would start with
Noam Chomsky always a good place you're
trying to make someone go from a right
libertarian to left libertarian right
remind him that the primary thing making
most people unfree is not the government
it's capitalism and their jobs and their
bosses and then you know maybe bring it
a little bit into Sam's realm in that to
the degree that state power deserves to
exist its to guarantee economic freedom
as well as political freedom unless he
makes
yeah I'd say unless he makes at least
like 0.5 million and he's a libertarian
he's a kook
wage folks well thank you so much
for coming out
for the past week I was like why are we
doing this God why we do this so
disruptive to be on a Sunday and not a
regular route day and I'm out of my
habit and then I see all you guys out
here and it reminds me why I wanted to
do it again
so thanks so much for coming in just a
minute we've got some posters and
stickers and magnets if you see one of
us we've got some stickers and magnets
for free and we got some posters and
t-shirts for sale and I think we have
five grocery bags from the last time we
did this and thanks again for coming
really appreciate thank you to Jamie and
Michael it's a John Benjamin it's a man
[Applause]
Michaels has to show the same place in
two weeks
check it out perfect see you on Monday
see you in the front half inverse to get
No
[Music]
I'm going
[Music]
