this is another important question
answer that took place from the bar
hearings with Amy Klobuchar it's
actually you mean it is useful to note
before we do segments like this of
course the Obama administration had a
very bad record on journalists and
prosecuting leakers and as with so many
things there's the space that those
profoundly wrong policies the damage
they caused and the space they opened
for the next escalation which would of
course be even worse this is Amy
Klobuchar asking William Barr about the
possibility of imprisoning journalists
now it's really important and it's also
important to remember in this preamble
the Obama administration in fact opted
at the end of the day to not indict
Julian Assange for a journalistic work
they actually did not cross that path so
and they were horrible on whistleblower
and transparency stuff no question so
take this first bet under this current
administration my dad was a reporter so
I grew up knowing the importance of a
free press we obviously have the tragic
case of a journalist who worked right
here at the Washington Post
Jamal khashoggi and it's a particular
concern so I want to ask you something I
asked attorney general sessions if
you're confirmed will the Justice
Department jail reporters for doing
their jobs I think that you know I know
their guidelines in place and I can
conceive of situations where you know as
a last resort
and and we're a news organization has
run through a red flag or something like
that knows that they're putting out
stuff that will hurt the country there
might be a sit there there could be a
situation where where someone would be
held in contempt but attorney General
Sessions had said he was going to look
at potentially changing those rules at
one point so I'd like you to maybe
respond in writing to this because that
was very concerning and Wow
so of course the only answer to that
question that isn't bone-chilling is no
that's it now and language like that of
like throw up a red flag he wants to
imply something that like recklessly
endangers people's lives okay so that's
already very very dangerous ground
because the national security state
that's their claim about everything
that's why we shouldn't know about the
drone program that's why we shouldn't
know about mass surveillance add that to
which the president that he's gonna
serve that guy would consider
criticizing one of his business deals a
quote-unquote red flag so that's a
mortifying statement and it's an
indictment of the whole political
terrain and really I mean that's if you
go into the 90s and you look at some of
the legislation that the Republican
Congress passed and Clinton signed on
like effectiveness and death penalty Act
as an example horrifying legislation
which basically sped up the death
penalty and reduced appeals but this
infrastructure of surveillance and
opposition's of journalists is
definitely armed flows from our the war
on terror like we are still in pure war
on terror Bush started it Obama codified
it and now the keys are in the hands of
these people what is this
