[Music]
meanwhile several congresswoman went
down to and men went to tour some
facilities there's a lot happening on
the migrant concentration camp front we
will talk more about this big Pro
Publica story from yesterday that
basically undercut uncovers a Customs
and Border Protection
I guess Facebook group made up of former
and existing border agents who trade
racist memes and mock dead immigrants as
well as those in Congress who may be
supportive of immigrants not being
abused in these camps here's an image of
one of the camps from above I mean I
don't know where where which where is
this one Brendan
this one is McAllen McAllen Texas in May
2015 we've reported that Department of
Homeland Security apparently was afraid
at that time of potential riots I mean
you look at this it's not terribly
surprising that's just unacceptable
we're not designed to hold people for
extended periods of time but they have
created the circumstance why they have
this backlog of people in these places
and it came out in the democratic debate
we've talked about this for a while they
have criminalized coming across the
border they are separating parents from
children and this is what you get
they're scaring immigrants from picking
up the kids they want these images out
there I'm not convinced but they do so
with the misguided belief that parents
who are afraid of their kids being
murdered or raped in some of the most
violent cities in the world if that's
where the kids have to go to be safe
that's what they'll do so a couple of
Congress people went down there to tour
the facility here's a Jana Presley she
is understanding right now she was
giving a press conference and the the
Congress people got surrounded by I
guess people who were cheering on for
abuse of immigrants I don't know what
you would call them counter protesters
fashion authoritarians bigots deaths she
responds directly back to them words
policies
this is about the preservation of our
humanity and the freedoms of black
children being negotiated and
compromised and moderated we mean a
system networks that you made and that
is compassionate and that keeps families
together a long time ago that would
change happens it's on you because
people see the light or they feel the
fire since I we're lifting up these
stories in the hops that you will see
the lights and if you don't we will
bring the fire that's pretty powerful
that's the stuff she's exactly right
apparently down there it's being
reported that by the by New York Times
national correspondent Simon Romero that
Rashidah Talib was there and a Trump
heckler was yelling we don't want
Muslims here either we don't care about
Sharia law we care about Jesus Christ go
care about your own country apparently
there's some more a video of that do we
have video of the of some of those
protesters yelling there I mean good for
these I don't I mean frankly I'm not
sure why it's taking this long if you
recall the first time that somebody
basically got up in front of one of
these facilities was not was Jeff
Merkley senator Jeff Merkley went down
there months and months ago now
taxation is theft the yelling piece of
 there you go
so nice I mean yeah I was I was reminded
reading this weekend of how like all of
this stuff was you know it's brewing for
years particularly in Arizona and these
these groups of people going out and
doing stuff that we still regularly see
like pouring out water bottles that were
left for migrant right as an example and
then that kind of fusing with this
conspiracy theory culture and a
strategic shift for the Republican Party
to not even pretend right like that was
the autopsy after 2012 should we pretend
to not be bigots right and they decided
more effective to just be authentically
bigoted
