a majority rum or quits
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar it
is Friday October 11th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
I'm wearing my traditional soft collared
shirt today also with a sweater there's
a slight chill in the air on the program
today
Benjamin Dixon from the Benjamin Dixon's
show will be joining us also on the
program on the day that this movie
releases Tim Heidecker will be here
what's the name of the movie again mr.
America America also on the program
today Giuliani's pals who helped
investigate Joe Biden in Ukraine
arrested before trying to leave the
country on a one-way ticket meanwhile
impeachment hits new highs in the polls
and the former Ukrainian ambassador
meets with the Intel committee today
Gordon sunland agrees to testify
Fiona Hall former Soviet adviser to
Donald Trump also agrees to test the
all this against Trump's wishes Dam
breaking flood gates opening whatever
metaphor you want to use speaking of
which
climate change is here 2.5 million
people left without power as
California's PG and E spends its cash on
shareholder distributions instead of
power grid upkeep meanwhile a UN
Security Council splits on condemnation
of turkeys Syria invasion with the US
and Russia refusing to contaminants LED
drinking water protections because
because good for you yeah meanwhile new
study shows that exposure to air
pollution leaked to increase in violent
crime builds character
State Department morale plummets as a
career and senior adviser to Mike Pompeo
quits in disgust meanwhile Trump mad at
Fox TV's polls on impeachment so of
course our chief law enforcement
official in the country visits Rupert
Murdoch all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen welcome it
is Friday
thank you for being with us just a
tremendous amount of of information in
terms of the impeachment inquiry that is
happening we will talk about that with
Ben Dixon in a moment as well as talking
about the Turkish invasion of Syria
where I mean where we already have
reports of hundreds I think of Kurdish
civilians already killed which could
just be the beginning frankly but we
will we will get to to that
later in the program the exposure to air
pollution linked to increase in violent
crime people will know that for a while
it was my bailiwick to talk about it was
actually a piece that Kevin drum had
written that brought together a bunch of
research that showed that crime dropped
precipitously not just in this nation
but around the world about 20 to 25
years after lead gasoline was outlawed
in specific places and so far as far as
I can tell it has been the best the best
answer as to the question as to why
crime has dropped so precipitously
across the country there are certain
areas where it is is not at the same
rate but to the extent that there is any
type of trend across the country I mean
the murder rates in most of the big
cities around the country have dropped
significantly
now the other issues of course are LED
as it gets into you through water and
the EPA has just made that a little bit
easier for at least people living in
poverty I mean let's be honest when we
talk about these things they impact
people living in poverty far more than
anyone else and I imagine also you can
find lots of deposits of lead paint
still in that have not been remediated
in many urban centers particularly the
older ones but this latest study just
looks at air pollution more generally
and you know I'll just top-line it for
you it their findings basically are this
is uh as as discussed by I guess one of
the one of the the researchers from
Colorado State University story is when
you're exposed to more pollution you
marginally more aggressive so those
altercations some things that may not
have escalated do escalate that's
basically it and that's they don't in
the research show how that happens
necessarily but they're only looking
statistically showing a strong
correlative relationship between such
crimes and levels of air pollution now
there's needs to be a lot more study
that about this but just one more
unintended consequence of clean clean
air not just the health benefits as you
know as we understand health but also
benefits in terms of like people's
brains and their ability to socialize
with other people so there's that also
moving on let's as you know steven
crowder is you know is still reeling
from the revelations that he got cold
feet and was afraid to debate me at the
blanket con and and on gavin mcginnises
show and so different celebrities have
been weighing in on this and i have to
say that i really appreciate I want to
do the other one not this one
and I I just want to say I really
appreciate the support from some of
these people many of whom I don't even
know I've never met
scaramouche II I've met Jesse Lee
Peterson my understanding is that was
played the other day I
who else did we hear from who's the
first one that did it Tammy Lauren tell
me Lauren I get to meet her Kevin Sorbo
I'm obviously familiar with his work
I've never met him me and him went to
the same college and and I've never met
the this woman here but of course I've
admired her work since I was younger I
can't remember exactly when I first saw
her work but I give you a
Williams who excuse me Oh Dee Wallace
sorry who is got a message for steven
crowder hi Steven this is Dee Wallace I
was the mom in et and your dad is
telling me that there are people
bullying you and calling you cold feet
because you won't mix it up with this
big kid named Sam and I just want you to
know I'm really proud of you for knowing
who you are and really sticking to what
you believe about yourself and what's
right that's what he did he kept his
heart open and you know sometimes when
kids make fun of us like that it's
because they feel really insecure within
themselves so you just keep knowing who
you are and you know that your daddy's
there loving you and protecting you and
you follow et's example and just keep
your heart open good luck baby you can
do this
Steven phone home oh no wow should we
play shuffle up or should we save that
one for I mean I'm all for doubling up
okay and so far swarming and I would say
if we're doing this we might as well
play this car but you wanted again no
well I we got too much time but folks it
wasn't just that it was you know some
people are sweeter than others to Steven
who has covered this is not sweet this
is a little bit disturbing
why steven crowder would get a message
from chris hansen I don't know but it
does raise some questions about crowder
let's check in with Chris Hansen from To
Catch a Predator Chris Hansen here of
Hansen versus predators in To Catch a
Predator or maybe I should call you by
your secrets
renamed cold feet 69 doesn't want to
debate Sam very suspicious very pretty
like maybe you need these thermal socks
here I used them for catching my
predators in the cold weather anyway I
was going through some transcripts the
other day is Steven then it appears that
you're afraid to debate Sam that's what
I said I said that's what the
transcripts say so I'm gonna need you to
have a seat and even if you need cue
cards mom your daddy might be able to
help you anyway
buck up Sonny Boy get working for the
debate I think you can handle it
remember I'll be watching all right take
care yeah so there it is Steven you're
getting both sort of like a an
encouragement and a slight threat
don't come dad calm yeah good cop bad
cop situation but Steven I hope I hope
you I mean I got to imagine that maybe
you'll be be looking at these and I just
want you to know that I in no way have
solicited any of these superstars to to
send these messages and these aren't all
your Hollywood pals no these are not all
my Hollywood pals man every day every
morning I wake up I just I'm so excited
to know which celebrity is gonna jump on
the bandwagon today there's a lot of
people you know I guess in the liberal
Hollywood elite that are uh that are
really looking to steven crowder to buck
up a little bit we'll see
Oh folks do you have a dog that you
rescued have you wondered about what
breed it is well sometimes it's fun to
have a mystery magical magical mystery
pup but finding out what kind of breed
it is can help you provide a better
quality life for your furry friend
embark dog DNA test is the best in class
dog DNA tests we have had Edie this was
this is Kelly's old Kelly look not
not old put him in she was formerly
Kelly well she's still Kelly but I'm
gonna say really you know she used to
work on the show and we used to hear
about Edie all the time this is what she
had to say about her experience with
embark she wrote I recently received
Edie's results from embarked and there's
so much information about her she tested
clear for all 171 genetic health
conditions they screened for and she's
not a carrier or risk for any of the
genetic diseases they test for there's
also a full clinical trait report so
much great news but most importantly I
can provide the report to her vet which
will provide so much information to help
Edie's health as she grows up and we've
gotten emails from listeners one really
touching story about just how important
their pet was to this guy's brother and
who had some you know social issues and
and the dog became a you know obviously
a huge asset in terms of like him being
able to relate to other people and they
could really feel like by getting a
genetic testing that they were treating
this dog feeding the dog probably
watching screening for the any
particular possible diseases the dog
will get so that the dog can live as
long of a life as possible with you know
because they're obviously incredibly
close to their dog embarks test it's
worth it it's the most comprehensive kit
on the market it was developed by
doctors and veterinarians the tests for
over 250 breeds in a hundred and seventy
genetic health conditions
apparently some competitors can get down
to only 12% of a breed mix detection and
barks DNA test kit is accurate to five
percent breed component in a mixed
breeds dogs ancestry and it's fun to
know what your dog you know your dog
ancestry is but again it's also another
way to provide the optimal health and
treatments for your dog embark has an
exclusive offer for our list
go to embark vet dot-com use the promo
code majority say 15% of your dog DNA
test kit that's Embarq vet EMB a RK ve t
embark vet dot-com promo code majority
check it out
lastly before we go to Bendix and here
is Donald Trump basically in Minnesota
last night at a rally and you you're
familiar with this it would this uh
Coliseum is all right oh yeah Target
Center it's where the Timberwolves play
and you had a comment to say about like
how many he's that seat probably 20,000
and well and you'll notice in these
clips we play they don't ever pan up
above into the upper deck and there's
another clip floating around Twitter
maybe we'll play it later that shows
that there wasn't people up there I mean
it's the he's not getting the number of
people at the rallies as they as he used
to that's that's quite clear now maybe
his show is just worn off whatever but
it's an indication that maybe Trump is
not as formidable as he once was but
these folks really really apparently
have a problem with refugees but many
years leaders in Washington brought
large numbers of refugees to your state
from Somalia
without considering the impact on
schools and communities and taxpayers I
promise you that as president I would
give local communities a greater say in
refugee policy and put in place enhanced
vetting and responsible immigration
control and I've done that since coming
into office I have reduced refugee
resettlement by eighty five percent and
as you know maybe especially in
Minnesota
I kept another promise I issued an
executive action making clear that no
refugees will be resettled in any city
or any state without the express written
consent of that city or that state so
speak to you America yeah he sounds a
little tired a little strained his voice
meanwhile was also some odd it could
mean absolutely nothing but it was some
odd physicality there I'll just leave it
at that a little bit meanwhile on
Twitter somebody writes that Trump know
refugees will be placed in any city or
state without the explicit consent of
your governor or mayor so ask your mayor
about that and jacob frye the mayor of
Minneapolis wrote on Twitter consent
given immigrants and refugees are
welcome in Minneapolis good for him
there it is
Donald Trump is speaking to a narrow
band of of people I'm not gonna say all
white people that's just the coincidence
that's all we can see in the the frame
although they they really do plan they
really do you know pick and choose who's
gonna stand behind him at these events
just as they do with all politicians and
so there it is this is what he's going
to be running on and
that and apparently you know the the
treasonous folks who are using this
newfangled device called impeachment we
got to take a quick break when we come
back Ben Dixon
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program the proprietor of
the Benjamin Dixon show Ben Dixon Ben
say Sam how are you man so good to be
with you great to be with you too thanks
for joining us I am getting a little bit
of a feedback on that I'm not sure from
you I'm not sure what that is if that's
it yeah let me see if I can fix that
room okay how's this Sam I think that's
better yeah that's better
great okay great so Ben let's I want to
talk about impeachment and Syria let's
just start with with impeachment it's
been it's been pretty stunning the I
mean just starting with I guess the
polling on some level we're now at a Fox
poll came out the other day 51 percent
of people want Donald Trump the
impeachment inquiry to go forward right
and we have a poll from the Washington
Post 58% support the inquiry 49% support
removing Trump already only 38 percent
oppose Fox News excuse me says 51
percent should impeach Trump and remove
him from the presidency that's Fox News
I mean so it's hard to know exactly what
the numbers are but the it's the trend
is pretty clear you you you have a
majority of people at this point support
impeachment in some fashion or another
and it has been a a pretty significant
turnaround a swing in some instances of
like 20 points and other instances like
like you know 10 I mean what what's your
sense you know I think the first thing
is that it speaks to the power of the
establishment Nancy Pelosi finally
coming on board with impeachment we saw
a big shift just in some of the
Democrats who were afraid to
OUTFRONT I think you're gonna find not
only just Democrats coming on board but
also finding some Republicans of course
of course you could never expect
Republicans to be on board with this
fully but it the polling shows that
there is there some Republicans out
there whether they'll admit it publicly
or not they're admitting it to pollsters
that they're willing to get rid of the
president and and I think what we're
seeing Sam we're seeing a more erratic
behavior from him because of that you
know he might pretend on Twitter that
nothing is happening but behind the
scenes they know what's going on it's
it's pretty fascinating and I keep using
this analogy about what happened when
when Pelosi signed on was just basically
you know from just my years as a
director you shoot a subject and the
reaction shot is basically you telling
the audience how they should respond to
what they've just seen and Nancy Pelosi
gave you know the American public the
vast majority of whom don't you know do
deep dives into this basically gave them
a reaction shot which is Oh what he just
did rose to the level of impeachment and
everybody was like okay and it's not
it's not a hard sell right I mean great
you know on some level she was keeping
she was suppressing this and the there's
a big question out there now that the
the Trump administration came back with
a letter that was really sort of
stunning yeah basically saying they
don't believe in impeachment which is I
just want this to like marinate with
people this is like basically saying
like we don't believe in the separate
it's not like we're finagling it it's
like we don't believe in the separation
of powers or you know or the checks and
balances or we don't believe you know in
the First Amendment I mean impeachment
is very explicit in the Constitution and
they're saying this is illegitimate
because Pelosi has not called for a vote
on the inquiry
to empower the committees to have
subpoena power that they would under
impeachment but that rule changed
sometime ago before this this session
and she doesn't need to do it they have
the power to subpoena under an
impeachment inquiry and they're just
looking for any type of excuse but it's
pretty stunning and that they're just
gonna try and ignore this yeah what you
know what's surprising about this Sam is
that they are being forced Nancy Pelosi
and in Congress they they're going to be
forced to use the full power of the
Congress here
Donald Trump is gonna call I don't think
it's a bluff but he's going to push them
over and over and over again he's gonna
block them at every turn because he just
does not believe that he's subject to
their two checks and balances he
believes that he honestly does believe
that he's above the law I know everyone
says that but we're seeing it in action
and in that kind of environment while
everyone would like to just be able to
go to brunch everyone would just like to
have business as usual they are
literally going to be forced to use the
full force of Congress that they're
going to have to not only issue these
subpoenas but hold people in contempt of
Congress because if they don't then they
are demonstrating and they're complicit
with Donald Trump's assertion that the
presidency the executive branch is above
the rest of them and the real question
is is like how do they enforce this
contempt now there is this concept of
inherent contempt that Congress has they
have a jail they can find people mark
Pocan came out with floated the other
day we can just stop paying Pompeo until
he comes in I think there's going to be
more of that I spoke to former
congressman Brad Miller the other day
and you know part of the problem is the
the lapse of the Independent Counsel
statute Act doesn't provide for sort of
criminal to pursue criminal charges
outside of the DOJ and we have a real
major problem at the DOJ right now
right you know you have the situation
where it's quite clear that Rudy
Giuliani is in legal jeopardy I mean he
is being investigated right now by
members of the Southern District of New
York this is a you know the US
Attorney's Office in in Southern
District of New York this is part of the
Department of Justice
you have Rudy Giuliani being
investigated for his work in going
around Ukraine and trying to develop
this narrative about 2016 there's
another person who went around on behalf
of Donald Trump trying to debunk you
know the key parts of the Muller report
and that person is Bill Bar and that
person happens to be in charge of the
Department of Justice so I mean he
should be recusing himself right now and
appointing a special prosecutor like a
Robert Waller again to start
investigating Rudy Giuliani I mean how
do you have the Department of Justice
investing Rudy investigating Rudy
Giuliani when Bill Barr was part of this
whole thing yeah that's the that's the
oak the entire cluster after we're
dealing with here right there there is
the the mechanisms are technically in
place for them to hold the executive
branch accountable but now we're seeing
the real test of it right where do they
go from here how how will they implement
a contempt of Congress they're going to
have to do something though so they're
going to have to come up with a strategy
of how we are going to address this
because they don't have the option of
not doing anything the option of not
doing anything is going to enshrine
really a dictatorial exec executive
branch one that week I mean Donald Trump
has already hinted towards that he's
already prepared to say that the
election in 2020 is not valid and so if
they don't if they don't draw the line
here and and how they do it that's gonna
be up to their advisor that's gonna be
up to their all the imaginations that
they're gonna go through but they have
to do something they have to respond to
Donald Trump's desire you know just
really asserting himself to be above the
law if we don't if Congress does not
have an answer to this then we have a
bigger problem on our end in the long
run yeah I think so and I think like you
know investigating it you know I don't
know if they're gonna be able to hold
anybody criminally liable at this point
I mean well I guess we're gonna wait and
see but certainly investing
and going through and even if it's just
going through the motions and we're in
voting to impeach sends an important
signal I mean just to get peep everybody
up-to-date with what's happened
literally in the past 24 hours you have
two associates of Rudy Giuliani who were
hired by him apparently to dude some of
the digging up of Biden material in the
Ukraine in excuse me in Ukraine these
people apparently were also involved in
buying influence from everyone from Pete
sessions to others to to further a whole
host of of agenda items involving the
Russians involving Ukrainian oligarchs
and they're getting charged on Federal
Elections violations they were about to
get on a plane apparently the southern
district of Manhattan of New York I
should say did not want to reveal this
but but apparently they got tipped off
in some fashion and we're about to take
a one-way ticket to Europe now who knows
how the they got tipped off right this
is a problem that we have with the DOJ
now and so the Southern District of New
York which must have had these guys
under surveillance went and basically
arrested them meanwhile just about ten
minutes ago the Ambassador Ukraine
marie-anne Ivanovich she was the one who
was fired because she wouldn't pressure
the Ukrainians to dig up stuff on Biden
she says that Trump pressured the State
Department to remove her she just said
that in testimony now the the house has
subpoenaed Rick Perry who's involved in
some of this and it's starting to look
like hunter Biden the big problem with
hunter Biden is that he was actually
sitting on a board and preventing
buddies of Giuliani and Perry who wanted
to be on that board to move it in a
different direction would they're still
digging on that it was announced today
that Gordon Sunland who was the EU
ambassador is the you ambassador who was
sort of like bizarrely named to be in
charge of Ukraine maybe because there
was nobody there
they didn't appoint anybody he has
agreed to testify even though Trump
doesn't want him to because I imagine
he's starting to feel like he might have
some criminal exposure we know that that
Trump's former Russian adviser Fiona
Hall is going to testify and she's gonna
say that Giuliani was running some type
of shadow policy with Ukraine and
Congress has now asked Bill Taylor Bill
Taylor just to remind people was one of
the guys with Sunderland and and
and who was on this email throw excuse
me these text message thread about the
pressure being applied to zalenski in
Ukraine bill Taylor's the one who ended
in September by saying as we discussed
them as I said on the phone last night
he's saying this to go and someone I
think it's crazy to withhold security
assistance for help with a political
campaign and then someone said I don't
know what you're talking about the words
quid pro quo are never used I mean this
stuff is like this is like it's like
it's like Fargo sort of like it's like
it reminds me of just like like just you
know some fumbling criminals but now
it's all out in the open and it feels
like the floodgates have opened now so
that's the thing though so any any of
those single any one single thing that
you just listed right in the hands of
the Republican Party and a Democratic
president would have been enough for a
full impeachment and they would have
drawn that one detail out and and this
is this is part of Trump's this is what
makes him almost above the law is that
he's the master of just the floodgates
he just he just pours it out you'll
notice that he made the appeal to China
to help with the election or help with
the investigation and he does that
intentionally so that is it's almost
like you thought that was bad look at
this and he tries to muddy the water
where people just
to throw up their hands and say what's
the difference he's you know that's
really what he's an expert at and the
the counterpoint to that is whether or
not the Democrats can take any one of
his transactions of his transgressions
rather and leverage it to the point
where we actually can hold him
accountable I I think we're headed in
the right direction I did have some
concerns about how they're proceeding
whether whether or not they should only
focus on Ukraine but is the Ukrainian
story unfolds there's so much there that
that I think that there may be
sufficient enough evidence involved here
to actually start holding the president
accountable now does that mean a full
impeachment and a trial in the Senate I
don't I don't know how this plays out in
the long run but it's there it's been
there the the cookie has been in the his
hand has been in the cookie jar since
day one and and but that's how he gets
away with it he just keeps doubling down
doubling down and and our system our
system is not designed to handle this
and I think that's what we have to
answer right now is how do we handle
when democracy puts someone in power who
is a direct threat to democracy I mean
you know I have never been one of those
people who's taking anything seriously
about Donald Trump's not going to leave
but I do think the problem is gonna be
bill Barr and Bill Barr is not gonna
leave
I don't think until you know until
Donald Trump is out there and I think
bill bar will go to any lengths to
attempt to justify this and it's just
gonna be it's gonna be nuts to see how
this goes down
and I mean you know because this is
presuming of course that if there is a
Senate trial I mean I think it's it's I
think it's a fait accompli at this point
that he's going to be impeached the
question is how the Democrats going to
do it or it seems to me that there is no
as far as I can tell and and and tell me
if you've read something different
anywhere or aware of anything different
I don't know if there's a one way to do
impeachment in other words I don't know
if you need to
all seven ten fifteen twenty twenty
eight articles of impeachment
simultaneously like I don't know if you
can't if you can't say like okay here's
what we're going to do we're gonna
impeach him on this article right now
we're gonna impeach him on on extortion
and inviting foreign assistance in a
political campaign right just in terms
of Ukraine we're gonna impeach him on
that and then we're gonna start
investigation on the next thing and
we're gonna impeach him on that maybe
it's uh you know I don't know maybe they
find stuff about about Turkey we'll talk
about that in a moment we're gonna
impeach him on that and then we're gonna
impeach him on the emoluments and then
we're gonna impeach him on whatever it
is obstruction and as outlined in the
mauler investigation and we're gonna
we're gonna and then at the end of that
process we're gonna deliver all eight
ten impeachment counts of impeachment to
the Senate in other words like do they
have to do this all at once or can they
do it one step at a time which I which
to me seems like the best course of
action and then send it all to the
Senate in like April and say okay which
one of you are gonna stand up and and
vote on these and it's also gonna make
it harder for the Republicans because
they I think you know they're nervous
about this they don't want to take a
vote on this right now and that's why I
think Donald Trump is pushing for this
vote this house wide vote on whether to
have an impeachment query cuz he wants
to force the Republicans to be on his
side and if he does it now he's got to
be this is at his maximum leverage point
it's gonna get a lot less as more
information comes out yes Sam I've
actually have not heard any strategy
like that anything for against the
validity of that the critical thing that
you said in there is that
they will impeach investigate impeach
investigate nothing will be delivered to
the Senate until everything is delivered
to the Senate because otherwise it will
create a fatigue it will create victory
after victory after victory for the
president so but for them to have a pile
of a series of impeachments for them to
sort through number one that's gonna
take them some time to do so but then
too it makes them take a stand to stand
behind Donald Trump on the issue by
issue not a single overall impeachment
but impeachment of this and actually I
think that is a brilliant strategy and
and all jokes aside I hope somebody's
listening to this episode if they don't
have that strategy in place already I
think that that definitely will be the
way to go so meanwhile let's talk about
what's taking place with northern Syria
yeah it is I mean we could be on the
precipice of a massive ethnic cleansing
I mean arguably genocide with Turkey
going in there's two million Kurds I
think living in that area they have
already basically announced their
intentions to occupy but first they need
to obviously - you know they're gonna
bomb the hell out of these people and
there's already been a couple hundred
civilian casualties and this is on top
of we should say the the Syrian civil
war has taken tens upon tens of
thousands of lives I mean more and it's
been horrific the the the the the point
here is that the Kurds were basically
promised by the United States that we
would protect them and we would we had a
deal with them essentially and we banded
them and at the UN Security Council
there was an attempt to condemned
turkeys moves and as far as I can tell
two of the members of the Security
Council voted to not condemn the each
voting member heads uh veto power on the
Security Council and those two countries
were the United States and Russia I mean
you know who knows well I I didn't even
know that happened but I knew it was
gonna be the United States and Russia
who vetoed it I mean you know I don't
know if Donald Trump is you know I don't
think that Donald Trump is a puppet of
Vladimir Putin but he certainly does a
lot of things that are in Russia's best
interest now that's not necessarily bad
for the world it's maybe just a
tremendous coincidence but what's
interesting too is that it has come out
New York Times had a story yesterday I
guess that Rex Tillerson and Donald
Trump and Rudy Giuliani we're in the
Oval Office this is before Giuliani was
Trump's personal lawyer Giuliani was
looking for the release of a jailed
client who was an Iranian Turkish gold
trader as part of a potential prisoner
swap with Turkey now people got to
remember too that Flynn had a lot of
involvement with with Turkey too he was
basically on their payroll and not only
lobbying for them but was talking about
possibly kidnapping uh this guy Gulen
who is a religious leader I mean you
know I think there's arguments as to
whether this guy has been up to you know
sort of like some shady stuff with some
of his charter schools but it doesn't
necessarily warrant a extraordinary
rendition by the chief national security
adviser of the country in some type of
like Rambo style operation with his son
I mean this is just bizarre stuff but
Giuliani and Michael Mukasey
also piece of garbage and similarly I
remember when he was appointed attorney
general under the Bush administration
you had the same establishment types
going like he's a straight shooter and
as soon as he got in everyone
like oh wait no he's not and same thing
with the you know there was a lot of
bill Barr a talk like that as well just
side note legal profession needs to deal
with itself on some level but I'm it's
true there's some real problem there
that they can't make assessments about
this this is just sort of nuts how deep
this may run and the idea that this is
the only you know this is the one time
that Donald Trump's administration just
sort of stepped out of line I mean right
it's it's it's it's it's a sad as common
we think of the actual cost right actual
lives that are being taken right now as
we speak that's the tragedy of this
right and the depth to which these ties
go like where does it where does it
really in because you didn't bring that
back to my remember it's about Michael
Flynn and his deal with this this covert
extradition that they were trying to do
which actually was tie directly to the
Kurdish movement their insurrection
there in Turkey you you I'm not sure how
deep this goes
right but before we even think about how
deep it goes really just think about how
callously and carelessly the President
of the United States open up the
floodgates not only to the possibility
of genocide at the cleansing but also to
the resurgence of Isis right and and and
the fact that in a will it was almost
like a whimsical call phone call that he
just turned the world on its head
overnight that's number one but the
number two it does look like there's a
level of connections that go so deep
that you have to really take take a step
back and look at this holistically like
you know while Turkey turkey is a NATO
ally with Donald Trump in office and the
way her one cares himself you really
have to think about the possibility that
there is a desire for a realignment away
from NATO in favor of Putin now this
isn't to say that Donald like you said
this is not saying Donald Trump is doing
the bidding of Vladimir Putin and this
is not to say that NATO is above
reproach that we can't criticize NATO
but as you look at everything is its
laid out if you remember 2015 when
turkey accidentally
quote-unquote accidentally shot down a
Russian fighter you know you would have
thought that would have create a divide
but it actually opened up the door for
closer relationships between Turkey and
Russia and so we have a lot of things
that are going on in the background that
paint a bigger picture of of something
that's happening right however
strategists are our analysts want to
categorize it
something is happening but the immediate
result of it is the fact that thousands
of people are potentially going to be
killed as we speak they're dying and we
should make something clear - this is
not Donald Trump taking our troops out
of Syria this is not Trump just moving
anywhere from a hundred to a thousand
troops in it to a different part of
Syria that's all that's going on here
we're not we're not not--not troops are
coming home your troops just moving
around and that's it and Sam can I also
point to that point they are close
enough to the actions that they are now
reporting their frustration than their
anger watching their comrades die you
know right they are close up these
American troops have not come home but
they're close enough to the action where
they want to help the p-put that they
have been fire side by side with but
they cannot because of orders from the
president the United States now this
this is an interesting thing right we're
going to see a huge divide because of
this we're already starting to see it
with the Republican Party Lindsey Graham
finally growing a backbone and we'll see
to what extent he actually grew one but
you know even in terms of the military
in general it is the Republican Party
and it's the Republican president that
has betrayed not only our allies but the
spirit if you're if you celebrate that
type of thing the spirit of the American
soldier he is betraying it and they are
seeing if they're tasting it they could
see their comrades dying and there's
nothing they can do about it the
long-term ramifications of this
obviously the most important thing are
the lives and the genocide but also like
the the politics of it like how does
this actually play out for the
Republican Party in the long run when
they are actively betraying the troops
well the I mean if the Democrats can't
win in these circumstances
well look it's all the party well I mean
it's not listen it's not it's not just a
function of the the Democrats failure
now I think it'll be largely a part of
that you know like it's just you know to
the idea that there isn't like clear
like just the way that they're handling
impeachment Nancy Pelosi sort of driving
with the brakes on it's like you know
what if you're in for a penny you're in
for a pound you just got to go for it
yeah at this point if you're doing it
and and of course you had to so once
you're forced into this situation you've
got it you've got to reorient yourself
and come up with your plan B and you
know begin to provide you know just as
people who want to report on this stuff
I I'm just wondering like why the hell
does not why is there not a committee a
staffer who is basically providing you
know creating some type of website with
a clearinghouse of all the information
that they're doing like you know like
why why do we have to go to disparate
places to find out like where all the
deadlines are for Judy Rudy Giuliani's
subpoena for Rick Perry's subpoena for
Pompeo subpoena like I want to know when
these things are deadlines like you know
like management process with all that
said it's also quite possible that our
country is full of too many people who
have no problem with this stuff and they
just don't care they just don't care I
mean I just saw I saw a report there's a
Wall Street Journal article today about
people going to about reporters going to
these these counties that have voted
Republican for I don't know for decades
and but they're getting hit hard I mean
hit hard by all the trade war stuff and
the quote was something like we don't
know if we can afford to vote for Donald
Trump again and it's like what right
you're you're you're you're willing to
take a beating in terms of your own sort
of like subsistence to vote for him but
you're just not sure you can take this
much of a beating you know like the
people
our voting based upon these sort of like
very odd cues you know and I we can
imagine what those cues may be you know
even in the most sort of like favorable
light they are there they're terribly
misguided you know that's in the most
favorable light but fascinating yeah I
mean the only thing I would say about
that Sam is it there's a level of high
transcends everyone's best interest and
we're seeing we're seeing that's what
we're living in like there's no way to
explain being willing to vote for
someone who you can see materially
damages your well-being except for the
fact that they they have some sense of
utility they have some sense of victory
that they get for voting for their red
team or their blue team but you said you
said a mouthful man that really makes
makes a person just take a second and
really think about how screwed up we are
as a country when we can see and we see
it all the time like this is no surprise
we saw with the first images that came
out of here at the Syrian civil war we
see it now with the betrayal of her with
school shootings on a regular basis like
we we get desensitized to a whole lot of
things and we don't do anything about it
while simultaneously were hypersensitive
about things that are kind of irrelevant
right so as long as we can go to brunch
everything will be fine
meanwhile the world is starting to burn
around us Ben Dixon Benjamin diction
show people check it out on YouTube or
go to what is it Benjamin Dixon show.com
show calm or YouTube is fine Ben always
a pleasure thanks man take care
lose a little bit there towards the end
folks sorry about that
all apologies now ladies and gentlemen
we're gonna move on to the next part of
our program I'm gonna be talking to Tim
Heidecker of Tim and Eric's awesome show
from Decker
from on cinema at the cinema and now mr.
America will be right back
you
play i'ma cut I couldn't find it
what it's not I'm son clothing son of it
alright we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it is a
real honor to welcome to the program
someone whose work I have appreciated
for four years yes he first maybe you
saw them on Tim and Eric's awesome show
or Decker or on cinema at the cinema and
now mr. America Tim Heidecker welcome to
the program thank you so much thank you
for giving me time during so there's so
much for you to talk about I'm sure what
do you mean
well it just seems to be activity in the
news just a little bit it's crazy
but thank you for giving me this
opportunity to shamelessly plug money
garbage I'm going to tell you I'm going
to tell you that I have not been this
excited to see a movie
since Skyfall was announced now Skype
mom turns out
Skyfall turned out to be not good I went
to I went to it like it for me at that
time when my kids were young to go and
take three hours to watch it I was
really bumped but I am so psyched to see
your movie we're gonna lose we're gonna
play the trailer okay this is so up I
think this audience is Ali yeah but here
it is all the chips are in on this
everything's on the line financially
emotionally tim heidecker and i think we
were very good transplanting I'm running
for San Bernardino District Attorney I'm
coming out here talking to voters yes /
District Attorney yet said that three
times now if you want an outsider to
come in shake things up because San
Bernardino has gotten to be so corrupt
all these numbers you see that it's just
that's all crime forever that's the
community we want to create in large
sections of San Bernardino County mr.
Heidecker is persona non grata from
first amendment he is perceived as a
murderer and got away with it see that
justice is done this individual as far
as the DA goes this Rossetti has turned
out to be a total rat I don't know how
you find these people if you elect them
or not but maybe he'll have some
competition next time Oh Vincent Rosetti
District Attorney of San Bernardino's
trying to kill me it's a temper burger
happening right here I think Tim's
running for da because he just wants to
get revenge
what's happening with the GoPro its
GoFundMe I got it set up most of the
time they'll find me as for people who
are like sick or poor I'm starving
I really shouldn't technically be doing
this but boom
he's running for District Attorney which
is not gonna really happen because he's
not a lawyer he doesn't live in San
Bernardino
now that the race is tightening can we
put this in your window we see the rat
beginning that looks so awesome it's one
of those movies that I feel like you
don't even have to see you can just
listen to the whole movie and that's why
so tell us and I should say like I
watched you know obviously haven't seen
the movie I've just seen these clips and
folks it's released today on all the
major streaming platforms but I see like
a little bit of Mike Serna in
there in the moments like where you know
you're holding the selfie stick and
claiming that you're being attempted
murder there's there's Trump in there to
some extent I meet what we tell us like
I mean I the question your your circle
here there's so many angles too many
ways to get in all right well tell us
how for those folks who don't who aren't
familiar with AMA cinema at the cinema
there's the arc of how the movie like
sort of like you know the basic synopsis
we've been doing on cinema for a while
it's basically like Siskel and Ebert
except well in case those guys didn't
seem to like each other either but you
know it's this it's sort of this soap
opera that's been going on three
we sort of glibly talked about movies
but really it's a it's a device to to
tell just crazy stories about my
character who's always kind of getting
caught up in some scheme or some pyramid
scheme or scan you know trend he's just
a pretty bad guy who naturally dovetails
into the sort of shrimp wave and becomes
a trump supporter and making sure I'm
still in the air can you hear me yeah no
we can still hear anybody besides me I
was listening but I'm here yeah so so
anyway eventually putting on an EDM
festival where he handed out you know
vaporizers which had poisonous content
in them which ended up killing 19
teenagers now we should be clear we
should be clear showed up in the news do
you think that they got the idea to use
tainted babies from hearing about your
movie I'm certainly not gonna speak on
the record about them it seems
incriminating but no I mean you know I
think Greg you know are always kind of
paying attention to the some of the
subculture stuff going on noticing when
things I know Greg few years ago was
kind of was really irate about these EDM
festivals where kids were overdosing and
it was seemed very unsupervised and
fright you know just I think we tapped
into that and also vaping was just
popping up everywhere and we're kind of
just laughing at the silliness of it
but yeah those two things kind of
crossed paths and Mike so my character
was put on trial he ended up defending
himself and was a cool and was well
technically we had a hung jury which
appeared as a $5 mock trial that
appeared on Adult Swim that people can
watch and the result of that was that he
decided to run for District Attorney of
San Bernardino which is where the trial
took place to oust the current district
attorney who revenge campaign so that's
that's the back and let me just be clear
with so that people understand it so the
the storyline went along on the show and
then it's going to jumped mediums into
the documentary and like how it's is
there a story like it's like how do you
explain
do you even address that in the context
of the movie yeah you know we didn't set
out to make a movie that was going to
come out this way we kind of just make
another piece of media and the way that
the trial existed on Adult Swim it's we
decided to take it from the perspective
of if a young filmmaker followed these
guys around you know mostly the stuff we
make in the show is sort of made by us
or made by our characters and we said
it'll be interesting to see how this
these people would look from an
outsider's perspective and so we created
a fictitious filmmaker that would follow
us around and then sort of did our best
to set it up for the audience and we
ended up making this this thing that
felt really funnier than we thought it
was going to be a more kind of a better
folk you know kind of I'd say we're it
important also I'll say that we're very
important brands to work you know it
just felt timely and maybe that it could
play outside of just the audience of the
show which we're kind of seeing that's
you know that's happening although you
know some people are just gonna miss it
they're gonna miss what we're doing but
we set it up in
to kind of explain who these characters
are but yeah so it's if it's kind of
doing two things on one level it's kind
of this character study it's kind of a
political satire to look at how you know
candidates now can probably scoop by
without very little experience or
without very little aptitude for being
in the elected office but it also shows
like the comments we've gotten from
people that have seen it were like it
was kind of comforting because my
character not to give anything I
character loses and fails throughout the
entire movie there's never it's never
presented as like oh no this this bad
guy is get is winning you know cuz so
sort of was like a comfort food movie
for people that want to see how things
ought to be
maybe you know some people said it was
nice to see this sort of Trump champion
boorish dopes lose you know throughout
the movie so so it's working on that
level and then for the fans of on cinema
it's chock-full of you know references
and and it plays into the narrative of
that show in a bigger level as well have
you
I mean it's particularly the on cinema
and then obviously into the movies gets
very directly I guess associated with
the politics of the day have you always
been as you work always been sort of
politically oriented I mean how did you
start did you start as a stand-up me
know I know Eric and I started we went
to film school together and made life
shorts short films and kind of arty
artsy kind of things animations and and
so we came up that way we were not
political I don't think you know some in
some ways are so it was a little
political and that it was very satirical
of culture and and you know the
corporate you know a mass-marketed tell
the world that we live in but not you
know we sort of went the other direction
from you
The Daily Show kind of commenting on
stuff of the day right but I don't know
I think in the past 5 to 6 years I've
always been interested in politics and
found it important to at least shape my
life but you know listen the past five
or six years have been insane and almost
it feels it feels that it's impossible
to divorce it from at least my own
creativity and you know some people
aren't interested in that but it's kind
of just the direction things go bad you
know in this movie people know that it's
we never say the word done shrimp and
yet it's it's all over the place you
know right our minds but it's on
everybody's minds and I think artists
right now you know it's sort of like it
would be almost weird to not bring it
into your work in same way so here we
are and you went to uh you went to the
RNC with Vic burger too didn't you
didn't you take him down there we went
down there with the cameras and I
remember he did get to talk to Alex
Jones he got we got up to him and was
asking him about the white chubby
Checker's in the Hall of Fame how did
you and cook up well this is you know
this is convenient to talk about Vic
because he he was an early fan of on
cinema and and I noticed him he was
making these music videos about
characters on on cinema and full songs
that were like about characters from the
show and they were very rudimentary the
songs were actually really good because
he's like I think first and foremost a
really good singer a songwriter believe
it or not but he
put these videos up and we loved them
and it was still early days with that so
and people weren't making that much
because this community that watches that
show they make a lot of content like
they make a lot a sort of subsidiary
content of the show they make you know
art and posters and music and stuff like
a associated with the show I don't know
what to compare it to I'm sure there's
you know some other fandom thing that
this is like but like maybe you know
people paying the right wing celebrities
to do cameo videos thing can happen
right yeah Wow or it's like Star Trek or
something you know right people like our
you know live in these worlds this care
this universe but I also found out who
was from my hometown sister town of I'm
from Allentown and he's from Bethlehem
so I we got in touch and he started
making stuff for us and then he went off
on his own path and I've always been
trying to you know sort of mentor him as
as I'd been mentored by you know people
like Bob Odenkirk who found us trying to
give what do they say pay it forward
share their the pay forward thing so
yeah that's that's me and think the
thing I really like about the comedy you
do is it really it's it's it doesn't
feel like you at all care of I don't say
care but that you just not too concerned
about the audience getting it on
something and yeah that's sort of the
the you know back when I was in comedy
was sort of the the school of comedy
that I came from I mean it didn't work
out well for me but but but you seemed
to make it work and I mean it's I mean
so we talked about this a little bit and
I wonder also you know curious too
because you know you're about 10 years
younger than me and when you when you
guys came out of film school there was
that was really sort of like at the
beginning of I mean there was a lot
there was you know
YouTube and and just other video online
which didn't exist you know when I
basically came up and there was a lot of
outlets for that yeah let me take the
first question first they're related Tim
they're related see if I can just
transition from one to the other without
you even noticing
okay we're finding this whenever you
know I agree when we're making stuff I
usually you know if it's me or Eric or
if it's me or Greg you're really just
making stuff for ourselves and for each
other to laugh and we that's how we just
don't think about the audience you know
ever and we're not trying to not make
anyone laugh we're just think doing what
we think is funny and not you know not
doing focus groups about you know what
what's what's funny these days so what
happens is you get a lot of people that
quote the comedy works you know you get
things like when I was a kid Mystery
Science Theater was a big thing for
anywhere I felt like they were in my
brain they they were making me laugh and
they were just dialed into what I think
was thought was funny or something like
spinal tap that was so specific and so
well executed and and you know that's
that's the kind of fans we have we're
just really just just I take it very
personally and really connect with it
but when we put something like this out
into the world and it gets out into the
mainstream where you have big you know
mainstream outlets reviewing it you
realize that oh there is not an appetite
for this in a large part like you know
there's somebody watched the movie and
reviewed it and said it was land free
and it was not and it was like you know
intolerable and how dare they you know
that kind of attitude and it's something
I can't really do anything about but it
is funny that you know we're never
trying to make something for a mass
audience not not because we don't want
to
so audience we would love it if we just
had you know we were the most popular
thing but we just never want to
sacrifice you know what we wanted that
the core of what we want to do and so
that's where it comes on but for the
people that love that you know it's it
connects that I really understand why or
I don't understand how something means
to me i watch and go this is just funny
it's Pramod II there's you know it's
basically a bad guy and he's slipping on
a banana peel for 90 minutes like core
you know company concepts it's not that
great it's not that crazy to me but
apparently it is and then I will this is
a little more clunky to go into your
second question which is yes we we've
been able to directly and this is partly
why we're able to have an audience where
we put this movie out last on Wednesday
in theaters in like 120 theaters and you
know thousands of people came out and
saw it and it like did wealth and the
Magnolia who put it out was like hey we
had a good night last night like your
fans came out and they had a blast and
so you can exist out there as a fringe
comedian or a sort of a alternative
comedian or something and do okay
because I don't know I don't think I
think like the idea of serving like a
nice like popular mass culture person in
especially in comedy seems kind of
harder - harder to figure out I don't
know if you saw that clip that was
growing around it was the VMAs this year
now and there was this there was Oh Sam
this is the craziest thing and it watch
them who watches to be amazed that we
know like now what he brought aware that
it was still going on but I will take
you there well they made this comedian
come out to host the VMAs okay the host
the VMAs was this guy and I'm gonna say
his name wrong but it's like Salvador
Pasquale he was like this kind of Andrew
Dice Clay kind of comedian like a very
Italian Jersey dress
like a guy he's walking down the street
and ale you know like real and he's and
the thing is he's a major he's a very
popular comedian he's got a you know
he's sold out Madison Square Garden and
he's on Netflix with a special and he's
on he goes on The Today Show but he came
out just to post this thing and you
could tell right away that most of the
people in that room did not know who he
was and he started usually got to watch
it it's crazy he starts going into like
just so you know MTV is a safe space
like this world and the VMAs
especially the artists like whoever I
couldn't tell you hold on we got a
little bit let's play it's Sebastian
Maniscalco thing like is who knows who's
even famous anymore that is I mean you
know I want to play this clip of him but
well let's play this clip and then we'll
talk about that phenomena cuz that that
to me I think is that dynamic is what I
think has been so helpful to comedy and
to just broadly to entertainment but
here at sea news for a second what
they're doing is is they they notice
that we're living in ultra sensitive
time right triggered
or you feel offended by anything I'm
saying up here or anything the musical
artists are doing they're providing a
safe space backstage will you get some
stress balls and a blankie and also
little nas acts brought his horse which
will yeah
horses backstage which will double as an
emotional support animal so if you'd
like to talk to your archers they will
send you back to where that's happening
personally I would remove you from the
arena put you in your car and send you
home but they opted with the safe space
yeah I will defend I will defend Dave
Chappelle till the day I die but yes
that's what I like about this I just
have to say is every time something like
this does something we we both critique
them from the left I guess and then we
go into the last form of acceptable like
ethnic comedy which is real and it's
fine hey I've got a ridiculous eighties
jacket on oh this guy this guy this guy
just like is used to walking into venues
where everybody shows up from Long
Island all due respect to Long Island
and that's the idea of somebody on stage
saying like safe space with like a
little bit of like lilt as if it's like
we're on the same he must be used to
like I remember at one point Benjamin
and I and a couple of guys in Boston
wrote for Anthony Clark do you remember
him he was a stand-up and sort of
southern II stand up who was from Boston
and we we wrote a joke
Pepsi Shep C Fred
I think that was the joke it just felt
like I got just like like he wasn't
comfortable saying it nobody wanted to
hear that it was completely but so
what's interesting to me about like what
you do and this is what I was getting at
with the different sort of like
platforms that exist now even like Adult
Swim where you would have 10 minute
shows like that didn't exist on TV 15 20
years ago really and and there's so many
different ways in which to reach an
audience that you can you can be very
big in a community of people in and and
have a huge career and it provide a
platform so that you know sort of more
mainstream stuff can see you so you end
up acting in series yeah
that to me seems like it's created a
whole host of opportunities and we just
have much better comedy and
entertainment broadly speaking because
of it and you know this is a new way of
doing it which is we can do a night
where the where our audience is sent
mostly our audience can go out wherever
they you know in the hundreds of 20
cities that on Wednesday and spend this
communal experience almost like when you
go out and do a live show you know be
around similar minded people and some
like Rolling Stone was like why didn't
they just cut this up into little small
bits and put it on Adult Swim well the
evidence is that hundreds or whatever
tons of people came out to be together
and they all had this fun different
experience it's like it proved its own
point that it worked you know and that
it did feel like a movie to see with an
audience and that's kind of not you know
comedy is I feel like we forget that
they're really fun to see and in a room
together and play off each other's
reactions to it and Moore's you know we
only say like you gotta go see Skyfall
you gotta go see Batman in the theaters
because of all the visual effects but I
think comedy is when they're when
they're funny and that's you know that's
becoming a problem as well
but Scottie oh man I remember this guy
fall saga yeah it was an ugly time for
my final good times I was mad I was mad
for a long time ago out is the first
movie I've been excited about since then
because I'm so afraid what you see on
the big screen let me ask you this what
what kind of comedy you say yeah Mystery
Science 3000 what else were you into
when you were young and then dove tail
two-part question did you know it
doesn't hold up in your mind I mean just
comedy just broadly speaking like my
sense of comedy does not wear wet is not
durable and I'm thinking like even the
stuff that I made I look at him like
that's not funny anymore
I just know who that man is scallop it
was even supposed to be for like the
teenagers watching MTV made a little
reference like and then and then if
these kids think you're old and lame and
don't laugh at you then you're like oh
triggered much you sniffles kids with
pasta drinking nostalgia and watching
things that you know I can probably
watch spinal tap a couple times a year
just because it's so entertaining it's
so meaningful to me I mean though like
like what your influences are and it's
like well I was just a kid living in the
90s in 80s and 90s in Pennsylvania I had
access to what everybody else had access
to but you know definitely spinal tap
definitely The Simpsons started in their
live you know early kernel brain you
know it's like you're you're
it's comedy nerd you know those Acker
brothers I mean what was better than The
Naked Gun movie right you know like you
know does those mean maybe you're a
little older than me and that didn't
kill for you but for me I was just at
the right age where that stuff was just
like more important to me than almost
anything for a little bit it was like
massive and I cared about it first you
know whatever reason just really
resonated with me why do you think
comedy doesn't doesn't hold up in the
same way well certainly like a lot of
comedy that's very you know relevant to
the moment you know if you're gonna
watch an old episode of politically
incorrect with Bill Maher there's right
you know a lot of reason to do that or
you know whatever you know any sorts
talking about the news is not gonna be
that interesting and comedy like mostly
about surprising you and and you know
like it's like watching a baseball game
that you've seen already there's not a
lot of reason to do that but the first
time the joke it's it's usually the best
time because you're not expecting it new
and so I guess that's why it might not
age well but some stuff ages just fine
yeah I think we even we try we tried to
make Tim and Eric is like an ageless
thing right you know because it because
it was the third it was a nebulous kind
of whatever look to it you know like it
looked like it could have been made 15
years ago or 30 years ago you know but
even then I could look back on that and
go oh that this feels dated and I didn't
think it would but of course it does
like everything feels dated at some
point it seems like impossible to avoid
them well the movie is mr. America folks
can go to mr. America film.com right now
and yeah in the in the United States
right now unfortunately the United
States and Canada we're working on some
international deals but if I know I'm
sure you have some international
listeners are just they can definitely
use like some type of proxy
a feeling that they could go in and
these people know me to get around oh
they know how to get around all of that
believe me Tim yeah that's right or at
the very least if you do send a check to
Tim yes Tim thanks so much really
appreciate it big fan can't wait to see
me thanks for coming on thanks Sam
hopefully right just thinking of the
relevance of Bill Maher asking Polly
sure whether or not he like supported
like PNTR with China or something one of
the things that when I saw this I was
like the thing that I liked about this
in fact if you go see if you can go to
like Amazon right now and and search for
who's the caboose and because that one
of the things I really like about the
work that Tim does is that it's it it
has its own logic that does not
necessarily fit outside of of that world
on some level and like I said like I did
a similar thing to far less success with
far less success and I think is it up
there I think if you put watch the
trailer now this is now understand the
movie the movie came out in 1996 I pause
it for one second and so this is how
what I thought at the time in terms of
like marketing like okay we did the
movie and then eight years later we did
the sequel pilot season with the same
characters this trailer is going to take
place like five or six years after that
which is one at when I shot it so I
think I shot this in 2010 with Dorsey in
our first office for this show and the
idea was like when we first moved into
the office so it must have been like
probably nine years ago and I thought
okay here is the here's what I'm going
to do I'm going to do it
if my character in the movie got ahold
of the footage and was selling it on his
own to people and he was being sued by
by the like movie association and that
this was a deposition that was prepared
for that like and now when I say this
out loud I realize it sounds insane it's
like the end of a lot like the idea that
this is a good way to sell this movie is
ridiculous but it made perfect sense to
me I'm like this is funny but it was
really I mean you watch it and I realize
like it was funny to me but I can't see
how some growth here
anybody could grow hasa bleah appreciate
ya what I was doing here but that's what
I did I'll watch that and it will be
it'll be a fake position and then I mean
actually we should really prepare the
inventory it was because consistent with
the show I like it watch watch watch
you're never good at this you're not
asking good questions I mean I've
actually been in a star in multiple
documentaries and you're not doing
you're not good at asking questions this
is not a documentary it's a legal
deposition you're being sued right think
of that position
sue okay yeah that part I knew what job
do you have now now well actually it's
funny that you should say that because
15 years ago I had multiple jobs I was a
comedian slash performance artist slash
artist artist slash writer actually and
director back in New York City that's
actually what the documentary was sort
of about I like working with Susan's
here because it gives her a chance to
you know work with me
and do stuff that's more pure that's
actually back when I was dating Susan
underman yes they Susan underman the
famous Susan underman before she was
famous before she moved to Los Angeles
California are you interviewing her for
this because she will probably want to
talk to me I love max but my manager
says I have to go out there so I've got
to go out there the Hollywood I don't I
don't like that scene because there's a
lot of losers and in winners you know
you get $100,000 $100,000 think you make
money in here you don't make a dime Ann
hi I'm Gwen
Tina Robinson I met you at the Disney
thing I got her with Creative Artists
Agency and you're welcome
my pilot quote is now up to 78 thousand
dollars how about the other night huh
both those ladies and they were doing
all right here and here Stacy Paderewski
produced these daisy peppadews do yours
Daisy fat but those it's all in a
documentary called who's the caboose I
know dumb name it wasn't my idea but I
was gonna sell some copies it is why
you're being sued we've put out a VBB oh
you put out a DVD of who's the caboose
oh good you know what you should do and
think about this is my idea but you
should put it on something called iTunes
you put it on iTunes on okay good that's
okay who's the caboose is on iTunes and
DVD all right am I gonna be making any
money from that okay so it doesn't make
any sense no one could possibly
understand that for some reason we've
cut in in the the deposition has
absolutely nothing to do with the movie
in fact takes place 20 years after the
movie that was when remember when I used
to do you as like Ralph crams and
sometimes where you just be like Alice
we do that's what he is from now court
deposition see now the film that most
people haven't seen to begin with we
better stock up buy the DVD you know
what movie I want to see is ready with
some of allocation Alice the biggest
problem I'm gonna have is how am I gonna
get all the postage the results off of
is Alice's I don't know if Wiz will spit
all up state as a velocity of the amount
of orders might be logistically
problematic
when they see the deposition see did the
fake follow-up to the fake sequel to the
movie they didn't see those DVD boxes
are gonna go fly it Alice the movie I
want to see is a webcam compilation of
everybody who happened to upon that
trailer without any background that like
honestly that could be the single worst
trailer ever produced for anything on
Amazon has a lot of quality background I
appreciate it so er if I had the
opportunity to sit with everyone who
stumbled upon that trailer and explained
it to them
I'm convinced that I would get like a
25% click-through rate but as it stands
now I think it's probably somewhere
around like 0.0005 who watch that
trailer go like I want to watch this
movie and then even after you watch the
movie you still can't understand the
trailer link you could look at watch the
entire trip movie then you could watch
the sequel which is not available
anywhere and you still wouldn't
understand the trip all I can tell you
Alice's after they watch that trailer
start looking the way you want to go
inside edia because it's good now I'm
too embarrassed to like call the people
like I don't even know how to get in
touch with like I don't know how to
replace it so as she said I just said
eff it leave it up there I don't care I
mean I understand alone peace in a way
and that's the thing I wanted to create
another sort of standalone sort of thing
that was funny and it was funny to me
it's just that was that was why I was
getting to that point about what I
thought was impressive about what tim
has done because you know he's doing
that and it's it's funny and
decipherable to other people heads they
know they like it the Sam cedar
completionists you know who you are yes
right that's right all right we got to
take a quick break and head into the fun
half we've got a couple of clips to talk
about and a couple of more stories I've
got a late-breaking Ben Shapiro clip
Dewi we'll take a look at that in the
fun half also also Donald Trump in his
infinite wisdom and you know
counterintuitive anti-militarism that we
hear about is deploying more troops to
Saudi Arabia yeah it's just been
announced because Hillary would get us
in World War 3 he's bringing the troops
home I don't know why the left is so
he's bringing them to another part of
Syria and the only function that they're
serving in a positive role of Syria
they're not gonna be there anymore I
don't know what's so angry I thought the
point was you like wait wait wait but
now he's going to put support Muslims
and I thought the left loved must it's
very good folks don't forget to
subscribe to the a.m. quickie it's now
on its own feed you can go to am quickie
dot-com to sign up or you can just find
it on iTunes you can find it on stitcher
or what's the other stuff Spotify it's
there try it on your Alexa and if you
like then you know email us and tell us
if you found it also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off and
reminder this program exists because of
our members our members support this
program to the tune of ninety I don't
know what it's in the 90s I didn't get
the report from accounting from the CFO
this week but your support as a member
makes this show possible you can become
a member I joined the majority report
calm and a reminder lastly knowing your
dog's breed mix can help you provide a
better quality of life and the embark
dog DNA test is the best in class dog
DNA test it's developed by doctors and
veterinarians and bark tests were over
huh 250 breeds and 170 genetic health
conditions so that you could know what
to watch out for for your dog how to
feed your dog care for your dog make
sure they have a happy healthy life and
it's a only research-grade dog DNA test
kit on the market to save 15% on a dog
DNA test go to embark
dot-com embarked vet comm use the promo
code majority Michael today is Friday
that means that some other time during
the week it was Tuesday indeed what
happened debate on China with Sagar and
jetty and much more aunty MBS check it
out Michael Brooks show on YouTube T MBS
and patreon.com slash T MBS get your
tickets to see us in Philly November
23rd they're starting to pick up again
as we are almost a month out T MBS is
Wednesday next week instead of Tuesday
and Ryan grim is gonna be in studio with
us breaking down the race and the debate
and probably talking drug war stuff
Jamie this week on the anti Fattah
remember when I started talking about
the contradictions and limitations of
social democracy in one country and
everyone was like what the hell is Jamie
talking about oh well I brought in a
very heavy hitter named Ross Wolff
two-time returning guest to talk about
the Communists case for opening and
ultimately abolishing the borders and
how only global Communist revolution is
going to enable us to avoid a descent
into eco fascism and horror in the long
term and it was a good conversation I
wanted to nail it especially you know
you don't always get it do-over on
things like that so check it out if
you're interested
also this weekend holy tomorrow oh
pardon my french but I'm very excited I
had to take to CBD dropper full last
night to get to sleep true story
it is the goth socialist variety hour at
Littlefield NYC with the anti Fattah and
pot damn America as well as special
guests Matt Chrisman Virgil Texas
Leslie Lee the third and comrade Barbie
and I'm really excited about it so I
hope that someone listening is gonna
come help a lot of people listening are
gonna come go to the show man have you
guys coming I'm gonna be out of town I
almost was in town but now
no I was I was gonna shout you out I had
a whole bit I wanted to go next time
next time he's secretly comrade Barbie
sorry like that Matt yeah literary
hangover I've done some recent episodes
on James Fenimore Cooper and a feminist
sort of answer to him in literally mere
child's hobo mock also I'm going to be
talking about the largest witch hunt in
American history and they Salem sixteen
dated and sad them to the women was a
disgrace wasn't just 692 folks Cotton
Mather corrupt it so where's cover-up
ever we're gonna be talking about all
that stuff so look forward to really it
was misogyny is an irrational outbreak
of massage D if you look at history it's
pretty unbelievable your brains gonna
freeze like that folks see you in the
fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube frees up
their buggy whipping like he's the boss
I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you nervous a
little bit maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you're idiots
we're just going to get rid of you
alright but dude dude dude dude dude
dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now we win it's
win-win hell yeah now listen to me two
three five times eight four seven nine
oh six five oh one four five seven eight
56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 billion third don't you see
why don't you get a real job instead of
spewing vitriolic hatred you're left
with one ball everybody's taking their
dumb juice dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we could double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no wait what you
make under a million dollars you're scum
you're not they accuse me you
you all right gonna take quick break I
want to take a moment to talk to some
ability Ria's out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastik I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
rise easy people
Shitler with such no
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen
fun half majority report you know what
that's all about
ladies and gentlemen you understand what
that means right let me get on the phone
situation here hello this is MIT Romney
I almost was like wait a second did I
hit the button let's take a call song
from a to10 area code good afternoon
sandesh John from San Antonio John from
San Antonio how are you sir I'm good
yeah I enjoyed your interview with Brad
Miller on Wednesday you referred to Dick
Cheney's legal counsel from 2001 to 2005
and his chief of staff from 2005 to 2009
is Addison I'm going to disclose his
proper name with the Biden paraphrase
David Addington listening to a dude
right and he ran a bad crew adding today
right I apologize for that
thank you John you listening and you
would you wouldn't worry about it Sam
what says you stand correct I stand
corrected
yeah here's another one Fiona Hall is
actually Fiona Hill special advisor to
the Obama trap
all right so enjoyed Indian in the
Miller interview I enjoyed that she
talked about the office of legal side
you'll find it was
Julie Miller yeah
Miller interview decisions essentially
put the president the president above
the law
and that in the two cases that are in
the public spotlight this week federal
judges rebuked the OLC opinion in the
case before a federal judge in Manhattan
Victor Moreno said the memos are only
suppositions practicalities and public
policy as well as dire pictures of
hypothetical scenarios in not an actual
case either way these memos didn't self
interpretations of the Constitution do
not bind the hands of a local prosecutor
such as mr. Vance referring to side
Vance to DA four in Manhattan still this
question of whether presidents can face
state criminal charges has also never
been tested the judge noted and in the
federal case about gaining a grand jury
testimony from the Miller case a federal
judge beryl how off the question long
studying Justice Department memo that
says the president can't be criminally
charged
we had three impeachment debates the
first was published and clipped on
December 4 2017 that was entitled what
are the chances of Trump being impeached
I might give a special shout-out to the
producer who proclaimed debate of the
political Titans second debate was an
individual clip that was published on
August 25th 2008 and it was titled Trump
headed towards impeachment question mark
the third was entitled 2008 or did you
mean 2018 yeah you're right simpatico
there buddy yeah okay the third third
was entitled the chump impeachment
debate round to fight even though it was
the third debate that was published on a
March 21st of this year so I I think
it's crucial for the Democrats to have a
full investigation to all involved and
they should start with a bar because as
long as he's the Attorney General we're
going to have a hard time having justice
applied Democrats should put more
pressure on him
and you know also he should be impeached
also and I could not agree with you more
so apparently I know debate number four
I think yeah I think bill bar should
definitely be impeached I mean I think
if first thing you should do is recuse
himself from everything frankly it
appears like I mean it seems like his
only job is to go around and tell Fox
News to get in line and to look for
conspiracy theories that will push back
on the narrative that the Russians tried
to interfere or interfered in the
election in some manner for whatever
reason I don't know why I mean seriously
here's the other very strange thing
right why was this so important to
Donald Trump at this stage to disprove
that like I understand why he was
sending around people to go and get dirt
on on Joe Biden but why what like what
did they hope to achieve with this maybe
it was just sighted I think broader
conspiracy theory they could twist into
it or something or if they actually
believed it I mean who knows yeah it's
just that means some peer insanity
really but I mean Pinson Pompeo should
also be investigated remember you know
forty eight people serve jail time for
their role in Watergate
so one of your Hollywood buddies Michael
Ian Black
seems very knowledgeable about
Republican insanity when he was on his
show about five years ago he did a
thread on Saturday about saying how out
tinsel resign and nikki Haley will be
the VP and will pardon trump and run for
president and she'll run for president
herself and I don't agree with that but
you know you live six senators could the
could possibly vote for the removal of
Trump I agree with about five of them
and I added fifteen more senators from
the coltd Trump party I know you're
still sticking to your guns with the
consensus opinion the Trump will not be
removed from office and maybe you're
right the people's main interest is
saving their own political
and their main commitment is to their
families and to their friends and with
if and when polling starts to get ugly
for the coltd Trump party senators you
know every everything could change with
these senators well yes I agree with
that but when I say that I don't think
there's going to be any Republican
senators who if they have the
opportunity to vote to impeach Donald
Trump I don't think the reason why I
don't think they're going to do it is
because Donald Trump still commands far
as I know and you would have a better
sense of this maybe than I would at
least 85 percent approval rating in the
Republican Party it could be higher and
yeah they don't care they do not care
they don't care I mean I I referenced
this article in The Wall Street Journal
today you a farmer saying like I don't
know if I can afford to vote for Trump
what what like you're gonna pay you're
just not sure how much you're willing to
pay to vote for Trump for what end like
a what material possible like material
benefit are you getting and and I'm and
I mean this in a very wide sense the
only possible material benefit that
they're getting is that he stuck he's
thumbing their nose at the libs and the
feminazis and the Muslims you know you
have you have towns where people there
there's no immigrants there but there
are deathly afraid of being overrun by
them I mean this is I you know I I I
don't I don't see that they're gonna go
like wow yeah he's he's completely miss
handling the process of you know
allowing a congressional oversight or he
was digging around Joe Biden is dirty
and and everybody knows that you know I
mean like they don't care I just don't
think that I don't think the polls are
gonna move on the Republican side
significantly
at all frankly in terms of his
favorability rating and that's basically
what it is and I would say even on top
of that they're afraid of getting
primary and if not this time the next
time and that's that's what dictates
what these Republicans do yeah I mean
that's you have a good point I mean in
for people like a Jim Jordan or Meadows
or Matt Gaetz I understand you know I
mean they don't they don't have to worry
about anything but I mean like be like
Cory Gardner yesterday when he was
trying to answer the question and he
kept avoiding this and they're like six
minutes and he was asked the same
question over and over
I mean he's down by 10 points that's
that's the thing is that's why
impeachment I've been saying for some
time maybe not as early as you I can't
remember you would have a better sense
of that but this is the bind that it
puts Susan Collins in Cory Gardner in
you know McMaster in in Arizona the
whole mix alle the this is the bind that
they're in they are between literally a
rock and a hard place they have the
normal people on one side saying what's
wrong with you and then they also have
their Republican base and they're gonna
lose either way and they know this and
that's why they're gonna spend eight
minutes to answer a direct question and
then just sort of mumble the answer
because they don't want to answer it and
the the the dilemma they're gonna have
and this is what I I'm still very
skeptical at the idea that McConnell is
gonna have a vote my bet is gonna be
that if it ultimately gets to if the
articles impeachment show up at the
Senate my guess is McConnell's gonna say
this process has not been done properly
therefore I'm not gonna have a vote I
was definitely on board with having a
vote that was my job but you guys
haven't met the requirements and so no
vote because if they do have a vote Cory
Gardner is toast they do have a vote
Susan Collins is toast because they're
gonna have to come out and they're gonna
offend somebody so
appreciate the culture yeah alright
thank you so much
John's could be very excited because I
interviewed Nami Cline yesterday and I
don't know that I said his name but I
referenced him in the context of the
conversation say now Naomi on August 2nd
John Dame called in and anticipated that
Cory Gardner would have a bypass dad has
not come to pass the story out today
that billionaires billionaires are
paying a lower effective tax rate than
the working class in this country and I
think it was something like 23 percent
versus 24 percent something to that
effect goddamnit you know all taxes
combined relative to their income that
would include sales taxes and etc and
that is why Rand Paul when he hopped on
the view today got laughed at it wasn't
because Rand Paul was introducing it
wasn't just because of his mock
turtleneck that he's wearing it was
because of what he said in the middle
class so we have massive taxes here but
we don't get any free stuff we don't
have free health care our public
education
every stuff are they're very very well
we have a different form of Taxation in
our country ours is much more
progressive so we've taken the poor off
of the rolls they don't pay income tax
anymore most people below $50,000 don't
pay any income tax the top 1% in our
country pay 40% our audience's that's
not true
well the IRS statistics say that the top
1% our country pay 40% of the income tax
and that those making less in the middle
class well look I mean here's the the
reality is and this is the trick that
you will hear conservatives do like when
you look at the dollars they will talk
about the dollars that come in on the
income tax right because they don't now
we don't call the wage tax income tax
because it which really it doesn't
matter it's a tax but the reason why
billionaires pay more actual dollars
than other people is because the
taxation works on a percentage and they
have so much more money that at the same
percentage it accounts for a lot more
dollars that's not the issue the issue
is what percentage of what they have of
what they've gotten for society do they
pay that's the issue the issue is
everybody's supposed to pay a certain
percentage of what they have for the the
government services and the benefits
that they get from society and the
benefits that you get from society are
measured by the amount of money that you
get as well as services because you
would not be able to make that money
Bill Gates could not have made that
money if we did not have a society
around him to support him it doesn't
mean that everybody I mean you this is
not a hard thing to understand right
like
every Golden Retriever is a dog but not
every dog is a golden retriever and he
was also just lying like did you hear
what caused the upper and the audience
it was when he said that people who make
under fifty grand a year don't pay
income tax well they they very well may
not if you're if you got a family of
four you may not pay an income tax you
get you get you pay wage tax I mean I
make way less than 50 grand and taxes
are a huge bite out of my income as a
single person families might there not
necessarily income tax right they are
your taxes on your wages I mean he's
just he's just taking a specific you
know what else you know what people who
have make fifty thousand dollars a year
less they pay almost nothing in capital
gains tax right right all the properties
I own exactly
you don't pay it you're getting away
like Scotty I'm plenty of people who pay
50 grand to pay income tax I mean I I
would be very interested to get some
people don't but here is I mean this is
the only graph that you need to say from
the New York Times look at the look at
this it's just crazy
it is taxes on the wealthiest people
have now dropped to the lowest point
that they've been in in 70 years I mean
you see how that graph is flattening out
based like basically becoming less and
less progressive over time imagine what
of actual flat tax would do to them
right like you guys always say it's
gonna be hard to get people on board
with the idea of a global proletarian
revolution and then you show me graphs
like that well it's gonna be hard to
show everybody like I don't know I have
a said that but uh okay and these graphs
unfortunately have been looking like
that for like 40 years
let's go to uh this clip of bench
Pierrot shall we
it's a late-breaking clip my first
question is is ben shapiro in the
witness protection program why does it
keep shooting his videos in different
locations all the time but with
seemingly these
Gregg's my second question is is he
Damien oh it's a very overdone show but
Jesus Christ he is concerned about
something that is not a problem and then
threatens to do something that we all
know he won't do and this is there's so
many different ways in which to to laugh
at this video but here is Ben Shapiro in
I don't know where he is
he's like maybe he's like an
interrogation room or something but with
a microphone here's Ben Shapiro in other
words if you're a church
you're not infringing on anybody's
rights you're just saying you can't come
here for your marriage go to the church
down the street you're a religious
school you're saying listen you want to
learn about gay rights go to the public
school down the street okay you want to
learn about gay rights you can just go
to that secular atheistic crossroads
school in Santa Monica like enjoy
yourself that's your problem go enjoy
fine you're not infringing on anybody
your mere existence is an infringement
according to beta Arora the
institutional existence is an
infringement on Liberty
according to beta O'Rourke and you must
be shut down you want a culture war in
this country you damn well have it beta
O'Rourke you want a culture one this
country you want this country to come
apart at the seams this is how you do it
exact promise you if you come to tell me
that you're going to indoctrinate my
kids in particular policy and then I
can't pull my kid out of the school and
send my kids to a school I want to send
them to that I can't go to the church or
synagogue that I want to go to and if
you make that national policy not just
California policy where I can move but
national policy people are not gonna
stand for that they're not going to
stand for that and if you send a truant
officer to remove my child I have two
choices at that point right if I have no
place to move because you've now made
this national federal policy I now have
two choices one is to leave the country
utterly two is to pick up a gun those
are the only choices that you have left
me and now people on this is how could
you say stuff like that how could you be
so extreme it's not extreme defend the
fundamental rights the Constitution was
created in order to protect these rights
pre-exists governments my right to raise
my child in my faith is my right that is
a First Amendment rights
there's only one reason the government
all right listen guys guys comes pants
in a in a bunch here
first of all he is completely
mischaracterizing what Beto O'Rourke
said and this is the this is this is the
little sort of shell game they're
playing now ben shapiro enjoy your trip
out of the country well I don't think
we're afraid of you taking up arms I
would love what I see him try but even
if you do the issue is not whether you
have a right in your church or yeshiva
to in some way discriminate against
people because they are gay the issue is
whether the government should finance
that and how does it finance it it
provides services that your institution
uses in our society and you want those
institutions to use them for free here
is the clip that that ben shapiro is so
angry about and talking about the civil
war that's coming or the mass exodus
here's the clip i want you to listen
carefully if he's saying that these
institutions should be outlawed or you
should be forced to not discriminate
against people because of their sexual
orientation question this is from your
LGBTQ plan and here's what you rights as
a quote freedom of religion is a
fundamental right but it should not be
used to discriminate do you think
religious institutions like colleges
churches charities should they lose
their tax-exempt status if they oppose
same-sex marriage yes
you
there can be no reward no benefit no tax
break for anyone or in steny institution
any organization in America that denies
the full human rights and the full civil
rights of every single one of us and so
as president we're going to make that a
priority and we are going to stop those
who are infringing upon the human rights
of our fellow there it is any question
like you're allowed to do it it's just
that you don't get free use of society's
work and labor and efforts and
investment you don't get it for free
that's it you have to pay like everybody
else if your institution is going to
discriminate systemically against people
because of attributes that we as a
society have decided you cannot
discriminate against then you're just
going to lose your free coupon to all
the services that this country provides
you're gonna have to pay for the
military and the police and the fire
department you're gonna have to pay for
the water that comes into your
institution you're gonna have to pay for
the electricity and for the
infrastructure and the roads that allow
that you're gonna have to pay for the
schooling that educates your your
employees you're gonna have to pay like
everybody else I'll take up guns you're
just not gonna get your special status
which frankly like I think there's like
I might even quite quite clear why we do
that anyways I mean if government is not
supposed to recognize religion why are
we giving you special special deal why
are we giving the IRS the power to
recognize what's the religion like that
was the crazy part of the science I've
been one of many crazy parts of the
Scientology documentary that I just was
well the problem is is because I don't
know how you define religion here's the
easy answer you got to pay taxes like
everybody else period just because
you're religious does not mean you get a
rear ID I do find it somewhat ironic
that baby boy bado thinks he could
revoke tax-exempt status from the
Catholic Church as president but not
pass single-payer health care indeed
well and also that all that extra with
the extra cash that comes in well that's
a good point though and also that you
know nobody I mean granted Bernie's a
frontier candidate but it was not shade
but you're not gonna hear a whole you
know people are focusing rightly on the
merits of what he said which he's
absolutely right about no no no orgy of
how are you gonna do that how's that
gonna pass Congress how you do it right
I mean it's great it's quite obvious and
and to make it about you're forcing
people to do stuff cuz you're not giving
them a tax break I mean just contemplate
I don't get taxes upset that's how many
revolutions were fought though I mean if
you even go into like everything from
burkina faso to you know every corner of
the world it was a lack of tax breaks
there you go I mean honestly March was
about tax breaks on salt
hey the Boston Tea Party it's well that
wasn't even about a tax break fit they
didn't want a tax they wanted a tax
break they they know they wanted we
would like representation if we're going
to be taxed which would be the Puerto
Rican it was the Virgin Islands
ultimately about smuggling and
contraband being able to have being able
to dude why you checking a ship so
aggressively rule you dude we pay taxes
we have a right to him be involved in
contraband so so Bernie is from from all
accounts feeling great from what I
understand they do have like 24/7 media
out in front of his house capturing
images of his like Ford Fiesta as he
pulls away everyday is it a Ford Fiesta
or whatever it is III personally think
that that something efficient it has a
pretty bumper sticker dream Lee helpful
swag for people to see a presidential
candidate driving a like a subcompact a
Ford and an R for what it's worth I mean
as his house it it
the man lives a very you know he's a
good modest lifestyle there are people
who think he should be walking
everywhere so but here is a message that
he delivered which i think is really
powerful I think it's one of the best
videos in some level that he's put out
and let's there's two clips of it let's
start the first one is that two minutes
right yeah you know permeated my mind
and I want all of you to understand that
the day is gonna come when 20 years from
now thirty years now
you're gonna be talking to your kids
even positive for one second I'm sorry
go back this is when he's talked about
how in the course of his having a heart
attack he appreciated the fact that he
has health insurance and the idea of
where would you be without health
insurance as you know millions of
Americans are where would you be with
health even with health insurance
they're looking at tens of thousands of
dollars of bills and so he's basically
saying this is why we need to make
Medicare ever happen and for all happen
and then he has this to say about that
so what happens if somebody had no
health insurance
we felt the pain in his or her chest or
felt really sick and said to themselves
do I really want to go to the doctor or
the hospital because I don't have tens
of thousand dollars to pay for the
medical bills and I'm gonna incur how
many people are in that position how
many people have died because they don't
get to the doctor the hospital when they
should and it made me feel even more
strongly the need for us to continue our
efforts to end this dysfunctional and
cruel health care system which leaves so
many people uninsured underinsured
causes bankruptcy lowers credit scores
for people who owe medical that it is an
insane wasteful bureaucratic system
based on the greed of the health care
industry so I got to tell you
but even as like satin lie down in that
hospital bed in Las Vegas this issue of
the struggle that we are engaged in just
you know permeated in my mind and I want
all of you to understand that the day is
gonna come when 20 years from now 30
years now you're gonna be talking to
your kids even if you're talking to your
grandchildren and looking back and say
you know what I was involved in that
struggle that finally brought health
care to all Americans as a human right
that's what we're trying to do so be
proud of the efforts that we're making
understand the enormous opposition that
we're facing from the drug companies to
the insurance companies but we are gonna
win this struggle history is on our side
all right and then and play the the
second clip - it's the most on message
person has ever lived he just called
heart attack and he's talking about
giving health care to everyone
beautiful he's committed he's real our
job is despite all of that is to stay
focused on the real issues that impact
the American people and I know it's not
easy because this particular campaign
we're taking on everybody we're not only
taking on Trump in the Republican
establishment we're not only taking on
the Democratic establishment not only
taking on Wall Street and the insurance
companies and the drug companies fossil
fuel industry military-industrial
complex prison industrial complex the
corporate media that so often refuses to
deal with the real issues facing this
country that's what we're taking on but
at the end of the day if you're gonna
look yourself in the mirror and you're
gonna say look I go around once I one
life to live what role do I want to play
and that role goes far deeper than just
defeating Donald Trump of course we have
to do that it speaks to the need to
create the kind of country that we can
become where people are working hard to
serve each other to understand each
other that is the country we can become
we really can't but we have to have the
courage to take on some enormous leap
powerful special
I mean I mean that's spoken like a guy
who I think you know that age you have a
heart attack contemplate your own
mortality and you think like you know
what what am I going to spend the the
rest of the time and you know that we I
we have on on this earth doing in terms
of you know dedicating your life to it
and I think that's pretty impressive and
you know next week we're gonna see him
at the debate who knows what else we
will see in store for us next week um I
would just Majesty add I mean I'll
always add the stop effing around this
is a totally unique opportunity to elect
Bernie Sanders part but cardi B has just
said it's a little tricky now that he's
had a heart attack because people have
been trying to paint bernie is like this
little scrawny old man which is crazy
when I met him he was actually pretty
strong and tall he's 6 1 Wow I don't
feel like because he's had a heart
attack it's a problem I have asthma if I
have an asthma attack as my career over
I don't like that there you go Conrad
cardi B here is Donald Trump's pick for
a lifetime position on the DC circuit
her name is Naomi Rao the National
Women's Law Center summarize Rao's
college writings on race she once wrote
an article that in this age of
affirmative action women's rights
special rights for the handicapped and
welfare for the indigent and lazy
elitism is a forgotten and embarrassing
concept she called affirmative action
the anointed dragon of liberal excess
and claimed that Yale quote drops its
standards only for a few minorities
she's probably not aware of the legacy
program that says she also made
dismissive statements about those who
critique racism and sexism arguing that
the myths of sexual and racial
oppression
create hysteria and finally lead to the
formation of some whining new group
sounds perfect
perfect we loved hey dudes he loved it
because she is she she I don't know
that's just saying she's South Asian and
I could not Trump getting to the point
all right well here is Durbin
questioning her on the judiciary
lifetime appointment folks and I just
cannot reconcile something which is
cringe-worthy and idealistic how do you
reconcile those things a senator I think
I had a had a kind of idealism about
about racial relations I went to a
school that was very diverse I had
friends from all different backgrounds
and and as a you know growing up as a as
an ethnic minority I guess as it were I
you know I was inspired by Martin Luther
King's vision right that we should be
judged by the content of our character
and not the color of our skin and and
maybe that does seem idealistic and
naive today but but that was
inspirational to me when I was when I
was starting college miss Rallo I would
really struggle to reconcile what you
said about racial oppression as a myth
with the legacy of dr. Martin Luther
King pretty hard to cite Martin Luther
King and then say simultaneously oh
really
that's because your snailed it but you
and Irvin to both part of the liberal
elite that want to keep people of color
on the plantation you just hate any time
somebody thinks independently for
themselves you go get them chutney girl
God judge them by the content of their
bank account and character and not by
the color of their skin are we sure the
anointed dragon of liberal excess isn't
a direct quote of Martin Luther King
that's exactly what it is she does have
a way with words
there was a time in 1940 where racism
was kind of bad but by the time you get
to 1970 it's all backlash I think the
former writings of like the college
ratings of conservatives or even
for that instance our interesting
reading like Tom Cotton's at Harvard are
still up there and one of his first ones
is about how the internet won't have
much of an effect beyond like the
certain news gathering that much that's
actually what I used to say as a joke to
people like this internet thing I think
it's probably going away people like
people like to make a lot of well of
everybody's credentials but especially
of Cotton's and he just does not seem
bright to me come on speaking I was like
I mean look the reality is I and and no
one who is has even an iota of exposure
to the college admissions process would
tell you anything different but if you
come from Arkansas your chances if you
get good grades
getting into Harvard much higher than if
you come from New York State or New
Jersey I I was accepted in a New York
University for graduate school from
North Dakota despite only having like a
3.2 GPA bigotry of low expectations
classic however if we don't help our
white brothers and sisters from the
Dakotas they'll be eliminated this is
pretty nuts
so PG&E is the is the energy company in
California they some of the wild fires I
know and I think maybe when I was in
Vegas last time and I think we'll have
the opportunity to talk to more lawyers
about this in next week when I'm in
Vegas or two weeks they have not done
the proper upkeep that they need to do
for their transformer stations that they
have throughout the state and the
implications of that are that they
occasionally blow up and
and when they blow up they start forest
fires I know they blow up is the right
is the right word but that's basically
it yeah that's the technical term and
they have and I think it's may have just
ended or at least partially ended they
basically started these massive
blackouts
without giving people people much
warning four or five days because their
system is just simply not up to snuff
where has all that money gone one might
ask well apparently they gave billions
of dollars out to their shareholders in
in basically the stock holding I mean
this is the the problem where you just
have these companies that are basically
providing for profits and not providing
for the basic services they have I mean
so this is when when people talk about
nationalizing companies like this and
you know maybe making it you know for
regional quadrants I don't know what how
you would or do it I would imagine
there's a million different plans and
doing it but the problem is is that we
have a couple of things happening here
global warming is making the margins
much thinner for companies to get away
with this and when they're faced with
the choice of what are we gonna do are
we gonna pour money back into our
infrastructure or are we going to just
make sure that we get the largest amount
of profits up our stock prices we all
get paid there they're choosing the
latter and there's no reason why this
can't be a not-for-profit company get
rid of the shareholders you get rid of
you know the c-suite benefits that
they're getting and you simply eliminate
the profit motive you have the
government operate it
can you imagine if this happened in a
nominally socialist country the uproar
that would ensue well there's quite an
uproar in California it's just that
there is no there is no there is no sort
of mechanism for for their their outrage
and and I think it's like just hard for
people to say like what we need to do is
we need to nationalize this or we need
to have some type of of of state or
local or the federal takeover I'm just
saying you know the usual cast of
characters who had hold it up as an
example that socialism doesn't work so
maybe it's time to hold this up as an
example that market capitalism doesn't
work yeah this is efficiently allocating
resources there's another thing we might
not be considering here they spent a lot
of time drinking and cleaning and doing
things and they don't have any problem
and what it is it's a very small problem
so I know everybody's looking at that to
that end and it's gonna work out it's
gonna work out well there you go
well at least Netflix Instagram Facebook
lyft in YouTube still have power
according to the map
oh yeah they they've been a little bit
selective with who they're going to shut
power off or at least who they're gonna
keep it on for let's put it down welcome
to the future exactly
let's let's do one more one more
Donald Trump video he's out in Minnesota
not having many people attend his yeah
let's do this
you know I never say this I don't think
I've ever said it in the speech but
maybe they'll find out if I did then
they'll give me Pinocchio's he said it
before but I don't know if I ever said
this but you know I make as president
about four hundred and fifty thousand
dollars so I give it away
no wait
[Applause]
I never hear anything can you imagine if
I didn't I give it away to oh you can
only give it you can't keep it you can't
actually make a gift you can give it to
your different agencies so I can give it
to health I can give it to
transportation I can give it to military
but I give it away all the time every
now and if I ever did but it's for 50 if
somebody stays from let's say a Middle
East country in one of my hotels and we
charge him three hundred and ninety two
dollars and fifty three cents for
staying and I never heard of the guy and
I don't want to hear about him they say
Trump is getting rich or four-nation I
lose billions being president I don't
care it's nice to be rich I guess but I
lose billions if somebody read sir room
someplace and they pay me two months in
rent or hotel fees I never heard of the
people they never know who they are
they say he monuments nobody ever heard
of the word he monument refill
emoluments it's the craziest thing I've
ever seen
you know what Trump is doing there right
he's getting kami I mean that's what
he's doing well it's nice to see that
he's back on his seemingly
having refilled his adderall at least no
that's but that's an interesting it's
funny because all this other stuff they
just come up with their own counter
narratives and conspiracies and
everything this is like super specific
this is I do not know who is checking
into my hotel like like you can actually
super simplify that one that is like
they come from the Middle East I don't
know who they are I don't know he's
saying in his weird way that there is a
wall between his business and the White
House which is a just great comedy but
that's just interesting there's no one
remember when I had the table full of
fake papers right exactly yeah exactly
one empty notebooks exactly I made a
whole show but you notice how it's like
it isn't like I want to know what they
were doing in Ukraine
because other people were flying there
this was just like people check-in my
hotels I don't know there that's like a
little bit more a $450,000 I make $300
um possibly a bit of a tell possibly
yeah I mean I think they they are very
very concerned about the impeachment
they are very concerned about losing
these people he's delivering this to his
audience and because they're afraid now
they're on their heels and they're being
they're on the defensive and that is a
good place for them to be and of course
when you're Donald Trump
it wouldn't be a Donald Trump rally
without reminding your supporters that
there are women out there who are not
white and they are very very uppity
we're far more than 3,000 people died
saying some people did something big
deal some people did posit this is he's
talking about Ilhan Omar people were
anticipating him going to Minneapolis
and attacking her and he Ria's and what
Ilhan was doing just to clarify is she
was D identifying with the attackers as
a Muslim woman because everyone thinks
she should own it she pleaded for
compassion for Isis recruits right here
in Minnesota
Omar left
that Americans speak of al Qaeda
remember that tape speak of al Qaeda but
when we say
[Music]
but when we say something about the
United States you just don't say America
with any intensity remember that
representative Omar has a history of
launching virulent anti-semitic screens
whether you like it or not whether you
like it or not she said some of you be
like it is all about the Benjamins
she said that pro-israel lawmakers have
an allegiance to a foreign country Omar
wrote that Israel has hypnotized the
world may Allah awaken the people and
help them to see the evil doings of
Israel and the United States
she like that I don't things have such a
person representing you in Minnesota I'm
very angry at you people right now
[Applause]
she is a disgrace to our country and she
is one of the big reasons that I'm going
to win and the Republican Party is going
to win Minnesota in 13
he is quite convinced that or at least
they are convinced in the White House or
in the campaign that Minnesota is one of
their biggest pickup opportunities in
fact I think it would probably put it on
the top of the list of states that they
did not get in 2016 that they think they
can get now because it has been trending
a little bit red and that's been
happening for a while and because he has
his favorite leverage point which is to
stimulate the racism the anti-immigrant
backlash in this state that's what he's
thinking he may be right
he may be right time will tell but there
was good news in 2018 with the
governor's race where a trump-like guy
tried to run there so hopefully you know
we'll see all right one final phone call
and then we're out of here folks I'm
sorry we don't have time to take any
more calls you're calling from a 562
area code who's this where he come from
oh yes it's me
Jay what's on your mind oh yes I have so
many things I want to talk about first
of all I want to apologize in advance
for my action English so my first
language well though if you need me to
know you said something you don't have
to apologize your accent awesome great
hi yeah hurry up sorry okay so many
things um first I'm just gonna pick one
this is a fun house I could talk about
Univision grape on the on the Hispanic
community and how they they inform the
people because there's so many people
just because I'm sorry I'm kinda nervous
no you don't right there's so many
people that only that only speaks the
only speak Spanish so the way they give
the information they try to be unbiased
and anyway I'm just gonna I'm just going
to talk about something different
um this is our prophecy and it's kind of
like it's a fun time you know yeah I
don't know if you know about the
simpsons prophecies that predict
they said they don't often sees I'm not
familiar with them how they predicted
Trump yeah okay yeah you know 9/11 and
there's so many different issues that
they've predicted correctly there's this
episode especially Darwin that Jamie was
talking about
mm mm they predicted Donald Trump was
going to become president there's one
thing that people don't talk about
that's that same click though it's that
Lisa Simpson becomes president right
I'm not Bernie supporter I not Bernie I
think he's the best politician that I
have ever seen in my life
you know there's no other politician
I've seen that fights for the people and
has been fighting for the people for
over 50 years it's it's amazing what
he's done and I really hope he becomes
president but my prediction would be
using the same such prediction is that a
list of the Warren is going to become
president you know Elizabeth
Lisa Lisa Simpson and even if you
compare the two of them Lisa Simpson is
blonde Lisa the wine is blonde sure hair
you know smart it's I mean I really hope
or any wins and my prediction would be
it's gonna happen in one or two things
but he's kind of been the denomination
and he's gonna chance at least upper
Warren as white as VP something's gonna
happen hopefully not you know i touching
wood but I think he's gonna drop out
before the general election or he wins
and a right before so being sworn in
he's gonna drop out for whatever reason
hopefully not a bad one and Elizabeth
Warren is going to become president
that's one or at least of the warning
wins the nomination and she's gonna beat
Donald Trump is that the say in the same
clip you could say that there was
there's two predictions in the same clip
you know Donald Trump becoming president
and Lisa Simpson or Elizabeth Warren
Lisa
becoming president you know all right
well I mean I think it's a little bit of
a stretch we just saw that they also
predicted
Oprah Winfrey in 2020
that was boondocks I made it that was
boondocks all right never mind maybe
you're right
what about aoc she might be a better
analog to Lisa because she's young and
tries really hard and is really she's
not Ellen I know what yeah yeah I I get
your point the position will be until
2024 when ALC could become president I
don't think Trump is gonna last that
long can I make a request for the
impeach yeah everyone the Simpsons
Theory spend one hour phone banking for
Bernie Sanders thank you and by the way
trying hard is not a bad thing
I'm so over the early 2000s vice slacker
like you're only cool if you don't try
or care about anything no it's only
caring about stuff is cool trying to
make the world better as cool and AOC is
cool do the Third Way actually trying
appreciate the call that's you dialing
we're the final caller caring is of
trying is bad the week folks on Monday
it is Columbus Day kids are off school
we're off the show we will have new
content for you a an interview I did
with Dave Zirin from Ring of Fire and
then about 40 minutes of an interview I
did with Naomi Klein yesterday you will
enjoy it she has a new book out and we
will be back live on Tuesday
to get to where I want but I know some
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
for the rubber bands
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
