[Music]
and so let's talk about the question of
private insurance a lot has been made of
this what what is the the the the
principle here or I should say it's sort
of the I guess the the whoa structurally
speaking what is the problem with with
private insurance it's inefficient and
it costs a lot it costs a lot more to
ensure somebody privately than it does
through a larger risk pool through a
larger single-payer or thing like
Medicare Medicaid and they lose a bunch
of money because they want to offload
sick people and as a result in more sub
cups okay no but what I mean is in the
context of we setup a single-payer
system everybody's paying their taxes
into this okay and employers are paying
taxes maybe middle-class folks are
playing more in taxes wealthy people
paying hopefully much more in taxes the
net to society as we know is going to
actually be we're gonna we're gonna save
money as a society on health care and as
individuals I would imagine the vast
majority of us well over the vast
majority of us are gonna be saving money
net net in terms of what we pay for
health care over the course of our life
versus what we'll pay in taxes eat with
that if that is the case is there a
problem having if somebody goes out
there says well I'm starting a private
insurance company why would we care if
as long as we put it this way would we
care as long as people have to pay their
taxes and they can't opt out of the risk
pool I don't know why somebody would
start a private insurance company but if
they did what difference would it make
or would it so ultimately that results
in stratified care which there's a
profit is a track for the private
wealthy who are probably buying the
private insurance there's a separate
track of care offered people in the
public plan a great example of this is
South Africa South Africa has a kind of
to stream model which there
a public plan everyone buys into but if
you've got the money you pull out and
you can buy private insurance plan that
gets you private insurance coverage
which is much more expensive at
hospitals but that means maybe you get a
private room or you get VIP treatment or
you get certain kinds of things that you
want access to kind of the luxury model
and the result is that in South Africa I
think it's 16 percent of the population
spends 48% of sorry 43% of healthcare
costs and that population is
predominantly white and predominantly
wealthy it kind of created actual like
medical apartheid in South Africa all
over again whenever you have a kind of
duplicate of insurance model it's going
to tilt towards favoring people who have
money will get Tim I'm sorry we lost you
again you there I'm sorry we we lost
yeah we lost you right after you said
whenever you have a duplicate 'iv model
yeah you're gonna you're gonna have
people receiving logs people receiving
private luxury care at the expense of
the public options in the public model
how does that come at the expense of the
public model just because people doctors
will take themselves out of the public
program because there's enough money
there in the private one yeah you create
you create options you create facilities
just for private on this for private
insurance cuz hospitals can build a
private insurers more because they don't
have any cost in ours and do you think
that we would I mean let me put it this
way like from my perspective I don't see
that as we have as much of an
opportunity for that type of problem as
South Africa does right I mean for some
fairly obvious reasons it seems to me I
mean in South Africa you have you've
literally had a dual-track Society for
decades and in this country it's there's
certainly been you know we already have
that sort of high-end wealthy stuff but
there's just not enough of those people
is there for them to drain that much
resources out of the system I mean I
hope not but I also don't want to find
out right I guess from my perspective
from a political standpoint I can't help
but wonder if that's not a decent
trade-off but
why we know we can't we I know we can't
legislate away people providing
supplemental care supplemental insurance
right like we can't a stop insurance
companies from existing to sell
insurance on top of a single-payer that
doesn't doesn't duplicate any of the
existing single-payer insurance
coverages and I think that will probably
still exist and that will go to a
predominately wealthy people I don't
quite know what it will cover but that
will surely exist after a single-payer
is best and that is a thing that I don't
love but don't think we can stop okay
so when we talk about that supplemental
insurance that's if they want private
rooms or you know I guess cosmetic
surgery or you know something like along
those lines that we're talking about
yeah things not covered by the
single-payer and soon because of both
Jaya Paul and Bernie's bills include a
provision that no in no provider can
provide care that it to a person not
covered under single-payer that is
covered under single-payer okay I see
what you're saying so if I'm going in
and I'm getting I don't know
any to any number of any type of
treatments if I'm going in to check and
see if I have a heart attack there I
can't have a private insurance that will
cover that because it's gonna be covered
under Medicare right okay and how
localized do you will these programs be
in other words it's it's one thing to
sort of say that Medicare sets the rates
or they're you mean
how will this money be distributed whew
like what what would be the mechanism
here well I can tell you what I want
there hasn't been a whole lot of like
like into giant Paul and Sanders bills
there hasn't been a whole lot of here's
actually how we pass up the money but I
can tell you what they indicate and what
I think is a totally essential to having
a good single-payer program which is you
want the money allocated as close to the
ground as possible simply because health
care needs are very different from place
to place health care needs in Manhattan
and Brooklyn are different health care
needs in Brooklyn and Birmingham are
different health care needs and of
Birmingham and I don't know Boise in
Dallas and Las Vegas are all very
different from each other
so you want to have a health care model
which determines how to spend money and
where to spend money and what programs
to fund that is as close to the ground
as you can get which is kind of a model
of the Medicaid program and B some of
the individual Medicaid grants that have
been investigated or explored over the
past decade you want to give you want to
cover you want to set a standard for
these things are covered that is set to
the federal level and make sure all the
financing is federal financing as local
you run into problems even a little bit
of a cost for by the state becomes a
great way to beginning excluding care
but I think you want to let regional
organizations determine of how you
invest how you invest money in local
ways whether it's approving new programs
for housing or for food experimental
programs for coordinating care or hiring
social workers to work on a pregnant
people or a applying for new money to
try new kinds of programs that can then
be shared across the rest of the country
I believe a Giles plan does include a
local component that includes local
assemblies a
and local councils although they don't
really define what local mix it could be
state-by-state it could be even smaller
than that
