[Music]
all right we're back we've got a couple
more clips to get to on this debate
thing a couple of important ones I think
let's start with this one is just the do
you have the the four number four lined
up that's the okay now here's the thing
there is it sort of depends on on where
you know where you're situated I think
ideologically as to they change the time
codes so this might take a little bit
but go ahead okay so this sort of
depends on where you may sit
ideologically in terms of your
assessment of the extent of the
differences between Warren and Bernie at
least in the context of domestic policy
right the in even if you put aside the
questions of their approach to actually
their their actual practical approach to
change they may come to similar
destinations may they do it from
different places in terms of what is the
you know what direction they're heading
from I think obviously Warren is more
about reform of an existing system
Sanders probably too less of an extent
then then he will be accused of but to
some extent he's looking to make some
structural changes that that as opposed
to sort of containing certain problems
he wants to change it and hopefully
eliminate those problems in terms of
like the way that markets work and etc
etc but nevertheless the value of having
both of them in a debate addressing
major
issues in which they at least in broad
strokes agree I think is invaluable it
is always better to have two people
saying something than one person saying
something and and so here's Elizabeth
Warren and I think she is particularly
good at this now Bernie Sanders has made
it clear I think and introduced the
country largely to the understanding of
like we're gonna have to raise taxes but
the amount that we raise taxes is going
to be less than the amount you are
currently spending on health care when
you include premiums co-pays when you
include whatever it is whatever else
comes between premiums and co-pays and
things that aren't covered you're gonna
be paying less in taxes than you are in
all those other expenses associated with
getting health care
Elizabeth Warren I think has been very
good in basically saying like not even
going to accept the premise of a
question about taxes because at the end
of the day a dollar is a dollar and you
want us to believe that tax dollars
constitute two dollars where every
dollar paid to an insurance company is
like worth one dollar and that's just
not true and here is that exchange from
the debate last night saying their
health grace actually praised Bernie
Sanders for being candid about his
health care plan that Senator says that
senator Sanders has been candid but the
fact that middle-class taxes are going
to go up and most of private surance is
going to be eliminated will you make
that same admission so let's be clear
about health care and let's actually
start where Vice President did we all
owe a huge debt to President Obama who
fundamentally transformed health care in
America and committed this country to
health care for
[Music]
and now the question is how best can we
improve on it and I believe the best way
we can do that is we make sure that
everybody gets covered by health care at
the lowest possible cost how do we pay
for it we pay for it those at the very
top the richest individuals and the
biggest corporations are going to pay
more and middle-class families are going
to pay less that's how this is going to
work direct question you said
middle-class families are gonna pay less
but will middle-class taxes go up to pay
for the program I know you believe that
the deductibles and the premiums will go
down will middle-class taxes go up will
private insurance be eliminated what
families have to deal with is cost total
cost that's what they have to deal with
and understand families are paying for
their health care today families pay
every time an insurance company says
sorry you can't see that specialist
every time an insurance company says
sorry that doctor is out of network
sorry we are not covering that
prescription families are paying every
time they don't get a prescription
filled because they can't pay for it
they don't have a lump checked out
because they can't afford the copay what
we're talking about here is what's going
to happen in family's pockets what's
going to happen in their budgets and the
answer is on Medicare for all costs are
going to go up for wealthier individuals
and costs are going to go up for giant
corporations but for hardworking
families across this country costs are
going to go down and that's how it
should work under Medicare for all in
our health care senator centers you were
in vogue for the vice president also
closet not like you know this
formulation I think is good particularly
in the context of a democratic debate
because people need to understand this
dynamic which is not as self evident I
think as you know it is two people who
are sort of really immersed in it and I
don't know if Donald Trump is going to
be sharp enough on a debate stage to say
so you're gonna raise taxes at that
point I feel like any other Republican
would but he may not listen
enough to a game like this got one of
hit I mean I just think that's one of
the go to like he'll say that probably
in a completely non sequitur way on
other thing he might he might so I think
that the the next step in this argument
has to be sort of more specific in
accusing like you are trying to hide
costs behind the idea that taxes are
somehow more expensive the you know a
family doesn't care they want to know
how much money is in their bank account
at the end of the month and this is
gonna mean more money in their bank
accounts so we could raise taxes through
the roof and if we everything else is
you know doesn't cost you anything then
they're going to be happy the fact and
then you say that but we're not gonna
raise taxes through the roof there's
going to be a tax raise but it's gonna
be nothing compared to the relief that
you're gonna get the medical cost relief
in fact I think in some level coming up
with a name for that probably would be
helpful medical costs relief act is you
know that's the way they do it like tax
is a burden well you know what medical
cost is a burden massive net savings act
right something to that like well it
goes back to I I always use this example
of taking a European Union Studies class
and going over Denmark and definitely
especially as an American you you the
the taxes that he broke down the
professor no class really that's a lot
and then you know the obvious corollary
is like but you have full ecology of
full health care you have all of these
things and it it's either it's it I
think it was a net positive actually in
terms of what was literally flowing out
of your pocket
sure versus what was being kept in your
pocket if you weren't ultra wealthy this
is a Biden's response if we want to see
that right yeah this is where Biden
basically says I'm going to choose the
response that Republicans will give you
largest out-of-pocket payment you'll pay
is a thousand dollars you'll be able to
get into a anyone who can't see you so
we need to contemplate that the largest
out-of-pocket costs you're gonna pay is
a thousand dollars that's a lot of money
for any given procedure I presumably yes
I mean
out of a lot look at how that's that's
out of touches an overused phrase but
that's one of the more out of touch
things I've ever seen
bragging about only a thousand bucks
everybody can do that it's a banana
Michael how much could it cost ten
dollars for one my health care plan does
significantly cut the cost of it largest
out-of-pocket payment you'll pay is a
thousand dollars you'll be able to get
into a anyone who can't afford it gets
automatically enrolled deposit in the
Med posit anybody who can't afford it
gets automatically enrolled okay so you
don't get automatically enrolled in fact
not only it's an you know there's a
number associated with what can't afford
it that he may not even be aware of it's
in his plan but it's a hundred and
thirty eight percent of the federal
poverty level so it's only eight
percentage points higher than what
Medicaid allows for in the expansion of
Medicaid so you're really talking about
between a hundred and thirty percent and
one hundred and thirty eight percent
those people get automatically enrolled
in this continue then do a anyone who
can't afford it gets automatically
enrolled in the in the Medicare type
option we have etcetera but guess what
of the hundred and sixty million people
who like their health care now they can
keep it if they don't like it they can
leave number one number two the fact of
the matter is we're in a situation where
if you notice you hadn't answered the
question this is about candor honesty
big ideas let's have a big idea there's
the tax of two percent about that raised
about three billion dollars guess what
that leaves you about twenty eight
billion dollars short the Senators said
before it's going to cost you in your
page there will be a deductible in your
paycheck you're going to the
middle-class person someone making sixty
grand with three kids they're gonna end
up paying five thousand dollars more
they're gonna end up paying four percent
more on their income tax that's a
reality that's not a bad idea if you
like it I don't like it okay now I want
everybody keeps at the time but you
didn't vote both senators I have to get
responses to then
you go first so let's be clear I've
actually never met anybody who likes
their health insurance company I've met
people like their doctors I've met
people who like their nurses I've met
people who like their pharmacist I like
met people who like their physical
therapists what they want is access to
health care and we just need to be clear
about what medicare-for-all is all about
instead of paying premiums into
insurance companies and then having
insurance companies build their profits
by saying no to coverage we're gonna do
this by saying everyone is covered by
Medicare for all every health care
provider is covered and the only
question here in terms of difference is
where to send the bill senator Sanders
let us be clear Joe in the United States
of America we are spending twice as much
per capita on health care as the
Canadians or any other major country on
earth this American yeah but Americans
don't want to pay twice as much as other
countries posi like what this is you're
a Republican problem yeah that's all it
is that's every argument has been
stripped and what do you have left this
is America and by the way it's only
$1,000 I mean who couldn't afford that
probably a lot less people after your
bankruptcy bill you prick it's really
stunning
that people find this compelling that
but you know I don't know how many
people watch less this is America any
normal people out there find this
compelling I think insurance companies
find it compelling and you know the
politicians that they give money to
somebody who's saying they're gonna vote
for Joe Biden at this point I don't know
I I think is I think a broader thing I
think very few human beings found any of
last night compelling right it was not a
compelling debate most people who say
they're gonna vote for Joe Biden aren't
doing it because they find him
compelling they just erroneously think
that he stands the best chance of
beating Trump I mean I think that's
that's true and but it gets harder and
harder to make that case it seems to me
right yeah the best chance of being
sharp and you want to talk about the
black kids put cool in the gang on the
record player
let's learn words number seven he's
talking about his Medicare choice opt-in
and then Castro says wait what all right
there's a two different clips so here's
the the the the first one is going to be
Biden and you know there's there's two
issues to this one is that he doesn't
seem to know his own policy and two is
he can drink contradicted himself and so
he's also it's also not a great policy
one hundred thirty eight percent of
federal poverty line gets you
automatically enrolled into this but
again if you're at a hundred thirty
percent and you're in the states that
have expanded Medicaid you're in
Medicaid which is frankly better than I
think his version of Medicare look
everybody says you want an option the
option I'm proposing is a Medicare for
all in Medicare for choice if you want
Medicare if you lose the job from your
insurance company your employer you
automatically can buy into this you
don't have no pre-existing condition can
stop you from finding you get covered
period and if you notice nobody's yet
said how much it's gonna cost the
taxpayer I here this large savings the
president think the my friend from
Vermont thinks that the employer is
going to give you back if you negotiate
his union all these years got a cut in
wages because you got insurance they're
gonna give back that money to the
employee but reflect they will well let
me tell you something for socialists
you've got it
four associates you've got a lot more
confidence in corporate America than I
do
well first off be clear at least part of
that savings that they're gonna get for
not providing health care is going to go
in taxes to providing health care in a
more efficient system that's going to
cover everybody and provide more
opportunities to the extent that there
is any and it's not like I mean look
this is pretty clear right like these
are all numbers that are pretty
transparent we know exactly how much
corporate America spends on health care
because they tell us all the time and
complain
and we're gonna know how much they're
getting taxed and we're gonna know the
difference and the point is is that
they're going to have to entice their
workers in something and everybody's
gonna know what the standards are there
in terms of you know negotiating power
particularly in the context of unions
you're gonna see a lot more power from
unions in that instance their biggest
beef with this stuff is that they're
offering a more quality health care and
they're gonna have to find other things
that that make people want to unionize
at that point but a lot of unions here
would be really upset with expanding the
territory they could fight on also what
the hell is an automatic buy-in like if
you have to buy into it is it then not
automatic yeah I don't know if he was
wrong about buy you can automatically
buy a BMW like do they take the money
directly out of your bank account I
don't know I don't know that's the it's
hard to know how much of him he's just
you know getting extra words in his
sentences or he's actually referring to
something okay thank you and you know I
also want to recognize the work that
Bernie has done on this and of course we
owe a debt of gratitude to President
Barack Obama now of course I also work
for President Obama Vice President Biden
and I know that the problem with your
plan is that it leaves 10 million people
uncovered now on the last debate stage
in Detroit you said that wasn't true
when senator Harris brought that up
there was a fact check of that and they
said that was true you know I grew up
with a grandmother who had type 2
diabetes and I watched her condition get
worse and worse but that whole time she
had Medicare I want every single
American family to have a strong
Medicare plan available if they choose
to hold on to strong solid private
health insurance I believe they should
be able to do that but the difference
between what I support and what you
support Vice President Biden is that you
require them to opt in and I would not
require them to opt in they would
automatically be enrolled they wouldn't
have to buy in that's a big difference
because Barack Obama's vision was not to
leave 10 million people uncovered he
wanted every single person in this
country covered my plan would do that
your plan would you do not have to buy
in
they do not have to buy your closet now
we just said that he said that and so
Castro is like wait why you just said it
you admitted it yourself in addition to
being it already been fact checked last
time around so go back just a little bit
and this is the exchange now that they
have somehow managed to turn against
Castro and I would not require them to
opt in they would automatically be
enrolled they wouldn't have to buy in
that's a big difference because Barack
Obama's vision was not to leave 10
million people uncovered he wanted every
single person in this country covered my
plan would do that your plan would you
do not have to buy in they do not have
to buy it you just said that you just
said that two minutes ago you just said
two minutes ago that they would have to
buy it you said they would have to buy
to buy in if I were you are you
forgetting what you said of Maddox and
being four
what you sent just two minutes ago I
mean I can't believe that you sent two
minutes ago that they had to buy in and
now you're saying they don't have to buy
you're forgetting that anyway look
mother who has no money she
automatically erratically enrolls people
regardless of whether they choose to opt
in or not if you lose your job for
instance his his health care plan would
not automatically enroll you you would
have to opt in my health care plan would
that's a big difference I'm fulfilling
in fulfilling the legacy of Barack Obama
and you're not that would be surprised
to him there you go I mean really the
the bottom line is also is sort of like
your circumstance rather than your
poverty level will dictate your absence
of health insurance will get you health
insurance even under that Medicare for
America prat plan which doesn't go as
far as obviously as as Bernie's and to
some extent Warren's basically covers
you if you don't have health insurance
as opposed to it covers you if you don't
have health insurance and you're living
a hundred and thirty-eight percent below
the poverty level so that's the the big
difference there this stuff is gonna you
know I don't know how much of a
difference that makes the people who are
watching this stuff broadly speaking I
mean I think you know there are some
people who are engaged but what it does
sort of resonate was like you know
here's a guy who doesn't quite know what
his plan is or he's trying to be a
little bit obtuse about it and he can't
communicate amongst friendly people the
effect of that looked horrible
regardless of the substance horrible and
and of course like I say there was a lot
of like folks coming out ABC had some
random dude saying like I spoke to some
other anonymous people who were like
Julian Castro really went too far being
mean well actually a flavor globish are
specifically attacked him yeah so I
would never never go out somebody like
that unless they were a staff member
right never do anything like that
that's the vice-president state that's
not some schmuck that you can
blackballed from a job
reminder people are gonna be going up
against Donald Trump in the Republican
it's gonna be much worse much much much
that's incredible watching these eight
like Buddha judge me like those were
people who are sick of really Pete this
is what they're sick of that was an okay
another guy right here let's see what
they're sick of is Castro saying this
isn't this is an election that mean that
you know what cuz I I really you know I
I don't like Julian Castro because of
his policy record and I've always found
it you know previously rhetorically he
was pure discount brand Obama but I mean
between the hits on Biden and him saying
that point that like we're sort of
supposed to be up here differentiating
ourselves points credit where credit's
due
this is not being back that is what
Julian Castro said lesson and lastly you
know a Biden's $1,000 you know is the
most you'll have to pay as a copay or do
you know are deductible many you know we
have like many versions of this
statistics you know people can't get
raise $500 in an emergency you know some
50% can't raise four hundred maybe sixty
some odd percent can't raise five
hundred in an emergency can't raise five
hundred they can raise a thousand though
right by going out and taken like a
payday loan or something to that effect
and then getting into a spiral of debt
