we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar Tuesday October 22nd 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Sam Michael hybrid
Tuesday we're broadcasting live steps
from the industrial ravage Gowanus Canal
in the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Pamela
Newkirk on diversity Inc interview Sam
just recorded hot off of the presses
India and Pakistan trade fire in Kashmir
killing nine and one of the most
contentious areas in the globe even as
the Indian military occupation of
Kashmir continues months after the Modi
government scrapped the Indian
Constitution to strip autonomy for
Kashmir not to worry
there's a great new photo-op with the
Prime Minister along with Henry
Kissinger Condoleezza Rice and Tony
Blair I'm sure that they are centering
humanity and those talks oh and by the
way the Indian economy is collapsing US
diplomat bill Taylor's drawn in to
Trump's you carrion efforts set to
testify on Tuesday support for
impeaching and removing Donald Trump is
at an all-time high according to a CNN
poll
fake news the fake news folks ain't
nothing fake about what the hell is
going on with Donald Trump's faces
you'll see Iran says US forces
withdrawing from Syria have no
approval to stay workers at Chili's and
Chilean coppermine the world's largest
are set to walk off the job today
Canadian elections Trudeau hangs on to
power just one shade of makeup on as the
NDP performs pretty well there's gonna
be some type of coalition government the
Magadh Dave Rubin guest Bernie a not
only did not lead a new fascist party in
Canada he lost his own seat Netanyahu
cannot form a government Israel might be
headed to another set of elections there
is no difference from the perspective of
Palestinian humanity on the ballot
Trump has discovered what the Aman
Youmans Clause is and it's phony it's
phony folks all that plus the movement
continues in Haiti against occupying
forces the World Bank IMF and the
corrupt political class and a new book
whacks Kamala Harris is AG record during
the housing crisis in poor in history
but maybe not as important in a
candidate as people might have thought
you know when she said I'm a top-tier
candidate that was like bad karma she
honestly she seemed like someone who I
thought she will in the Democratic Party
is okay I I was I think that's my
biggest missed call of the election I
totally thought Tomlin Harris was gonna
be solid Donald Trump is in a bad mood
he at the reverse himself from hosting
the g7 at one of his own health and as
Mick Mulvaney said I mean he still
really thinks of himself as being in the
hospitality business I mean well it's
murder hospitality didn't being
president in the United States ah
this clip is great one I just want to do
and I'm loathe to do this as everybody
knows I'm not into this stuff but I do
want to give a trigger warning his face
is horrifying
I'm not gonna do like a
woke thing about people's bodies
whatever is going on here whatever
bleach he's using and how that's
counteracting with the thing on his head
is it's a tough deal well Oba lupus are
a historically marginalized group so you
might want to be a bit sensitive I mean
I fair enough
if he comes out and owns his identity is
whatever that is I will try to be more
sensitive as of now this is just a
really terrifying tanning job which can
not be adding to a already I mean this
is not theirs Trump when he's funny
there's Trump when he's dunking on Jeb
there's Trump when he's talking about
you know Democratic candidates and he's
loose I this is I just had to cancel the
hotel shrimp
very Trump and when Trump is
 there's one person that comes to
mind they ran their business hey Obama
made a deal for a book is that running a
business I'm sure he didn't even discuss
it while he was president he has a deal
with Netflix when did they start talking
about that that's only you know a couple
of examples but other presidents if you
love other process the wealthy not huge
wealth George Washington was actually
considered a very very rich man at the
time George Washington they say had two
desks he had a presidential desk and a
business desk I don't think you people
with this oh Nehemiah Ernst laws and by
the way I would say that it's cost me
anywhere from two to five billion
dollars to be present oh my god okay
definitely being president is absolutely
the first solid --let Donald Trump is a
businessman as a failure Donald Trump is
an entertainer is pretty successful and
being president is by far I think that
is originally why he ran for president
was probably because this is a way to
actually reach oligarch status not just
like in my vision board would be my
guess so that's great now you know look
do presidents leave office and do they
even know that something in the future
is gonna influence their decisions today
even if it's not as naked and obvious as
Trump yeah probably
and this is like the classic Trump
pattern where he's sort of like in his
own narcissistic self victimizing whiny
way makes like a third of a point but
the fact check is really funny and I
also do like the idea that like what's
the difference between getting a book
agent after your president and booking
people to stay at your hotels it's all
the same thing George Washington they
say chopped down the cherry trees say
chopped down the cherry tree he owned
slaves that's a significant business I
love the projection like Obama had Reed
Hastings no you know what's gonna happen
when I'm had read over did a great deal
great business guy Netflix the great
business people don't want me to make
deals we're supposed to be incredibly
cynical about Obama but all these
instances with Trump and all this his
emoluments issues were supposed to act
like is like asking the Saudi royal
family if they want to stay at my hotels
before a major arms deal is the most
innocent commonsensical thing in the
world
Barack Obama getting a book deal is
sinister and like how does he make off
of any of these days like it seems like
a little petty I don't even know I just
know that I'm in the hospitality
business I had I had one desk for
business one desk for work a monuments
clause ridiculous fake news many
thousands G big news sat down with
Netflix they're a great company I'm a
great president we do great business did
deals give him a really good reality
show and tell him that you know being
president is going to be more like you
want it to be now and then you know we
can have another place where the real
president is if they if he loses they
should pretend that he wins and get him
into the simulation yeah okay yeah yeah
so he thinks no but I'm saying he needs
to think that yeah yeah whole time yet
like we need to get him into this one
you won and now all of a sudden you have
a nine
five percent approval rating and all of
the best entertainers want to come this
time and it's a reality show and that
part will be real because it'll be
hilarious oh yeah we'll definitely watch
that it'll be like The Truman Show I'm
totally into that concept because I look
I'd still want Trump to have a highly
active Twitter account until these till
he died it's big time big league I just
want to say I just apropos of nothing
this is a trump quote from 2013 and this
is a good example of why I still want
him on Twitter and why and why what
Comley Harris is saying this is just a
not only a problematic politically it's
just a huge assault on entertainment
this Donald Trump from 2013 New York
Fashion Week it's really bad you used to
be so glamorous that exciting no stars
no fun just boring they need serious
help
hashtag New York Fashion Week you just
walk into the dressing room humans have
been shaving for thousands of years but
the secret to a great shave hasn't she
hasn't changed much
that's why Harry's doesn't ever charge
you to add gimmicky features to their
razors Harry's is a return to the
essential quality durable Brahe blades
at a fair price just two per blade it's
$2.00 per blade they've cut out the
middleman by manufacturing blades in
their German blade factory which has
been a honing precision blades for a
century that means you get incredibly
high quality blurr blades at factory
direct prices there's no risk trying
them out if you love if if you don't
love your shave you let them know and
they'll get you a full refund listeners
of our show now can redeem their Harry's
trial set at Harry's comm slash majority
report you'll get weighted error ganache
Ã¡ndale for a firm grip
five blade razor with lubricating blades
a lubricating strip and trimmer blade a
law a rich lathering shave gel with aloe
to keep your skin hydrated and a travel
blade cover to keep your razor dry and
easy to grab on the go go to harrys.com
slash majority report to start shaving
better today
what do you rather be busy or productive
Matlock productive obviously start
making start making your work take less
work and find the right software for you
at kaptara comm slash majority cap Tara
is the leading free online resource to
help you find the best software solution
for your business with over 1 million
reviews of products from software users
discover everything you need to make an
informed decision search more than 700
specific categories of software
everything from project management to
email marketing to yoga studio
management software no matter what kind
of software your business needs kaptara
makes it easy to discover the right
solution fast join the millions of
people who use kaptara
each month to find the right tools for
their business now Sam I can tell you I
need I'm actually starting to get on
kaptara for my business and I've been
reading the reviews and like Sam I have
to admit I have been reading about all
sorts of businesses that I have nothing
to do with because it is actually kind
of fascinating to understand like how
does somebody running yoga studio as an
example it's actually really interesting
actually some of the software we used to
run this show is listed on kaptara
that's right and this show has been
significantly more efficient as
efficient as this group of humans can be
because of kaptara solutions visit
kaptara comm slash majority for free
today to find the tools to make an
informed software decision for your
business kaptara comm / majority that's
CA p t e RR a.com slash majority kaptara
software selection simplified alright
folks we're gonna take a brief break and
then we're gonna be right back with
jams conversation with Pamela Newkirk
diversity Inc
on the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
to the program professor of journalism
at New York University author of her
latest the failed promise of a
billion-dollar business diversity Inc
Pamela Newkirk welcome to the program
thank you so much thank let's I mean
let's first start I guess with the the
what that billion dollar business is
before we get on to the the failed
prompt both the the promise and the
failure I guess because I don't I'm not
sure that people are totally savvy as to
the the existence of diversity as an
industry right and and it's kind of a
different way of thinking of it but so I
guess I'll start at the beginning when I
was thinking about this project what
what brought me to it was just
constantly reading these reports by
companies like Google like every year
they would look at their diversity
numbers and issue a report and every
year they would talk about the
disappointing results and then I also
kept reading about these institutional
scandals if you will where you know
there was some revelation either about a
ratio episode in the workplace that then
you know would cause the company the
institution to higher diversity czar and
then you know I just started reading
about all of the money that is spent on
diversity by various institutions every
year I the task forces that are
assembled and the climate surveys that
are commissioned and the diversity
consultants that are hired and the
diversity czar is in the diversity
conferences that draw hundreds of people
to you know to cities around the country
and
then started thinking of it as an
industry and we're looking at an
industry that is actually growing by
leaps and bounds particularly over the
past couple of years with the rise in
movements like me too and black lives
matter diversity jobs are on the rise
and there was a study by indeed.com that
that showed that the numbers have gone
up something like 35 percent over the
over the last couple of years you know
the postings for diversity jobs so we're
talking about an industry a professor at
MIT more than ten years ago had said at
that time companies for spending
something like eight billion dollars a
year on diversity and since that time
the numbers have gone up so we're
talking about a burgeoning industry and
I mean the maybe I'm jumping ahead just
a little bit but I mean from your
perspective and we should say that you
know one of the books you wrote within
the veil black journalist white media
sort of I guess you know extrapolated on
the problem on some of them right right
how we're not really making the progress
that one would think we would have made
over 50 years of looking at this issue
and grappling with this issue and I and
I want to get to that because that's the
that's the failed promise I guess yeah
but does the to the extent I mean is
there a way they maybe me to make this
assessment but when we see the reaction
of you know the sort of the apparatus
right to increase diversity how sincere
you know and we could talk about the
efficacy of this apparatus and and and
why it has not been effective but how
sincere is the effort do you think I
mean because we do see it in reaction to
like oh we had employees who removed you
know to black people from our store
because you
and now we've got to we're gonna have
all this house we're gonna have this big
like public kind of great how much of it
is public relations and and how much of
it is a sense I mean how much of it is
what to what extent can you attribute
what motives to it I guess right well
well only only the institutional leaders
can honestly say how sincere they are I
I can only look at the results of their
efforts that they're spending billions
of dollars on something and getting and
having very little to show for it and
doing the same thing over and over that
that is not bearing results so I'm just
wondering why you know when you keep
doing the same thing and getting the
same results and maybe you need to try
something new right so you know that's
that's in part what inspired me to look
at this because it's like we're having
the same conversation for decades the
exact same conversations you know
looking at these numbers where black law
partners increased from one point seven
percent to one point eight percent
between 1985 and 2016 looking at black
men and management at companies with a
hundred and more employees going from
three percent to three point two percent
over years you know the the largest
public fashion and apparel companies
where only 11 percent of board seats are
held by people of color who who comprise
roughly 40 percent of the population so
if if all of these companies are
spending you know some hundreds of
millions and you know you know
collectively billions of dollars of year
a year and having so little to show for
it
like what could we do differently what
what like what new ways might we look at
at a systemic problem because surely
what's happening now is not working all
right and before we get to sort of like
that that concept of
solution and and I think you know you
give obviously the statistics you just
laid out for us are indicative of you
know across any number of industries in
in a myriad of different ways you talk
about the entertainment industry as well
in that regard like I guess the the
relevance of the question obviously you
can't you can't assess intent but are
there indications and I mean I don't
have a it sounds like that this is an
agenda driven question but it's not
right but I'm just curious to what
extent like is mission accomplished
simply by showing the expenditure like
well yeah I think that's the approach
that many of these institutions were
taking that to to simply construct an
apparatus of diversity is indication of
enough that that institution cares about
diversity and I'm not certain that many
institutional leaders are owning their
role in the end the result part of it
like you know they're kind of farming it
out to a consultant or to some
marginalized division within the
institution instead of actually saying
that you know this is something that I
as a leader need to incentivize you know
when leaders of companies actually care
about something right they can they can
move the needle if they don't farm it
out and actually say the buck stops with
me you could see this this problem
pretty much you could see progress
pretty much overnight in many
institutions if that kind of intention
is is brought to bear so I think you
know when you ask me how sincere they
are I mean they may think they're
sincere they may be sincere but
if this was another kind of problem that
affected their bottom line and they were
failing consistently I I would just
imagine that you know if you're a CEO of
a company and things are failing and
you're throwing a lot of money at it
you're going to want to try something
different and so I think with this
problem I think there needs to be some
serious soul-searching to find out why
we're doing the same thing if it's not
working right I mean if we're if the
agenda was in a company we need to
increase our sales and in in this region
of the world and you know five three
years later and look at it and like it
hasn't moved a needle I would say right
we need to do something different I mean
I mean Jeff and if every year you're it
like every year you're releasing reports
they're saying oh we're disappointed
like you're gonna be disappointed for
decades like at what point do you take
responsibility for for that failure who
does that failure belong to like who
gets to own that failure and I think the
way it's been looked at as you can blame
the consultant or you can blame you know
the diversities are you can learn it's
it's out there you know the finger is
pointing outward when it really should
you know go in the other direction it's
a it's a systemic problem and it's a
leadership issue and and in a lot in a
lot of these situation well if it is I
mean let's look at it from the
perspective of the systemic qualities of
it I mean because I think it you know
the the idea that there isn't a
reevaluation of the methodology suggests
to me that there isn't necessarily a
feeling of genuine failure that the
attempt is sufficient for a lot of the
people who are who are doing this to
fulfill what is the actual problem which
is the perception that they're right am
i right and I think
perception has a lot to do with this too
I think many people have still clung to
this mythology that you know people of
color are not in these positions because
they are not enough qualified people of
color or their you know the the the
problem is the pipeline that's a that's
a that you heard a lot in the 1960s when
diversity became you know sort of like a
public you know a social concern you
know from the President on down this is
something that we need to to address
there was an acknowledgment that that
african-americans and other people of
color had been systemically shut out of
most fields but in that time and in the
50 years that had that have you know
since then it's no longer possible to
point solely to a pipeline issue when
you've had scores of people of color
going so not only just college but some
of the most elite schools in this
country and yet we still have this
problem where we're saying you know we
tried and you know we just kind of throw
up our hands and it's like no let's
let's do a little bit more than that
let's let's really look for something
that coca-cola did after it was sued for
discrimination and it's settled what it
did is it looked at the metrics across
the company it looked at hiring
promotions bonuses who was getting who
was not by racial group by gender and
then they were able to both identify
patterns of bias and to disrupt those
patterns of bias in real time so they
would look at these metrics even before
a job offer was made even before you
know bonuses or source or you know
raises were were given to see are there
patterns of bias you know a lot of this
is not intentional bias but you know we
live in a racialized society with where
you know ideas are deeply embedded and
they they play out in in ways that are
kind of insidious we don't often see it
is sort of an invisible thing but if you
look at the metrics in this way then
maybe you can like make some adjustments
so this is just one way that a company
kind of turned itself around and became
a lot more racially diverse can you give
us like a like a like even more sort of
like granular examples in that way so in
other words you would look in the I
don't know the I don't know the
different divisions of coca-cola but you
would look in distribution and you'd
look at people in the same job and see
okay like what are the salaries across
that that that job category what if you
if you're hiring what what does the
applicant pool look like what does the
who's getting bonuses so if you look at
that across the board and you kind of
like you know do that kind of assessment
you can actually see patterns and so
that's how they did it and then they
would say to Human Resources in those
different divisions look you are hiring
is much lower based upon application
other-- division your bonuses are you
know and making people conscious of that
Oh disparities right making people a lot
more conscious of these patterns of
disparity yeah so that that's one way
and I mean obviously that took that took
intention it took you know vigilance but
that's that's what they did and that's
how they turned coca-cola around so
there are models that are that exist you
know but if you look in higher education
where African Americans are about four
percent of University Professors and
Latinos or three percent or
under like in a country where those two
groups alone are about 30% of the
population
you know something needs to like there
should be some way to look at what's
going on what's going on with who's not
only who's hired who's even considered
for these positions to what extent I
mean it I mean is there a is there a a
pipeline problem or a maybe I mean a
culture there's obviously a cultural
problem insofar as you have these
disparities in the way that maybe people
perceive but I you know a while back we
interviewed maybe I guess it was over
the summer
Anthony Abraham Jack who wrote a book I
think it was called the privileged poor
about how elite colleges are failing
disadvantaged students where it you know
one of the things he looked at was
particularly african-american students
who were you know coming from from
living you know in poverty or down
further on the income distribution in
that colleges would seek out
african-american students they were more
apt to admit them if they had already
been a cultured in a private school in
some way and all right I wonder Chuck
well because you know I guess that their
defense is that they want students who
can compete with with with their peers
and they they don't want to set students
up to fail but I guess what what what I
want to say about this is that you know
I think you're talking about the
pipeline and as I said for five decades
we've talked about the pipeline for many
of these fields that's no longer the
issue because what I found is that the
more elite and the smaller the more
boutique a field is the less diverse it
is so we're talking about oftentimes
like newsrooms where we're not talking
about large numbers of people right
we're talking about like if you only
look at took one elite journalism school
and and just considered candidates from
that one elite journalism school you
could you could turn around newsrooms
like pretty much overnight with
diversity so I think you know I the the
higher up you go the more elite the
field or you know museums we're not
talking about needing you know thousands
of people it I think it's why companies
like coca-cola you know corporate
America is far more diverse than some of
the more elite progressive fields you
know we look at journalism we look at
you know all the other higher ed it
doesn't take that many people to move
the needle on this on this but yet we're
not really moving the needle okay so if
I understand what you're saying you know
that you're talking about you know
coca-cola hires thousands of people
whereas you know thousands of people may
include everybody who works in broadcast
media in New York City right and that
the in terms of getting percentages much
easier to find candidates you know a
nice theoretical e but but so let me ask
you this is it is it is it and I guess
what I was getting at with with with
bringing up that that other research was
that is the issue that there are sort of
like I guess there are cultural streams
or something like that that people don't
recognize and don't break out of that
you know that that there is other
factors at work or they just well
they're they're definitely social
networks and I think a lot of this is
due to social networks I mean I live in
New York
city have-have you know born and raised
here and i often attend events related
to publishing or journalism or the arts
and oftentimes i'm one of few people of
color in the room these are fields that
in which people of color are acutely
underrepresented and I think these kind
of segregated social spheres are them
replicated in the workplace because who
do we hire we hire who we know who we're
friends with who our friends recommend
and I think you know we do live in a
society in which we are pretty much
socially segregated and and I think that
then plays out in other ways so I'm not
talking about overt racism I'm just
talking about the natural ebb and flow
of of our relations and and what happens
due to those relations so who gets
recommended for a faculty position who
gets recommended for a great you know
position at a radio station or a TV
station or a newspaper oftentimes it's
not people who who are not reflected in
these very small social spheres so I
think that's X and we should tell you go
part of this yeah those things are
downstream from more racist practices
nicely this has nothing to do this is
about racism this is just the way we
live in a society that has kind of been
socially ordered this way we live in a
very you know we like to think of
ourselves as living in a progressive
integrated society but you know our
churches are pretty much segregated our
schools are pretty much segregated our
our you know we're we're arrangements
out yeah so I mean so this is all part
and parcel of you know how we find these
workplaces in and put
clearly the more elite ones are are
still very very dedicated and and and
theoretically a lot of these elite ones
to probably have a more bear and
certainly when you talk about journalism
we talk about entertainment on some
level more bearing on the culture in
some ways you know okay so how much of
the the argument of you know who our
market is I mean for instance I can tell
you that I used to years and years ago I
was a sitcom actor and I did a sitcom
where I played the white writer on an
all-black variety show it was a very
early job I had I was on Fox TV I'm not
doing an advertiser myself it's long
gone but but I it was it was really my
first or second job in Hollywood and it
didn't occur to me until the the decade
that followed how rare it was that I was
on a show where I was the only white guy
maybe there was one other white guy on
the show and everyone else was black
because and the difficulty of a show
like that because of it you know or I
should say you know the audience the the
sell to the audience is very segregated
it's it's either got to be a black shot
or a what I think but but I think that's
a really old-fashioned way of looking at
the world as it is today well I gotta
say to be fair that was 25 years old but
all of the research shows that more
diverse casts are are make more money
films with diversity make more money
than films that don't have it so I think
that is the way that that that's a very
old Hollywood way of looking at it that
you do a black cast for a black audience
and a white cast for a white audience
Shonda Rhimes kind of like just exploded
that whole myth by having diverse cast
that were among the most popular shows
on television
and we're seeing the same thing with
film the hollywood diversity report
their number of reports that come out
every year by USC and UCLA that show
that diversity cells in and particularly
in a global market that is that is more
you know likely to to gravitate to films
that that reflect the world so yeah i
think there was a time when that is the
way that that's what producers directors
you know people who greenlight projects
thought of audiences but that is not
actually how audience audiences work
look at some of the the biggest films of
the past couple of years
black pants are crazy rich Asians you
know i can go on and although i think
it's all into that predictable like
blacks for blacks and whites for wife i
mean i think the consumer facing no i
mean i and i agree and i and this show
was you know in the mid 90s and and I
think the the consumer facing part of it
now I think has changed yet you still
have a problem with the would the
producers in terms of make a lack of
diversity you still have a problem with
the writers in in terms of a lack of
diversity the people who aren't facing
you know sort of consumer facing on some
level and I I guess my point was more
just sort of the consciousness of the
different networks that existed like I
would I never saw any of those those
those men and women that I was on that
show it I never saw them again okay
there's a point about our separate
social yes fears yeah yeah no I'm sure
that's true I mean I can't tell you how
many weddings or parties I've gone to of
my white friends when I'm it so so okay
and so so I understand you can you know
if you're if you're if you're a company
the size of coca-cola
you can make these changes because you
can actually you have a lot
data exactly if you're talking about a
small you know like a like a small
journalism shop or you're talking about
you know even like broadcast news thing
you don't have that many people there
the data is not as sort of like obvious
right where cuz what one person could
change the percentage by you know a
significant amount how do you do it in
that like what what is what are there
examples in that situation where I yeah
i guess diversity just has to matter to
a company matter not just you know for
the bottom line but matter as just an
issue of justice and what's right
do we not hire people because of their
of color does having diversity make us
smarter give us give us you know just a
broader take on the society that that
we're covering I mean can you really
cover a diverse society with all-white
newsrooms or can you do it fairly can
you do you know can you do it well so I
think when we think of diversity as more
than just check a box but as something
that actually makes us better then I
think that might give news directors
managers more of an incentive to do it
because it just will make for a better
product whatever you don't how you how
you do it is it's it's really not that
hard I know it my you when you know when
we have searches because we have a far
more diverse faculty now than when I
joined the faculty 25 years ago we have
a much broader social network and
professional network that you know that
we have our tentacles out in the world
and in a you know a far more
comprehensive way
if he comes self replicating on some
level precisely and and if you don't
have that and it's not self replicating
it's not
at hard especially in journalism I mean
we're journalists we do research how do
we find people who don't look like us I
don't if there's national organizations
there are you know there are all kinds
of ways to do it it's really not I think
we treat diversity as like rocket
science like to do it is like so hard it
really isn't well it really isn't what
if the answer is that there's a lot of
these places that don't consider it
important and that they don't contain
important beyond the sort of the public
relations aspect of it which they feel
is satisfied by expending money and
saying we're doing our best well then
then we'll continue to have the
consistently disappointing reports and
and we'll just like accept that I guess
I guess I'm calling it out because
because I mean come on it's it's like 50
years of saying the same thing it's it's
just it doesn't go down well such as the
failed promise of a billion-dollar
business diversity Inc a Pamela Newkirk
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you Sam
thank you Sam okay folks we're gonna go
to the fun half become a member of the
majority report today majority dot F M
slash become a member
today's show was brought to you in part
by kaptara kaptara as the leading free
online resource to help you find the
best software solution for your business
with over 1 million reviews of products
from software users from real software
users discover everything you need to
make an informed decision go to kaptara
comm slash majority for free to find
tools to make an in-form software
decision for your business kaptara comm
slash majority kaptara
that's CA p t-- e RR a.com slash
majority kaptara software selection
simplified tonight on the Michael Brooks
show we're going to be talking
with John I roll ax and artesia ball
drop talking about extinction rebellion
and how not to mobilize people for a
global environmental movement we're
talking about Lebanon Chile the Bernie
rally and much much more
this past Sunday in illicit history of
how to build a global labor movement
which chuka a jackman which was really
fascinating Chooka Chooka Chooka Chooka
edge ekam we're so huge amount of
content I'll just say tonight I'm
recording it an interview with Adolph
Reid and then another interview that
will be coming out with another very
well known person pretty soon as well as
well as not confirm yet but we will be
talking with the great Nina Turner on T
MBS knock oh yeah the best paper
patreon.com slash T MBS Michael Brooks
show on YouTube and tomorrow we're a
month out from our Philly show of which
we are well over where I think we're
actually like 2/3 sold out of it so I
would get your tickets if you want to
come see us in Philly World Cafe crystal
ball artesia ball drop I'm a big 'ln
super stoked see you there
Jamie so this week on the anti Fattah we
had on not one but two guests we had
Shawn Khanna the editor of commune mag
and Josh strong who is in a band called
as her swan and he's also a thoughtful
and political guy so we previewed a bit
of what's in the new issue of kommune it
sounds pretty cool we talked about the
Bernie rally that me Andy and Sean
I'll meet say me Andy and Sean all went
to and then we talked a little bit about
music it's been a while since we've done
a music episode and we like music and
it's the month for spooky music I mean
that's every month for me but you know
everyone enjoys spooky music in October
so we talked about some current music
that we like and yeah we did something a
little different than our usual format
and it was kind of a tie in because
Josh's band will be playing at my
benefit show that I'm throwing for
Oklahoma
which is a mutual aid kitchen in Tijuana
running along autonomous principles and
that's gonna be Friday at trans-pecos
kind of on the border between Brooklyn
and Queens and I've got azor Swan and
other brands so you guys probably
haven't heard of but I really awesome
it's gonna be super Gotham freaky and
weird and fun and raise money for a good
cause so I hope someone can some of you
can come rad links on the website I'm
assuming yeah Matt yeah coming up this
weekend on literary hangover I'm gonna
be talking about the Salem witch trials
this could be a spooky episode talking
about it as a sort of violent transition
from a theocratic to a secular age and
also as a cover-up of the Mather family
who spent the 1680s writing about how
witches are real and you should take
them seriously and then that's fine 1692
that anybody who thought it was a
cover-up for the massive okay I find
these witches and the Mathers were like
actually we didn't we we would we would
have been more cautious but anyway Nick
news fake news me like so like it was
they were like they were like the early
Trump's they were just like she has
someone she should be burned 10 years
later I never said that I never started
anything with the witches yeah sort of
like that I'll have to think about how
Trump maps onto the witch trials yeah
please I mean come on if you can't think
of a Trump angle then they got a filter
it into modern parlance god that's
depressing
all right folks we'll see you on the
phone half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
whipping like he's boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
you know you're nervous a little bit
upset you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude you want to
smoke this joint yes do you feel like
you are a dinosaur exactly I'm
happy now it's win oh yeah now listen to
me two three five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't
you see everybody's taking their dumb
juice today come on dance dance dance
[Music]
yes this is a perfect no all right take
quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
ability Ria's out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber silastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report them we'll be with
you shortly
welcome to the fun half ladies and gents
I still got a call into the phone system
but let's uh let's play some sound shall
we I did almost have a Sam moment right
now where is my shout sheet
oh it's there what should we do the guy
oh my cam she's here yes we can do that
um so there's a couple of different
interesting things in this fox news clip
Bernie Sanders has beginning in 1997
proposed a wealth tax to shore up some
basic decency in this society he's
proposing a very aggressive one in this
campaign Elizabeth Warren has put a
modest wealth tax on the forward as well
and of course shockingly these are in
the normal world extremely popular
proposals amongst normal terrestrial
human beings there's a couple ways to
respond to this and I especially after
watching this clip I would not be
terribly surprised if Donald Trump
pretends to support some form of wealth
tax in the general election I think he
still needs some fake populist moves and
obviously you know he's a fundamentally
dishonest person and a relentless liar
so you know he can shift his rhetoric
and shift his emphasis he might go for a
wealth tax oh yeah the trade stuff is
done that ship has sailed those trades -
I mean
hill-hill still say it though Tefo china
toughie but us a tough on trade so then
there's the you know classic Republican
nonsense of a well these are job
creators and but you know really I mean
you hear some of that in this clip you
you'll hear from Ducey I think the hint
of the Trump move then you're gonna hear
a little bit of job creator but
then you're gonna hear another line of
argumentation about having 50 million
dollars in assets which I don't think
you've probably heard before but we're
not talking about just wealthy people
we're talking about SuperDuper wealthy
people who have assets of more than 50
million right well 50 million that is
big but it's not as big as you think and
on those is pretty big yeah well yeah
but you wait and you work for Fox News
long enough and you're 60 years old
you'd be surprised how much money you'll
have but for people with a hundred
million she wants it to be 3% which
these are absurd rates you have to
remember these are the people that
financed our startups these are the
people that give us companies like
Amazon and Apple which they're the ones
with the seed capital C they behave like
these people sort of clip coupons they
have bonds and they hang out at the rao
with the president and you know that
sort of thing that's just simply not
true they're very active people that are
investing their money i think what a lot
of us are saying is that most of these
people have inherited money because we
live in a renter society and if you read
Thomas Piketty you can see how much
money is basically just rolled over in a
feudal dynastic fashion and also whether
you made it from starting a chain of
grocery stores or clipping coupons for
those grocery stores if you were at 50
million dollars you're getting taxed I
don't care how you made it period
yeah whether you're you know did
something cool or something awful well
yeah and whether you're a highly what I
mean by cool is like a basketball player
somebody who is like a highly
compensated laborer you
still gonna get hit with that tax and
those are the people that I have like
the least problem with them having money
because they contribute something if
we're gonna live in a society like this
totally but most of the people with that
kind of money are not basketball players
they're capitalists and other people's
work made that money for them and if
there were any justice in this world
they would be completely expropriated
because no one should be in that kind of
a hierarchical position asking them to
pay a wealth tax is like the tiniest
least bit that they deserve now fifty
million dollars releases how much money
yeah and for 95 percent of venture
capital firms aren't profitable like
this is a it's it's a complete like
they're playing with house money frankly
and just hoping some like they get a
unicorn or whatever they call them that
can really cash out well because it gets
acquired by one of these monopolies like
Amazon yeah that's how it works
basically so the venture capital is a
complete joke
anybody who acts like it's not is trying
to sell you something
oh it's also funny how he acts that like
companies like Amazon are in any way
making the world better for most of us
they're not big news Mexican beer
compete boutique a Mexican burger bit
again I'm making my life better you're
calling from an 805 area code who are
you where he calling from hi this is
Chris from Santa Barbara hey Chris
what's going on what's on your mind man
so I was thinking recently about my
political beliefs and I've noticed that
most of my beliefs are basically what
I've learned from watching shows like
the majority report I recently got then
burgesses book I'm an argument right
finished that and I was wondering for
more literary like things that I could
explore to actually have like a more
grounded knowledge I would read i will i
would definitely read class notes by
adolphe read jr i would order that I
think everybody should read that I'm a
big history guy so I would read people's
history of the third world by Vijay
Prashad and stay tuned against the web
the globalist socialist case
against the new right by Michael Brooks
coming from zero books in February and I
get it I'd recommend the Eric Hobsbawm a
job series you can find all of those
online as PDFs and David Harvey
neoliberalism a history definitely that
yeah and if you prefer to take in
information in audio form David Harvey's
lectures on Marx's capital oh very good
I think it's really important to have a
basic grasp of Marxist concepts and
Marxist economics it makes the world
make so much more sense I don't want to
sound like a cultist here but it really
it really does and then you start to
notice that let's start to understand
Chris but there's like condensed
versions if the full version is too long
and boring and difficult I only got
through some or some Richard Wolffe has
great love I love long boring difficult
alright perfect then you'll love Marx
there's also like a lot of crazy in
there like he was writing at the time of
the gothic novel so like there's a lot
of gothic imagery that I appreciate
there's um he just like goes off on
coke-fueled tangents but um yeah it's
definitely a commitment thanks for the
call Chris all right
sound good yeah have a good one you too
all right Ryan Grimm was on TMDs last
week and I frankly I love Ryan and his
work and I can't wait to have him on
again and I said stop being such a
Warren cook and he well I didn't
actually say that we actually had a Vai
that I thought one of the more smart
conversation slash debates I will say
Ryan is a infinitely bigger Warren fan
than me as is Emma biglan and these are
like the smartest Morin people and they
both still say Bernie should be at the
top of the ticket I think that that's
pretty important information here's Ryan
grim though who again who is just I mean
he's obviously his politics are of the
left and he's a progressive and he's
quite open about that but he's also I
mean he is first and foremost a very
serious reporter so him laying out the
reality of
the gist complete media erasure of the
Bernie Sanders campaign on MSNBC with
chris hayes who of course is the only
one who treats bernie with some fairness
on MSNBC is significant the the Sanders
event Ryan was in this context he said
in the sort of plateau and I think that
the one kind of consistent polling story
we've seen over the last three months is
that Elizabeth Warren has gained across
polling that the challenge for the
Sanders campaign and I thought it was
interesting them doing the event where
they did it with the numbers they did is
that his challenge is just building out
from the core they have they obviously
have a core of supporters extremely
devoted but I thought the last part of
riff of his speech was about fighting
for people that don't look like you and
like seem to me a rhetorical leaning
into the idea of addition to the
coalition in a way I hadn't quite heard
him make the case before that's kind of
been their kind of underlying case the
entire time was any good news I'm sorry
I mean that's Ryan very politely saying
you don't sound like you've been
watching the speeches I mean that I mean
that's certainly what it sounds like to
me I mean Bernie yes it's a new
formulation but that's been the campaign
okay well how would that follow like
there are lots of different kinds of
people in the Bernie coalition already
fighting for people who aren't like them
well that's what part of that implies
that it's too small that's always erased
and it's been part of socialist politics
for ages the case before that's kind of
been their kind of underlying case the
entire time and the good news for
Sanders is that you can't survey his
strategy you know if in other words
pollsters look for likely voters in the
way that they look for likely voters is
you know what's the electorate looked
like in the past and what are our
projections about what it's likely to
look this time whereas Sanders is trying
to change the complexion and the face of
the electorate so he's trying to
organize enough people and inspire
enough people you know in Iowa
particularly to come out and caucus for
Bernie Sanders he's running up against
this huge problem though I mentioned
earlier of this media blackout you know
in in in the Democratic primary this
this network and the New York
times have an enormous amount of
influence and it's this show in
particular is an exception that covers
Sanders pretty regularly but but outside
of that he often either gets ignored or
or kind of just kind of laughed at as
not a serious candidate even when polls
come out showing him you know in
reasonable contention yes and no then
one quick point on the Buddha judge he's
spent an extraordinary amount of money
in Iowa and we can't forget that because
you can move the needle a few no cents
points by dumping a ton of money into a
state and he's been very smart about
burning a ton of money in those states
to make himself look viable until he
becomes viable right I mean that's a
very good point about I mean really
Buddha judges only path to viability is
that Iowa performance and look this is a
hundred percent right and this is where
you know I
I'll say one concrete thing I want that
I would like the Sanders campaign to
hire some you know really top-notch
outside television consultants to make
ads that look like the ones in 2016 that
is an actual tangible thing that I think
they can and should do to improve but
with regards to over ninety percent of
what they have are supposed to do and
what their task has been this cycle
they've achieved in terms of they're the
only ones with a movement they've built
out and broaden their base they're
bringing the best policy set to the
table they have a theory of change that
is plausible and hasn't been tried
before all of these things are
unparalleled in modern politics at least
going back to Jesse Jackson in terms of
integrating all of them different
campaigns have different pieces of them
but not the same synthesis and not to
the same leftward miss including the
Jackson campaign so you have all of that
going on what has been the problem well
the vast majority of the problem has
been that they are dealing with a press
that is viciously and relentlessly
biased against them and that has to be
factored into their strategy I don't
know where all the answer is to dealing
with MSNBC in the New York Times I don't
know how you deal with having some
trust-fund kid cover them for the new
times I don't know how you deal with the
endless bias against them at MSNBC and
CNN I think they need to more
aggressively cultivate alternative
networks frankly but that's the core
problem not anything they're doing and
so that is very important to to be
registered I mean you know just even I
mean if any other candidate had a rally
in Queens that got the biggest rally of
the campaign season that had the most
dynamic young politician in the United
States of America that would be full
court coverage obviously if it was
Warren it would be you know double full
court coverage so you know let's just be
real here there is an unbelievable bias
and erasure there's a tantrum anytime
Nina Turner points out differences and
they need to cultivate alternative
networks and they need to be extremely
aggressive and then just keep doing what
they're doing because a lot of what
they're doing is right so I have a
question and that question is how much
do you think this mainstream media
blackout is ultimately gonna hurt
Bernie's campaign considering the
majority of people I I think the
majority of working-class people in this
country I'm not totally sure about this
don't trust corporate media I think it I
think that things that I think in a
general election the fact that Bernie
has an independent brand from the
Democratic parties to his advantage I
think that even the press stuff might be
to his advantage in a general election
and a primary I think Ryan Grimm is
right I think unfortunately and you see
this in the polling with the huge
astronaut you know the very wealthy
people to congregate around Warren and
Budaj edge and the conversations that
get fed I mean to me there's broad
distrust sure but then it's like it's
not as powerful but it's like no if if
if Fox News doesn't like you and you're
running in a Republican primary that's
tough so I think that it no the biased
against him at MSNBC in the times
matters and it might and it does matter
particularly amongst you know
conventional like wealthy people who
voted forever that that is another part
of
the Sanders argument he's trying to
mobilize a totally new base I could tell
you anecdotally he's achieving some of
that but I don't know at the scale I
mean he needs to also have a fighting
chance with all voters and that's why
you know it's incumbent him on people to
read books and actually check out other
news service you know sources and don't
just be a you know a cable news
regurgitator you know absolutely no I
mean independent news is legitimately
important and frankly I think burnt
Bernie should be Bernie should be doing
appearances I mean he's done some meat
on this show he's done Chapo he's done
Kyle kolinsky but he should be doing way
more on the independent sir those those
would be my dual print a pincer strategy
I would say you get someone who makes
incredible television ads who is a
traditional consultant um or whatever I
don't care where you find them but just
somebody who it doesn't matter what
their ideology is it doesn't matter what
they're in it for the check and they
know how to make good ads you
take the money you have you blanket
television and maybe you counteract some
of the relentless propaganda and a racer
with fantastic advertising you get
people at least go well okay that
doesn't look like what I'm hearing about
him all the time maybe I should check
out his website maybe I should check out
of social media then on the other hand
you aggressively cultivate the
independent sphere in terms of your
direct messaging and mobilization I
think that is what they should commit to
I mean we can't be leaving any votes on
the table here but I feel like for at
least a large chunk of the people who
get their politics from MSNBC and CNN
they weren't gonna vote for Bernie in
the first place it's a bad deal yeah I
think just as a man for the sake of like
you mental preservation don't act like
the media has a veto they're gonna
they're gonna continually they screw
Bernie over this entire process but you
know you look at like the UK like Corbin
they like the British press is nuts and
saying they're not insurmountable
basically no and I think I think that's
really the only important part though is
just so that you on the yeah
and so that but then that when somebody
gives you some talking point they picked
up from MSNBC about burning you say okay
I I know what that is
that's here it is well if
Corbin can face down the British press
giving out psycho and bloodthirsty they
are maybe Bernie could face down the
u.s. press well I think they're gonna
need a bigger strategy I mean it's it's
hurt Corbin
but yes um there's things to learn in
both successes and failures and on the
flip side with the exception of Navarra
and some other outlets there is not the
same type of alternative eco system in
the UK so they really need to take
advantage of that
this is Bernie and aoc talking about why
she endorsed him I mean these questions
are mind blowing like aoc and Omar have
politics that's why they endorsed Bernie
Sanders Bosch Garson Carr wrote a great
piece and Guardian if you like aoc you
should like Bernie if you don't you have
to ask yourself why you treat politics
as you know a prestige drama and not
politics a ocaml on Omar treat politics
as politics here it is what do you say
to people who look at what happened with
regard sheer heart attack look at the
fact that you're the oldest candidate in
the race and I wonder if you have the
stamina for four years in office so what
I say is you look at the totality of a
candidate this is a record based on
thirty and forty years of fighting for
the working families of this country
that's my record congresswoman I know
when the senator was in the hospital and
you call him I guess is that when you
offered your endorsement yeah why in
that moment I think it was a gut check
for me you know it was a real gut check
and that's saying and by the way neither
me nor the senator cannot do this by
ourselves as a woman of color why back
an old white guy and is this the future
of the party and that's I mean that is
just calacatta question that's a
legitimately disgusting question on many
levels
I mean one again I will say and I don't
want to get too much down this road it
does erase them as a family of Holocaust
survivors and to the real question is is
your a self-identified Democratic
Socialist who credits the rise of your
political career to the 2016 campaign
that you did grassroots organizing for
Bernie Sanders is a leading candidate
carrying forward a Democratic Socialist
vision why didn't you endorse him in
February would be a coherent I mean it's
actually kind of offensive to presume
that somebody is going to endorse
somebody else just because they're a
woman of color well I mean that's what
all of the that's the subtext of all of
it no one has any I mean in yeah I mean
they don't take a Oasys politics
seriously at all but the one thing they
can't do is act as if this is matter of
fact because they need it to be
mystified for the audience so the
audience doesn't see the easy connection
because of ideology and reality exactly
it's like last thing they ever want to
talk about is real stuff like I wish
that's the worst like when I when I was
taking math courses and a teacher would
preface something like this is really
complex versus preface seeing the exact
same thing with I'm gonna this is gonna
be simple we're gonna walk you through
it I think completely changes the way
people go into a learning explosion
percent and I think like thereby
mystifying by starting it with
intimidation it's yeah it's meant to
keep people in the dark
exactly right why back an old white guy
and is this the future of the party and
actually
excited about this partnership because
it shows what we have to do in our
country is that we have to come together
across race across gender across
generation did you meet with other
candidates before making your decision
like that
senator Warren yeah what was that
conversation like you know and so
frankly senator Sanders senator Warren
and myself are all on the same team in
the party if you are the nominee senator
would you consider the congresswoman as
your running mate too young for that
what you work in a Sanders
administration of Sanders White House
yes your ward all right Nikole Killion i
mean the question that will stick with
me yes well I endorsed an old white guy
and she said with a straight face
they both answered the question Yeah
right Warren said after the endorse what
I feel like something was edited out of
that answer right there was like a weird
cut there is a emergency need to read
Adolph Reid in this country I mean it's
an emergency
I mean his you got to read the myth of
economic reductionism in the New
Republic I mean this is halfway through
her sentence when they cut her off right
she was like people need to come
together across lines of race and gender
and age to cut like Oh to do what to
fight for the working class and I agree
with aoc it was a gut check all right
look I still frankly I'm I look I think
everybody should have endorsed Bernie
immediately this is a really important
election there's no other candidate like
him Warren does not represent that
argument possible she was waiting until
he needed a boost like now yeah it did
give him I wonder if I had a heart
attack if I had the endorsements
immediately I would have had to deal
with all his nonsense of this
campaign but I mean no III really that
fusion of essentialism and neoliberalism
is
is always gonna be the enemy of
liberation of all and of course
ironically in a way that radically
disproportionately affects people of
color I mean that that's the sort of
double grotesqueness you know Cory Reid
has a new book coming out where he's
like look if you if you basically if you
if you did a new new deal in and
dismantle and continue to formally
dismantle American apartheid and then
have aggressive affirmative action boom
like on the material level you know I
yeah I mean it's it's it's so it's it is
disgusting treatment of Bernie and I do
care about that because Bernie's held
the torch for forty years while most of
the modern political class was either
doing nothing or terrorizing poor people
and working people but it's so
unbelievably disrespectful to people
like ALC who are actually showing that
they have politics they actually care
about
well this straight face they're here
they're doing real things and the real
people are showing up for the real
campaign let's play clip number three
why not that's fun I guess this is Road
Ron Dayne holler report I guess it's a
montage of people agreeing with Bernie
Sanders yeah that's correct
[Music]
[Applause]
Bernie Sanders is running out that's
right
you know I saw Bernie's message and I
said this is the right direction
he ran great four years ago enormous
energy and some new ideas of course the
party he's out there he fights really
hard
this is food for new students and he has
put the right issues on the table I
agree completely with Bernie about what
the fundamental challenge were facing is
countries I want to give credit to
burning I'm a big Bernie Sanders
supporter I support Bernie Sanders to be
our next president
commander-in-chief Bernie supporters I
love Bernie Bernie's a national hero
that's helped move the country in the
right direction you know I also want to
recognize the work that Bernie has done
on this you brought us this far in
Medicare for all I support Medicare for
all I always now yes I'm with Bernie on
Medicare for all I support senator
sander
you go for universal healthcare honest
here and saying oh my god I can't I
can't even take this between like the
people dishonestly associating
themselves with them and then like I let
go Amy Columbus showers like Alan keep
being a teacher any help people
I don't like Ashley say you all don't
deserve um it's primal
seriously primary clover star that
should be a big priority folks
I like how yang Yang is my favorite you
know sort of I guess we could come crank
candidate yes and like it's frustrating
because gang supporters could be Bernie
supporters and hopefully they will be
after you hang drops out yeah Doris
Bernie you're serious I mean I have to
say like obviously first and foremost
look if you identify on the left you
support Sanders not Warren that's
obvious and that's like the big conflict
there but that two three four or five
percent that you're wanking off with
Gabbard or yang stop this election
matters get what Bernie stop
around
yeah you want a thousand dollars a month
you yeah he's not gonna win no matter
what but you know the stuff you're gonna
get from Bernie hopefully will be better
than a thousand dollars a month his word
this is beanbag his workplace democracy
plan actually could translate to several
thousand a year these people don't have
jobs Wow
Jamie with a very reactionary joke there
[Laughter]
sorry yanking like that you know I love
you they're not working and they bring a
lot of problems you're calling from a
to15 area code who are you worried
calling from this is mark from somewhere
in Pennsylvania
and hey Mark what's going on hey so I
wanted to call basically just to
officially announce that I'm done
watching The Young Turks they have loss
of your after this moment and the reason
would be because of their well
specifically chinks very
horribly inadequate coverage of the
development of northern Syria right now
okay well I would just say I mean I I
you know I don't know what to tell you I
mean obviously I know a lot of people
there and it's a you know it's it's
there I mean even just on a personal
level there's bias um from me I think
they do an incredible amount of good
work
and I know that even with jank I know
that there's pushback and obviously I
disagree with from what I've seen of
what jank has said which to be honest is
very little what did they say about
Syria I don't know what I know it I mean
I think jank has a more Turkish
sympathetic view obviously but I and I
agree with you I would I don't I don't
think yeah I don't I don't know that
that's really the best use of time but I
respect your decision to do that you
know but okay
I mean thanks well I mean I guess I
guess a lot of one of the decision has
to do with there are just so many other
choices that I think are better choices
at this time and I think that okay okay
yeah all right you're calling from a 9 7
8 area code who are you worried calling
from hey Eric from Jersey what's going
on what's on your minds man how are you
guys hey we're all right what's the good
there yeah you know there's a topic I've
been doing a lot of reading and research
about that I think would be good to
cover and I'd like to run it by you very
second if you think this would be
something a little bit more you know
tell me and you know it really
intersects so what is health with
climate yeah it's basically there's a
disease called CKD you that no one's
really talking much about Kady you stand
yeah CKD you it stands for chronic
kidney disease of undetermined
ideologies and it's kind of an outdated
term because the growing and
overwhelming scientific consensus at
this point is that is being caused
climate change which is frightening
because we think about human diseases
that'll be caused by climate change
maybe a turn of the century or 2100 this
has been happening since the 1990s right
and primarily it's affecting
agricultural workers in the developing
world and right this first appeared in
early 1990s at the time it was really
looked at through the lens of like
occupational disease they said all those
pesticides it's agro chemicals it's
heavy metal exposure is Beauvoir and
then it was you know the evidence
doesn't really bear that out so no no
it's you know meaty epigenetic
phenomenon and so on and so forth and at
this point is basically undeniable and
just quickly the putative mechanism is
that the rate at which temperatures are
sustained that sort of higher increasing
record level temperatures is pacing the
human body's capacity for physiological
acclimatization to you know the ambient
conditions when these people are
basically suffering from daily sub acute
kidney injury for years this is horrible
well I mean obviously MIT and the
environment are gonna have a big effect
and already do on human health but
that's a really interesting disturbing
way of looking at it yikes
thanks for the call min appreciate it I
just alone all of the old diseases are
gonna come back like cholera you know
we're just gonna have like a full-on you
want it to come back as you want you
want it to come back you want you want
to write some novel about it you want
you want college you wish you lived in
the age of cloud your college your
calling from an eight four seven area
code who are you really calling from hi
my name is Josh Lyman from Chicago Josh
from Chicago what's up that's on your
mind well first of all I'm actually
about to join get lining a little bit
I'm sorry totally horribly what is all
they're about to what what I'm about to
join the teachers on the picket line in
a little bit austerity to them all so I
want to call cuz I was also at the rally
on a Saturday and I wanted to actually
share what I thought was like one of the
most powerful thing
I loved when Tiffany Caban spoke she
talked about how a OC inspired her to
run right and it's like you know and for
me it's talking about the power of a
movement and then when a or C talked she
talked to how Bernie inspired her to Ron
and to me that is an in essence the
biggest endorsement Bernie can get
because you show without a or C without
Bernie we wouldn't have someone like a
receive problem without a raise he
wouldn't have someone like Tiffany and I
think for me that's the power of a
movement right there that's the power of
someone basically inspiring someone to
run and that sort of you see different
levels of a movement sort of like I
don't want to use the word trickling
down because I associate it with
trickle-down economics but you see you
basically see the power of a movement
going down to different levels and
different areas of the movement working
within each other I don't know if you
you notice that yeah no I think I mean I
noticed yeah I mean I noticed it just
more generally that like like I saw some
you know some embarrassing I don't even
remember probably some demos some some
mediocre something or other person
tweeting out quote tweeting a OCS
endorsement video of Bernie where she
talks about the multiracial
multi-generation working-class coalition
and this person tweeted out and said
well I agree with AOC but I don't think
Bernie's capable of building that
movement and it's like it already
happened like you know that's the I mean
maybe this is like an important time to
reset the conversation will that
movement win the presidential election
that is under question will it be an
effective strategy that can overcome
American oligarchy that is an open
question does the movement already exist
and have millions of people
participating in it as evidenced by
everything from Bernie's organizing with
Walmart and Amazon to more individual
contributions than any other candidate
of every party to like yeah it already
exists so again I don't know whether
people when I read stuff like that I did
God's honest truth I don't know whether
people are being stupid or they're
gaslighting or they're you know
or they're making up weird ideas and
their own heads about what that actually
means just so they can you know play a
fake game and their heads that you know
that obscures Bernie or but you know
yeah they're mostly gas lighting would
be my guess
and you know obviously it's stupid and
insincere and dishonest but I think that
um yeah I mean it exists and that shine
through in the rally I mean I happen to
think like you know it's every possible
metric if you're just talking about
policy and I refuse to concede foreign
policy which is something that a lot of
people are showing themselves to be
quite comfortable doing but yes if
you're if you're thing is there needs to
be mass movement politics that
intersects with federal power at the
highest level you have one option it
already exists and everything else is
theoretical so I mean you know and and
and again it was yeah it was just the
truth I mean and that's exactly how it
works
Bernie paves the way for a tiny aoc
paves the way for Tiffany Caban then you
also by the way you had a multi bunch of
you know progressive state legislators
that represent a variety of districts
and such in you know across the state I
put Nina Turner that's it so there's an
option you know that's it there's one
option if you that's what you're about
if you're not then I guess you're not
thanks like well I would only add that
the trickle goes both ways
you know like the Bernie Sanders
campaign wouldn't have been possible
without a grassroots upswell in working
class politics going back to Occupy Wall
Street and probably even before that and
then in turn he's inspired people to
join the movement who probably wouldn't
have otherwise so there's always gonna
be a lot of give-and-take I've talked to
at least two people maybe three who
became full-time professional union
organizers because of 2016 and there's
no question of course his campaign there
was material conditions and there was an
upsurge of momentum but the truth is is
that you know a successful presidential
campaign
especially with his mentality I mean he
wanted to turn it into something that
would continue it wasn't just a vanity
project which it is for 99.9% of these
people oh yeah I mean I joined PSA in
November of 2016 along with a whole
bunch of other people and it had a lot
to do with Trump as well as Bernie
absolutely um I would like to start
having Ben Carson lead prayer meetings
for me I like his approach and Ben and
uh Donald Trump does too
you can see why Ben Carson is still by
the way god knows what Ben Carson is
doing a Hut in a country where there's a
huge amount of homelessness and housing
is a crisis that affects millions of
people but Donald Trump sure does love
these cabinet prayer meetings led by
where our prayers led by us in this
country and in stature we thankful for
the people of courage who have been here
before us we have fought hard for the
rights of our country who have been
indicted and we thank you for President
Donald Trump who also exhibits great
courage in face of constant criticism we
ask the two things REM to endure and
then wisdom to lead and to recognize you
as the sovereign of the universe
with the solution to everything and the
people around the president the vice
president the cabinet the advisors give
us all understanding heart and a
compassionate part those are the things
that will keep America great and help us
all to recognize as a nation who's
reading this that separation of church
and state means that the church who's
not dominating the state and it means
the state does not dominate the church
I'm a big believer in Christianity and
religion loving your fellow man
caring about her neighbor suspect that
Valerie's god-given talents to the
utmost that you become valuable to the
people around you having values and
principles that govern your life and if
we do those things then we will always
be successful we thank you for hearing
our prayer in your Holy Name
thank you that was a good job the
economy is doing fantastically well can
we even add to that Thank You Ben that
was a great job just beautiful just
beautiful
that was deep you're right I am
constantly criticized thanks for we're
constantly criticized and if you keep up
the negativity then it's gonna be very
bad for the country
anyways economy great a monuments claws
fake he's dressed like Jesus I'm a lot
like Jesus in a certain sense except
more clean-cut got better clothes better
clothes Bill Gates earned 97 thousand
this is Colorado guy 97 thousand times
more than the average Microsoft employee
last year with an average Microsoft
employee salary of being being 118
thousand dollars we can't let numbers
like this get us down or make us see the
world as glass half empty but rather
glass half or as we say reserved for the
Koch brothers grave plots half full much
love em our crew feel the burn eat the
Richelieu lolly
yeah it's more like glasses you're
legally not allowed to drink from
overflowing exactly oh my god I'm sorry
I was trying not to do this this I am
literally reads Michael I beg you make
fun of Sam crowbar and get to the
interview Mike so I was Yad it was on
the WB and it was and it was a sitcom
where I we still write to white writer
on a black show and I was the star I
would watch that do we even need to
watch it every I think we really know
the story very well Colin from Nebraska
Bernie needs to announce Nina Turner as
VP soon first major endorsement first VP
and no instrument equals Iowa well we'll
see I mean I'm totally down with Nina
I'm not sure how much of a difference
that would make in terms of winning Iowa
but I'm totally down
she's great she's awesome she's my pick
on a political level if he did like
Stacey Abrams it would make more of a
splash frankly like I don't I don't like
Stacey Abrams is great
Andrew Gilliam is great there's a lot of
like well actually not a lot that's
basically two dynamic young talent the
Democratic Party I really can't think
there's basically like the squad and
then Castro mixed feelings auditioning
for Castro's auditioning Castro has put
some points on the board and then you
have three out of four of the squad and
then Gilliam and Abrams and then yen in
the squad but I don't really well Talib
didn't actually endorsed Bernie yet well
I'm actually just forget it I'm actually
I just should say by political talent
there's the squad I was saying three in
terms of like good politics but four in
terms of talent so really you know and
then broke on a-- so there really is not
much out there so few options but I
would snow I mean I would pick Nina
Turner and I would I think turn is
fantastic this is why I'm torn about it
because normally the vice president
isn't actually that important of a job
and like chief of staff it would
probably be a place where she could make
more impact
however like if Bernie dies in office
god forbid we want the vice president to
be someone with politics as good as his
and there aren't that many choices that
would qualify for that and she's one of
them
that's the truth India and Pakistan have
exchanged fire across the line dividing
the disputed Hamal Amalia region in
Kashmir on Saturday and Sunday killing
nine civilians and soldiers according to
authorities in both countries this is a
report in The Washington Post it was one
of the deadliest consequences this year
of the line of control the highly
militarized frontier where soldiers from
the two countries regularly trade small
arms and artillery fire the barrage came
amidst attention increase between the
two nuclear-armed rivals so just to set
this up a little bit as we've been
covering and we know a couple of months
ago the BJP far-right Hindutva
government of Narenda Moni scrapped the
provision in the Indian Constitution
going back to the days of Nehru which
allowed for
essentially a certain degree of cultural
autonomy in Kashmir I apologize if I'm
mispronouncing that Kashmir already has
been for decades maybe the most
militarized place on earth and regularly
the Indian military subjected local
populations to significant really really
horrifying and systemic rights abuses
and I won't actually spell them out here
but people can look them up and very
very very very vicious stuff and then
you have a small part of Kazmir that is
owned that is in possession of Pakistan
and this is another source of tension
between Pakistan and India I'm assuming
everybody knows that it was one country
before partition right and partition
after independence from the British
Empire partition happened it created
Pakistan as a Muslim state almost
theoretically a Muslim democracy but one
to sort of protect the identity of
Muslims there's been a long-standing
conflict in India between a tradition of
pluralism that reflects the unbelievable
sort of diversity and democracy of India
and then a far-right current that is
rooted you know like all fascism in an
imagined past and actually borrowed
freely both from Israeli nationalism and
Hitlerian
politics when you go to the RSS the RSS
is the paramilitary non-pro
non-governmental organization that
basically is an umbrella for the BJP
political party of which Modi is a part
of you go back to 2002 Modi at the very
least negligent almost certainly in my
opinion complicit in a mass murderer of
Muslims that took thousands of people's
lives in a matter of hours so this
remains the most likely place on earth
for there to be a nuclear exchange the
Pakistanis definitely have supported
terrorist groups inside Kashmiri areas
and they definitely even going back to
most horrific aliy the attack on the
Oberoi hotel
2018 we're a group of Pakistani
government basically went through the
streets of Mumbai machine-gunning people
to death then took over the Oberoi hotel
and just tried to basically kill as many
people as possible that was almost
certainly conducted with the support
active of Pakistani intelligence so this
is the context of what's happening now
and even as we have this playing out
Narendra Modi is still globally fetid he
recently was rewarded recognition from
the Gates Foundation for in fact a very
successful initiative he oversaw in
India for clean toilets across the
country it's true and a success of the
government this wall air Dhawan is
ethnically cleansing Kurds it would be a
weird time to you know award him for
like in a successful anti-smoking
initiative that would be the pretty
direct analogy here's a photo I don't
know where this was taken Tony Blair who
was taken in hell Tony Blair I mean look
Tony Blair was the point person for Haqq
liberals in the United States who will
had all the same blood lust but just
didn't want to support george w bush
because the guy was so stupid and Tony
Blair came along and he pronounced the
Arabic names correctly in his Regency
drama accent and he made the Human
Rights case for the invasion of Iraq the
human rights case to remove Saddam
Hussein an invasion that culminated
conservatively in hundreds of thousands
civilians deaths soldiers deaths
displacement civil war everything else
Tony Blair has worked for the Saudis for
I believe the Kazakh government he's
advised general al-sisi he is nothing
more than at home in the world of
oligarchs and dictators in his post
Premiership here he is with Narendra
Modi
Condoleezza Rice John Howard the
Australian Iraq invasion backer some guy
I don't recognize who's the guy between
Howard and uh rice do you know that it
gates I oh yeah Robert Gates the former
CIA director
these people call themselves and Henry
Kissinger this is the JP Morgan
International Council yep tony blair
immediately went on the JP Morgan board
I think he also I think he also advises
a Hennessy MOU a so he's all of these
banks should be nationalized all of
these banks should be nationalized and
all of these people should be I'm not a
prison abolitionist lock him up lock
them up lock them up if that's not a
curse name and image I don't know what
is sorry I should have I should have
warned everybody before before showing a
clip of Damien I needed a trigger
warning right you're calling from a
seven 600 area code who are you where
you're calling from California Pastore
yes Hey
Hungarian name calling from Humboldt
County what's going on how's the weed
that was Brewin season
honestly it was better back home Palm
Springs
my neighbor grew it Wow Palm Springs
Humboldt County I know all right why I'm
here to talk about this month is mental
awareness month and by extension ADHD
awareness month and I just like to talk
about that for a little bit okay yeah go
for it
so first things first I'd like to
explain that ADHD is a lot more
impactful than people realize it's not
just a learning disability it impacts
every single part of your life so
actually sir good morning this is going
to involve suicide childhood suicide is
more associated with ADHD than
depression it's also I'd like to ask a
favor for you guys too and you guys use
like ADHD and PTSD and the word
triggered as a joke a lot and in my
experience I did not think my ADHD was
that big of a deal and it's
because society doesn't think it's that
big of a deal so when people especially
progressives like you guys use that
those kinds of terms as a joke it really
shows two people who suffer with those
things and people who aren't informed
about it that it is a joke and it's not
that big of a deal and I just want to
say I mean I well the word triggered is
used in a variety different ways and
some of them definitely are worth joking
about but I think with ADHD I don't know
about PTSD I want to be really clear
here definitely use triggered as a joke
sometimes I don't think we've ever used
I know I've never used PTSD as a joke
that's a very serious thing an ADHD I
you know I'll say that there's people
extremely close to me who have that
diagnosis and I think they carry it
differently so I I can't you know I
can't universalize from what you're
saying but I hear you and it's something
that we can definitely explore more I
appreciate the call you have anything
else real quick to add just try to make
make ableism and that kind of
terminology a regular occurrence in your
in your show I think it's really
important that we interpret and include
people who aren't able to discuss so
that's that's just it and it is athe
awareness month please look at the
hashtag on Twitter if you have ADHD or
if you're wondering about it googling it
honestly gives you a lot of wrong
information and so go to the hashtag on
Twitter thanks for calling yes okay can
I just say one thing I have been
diagnosed with ADHD and I think it's
okay to joke about it I joke about it
sometimes I mean I I again I'm talking
like family members so I'm not gonna
like you know but like that's the first
person I've ever heard who has ADHD and
I myself might have some of it who
doesn't you know i I've never heard that
before so you know all I can say for
that sort of thing is it's not going to
change you know
how we joke in the language we use but
it's obviously not you know there's
clearly no malice behind it and you know
you I think it's important you know to
like right there there's two
perspectives right in the room of like
how people feel about and I but I'm also
I'm genuinely a little bit confused I
definitely make fun of people saying
triggered which I definitely will
continue to do but I don't know do we
joke about PTSD or ADHD I honestly am
not aware of that I mean it's not a
common theme at least maybe just like
using it colloquially to describe things
that aren't actually that I guess yeah I
mean I tend to think that all these the
these sorts of conversations end up
surrounding what needs to be addressed
through you know material means
definitely I mean so you know look at
the hashtag and look at there's there's
resources for sure I mean that that is
definitely I agree you're calling from a
7 600 area code who are you really
calling from hi this is Jonathan calling
from Oceanside Jonathan from where
Oceanside hey Jonathan what's on your
mind so one I've been trying to call in
for a long time probably about two
months out on and off it's really hard
to get through to this show which is
yeah antastic yeah what's on your mind
so so this goes back I preface that
because this goes back like two months
ago anyway so I what's on your mind
so the with college athletics and I know
that this has not been on the show at
all today and please again this goes
back a while but so with the college
athletics and and you know students
getting college athletes getting paid
you know I think that the kind of the
main thing that gets lost in the shuffle
is that you know with you know a men's
football and men's basketball and
some others which are definitely
profitable and I think you know I think
that that all college athletes should
get some type of stipend you know so
that they're not you know the college
and definitely be paid I am totally
groove right but yeah just but let's try
to stick the landing your problem yeah
the problem with with the the kind of
the talking points about this especially
kind of coming from shows like this and
coming from the left is that you know
when you talk about like oh well college
athletics are so profit so you don't
think college at all should get paid you
think only in certain sorts is that what
you're saying I think that I think I
think that they should all get stipends
okay but they should get paid just just
like clarify the point yeah okay right I
think that I think the amount of money
that goes through I think the amount of
money that goes through particularly
basketball and football the idea that
you wouldn't pay those students it to me
is I mean it's literally feudalism on
some level I can't abide it I it's
entertain so I I'm it's I guess just
it's just a barrage I can't cross but I
appreciate the call man thanks I think I
don't know what to say about that
there's just there's a massive amount of
money I mean these are nationally
televised events with sponsors with a
insane amount of resource I think they
should be paid yeah I mean generally
make College free anyway so that like
Fox News can stop saying well they're
given a free education and then like the
people that the schools that are making
a lot of Bank on players should that
they should share those profits I mean
sit sit down Brendan concern that he was
making he was if we gave him all the
time in the world to make it would be
that there are programs that make all
the money and how do you distribute that
and I do think that like progressive
shows don't really have like an answer
to that yet or I haven't heard one in
terms of distribution well I mean
because it's actually long football that
make all the money I mean look I think
it's pretty easy
to say if you are getting recruited to
play basketball or football you get paid
if you're a walk-on playing water polo I
don't know maybe you won't get paid like
I think like I just think like in
actuality these distinctions are pretty
easy to make right like I agree with you
know I'm sorry likes like tiptoeing
around it when we talk okay if you're
playing basketball or football you
should get enumerated a lot if you are
in college if you are playing tennis
maybe it defends depends on what
division you're in I mean I you know I
don't know if this like I take the point
I don't know if like the best use of our
time is try to like create like a little
point plan for how the NCAA should
handle compensation I'm just saying if
you are watching Syracuse play in the
Final Four and you're going to
commercial for McDonald's coke Nike and
those kids are not getting paid a
goddamn thing you should pay them that's
it I mean and also what the players like
can get individual cup endorsement deals
they should be allowed to do that and
that would I mean frankly clear up a lot
of this where you have like the the Duke
guys right that are frankly bringing in
probably a lot more profit for their
school than like the Gonzaga guys even I
mean I mean obviously if all these a lot
of these schools are but like then they
can I mean I also take the caller's
point but basically like they got to
figure out revenue sharing yeah like I
mean and this status quo where until we
figure that out it rebounds to the
coaches and the athletics department I
mean that's the thing to me is it just
seems like sure that's a horizon problem
to figure out the emergency is that
they're not getting paid and that's what
and there's a massive yeah exploitative
profit being made all right you're
calling from a - oh no area code who are
you calling from oh oh yes Cody hey hey
what's on your mind hey man I was gonna
mention one piece of media and that I
want to ask you a quick question
uh-huh there's a guy named here
make it off speakerphone sorry about
that would be great thanks okay for sure
so there's a gentleman named Robert Evan
he's pretty good journalist he works
over at for I heart media got a few
podcasts out got a book out about
fascism he also works with a podcast
with Katie and Cody from some more news
they do a show called working here ever
anyway he was just yeah they were he was
just recounting to them Robert Evans was
recounting to them about he did a long
trip to uh ro Java and the whole area
and very deep podcast I think you guys
would enjoy hearing that with same sort
uh oh it's it's Cody and uh sorry Katie
and Cody and Robert Evans the show is
called worst year ever for some Spotify
 yeah alright that's a great one
yeah I'd I would recommend the field
just secondly I argue with my dad a lot
about uh you know he's conservative I've
kind of talked about it before he's uh
when it comes to you you know Saudi
Arabia basically and you know they
murder of an American journalist and
everything else going out with them I
won't get into it I always advocate for
if Russia or no not Russia if Saudi
Arabia wants to be you know as evil as
they are in pursuit of capital over
human lives and we don't necessarily
have to stand for them they can f off to
the Russian market for kind of in just
in my opinion you know if we have to I'm
tired of aligning with you know sort of
asking what you think about that what
are the risk about non aligning well I
mean the first of all I mean Saudi and I
mean we buy oil from from Saudi and
depend on them for it and Russia is you
know produces its own you know energy
needs as well I mean Russia and Saudi do
have a fine relationship if you want to
I mean I guess I have a little bit of a
problem with the frame I mean Saudi
Arabia is abominable but you know were
abominable and I don't think that
there's something kind of like I mean
there are distinct things about
so DS is a monarchy but there's distinct
things about Israel's and apartheid sky
right but I think that quickly I just
think what you need to do if you want to
have a change relationship with Saudi
Arabia is you need to move you do need
to have a different energy economy if
you don't have a different energy
economy
it's not gonna be viable sure if I can
jump in with one more question here I
appreciate that very much
I guess I I didn't make it necessarily
clearly what I am more you know that's
the three relevant I'm study and the oil
and everything but what I'm more
concerned about is if we you know if we
die this from Saudi and they they go off
to Russia you know without anything like
our relationship with Russia they
already have a relation what I'm trying
to say is you get it was a global
economy it's globally connected they
have a relationship with Russia and if
you want to do something like a green
new deal it's gonna include well it's
gonna include partnerships with the
place like Russia and even frankly a
place like Saudi because all of these
Emirates and all these Gulf states are
going to need to actually ask themselves
they have paid off parts of their
populations and they're able to preserve
literally having monarchies in the 21st
century because they sit on an
unbelievable amount of wealth what
happens when that changes if they
haven't diversified their economy if
they don't have a whole new set of plans
and strategies for how to succeed in the
21st century so it's a conversation that
needs to involve everybody thanks for
the comment appreciate it
um alright it was gonna get to some
sound but it's okay it's alright Brandon
don't worry about it it's cool just wait
for Matt it's fine take one more call
you're calling from an eight four or
five area code who are you where you
calling from whoa hello whoa hello
what's your name where you calling from
Anderson I'm calling from New York hey
Anderson what's on your mind I just want
to ask um you know I think I understand
support Bernie but you know in the
eventualities
well into possibility
you know he doesn't what do you think
he'll be doing if he didn't a when he
didn't win he will campaign for the
Democratic nominee and keep working on
the issues thanks for the call attorney
Frank attorney Andrew frankly if we
don't have the drop of money is power
 forty MBS I'm not sure what
we're doing here
it's a good point who said money where
is that from though what is that drop
jake the snake' hey Mr curry I've heard
all of you criticize firms like McKinsey
in the past I'm a student in a
scholarship program that's pushing first
generation of students in color into
internships at places like McKenzie can
you explain your criticism McKinsey or
do you have resources to look into yeah
I mean listen back to the interview I
did on what Mackenzie's doing in Puerto
Rico as one stand alone I mean lady
anything about private equity or read
anything about private equity what or
their work in Saudi Arabia with the
crown prince
I mean look let me just draw a
distinction here if you as a college
student working your way through things
like I'm not like a moralist like take
the internship if that helps you on your
journey but there's a insane amount of
resources on the profoundly destructive
role that McKinsey plays on everything
from destroying public schools in Puerto
Rico to massive restructuring in US
corporations that cost a ton of jobs to
them as sort of like essentially agents
of capitalism across the globe in a way
that's bad oh yeah you cannot mchip man
their economic hitman they are you can
use them for your job needs without
drinking the kool-aid yeah so I would
just say yeah so I want to be super
clear about that I'm never telling
anybody like don't take a job or
whatever yeah we don't go after the
individual yeah yeah socialism right but
if you want to check out read about it
there's tons of resources see let's see
what should we do here all right let's
do
this is a good piece of sound let's go
to number eight or excuse me number ten
we talked yesterday about the protests
that are taking place in Lebanon which
are fundamentally taking on a sickness
with neoliberalism and austerity and
it's significant because their cross
sectarian and this is journalist Kareem
Jia Bey shet che AB on Democracy Now
elaborating on the protests since
Thursday night protests have swept
Beirut following a cabinet decision to
add further regressive taxes to help
balance the Lebanese budget which is
going through a massive which has a
massive deficit news outlets used a
whatsapp tax as sort of the straw that
broke the camel's back what happened
that night started with the protests
that went around Beirut but following an
incident where the bodyguards at the
Education Minister fired warning shots
and dispersing the crowds we suddenly
heard and saw protests across the
country erupted like never before
across major cities and towns and people
blocking major highways across the
country and Karim che should have the
these protests have occurred not only in
Beirut but in other areas of the country
where Hezbollah is the is the main
political and governmental force I'm
wondering are the protests now spreading
throughout the country
absolutely so following the incidence of
last Thursday night we have seen
protests across the country including in
areas which are considered key political
areas for parties like Hezbollah and
their allies Amal such as Seward vintage
bail Abbate and others this is rather
unprecedented considering that many of
them have been critical of both parties
especially amel and there's a bit a bit
of nuance on Hezbollah which you have
never seen before in those areas in
particular we have seen some cases of
people attacking the signs and offices
of MPs belonging to both parties so this
is something that's very unique for
Lebanon because despite Lebanon having a
relatively vibrant civil society in the
region especially invaded with it
remains centric to the capital but here
we're seeing protests across the country
calling for at least the vast majority
of people calling for the downfall of
the government yeah and I think that
that's actually an interesting thing
even with regards to Hezbollah Hezbollah
that has that very Sunni kind of justice
did she adjust this not Sunni Shia
justice discourse has actually been
stream ly integrated with its own forms
of global capital and its own way its
own sort of modes of governance and
they've sort of changed and reflected
those broader dynamics in Lebanon so
this movement is it's powerful it's
really exciting we'll see what it yields
and it does parallel Sudan and Iraq
Donald Trump is whining a lot and
impeachment is not something apparently
that he wanted some of us thought you
know maybe this would be a great
opportunity for him he'll see it as an
opportunity to mobilize his base but you
know auxins razor a petty egomaniac
is not happy about getting impeached
Trump tweeted this today I believe so so
someday if a Democrat becomes president
and a Republican wins the house even by
a tiny margin they can preach the
president without due process or
fairness or any legal rights I don't
know what he means
our Republicans must remember that what
they are witnessing here lynching but we
will win obviously hugely offensive to
have this unbelievably racist and racial
arsonist president throwing that term
around when he finally gets into some
heat for his criminal conduct
here's congresswoman Karen bass
explaining just in fact how offensive it
is whenever his back is against the wall
a racial bomb is what we know of him to
throw you think this is racist I mean I
think it's consistent why would you use
the term lynching why would you say that
what do you think well I think
he throws out race because he knows it's
red meat and he has done that
consistently that's it
and it's amazing like I the fact that
CNN keeps having to restate the obvious
when what this congresswoman is saying
is available to any sentient human being
to understand is its CNN
well he's appropriating it in a racist
way then let's go to of course
Lindsey Graham Lindsey Graham's got no
problem with this her national media
when it's about Trump who cares about
the process long she so yeah this is a
lynching in every sense this is owned
American I've never seen a situation in
my lifetime as a lawyer or something a
lynching in every sense in every sense
there's a very historically aware for a
 southern senator to say this
South Caroline so disgusting yeah he
knows he knows exactly what hit him
so yeah this is a lynching and every
sense this is on American I've never
seen a situation in my lifetime as a
lawyer where somebody's accused of a
major misconduct who cannot confront the
accuser call witnesses honor they have
and have the discussion in the light of
the day so the public can judge if this
continues in the house is a complete
sham and I'll do everything I can to
make sure it doesn't sky halt impeach
President Clinton for sex
I like the Republican suggestion that
lynchings and witch hunts are unamerican
yeah King on witch hunts what do they
have to do with America unbelievable it
really is just so disgusting well that's
the whole thing about the the Republican
mindset it's a hundred percent
projection it's a hundred percent
persecution complex
and it's a hundred percent accusing
other people of doing to them what they
have done and want to do to others as a
great mind once said look what you made
me do a great minds whose pretty uh
pretty much vote and D crossed the board
pretty much other like there's some
cookies miss to Taylor Swift oh yeah
you're calling from a four six nine area
code who are you worried calling from a
good name yes this is you what's your
name where you calling from
hey yeah I'm from Texas hi what's on
your mind I I mean I guess this may be
kind of a holistic view but considering
like the show like how we are you know
essentially trying to equal the New Deal
coalition and you know burning and
trying to take this further dressing the
issue of capitalism like are we just
going back to and trying to get how
things really honestly the problem is I
don't feel bigger than that so I'm yeah
I'm kinda arcing I don't know what you
mean where things were what do you mean
oh so you'll be talking about usually
like I think it was on this ratio there
you guys were discussing about building
the coalition again kind of a new
coalition it's a new coalition because
if you go back you know if you go back
to the 60s and what people like a
Phillip Randolph and MLK we're talking
about with the march on Washington which
is the marks march for jobs injustice
you're talking about dismantling
American apartheid and then having a
full cross racial social labor democracy
and then there's debates about how far
that goes but that's the broad
parameters of what we're talking about
and so that project never happened that
happened both because of racial backlash
and it also happened because of the
unmooring of the professional class in
the Democratic Party undermining like
instead of having an evolution of a
global New Deal coalition you
disaggregated those things in and you
ended up moving quite to the right on
economic issues so even just something
that is built in that history and
expands on it is still historically
unprecedented because it never happened
before but I appreciate the comments
thanks what was the issue or the
question I couldn't hear the reception
so well but I think I
it was about what is exactly new about
what we're doing um and I just explained
that like the New Deal but not racist or
sexist you're calling from a seven eight
seven area code who are you where he
calling from hi Michael this is uh
Daniel from Puerto Rico hey Daniel
what's going on what's on your minds I
just wanted to kind of by check Liman
Hamidah and George Clooney on their new
sort of Nescafe initiative that they've
been doing marketing for their okay I
don't know anything about this what are
they doing what are those bastards doing
they're doing sort of we're restoring
Berto Rico we're bringing coffee to the
island in a way that's really
disrespectful considering the fact that
copies been part of Puerto Rican culture
for the entirety of since it's called
Puerto Rico basically and they're
basically working on behalf of Nestle
they're Nescafe brand who is who has
been through the director of the
Department of Agriculture been buying a
lot of our fertile land a lot of our
land that's a great for a coffee growth
um and replacing it with their own sort
of trademark GMO Nestle coffee being so
horrible so it's not even that there are
bringing per toe rican coffee to the
world it's that they're bringing their
lower-grade trademark version of coffee
to Puerto Rico to then sell as Puerto
Rican coffee to the world while they are
taking most of the land and you know
getting water filled water right you
know for for a lot of a lot of our we
have we have a lot of aquifers a lot of
our mountains our aquifer
and Nestle has been known to be keeping
an eye on everyone's water source yep
and yeah well it's the whole I guess
it's a little bit tired but the
neoliberal hero of linman Romney I'm not
coming in to sell the island out once
again I feel like I just need to like
call and remind people every time he's
out on the news what's up with the guy
not good yeah guy very bad no thanks for
the call and I appreciate that Daniel we
will keep an eye on it it's definitely a
good big bad segment 40 mb/s that might
be that might be bad very very good not
good for you tonight
thanks man I knew that Hamilton was like
sort of a hokey neoliberal of cultural
phenomenon I did not know the role that
lin-manuel Miranda played in actually
supporting really evil policies in
Puerto Rico and you didn't know that
Hamilton was a CIA operation yeah this
has been something that I've been
talking about for a while but it
recently came up on Twitter again Najma
Sharif said on on Twitter in 50 years
who do you think will learn was funded
by the CIA to neutralize dissent and
then Eraserhead ass at Sharia pre-law
said Hamilton the musical people of
color rapping from the perspective of
slave owners about the need for a
bourgeois revolution in a British colony
and the necessity to establish capital
finance instrument absolutely the feds
and I will also say that lin-manuel
Miranda's dad works for the State
Department and is a big Democratic Party
player so Hamilton the CIA sorry folks
oh yeah they're friends with the family
of Ricky Rozay oh the house did as
divorce Puerto Rico of course we talked
about this with Molly crabapple on our
episode with her recently alright time
for about one more call folks I'm gonna
pick randomly see you are calling from a
737 area code who are you where you're
calling from
I'm not seeing it
let's you're calling from a
seven-one-seven area code who are you
where he calling from
hello is with me yes oh my god Wow hi
okay crazy um I was calling because you
know their name and where you're calling
from please oh yeah sorry I'm just
nervous in order to guys let me get
through
um my name is Anna I'm from
Pennsylvania's York Pennsylvania and um
I wanted to know if you guys had any
advice for me about starting a union but
like a statewide union it feels like a
really ambitious thing but I am trying
to make Papa Bernie very proud and I'm
trying to do anything I can and my mom
is actually a dispatcher and they have
they get dispatchers like a nine one one
dispatcher they get um grossly abused in
their job and they have unions but it's
only like county by county so it's my
mom has been at her job for like 12
years now and for 12 years now I've been
hearing her say like I wish I could go
to a different County or do this but I
have to wait for my pension I have to be
here another I don't know 10 years or
however many years and I don't kind of
what's your job my job I do home health
care you do home health care honestly
that's a question I have one person that
I'm talking to about doing some work
with on my show about like helping
people like the ABCs of how you actually
start a union bless you so mm-hmm
maybe I'll run it by her but I I have no
idea that's a really interesting
question does anybody else have any
ideas yes if you yeah I'm open to
anything because also like just for
background I well you were talking about
ADHD I have ADHD and I was I struggled
through high school so I only have my
diploma but that's it so I'm not like a
overly educated person I don't even have
my license and nursing or anything I
just do home health care or hang out
with people with
intellectual disability so that's why
I'm like it feels really ambitious to
try to start like a that we know
absolutely not
that's totally don't anybody use any of
that to intimidate you from doing
important work
I hate credentialism and it's totally
unnecessary happens anybody have any
other idea I would say that it's
generally easier to organize under the
umbrella of a pre-existing Union than it
is to start a whole new one because they
have a lot of resources that they can
use to help you so it might be at least
maybe somewhat fruitful to talk to
organizers from different unions that
you might potentially want to organize
with see if they're into what you're
doing because they also do kind of a
cost-benefit analysis of what they're
going to get in return
okay like don't just got an iamb that's
saying that you should call the SEIU or
ask me they might be able to provide
guidance on organize okay I do have one
more question sure I didn't know if
talking to state representatives was
like would be helpful in that at all
because um I don't know if you who are
lieutenant governor is but he just got
elected like what this year last year
something John Fetterman I actually
think he's pretty progressive I've heard
somebody like that obviously me he might
have some helpful tips for you I mean
yeah yeah I didn't know it I don't know
cuz I don't know much I didn't know if
they were allowed to like get involved
in stuff like that or push for things
like that because I thought that it was
the kind of thing that him and even our
governor would probably be like oh yeah
maybe that's a thing we should have well
I don't think they could do it but I
mean he could he could certainly meet he
should be meeting with someone like you
and talking with you and helping harness
your energy that's the best I could give
but call se give SEIU or ask me a call
there's also people in the DSA who would
love to talk to you about organizing a
union the DSA has a labor branch in New
York I don't know if they have one in
Pennsylvania but somebody probably does
know that and and they'll they'll help
you organize within a real I
to the grassroots rank-and-file yeah I
mean and that is ultimately like it's
worth talking to people but you need to
organize from the bottom up that is how
it works
so I've got to talk to rank-and-file
people anyways thank you so much for the
call appreciate it
yes thank you for taking the oh
sorry thank you thank you Anna from PA I
saw a great negative poster about
Federman when I was visiting my mom at
Pennsylvania it was like if you're ready
for a socialist Pennsylvania vote
Federman and I was like all right great
where do I go
yes and in it there was a picture of him
looking like I don't know some like he
was supposed to look like a like a dirty
grubby like working-class dude or
whatever and I'm like he seems cool
final call of the day you're calling
from a 978 area code wait sorry I hung
up on them by accident sorry you're
calling from a 503 area code with the
final call today 503 are you there hello
this is Mitt Romney final call today
you're calling from a to15 area code who
are you calling from
yeah right do you guys talk about pierre
de la costa no i didnt what's that about
mitt romney's is a sock puppet white
name is pierre de lecto ashley Feinberg
found him out oh my god as tweets one he
liked one about doing the 25th amendment
on Trump but sounds like a porn name
clam we need the so stupid so stupid
needs to be a dewdrop ultra yes to do
about how Jennifer Rubin wasn't giving
him enough credit for being anti Trump
all right final I am of the day
[Music]
any update from last week on the YPG
there has been back-to-back f-16
bombings yesterday morning we're using
the now abandoned this is an update last
week from a friend in the YPG there have
been back-to-back f-16 bombings
yesterday morning we are now we are
using the now abandoned civilian
hospitals as trauma stabilization point
even though it has no power wanting
water three days ago there were Turkish
drones overhead a Turkish armed drone
fired on the ambulance nearby two dead
one instantly lost his leg and another
lost his hand the third was completely
paralyzed the next morning Turkish
artillery targeted the hospitals with
high-explosive rounds from their cannons
sitting on the Turkish side of the
border when this didn't seem to be
effective to NATO specification f-16s
flew over the border one right after
another and drop two large bombs on the
hospital alright folks we will keep
covering this tomorrow the next two days
Sam's gonna be from Vegas it's to--let's
see ya
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
feel in defense
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
where the choice is made so the option
when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
