[Music]
but Kurt bardelli wrote an interesting
thing this guy is sort of an interesting
character I mean I'm not I don't wanna
get too carried away here because you
know I I don't like to give people a
huge amount of credit for being a you
know a decent human being I feel like
that should be the baseline of humanity
but Kurt bard Ella he wrote a piece in
the USA Today entitled I became a
Democrat a year ago and I found my own
voice it changed everything and he
announced a year ago that he was gonna
leave the Republican Party this is a guy
who was a he worked he was a
communications person I think for
Breitbart at one point he was a staffer
and would campaign for Darryl eisah
Republican from California and the thing
that I found really fascinating about
this piece was the the guy is
asian-american and you know a lot of
times you see like those guys walking
around with the proud boys in these
groups that ostensibly are not white
supremacist groups but you know we're
just white nationalists we just think
that you shouldn't pick on white people
or that the the country's culture is
getting you know is threatened I'm a
last time shell that yes we have no
sovereignty in this country if we allow
too many immigrants in and what does
that actually mean I mean because we
don't have an instance of immigrants
first-generation immigrants or second
generation or you know first generation
immigrants or undocumented immigrants
literally taking over the country I
think there are some instances of some
recent immigrants running for local
elections and maybe you know Congress
but we don't I don't know if you know
this we don't have any instances of
undocumented immigrants
or even first-generation immigrants
taking over the country and taking away
our sovereign tree sovereignty as a
country so that means when people say
that what they're talking about are a
set of values that they perceive as
being basically white values and well
not everybody realizes that there's
white nationalism behind it though like
if you don't dig that deep into it
without a doubt a change or some pickle
any explains precisely this dynamic
what's Sam singing exactly this signal
to the actual groups of what's really
being said and the conduit and easing in
of people who don't have those policies
right and so people can stay in the
conduit zone so here this is what's
interesting just to hear him talk about
this and like I say you know I tend to
be a little bit of a skeptical person a
little bit jaded but I but I found this
to be fascinating and in a little bit
you know I have some empathy for this
guy he said my first year as a Democrat
has given me an appreciation with the
gulf between the worldviews or
Republicans and Democrats even how we
digest and process process information
is so different in the decade I spent
working in Republican politics in
Washington I don't think I ever heard
climate change come up as a serious
topic of social conversation and he said
I found the same thing to be true about
gun law reformed racial inequality
social justice and sexism as a
Republican I just never talked about
these things but as a Democrat I talk
about them all the time I'll tell you
being a Democrat is a heck of a lot more
emotionally exhausting than being a
Republican was because I care about a
lot more things than I used to
there must be some wisdom in the old
saying that ignorance is bliss it's
funny because I remember as a Republican
we would often mock bleeding-heart
liberals who are always caring so much I
think to myself now what the hell is
wrong with these Republicans who don't
seem to care about anything at all and
it's sort of fascinating how someone
finds themselves in that situation this
is where it gets really interesting in
that respect on a personal level one of
the biggest changes for me and look I
don't know what kind of Democrat is
I don't know what his politics are you
know when the rubber meets the ground
but in terms of this sort of conversion
that he goes through there's also like
an emotional element to it that is
fascinating to me in terms of the way
that one identifies with the world and
what one has to do to subjugate certain
things to move in certain circles and so
he writes on a personal level one of the
biggest changes for me has been how I
view the issues of race I've spent the
bulk of my life avoiding race my first
name is German my last name is Italian
and I was born in Seoul South Korea I'm
adopted I grew up in a very rough part
of upstate New York where I was taunted
and at times beat up by kids because I
was and looked different
on some level I was conditioned through
this treatment to believe that being
different was a bad thing and so I
avoided it I spent the bulk of my life
rejecting my Asian American heritage
quite frankly as a Republican this was
very easy to do the Republican Party's
attitude toward anyone who isn't white
speaks for itself why would I want to
even pursue an association as a
quote/unquote minority in a political
party that spouts hateful rhetoric about
minorities and pushes policies that
discriminate against anyone who isn't
white it was a pretty cowardly attitude
considering how many have been brave
enough to take a stand and fight for
minority rights and control confront and
social injustice I put aside for a
moment his self-criticism right that
dynamic of an asian-american kid who is
taught by negative reinforcement that
you do not want to stick out you do not
want to be different and at one point as
he grows older it just becomes
internalized to the point where he
doesn't even question about it and this
intense desire to conform in the context
of where he is you probably can't even
imagine like not being a Republican his
parents probably were we're Republicans
it's easier for him to conceive of
subject
his own identity that dynamic is
extremely dangerous that is the dynamic
on how you get large groups of people to
do horrible things that we can't really
conceive of in our normal lives you know
I don't want to I don't want to you know
go overboard here but when you talk
about how people can witness war crimes
or atrocities or large-scale violence
around groups of minorities or how I
don't know a kid of lat Latino heritage
can be in a group of a bunch of you know
white guys looking to beat up people who
are throwing down the white power sign
in pictures how does that kid like
rationalize it in his head and he's not
having to rationalize it at head the
work has already been done he is there's
enough I don't know if self-hatred is
the right word because it's that implies
that it's very active it has just been
internalized in such a way like an
aversion in a version and there's a
tremendous amount of denial associated
with that and not to mention whiteness
is a historically malleable category
right so it is conceivable maybe in the
minds of some people that they could
become white or accept it as such okay
you know I don't think that's it because
I don't think I don't think he has that
historical framework in his head at that
point as he's sitting around with
probably I don't think he knows that
like hey you know the the the Irish were
once considered not white the Italians
were once considered not white maybe if
I wait I think it's just more like yeah
I think it's just it's less intellectual
and it's just more a sense of like if I
keep my head down everybody's acting
like I'm one of them maybe you know like
I don't come on I think it's really just
comes down to just a tremendous amount
of fear and um and I think he got
jettisoned you know I think
happens you grow older and then certain
circumstances happen and he goes on to
say once I stepped away from the
Republican Party its efforts to promote
racism through rhetoric and policies
offended me on a very personal level I
began engaging in these issues and
exploring what it meant to be a minority
in America one of my favorite moments
this year was participating in a panel
at politican called crazy political
Asians Oh like the movie I got it's
super clever you know politican has this
great way let's write at one point the
moderator MSNBC's Richard Liu asked our
panel what each year of us owned up to
being a member of the Asian American
Pacific Islander community most people
gave answers like kindergarten or middle
school my response was 2018 it may seem
like a small thing but saying this in
public for the first time was a big deal
for me and this is sort of fascinating I
don't know what you do with this
information I mean frankly in terms of
like looking at this stuff but it is a
fascinating view into that world
I imagine on some level you know there
are all sorts of people who have that
type of reckoning like at one point like
I when I came out and acknowledged that
I was gay I realized like why am i
hanging around with these people for
whom I've had to soft-pedal this by my
in my entire you know professional life
or something like that I have a feeling
there was a lot of that at one point
when you're when he was talking about
like how only Democrats talk about human
rights and only Democrats care about
them like that's why I'm much more
inclined to argue with liberals and
conservatives because if you don't have
a basic framework of Human Rights to
begin with that like I can't argue we're
not arguing from the same premise you
know right exactly I mean I think on
some level that's what Adam khopesh felt
from felt me if you don't have one set
of principle that is your Bible and then
everything emanates out of those two you
know the
that one commandment then it doesn't
make sense for us to discuss this except
for the fact that like we were talking
about government now so yes yes I think
that's I think that's true I think the
value in in arguing with with and and
he's saying Democrats and I think you
know broadly obviously it's people on
the left but I think for him it just
became you know sort of easier to say
Republican Democrat because he's a
professional but yeah I think that's I
mean I think that's a good point the
value of arguing with the conservatives
about this stuff it seems to me it's
just to show other people on the who are
within that spectrum of people who
believe in human rights on some basic
level that like they're toxic
yeah and it's rare that they will come
out and say that but I have heard all
right dude say it and it's shocking but
also like we need to make them say it
more yep absolutely
