this clip is much better than the rabbi
the Jew for Jesus rabbi who is who was
praising Republican candidates telling
God look I know maybe you might want to
bless those people who passed away
we're killed but if you got a little
extra time why don't you not do that and
bless these candidates instead well here
is an example of the clergy doing
something that is not so cringe worthy
that it's something that actually makes
you appreciate clergyman clergy clergy
people clergy people Jeff Sessions was
at the Federalist Society in Boston and
he was talking about religious freedom
and of course you have a talk about
religious freedom you're gonna have
religious leaders there there are two
men who stand up one is the United
Methodist pastor will green the Ballad
veil United Church and end over I don't
know the name of the second man and I
don't know if the second man planned to
do this or was inspired by the first but
this is pretty amazing
here's Jeff's sessions up in New England
talking about religious freedom in this
region is one reason why they thank you
for your comments and
I fall upon you to repent to care for
those in need to remember that when you
do not care for others if you are
reading the body of Christ well thank
you for those remarks and attack but I
will just tell you we do our best every
day to fulfill my responsibility to
enforce the laws of the United States
wait where was the second part no that
is not the full clip there was a second
man who came up there was a second
religious figure who got up after that
guy and was in the clip I said I will
try and find that remember how Trump
behaved on 9/11 what no what did what
did Trump do on 9/11 God so many things
have happened since then
things are happening Oh a 9/11 like the
memorial this year we had that tweet
like 17 years since 9/11 exclamation
point
alright well we don't have that clip but
the the the was the second man who stood
up and continued the protest here it is
those remarks and attack but I will just
tell you we do our best every day to
fulfill my responsibilities here enforce
the laws the United States
[Music]
posit now I just want you to know those
are grown adults yelling boo they're all
in suits at a fancy chicken dinner in
Boston and a second member of the clergy
stands up and says he's exercising his
religious freedom by quoting Jesus to
Jeff Sessions and you're pulling him out
of here why not let him exercise his
freedom of religion because that's what
this talk was about and so this second
member of the clergy I don't know who he
is got up and basically said how can you
keep this guy from reciting the Bible to
you if you're so concerned about freedom
of religion and these grown adults and
suits boo morons Boston all right we
thank you for sharing your thoughts
there you go
pastor of a Baptist Church that's gonna
be increasingly important i mean i don't
know how long jeff sessions has in his
position at the Department of Justice
but there's gonna have to be more of
this and you know I think our guest
today la Coffman suggested that she
thinks there's going to be more and I
think there is going to be I think
regardless of how the Democrats do in
the in the midterms I think we're gonna
see more of this direct action I
actually think we will see even more of
it if the Democrats are elected because
I think then people start to realize
that they have more of an opportunity to
change what the trajectory of our at
least what our government does in the
short term so it'll be interesting to
see we got to do it no matter what folks
I mean III think it's gonna happen I
think we're gonna see a lot more of this
