[Music]
this doe cuz this is a final indictment
of just how unbelievably awful CNN was
you recall in the first night and I and
we didn't get to this I might play this
on t MBS next week nature this is a clip
number 11 that I'm setting up last week
or a couple in the first debate
they got Elizabeth Warren into it in
exchange with the governor of Montana on
a first-strike demented Elizabeth Warren
said what any sane non sociopath would
say which is that no I'm not going to do
that and that is the correct position
that's and that is by the way that is a
super moderate we're not talking about
deterrence we're not talking about multi
a unilateral disarmament that is saying
I will not be the first person as
president the United States to launch a
nuke on another country they dragged the
governor of Montana into it he tried to
do a hawkish thing about it it was
embarrassing it was disgusting Tapper
her and Warren even though she was right
grotesque and all part of the rituals of
toughness and promotion of literally
world-ending farm will see ideas of the
conventional media and and think tanks
apparatus and arms industry and so on
Bernie Sanders wanted to jump in on an
exchange they didn't let him jump in
because they wanted to set Pete Budaj
edge up to attack Bernie for being old
they literally had a we're done with
talking about what could cancel human
life to set up a cheap shot from Buddha
judge which Buddha judge did not take
which was interesting then this happened
on last night's debate and this by the
way was the only time that Iran was
discussed
the rules please follow the rules thank
you very much I appreciate that
let's talk I appreciate you trying to
stop the most one of the top five most
catastrophic things that can happen in
the world which the Trump administration
is trying to orchestrate along with the
Saudis and the Israelis every day but
anyways we've got a format to stick to I
mean that just embarrasses the
television format of President primary
or presidential debates is an attack on
the American people's you know it's it's
info war literally it is literally info
war I mean that is shocking and
embarrassing I mean that that exchange
of DeBlasio trying to talk about war
with Iran and being shushed to stay on
format is I mean that's 15 seconds which
can indict and end the whole system if
we were in a any type of functioning
Democratic civic space we'd all sit down
and go okay we need to get back to the
drawing board here how are you gonna
redesign these things we obviously need
new people moderating them that can't be
done on private corporate networks I
mean my god even if it was I mean not
that PBS is much better but I mean it
could be as simple as this needs to be
three hours no commercial breaks they
can interrupt each other they can
actually have an exchange we're not
doing you know trying to set up silly
attacks on each other we're not
beginning with an opening statement we
might have some subject area experts
whether it's in climate healthcare race
or international relations and we're
gonna actually have a discussion here
because this is live studio audience
well I like the live studio ones last
night because of the interruptions about
the de Blasio firing Pantaleo and the
immigration stuff that was actually good
but they're only a little they don't
yeah they're only good if they're
breaking the rules of being an audience
just like the candidates are only good
breaking the rules of the moderators
