I have Kamala Harris
let's do it let's want to play both
these videos here's Kamala Harris making
her announcement 20,000 people in
California there for the announcement
that's that's a big number
ladies and gentlemen that's a super big
number and she's gonna be a a formidable
candidate there's just no doubt about it
here she is again if things can change
but she's running a very sort of broad
themed campaign this is not going to be
a steeped in policy this is going to be
her campaign is gonna be about broad
liberal visions she is not terribly
ideological as far as I can tell and and
in many respects very much like Obama
Obama's gambit you know and I think of
all the candidates in the race so far I
think she is you know Biden would
obviously be like that to to a large
extent I think he's gonna come in and
just talk about restoring America to
America and broad principles she seems
to be running out here's her clip of her
speech from Oakland this weekend March
and murder in Charlottesville or
Massacre innocent worshippers in a
Pittsburgh synagogue that's not our
America
[Applause]
when we have children in cages crying
for their mothers and fathers don't you
dare call that border security that's a
human rights abuse
[Applause]
when we have leaders who attack public
schools and vilified public school
teachers that is not our America when
bankers who crashed our economy get
bonuses but the workers who brought our
towns country back can't even get a
raise
that's not our America
[Applause]
[Music]
and when American families are barely
living paycheck to paycheck
what is this administration's response
their response is to try and take
healthcare away from millions of
families their response is to give away
a trillion dollars to the biggest
corporations in this country and their
response is to blame immigrants as the
source of all our problems
and guys let's understand what's
happening here people in power are
trying to convince us that the villain
in our American story is each other
okay I mean I there's it's impossible to
disagree with any of those sentiments
but it's also possible to say that's not
terribly specific and now look it's an
opening speech maybe she will pivot into
but I suspect we're gonna hear a lot of
this it's not quite there's no red
America there's no blue America but it
is a you know broadly speaking I would
hope every single Democratic candidate
feels quite strongly about
we shouldn't have KKK people walking
around like we do now
and I imagine we're gonna even hear that
if there was a Republican primary we
would hear that um theoretically
theoretically but uh but with that said
this video came out today too or at
least is making the rounds I don't know
if it's making rounds today this is from
the Commonwealth Club which is our name
the Commonwealth Club I know that sort
of lis isn't it kind of almost like a
West Coast like Press Club almost type
of thing Thanks well he or she is in
2010 now look I am NOT one of those
people who believes that you should be
disqualified because you're a prosecutor
had Eliot Spitzer not turned out to have
certain private moral deficiencies and
even then you know I would have I I
would have loved him to run for
president
I want prosecutors who will prosecute
white-collar criminals that is hugely
important in fact it's one of my
critiques of Kamala Harris that you know
we've talked about on this program way
before anyone
dissipate she would run for president as
a freshman senator when we were talk in
the context of Steve minuchin who there
were people in her office who had
developed at least what everybody
perceives is a reasonable argument why
this guy should be prosecuted and she
never was but when I see video like this
it's a little bit more disturbing
because it's not hard to figure out the
policy implications of this now we just
spoke to a professor who Jamila
missioner who wrote about why Medicaid
is so susceptible to being implicated by
the states and it basically comes down
to a highly racialized situation where
people living in poverty people of color
are just simply you know berated for
being in that position in our society
and you don't have to be a white
politician to to take advantage of
society's predisposition to believing
that people living in poverty have a a
moral deficit anybody can do that a lot
of people have spoken about Barack Obama
who one of the advantages he had to
being black was that he didn't have to
talk about race in the way that Hillary
Clinton did and Hillary Clinton was
punished in some respects
electorally for talking about race so
much what obama did was pursued what
they call a politics of respectability
and instead of saying systemically we
have a problem in this country that has
inhibited people of colors progress in
our society that there is some type of
moral failure that they have we got to
be our brother's keeper this is an
individual problem
these people not stepping up and there
this is more of that but almost worse
here's Kemal Harris at the Commonwealth
Club in 2010 I would not be standing
here were it not for the education I
received and I know men of many of us
will say the same thing and I believe a
child going without an education is
tantamount to a crime so I decided I was
going to start prosecuting parents for
truancy well this was a little
controversial in San Francisco
and frankly my staff went bananas they
were very concerned because we didn't
know at the time whether I was gonna
have an opponent in my reelection race
what I said look I'm done this is a
serious issue and I've got a little
political capital and I'm gonna spend
some of it and this is what we did we
recognized that in that initiative as a
prosecutor and law enforcement I have a
huge stick the school district has got
to care it let's work in tandem around
our collective objective and goal which
is to get those kids in school so to
that end on my letterhead now let me
tell you something about my letterhead
when you're the DA of a major city in
this country usually the job comes with
a badge and there is often an artistic
rendering of said badge on your
stationery
so I sent a letter out on my letterhead
to every parent in the school district
outlining the connection that was
statistically proven between elementary
school truancy high school dropouts who
will become a victim of crime and who
will become a perpetrator of crime we
sent it up to everyone a friend of mine
actually called me and he said komlin my
wife got the letter she freaked out she
brought all the kids into the living
room held up the letter said if you
don't go to school
Camas gonna put you and me in jail yes
we achieved attend to intended effect I
don't think that's funny that's
extraordinarily punitive
and creepy and shows such a I mean this
is the first time obviously I object to
her policies because we have different
politics but that's the first time I've
just been really creeped out and
disgusted it's and I wanted to say I
think it's important cuz I think
obviously there's gonna be a lot of
echoing of Obama's campaigns but I think
we got to go back and look at Bill
Clinton's 1992 campaign as well because
on one hand where maybe it's a positive
because of the new political terrain
we're in with Bernie and aoc people
Clinton's 92 campaign at least had a
semblance of economic populism which
she's gonna need to put forward and she
did that but she did it in a very
Clintonian way like you know if the CEOs
are getting a raise than America ought
to get a raise which is a very gentle
way of putting it but it echoes that uh
but then people also you know remember
that I mean Bill Clinton's triangulating
on crime and race issues were horrifying
he literally stopped campaigning yes to
execute yeah I mean you were gonna say
but he literally went back and executed
a mentally disabled black man to prove
his on the different kind of Democrats
so I think and if the polling bears this
out because you've been saying this and
I think unfortunately right a lot of us
are you know if you're on the Left
you're very concerned about the criminal
industrial the prison industrial complex
and over scented saying and the cesta
FASTA stuff which she's also been
incredibly bad on but i think that what
you might see from her is a fusion of
obama and ninety two clinton a ninety
two clinton not just with the sort of
like soft economic populism but actually
some if it calls for it some very heavy
triangulating on criminal justice issues
and i just think if you know anything
about poverty or anything about people
trying to get their lives together in a
certain way that clip is is mortifying
it profoundly disturbing what what
what's also interesting is that she
talks about running for reelection in
san francisco now she's trying to make
the jump from san francisco to the state
in 2010 and that's what you know
everything that we have knocked andrew
Cuomo for is really what that move is
I'm coming from San Francisco San
Francisco politics there's a reason why
they say that hippie dippie that type of
thing I've got a show that I am serious
that I can have some type of like
conservative moral sort of stance and
and that's what she's talking about
there and she's she's she's bragging
about it she says like you know I had to
alienate some of my core people on some
level my staff like hey this is morally
wrong what you're doing maybe they all
were like hey this could hurt you and
your reelection chances in San Francisco
I mean it day but maybe some people on
our staff were actually like this is
incredibly abusive you're aa glassess
than racial and maybe we should like
have some basic integrity in how we do
our jobs
I'd be curious to see if that if and I
doubt I don't know how you break that
out I mean it was clear that the the
school board was also attempting to that
but even if it's even if it was
effective which I I questioned whether
it was effective I don't know but even
if it was effective it there's a lot of
things that we could do effectively by
threatening people to be arrested and
that don't make it right and that is a
little bit disturbing so you know what
we'll see but here is another case
