what the the good news is that we've
found out exactly who is behind these
protests with Cavanaugh it is not folks
who are concerned about the environment
it's not folks who are concerned about
the Chevron doctrine the idea that
regulatory agencies can actually do
their job it's not folks who are worried
about his a potential attempted rape or
the fact that he lied multiple occasions
to the Senate Judiciary Committee
ranging from the Manny Miranda scandal
back when he was in the Bush
administration to every too many aspects
of his addressing the question of that
attempted rape there are there are no
Americans ladies and gentlemen who are
protesting Brett Kavanaugh who are not
doing so because of George Soros here is
Chuck Grassley with Maria Bartiromo
the president Trump's I think greatest
fan in the media if possible
well Dobson quite the gaunt debt there
yeah I know but she's very fair she's
fair
she's let's hear Grassley with bar drama
I mean this also suggested me that
they're there they maybe know that
they're going to lose the vote because
Soros is the last refuge but I mean you
you've had people thrown out of
restaurants you've had people shamed and
criticized online and obviously
protesters in your face first off do you
believe George Soros is behind all of
this paying these people to get you and
your colleagues in elevators or wherever
they can get in your face I have
heard so many people believe that I tend
to believe it I believe it fits in his
attack mode that he has and how he uses
his and billions and billions of
resources I think it promotes incivility
in American society but I also think
that the resistance that's been in
existence since November 2016 is
headquartered here in Capitol Hill when
you have congresswoman say that you get
in the face of anybody that's in the
cabinet
we have senators say get in the face
resist he's been doing French duolingo
that's how Soros presents it and I'm
tired they are the to a certain extent I
mean this is it is so wrote that you
know we don't pay much attention to it
but the idea that they have to they have
to say that this the protest and the
anger against Cavanaugh because they see
the polls right I mean and it's not just
Democrats who are against the nomination
of of Cavanaugh independence people who
are not terribly politically active
against the nomination of Cavanaugh I
mean George Soros is rich but I will say
this like I haven't gotten a dime from
Soros and it's getting a little bit
tiresome to see him spread this money
around some hero he doesn't have my
address
did you see Trump's tweet about this
that I think grassy was responding to
put put the tweet up wait rash is
responding Grassley was on first
aggressive thirty minutes so after
Grassley we see this tweet from Donald
Trump which says the very rude elevator
screamers are paid professionals only
looking to make senators look bad
exactly they they're paid paid they paid
professionally to be rape survivors
apparently according to Donald Trump
don't fall for it also look at all the
professionally made identical signs paid
for by Soros and others these are not
signs made in the basement from love
hashtag troublemakers made in the
basement of love with the milkman and
another regular American I like when
Trump tries to get all new agey on
people for being like negative or having
bad vibes or whatever that's fun these
are not the love infused milk people
doing it from their hearts I think this
is what down command or not true yeah
they're not sincere is what he's trying
to say I think but made in your basement
from love pretty sincere sounds sincere
to me
what part of sincere don't you
understand fake some fake sincere it's
part of the resistance oh I guess it was
it was Gohmert who sort of launched off
all the sorrow stuff if we want to play
alright well here is Louis Gomer days
there we go
so this is the way this goes right louie
gohmert a backbencher but also you know
a marginalized figure because he's so
nuts but he's right in the cognitive
mainframe of the Republican Party that's
right
that's right but he is the one who first
traffic's in this stuff and then
Grassley here's the Gohmert has said it
and so Grassley regurgitates it and then
Trump tweets it out but here is Louie
Gohmert like sort of patient zero of
this argument that George Soros is
behind all of the anti Cavanaugh
protests the Democratic Party has been
politically corrupt now for what 20
years and at the same time they're their
connections to the Democratic Party and
the Democratic National Committee are
and Democratic administrations are
documented and will they watch as well
with raise their forearm and raise their
there
hands and yell Heil Soros is the way
they've headed but Soros you should know
well survive the Holocaust was I think
about fourteen fourteen or fifteen maybe
thirteen when the Holocaust hit and made
his way to England from from Hungary
which was occupied by the Germans at
that time one really he should know
better
didn't Glenn Beck imply though back in
like 2010 that Soros was a collaborator
not not imply he said it yes the the
story was that as eight as it is a 13 or
14 year old I believe it was maybe a
fifteen year old
Soros was forced to go with either a
German official or a Jewish official who
was working for the Germans to go around
and check I think the homes of Jews to
see if any of them were still living
there and so and it was a very brief
stint and he of course was was fourteen
years old
and that they've now said that he was
some type of Nazi Nazi colossal it was
brief but it was faster than me here
about you know especially for a devil
George Soros is a fascinating guy but
it's also sort of fascinating because
the enormous big money that is pulsating
through the right that this is just
another classic sort of case of
projection I there's no doubt in
politics there's no doubt that some of
these organizations that are organizing
the protests gets some funding from
either George Soros or a George Soros
funded you know Foundation or something
to that I mean I would be I would be
upset to learn that they were not
getting there was none you know no Soros
money was involved in this because he's
supposed to be the billionaire that
funds everything but it just doesn't
work on the left the way that it works
on the
right in terms of the amount of money
and how how its spread around if the
right is so concerned about thing these
things they can join us for calls for
transparency because I'd like to see I'd
like a website that shows all these sort
of contribution o'problem I'm curious to
know when they're gonna transition from
Soros to steyr and what they're gonna
say about him when his money's too
thrown around I don't know there could
be a little bit of a problem as that
stired doesn't have the same allure that
a Soros has he's not foreign he's not
hook-nosed the that is you know one of
the things that makes I think it easier
for them to villainize I love receipts
Grassley in that strategy session so the
probe we're talking about steyr he's got
a hook-nosed foreign Jew Soros makes it
easy that way when you're talking about
the resist odds now I need a nap
[Laughter]
