[Music]
we talked about Donald Trump with
Stephanopoulos before the interview
apparently coughing Mick Mulvaney was
coughing and interrupting things we
don't know if that was planned or what
this story was with that here is another
moment as Stephanopoulos had a lot of
access to Donald Trump we've seen him
now sitting in some type of garden we've
seen him in the in the Oval Office and
now he's driving in his limousine it's
weird it feels like this was shot with a
an iPhone doesn't it which is
conceivable that they did decide like
let's go with a smaller camera the idea
being that he will not feel like he is
on TV on TV I mean I know that is the
theory that a lot of people have when
they do some some stuff like this maybe
that's what was going on here here is
Stephanopoulos talking to Donald Trump
where Donald Trump's pretending they're
gonna roll out a new healthcare plan
I feel like this is the fourth time he
said this since the other health care
plan went down in flames
the III think the Democrats would would
would love this but here is Donald Trump
insisting insisting I mean there is a
there is a sense that he's like flailing
around panicking now when I I say that I
don't mean to in any way imply that he
is capable enough to know whether he is
genuinely in political peril or not
could be he's just panicking and he has
just as good a shot if not a better one
of getting reelected than he did last
time so there's only so much value to
this and as long as it does not end up
being like
maybe I need to start a war - you know
it may be largely irrelevant but here he
is talking about healthcare whether you
go to boners over this next year what is
the big unfinished piece of business
you're missing this is so we almost had
health care done Healthcare is a
disaster Obama care but we've managed it
much better than they manage it so we've
made it serviceable but it's not great
we're going to produce phenomenal health
care and we already have the concept of
the plan and it'll be questioned tell q2
with the plan
yeah well we'll be announcing that about
two months maybe less it's unbelievable
it's Jay he's changed though cuz he used
to be too weak yeah yeah it's always the
increments of two but yeah two months
will get you to it I wonder if there is
some type of like some type of I don't
know sales research they used to give me
two give me two minutes if you're on in
two hours
let's go to
