[Music]
you could instead of having broader
pattern recognition you could be ben
shapiro and have the have the same
degree of charisma and empathy in equal
measure that he has which is to say
negative on both fronts Kamala Harris
has been out campaigning and in her
attempt to prove some populist bona
fides which are just bluntly not in any
way deserved based off of her record
she's noting as many candidates have
noted but as people like Bernie Sanders
of course have been saying for years
even before it was fashionable that a
lot of Americans have to work to
different jobs to basically survive now
of course you could be in the gig
economy how we measure those employment
rates that adds a whole bunch of other
Americans you could be working one job
and not getting paid enough you could be
long-term unemployed and off of the
rolls and not even included in
unemployment statistics so even just
that one metric points to a bigger
structural problem of inequality and a
lot of people not being able to survive
hey if you work in the gig economy
you're not working a job okay you're an
entrepreneur that's right every single
person struggling to survive on an uber
shift is really just essentially Jeff
Bezos and the service sector here's Ben
Shapiro this is kamala first and then
Ben Shapiro is gonna respond to her you
know he's going around crowing about how
this economy is doing so well right oh
the economy is great he says right and
they refer to the unemployment numbers
well yeah I'm traveling our country let
me tell you something yeah people are
working they're working two and three
jobs and in our America we must agree
nobody should have to work more than one
job to have a roof over their head and
food on the table okay well okay well
that seems also you know basic and
common sensical but here Ben Shapiro has
the same amount of problem with this
rhetoric coming from Kamala Harris as he
does looking at the camera and
hedaan shot and I know that I don't
always maintain camera eye contact
either which I should but this is a
little bit of a different setup than
Shapiro has and there's a lot more
lights going on and a lot more dynamic
activity in the studio why on earth if
you have a static shot like this and you
know that you cannot look at the camera
you would set it up like that is beyond
me but I'm sorry to lose track here of
the substance this is Ben Shapiro well
the fact is that if you had to work more
than one job to have a roof over your
head or food on this table you probably
shouldn't taken the job that's not
paying you enough pause yeah you prop
can we just just let that sink in in a
country that we know in a global economy
that we know is defined by structural
inequities and multiple barriers to
getting well-paying jobs
this kid is literally saying if you work
at Walmart or something full-time and
you need to get another job in order to
survive at the bare minimum you should
have just not taken the Walmart job you
should have just become an engineer at
Google instead that is basically what
he's saying so this is already you know
we're already completely effed in terms
of making any sort of sense here but
let's play it out well the fact is that
if you had to work more than one job to
have a roof over your head or food on
this table you probably shouldn't take
in the job that's not paying you enough
that'd be a you problem also it is not
true the vast majority of people in the
United States are working two jobs it
just is not true according to the census
so yeah she doesn't say vast majority
and I would also say you know it the
people that have to work the whole thing
about having to work more than one job
is bad but it's also the case where we
just need to have people get more from
the one job or the work that they do now
regardless if that's one job two jobs
three right precisely more jobs we need
better jobs we need better jobs unions
and higher wages but I just I mean one
okay so first there's the total lack of
empathy and of course it will surprise
no one that of course ben shapiro
is another trust fund baby brat who's
never had to struggle or deal with
anything in his life he's got a wee
you know he's part of this bizarre
conservative obsession with like teenage
you know with like pose immediately post
pubescent boys who can get up on stage
and demand tax cuts and agitate for the
invasion of Iraq that's where he comes
from which you know look if he had a
normal psychic trajectory he would be
like that kid Jonathan Cohn who was
actually on this show years ago and he
was just like I don't know why adults
wanted to see me as a 13 year old talk
about like why we shouldn't have gotten
control or whatever I was kind of weird
I'm in college now and I'd appreciate if
everybody would leave me alone and let
me grow up as a popular as a proper
fully paid-up member of the human race
but Ben Shapiro never had that growth or
break so he's basically just the same
thing as he was when he was 14 he's just
a you know kind of odd little right-wing
propagandist who came from nothing but
ease so there's that obvious thing then
there's the who gets to have jobs and
why thing which is of course immediately
erased by this and even though commonly
come Liars didn't say most but even if
you stipulated that it was say between
five six or eight or even 8% of the
population that is still millions and
millions of human beings in this country
that have to work beyond physical
capacity to survive and acquire basic
goods and services we should oppose that
and recognize that as a problem even if
it is not a majority I don't really
understand these sort of intellectual
and moral limitations and being able to
understand this this is another great
little classic of Ben Shapiro in what
way I guess it just shows you when you
when you talk fast the same thing is
like the idea that you could just oh yes
presumably you have logic it's the same
logically you'd have to move to a
different community presumably like you
think about all the different like we're
worried about the right-wing starting to
speak to these communities in the middle
of America that are getting hollowed out
well yeah what are you gonna do just I
mean move away thousands of miles from
your family oh this is why someone like
talking Carlson is way more formidable
than Shapiro because that is what
Shapiro has got but anyways here's
here's Bureau so let's say let's say for
the sake of argument that all of the
water levels around the world rise by
let's say five feet
over the next hundred years say ten feet
by the next hundred years and puts all
the low-lying areas on the coast
underwater alright would you let's say
all of that happens you think that
people aren't going to just sell their
homes and move
