[Music]
mark Sanford is ostensibly running for
president in the Republican primary now
the Republican primary is a nearly
non-existent there's like what half a
dozen states at least at this point that
are basically saying we're not having a
primary we're not gonna hold one we're
not gonna have a caucus just not gonna
do it and I would imagine it's gonna be
even more going forward nevertheless
Iowa seems to be proceeding for the
Republicans here is Mark Sanford he's
not lost folks he's not lost he knows
where he is he's not on some type of
walking tour he is gone into a
restaurant sitting down and this is a
part of drops out the middle a myth some
babe in Florida so can't the old ugly
board can't run can't run can't run
sorry I just uh I got to go on a hike
again but here he is mark Sanford and
he's sitting down with some young women
in a restaurant in Iowa and I think we
can all when when he says to them
explains to him why them why he's
running I want you to just think when
those words come out of his mouth what
you would anticipate he's going to be
saying to these young people and then
you're going to be wrong because I think
we need to have a conversation about
where we're going in particularly with
regard to debt and deficits that are I
mean this four horsemen going to impact
you all there you go
mark Sanford there's impeachment
hearings there yeah they're all just
like a you see yeah like what no thanks
that'll really help my students yeah
deficit oh yeah exactly that was just
what I we were all sitting here talking
about
we were all just sitting here talking
about the government's debt and deficit
that just so happened by those tax cuts
that you probably voted for unbelievable
but god bless him god bless him he has a
mission how much you think he's getting
paid by third way to run i probably
comes cheap at this point had i'm half a
million just an air maybe a couple of
tickets just yeah airplane do I get a
job yeah so much about the deficit but I
saw this retired news anchor in uh
Charleston so race over so a children's
future is suspended and just to be clear
no minders on the jet
yeah just nope okay alright good now
let's do this I like I mean bill weld at
least is having like his full time I
mean I actually a part of me is a little
bit concerned by this escalation to be
honest but he's doing his real Tom
Clancy baby-boomer MoMA in his race he
said the other day that he thinks that
Trump may be well he walked again
executed for treason
he walked that but I'm saying that well
I wish he didn't you know if you're
gonna do this go for it Joe enjoy
yourself that that's the way you get
Trump's attention I mean do you have
zero attention baby some you start
running and especially bill weld he
looks like the most quintessential wats
because he is just like yeah I think
that guy ought to be shot at okay all
right governor maybe we will book you
more you expect some guy to close a
little by Republican Party respect it or
it's the teaser so yeah boring what else
you got I think you should be killed
that she leaves office that we like stay
tuned for four hours with Bill bill
belts back in the beam lock meanwhile
