so re we have two cases that are in
front of the Supreme Court at the moment
oral arguments happened last week one
out of North Carolina one out of
Maryland before we get to those two
states we got to first talk about Gil V
Whitford because when we talk about
gerrymandering cases in many respects
Gil of the Whitford gave us a really in
many respects distasteful preview for
what we can expect what was that case
Gil V Whitford so last year there was a
really landmark case for Wisconsin where
a voting rights group challenged the
Republican state assembly maps it was
consonant what happened was causin like
a lot of states is that Republicans took
control after the 2010 election and they
drew this incredible gerrymander so they
could actually win fewer votes but more
seats so in the last election of
Wisconsin Democrats won all five races
for statewide office in Wisconsin
including the governor's race and they
won 54 percent of the votes for the
state assembly which is a state house
but they only got 36 percent of seats so
the flip side of that is that
Republicans in Wisconsin got 46 percent
of the votes but they managed to get 64
percent of the seats in the in the state
assembly there which just goes against
everything we think a democracy is
supposed to be about I think I mean we
hold on for one second hold on for one
second because I think you know I don't
think that we can spend too much time
just on the on that figure because not
only to go against I think what
everyone's concept of democracy is it
goes against what everyone's concept of
math is like I I think it's hard for
people to really wrap their heads around
that concept I mean we have I guess the
electoral college in some respects is
sort of similar in in that way but but
this is really crazy
there was out of if a hundred votes are
cast 56 of them are
caste for Democrats 40 for our caste for
Republicans but Republicans win 64 seats
and that is because of the way that the
votes have been manipulated and
clustered in such a way where you have
basically people voting and their vote
just doesn't carry the same amount of
weight as maybe others in another
district yeah exactly I mean because
Wisconsin is basically a quintessential
purple state it was carried by Barack
Obama twice then Donald Trump very
narrowly won in 2016 but it's a state
that has elected last year elected a
reelected Democratic senator elected a
Democratic governor but the state
legislature there which has been heavily
gerrymandered by the state legislature
there has just been impenetrable for
Democrats and we've seen a situation in
multiple elections now where Republicans
are getting a minority of votes but a
majority of seats and their numbers stay
the same no matter the national mood so
it doesn't matter if it's to 2010 it's a
wave election or it's for Republicans or
it's 2018 a wave election for Democrats
the numbers in the state legislature for
Republicans just stayed the same they
always have a very clear majority and
and that's why these maps were
challenged because the plaintiffs
basically said this is completely
undemocratic and this is obviously a
partisan gerrymander House could you get
a situation where someone could win 54%
of the vote but only 36% of the seat so
they state's challenges case before the
Supreme Court it was heard last year and
there was a lot of hope that there would
be some sort of major resolution of
gerrymandering because the evidence
Wisconsin was so startling but the
Supreme Court basically punted said that
the the plaintiffs didn't have standing
to challenge this and sent it back to
lower courts for a whole nother
go-around and so we're well before we
get to where where that case is on the
lower courts but there was also some
sense that Anthony Kennedy this would be
this was the case that he was waiting
for
I mean there were gerrymandering cases
years ago
Kennedy basically said like how do we
how can we assess how badly something is
gerrymandered because obviously you know
gerrymandering has been around for a
long time there's there's new
technologies now that actually can you
know hyper put it in hyperdrive which is
what we see in Wisconsin but he was
calling for some means in which to
measure how to measure how badly
something is gerrymandered and social
scientists came up with one I mean I you
and I can hear this we could say there's
something wrong there but they came up
with a way of quantifying it and that
was not sufficient for Anthony Kennedy
even though he had been basically
calling out into the wilderness saying
you know show me something like this so
we can make a decision yeah so there was
a there was a big 2004 case for
Pennsylvania that the Supreme Court
heard and basically four conservative
justices led by Antonin Scalia so the
Supreme Court should never review
partisan gerrymandering because
gerrymandering is inherently political
act that the court should stay out of
there were four liberal justices that
said no partisan gerrymandering should
be illegal we can tell when this goes
from being something that is a
relatively political process I mean
that's really extreme and hurtful to our
democracy and Kenny was basically in the
middle where he said I'm not ready to
join the liberals but I'm not ready to
join the Conservatives and I want to see
a clear standard here for when we should
strike down something as to gerrymander
to political and so the plaintiffs in
Wisconsin spent a lot of time developing
this theory one of the theories was
called the efficiency gap but there are
other social science behind it and
basically they were able to measure for
the first time concretely the number of
wasted votes they were able to basically
say these maps are so extreme that
Democratic votes have been diluted to X
or Y extent beyond what would happen if
you drew a neutral map based on fair
districting criteria and they thought
that was enough they thought that that
was something that you could use you
could basically use math and social
science to identify these very extreme
cases but Kennedy evidently didn't want
to go there didn't sign off on this
opinion and what happened was
in the end there just were not five
votes for striking down partisan
gerrymandering in the Wisconsin case and
so where did where did Gil V Whitford it
went back to the lower courts where is
it now in a in with in the lower court
system it would send that back to lower
court they basically told not to get too
tired to go but they basically told them
you have to find plaintiffs in every
district so so they were doing
Wisconsin's they were challenging the
entire map and the entire map was an
unconstitutional gerrymander and the
Supreme Court basis said no you need to
define specific districts where
plaintiffs have problems so they can
prove that their district was
gerrymandering and so they went back and
did that it's before the lower courts
then they decided to here two other
cases from North Carolina and Maryland
and right now that Wisconsin case is
basically pending based on the outcome
of these other cases that they've now
heard all right well look we're gonna
take a break when we come back I want to
hear about those other two cases that
are coming out of Maryland and North
Carolina and I want you to be prepared
to answer the question how could they
take these cases when they had such an
obvious case of crazy Reid of
gerrymander that they just punted on we
got to take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire radio
we'll be right back with the great Ari
Berman in a moment
