I haven't in many respects like is it
done I like a we have we destroy as the
presidency been destroyed now where the
the the American public is not really
legitimately gonna have a problem with a
president who seems to work 10 to 15
percent of the time you know I they just
don't believe it I his voters just you
know they believe what they want to
believe I mean did this story that came
out you know either the last week and a
half or so about you know we knew that
Trump had this category of time called
executive time which was something that
John Kelly the former chief of staff
apparently put you know put into place
as a way to sort of let Trump not feel
too restricted by his schedule because
he was chafing at having to do meetings
and briefings and all that so he needs
all this free time right we call that
work they call it you know that he needs
this time to and we know what he's doing
right he's shooting the breeze with his
pals on the phone he's watching TV he's
tweeting he's hanging out with staff
members and kvetching about his coverage
and you know this is it's obvious what
he does with his time and he's not
making policy or you know listening to
anybody any experts or you know anything
like that he just misses he wants to
talk about himself and talk about his
coverage and talk about his political
situation I imagine he spends a fair
amount of time with lawyers too because
he's you know under investigation in
every aspect of his life so you know
this idea that he needs all this time
I've been out there for a while but then
Axios got a hold of the schedule
somebody leaked these these schedules
that show that it's you know it's like
sixty percent of his time he spends
doing this and not doing what normal
presidents do and we've seen a lot of
people over the past week or so come out
and talk about how other presidents time
was structured I mean the president's
time is extremely valuable right I mean
in the normal presidency so that it is
important that they make the most of it
right
and no other president has done what he
does I mean he barely comes to work
really he comes late like 11 o'clock in
the morning 10 11 he you know has one
meeting or one briefing which we also
learned you know is basically they do
color coded you know presentations where
they know to use his name a lot so that
he'll pay attention and keep it as brief
as possible and then he goes to lunch
and then he takes some executive time
that he has maybe a meeting with the
vice president or something I mean this
is it's amazing so you know this guy is
not he does not when we know all about
the golfing to I mean he does more
golfing than anybody else in
presidential history we know the guy
just had he doesn't have a good work
ethic and and that's because he
inherited his business he's basically
you know been sort of dancing on the
edge doing you know these these deals
over the years where his dad was going
to bail him out if they were bad so I
don't think know that he ever really has
done a lot of you know focused work the
way that most of us think a president
should be doing and you know his people
don't care they don't believe it they
think it's not true how could he be so
rich if he wasn't really a hard worker
that's you know they've been you know
brainwashed into thinking that's
actually follows for anybody much less a
guy who inherited all his money so you
know this is just I don't know how you
get that through to people I really
don't I don't know I know the fake news
thing is really sunk in with Trump's
followers but isn't isn't it the the
real problem is not that his you know
look we saw this during the Bush years -
right like there's 35% of the population
that are dead-enders they're never going
to be swayed right they're always going
to be supportive of these authoritarian
these you know conservative right-wing
authoritarians
the real problem it strikes me when we
hear stuff like this is that there's no
way the this is not actionable right so
we the rest of us who are sort of like
who
have either you know I guess it I guess
we've bought into the myth of you need
to work hard as president being
presidents a hard job right and on some
level we've bought into that myth
because it's clearly you know you can
get by by not doing any work as
president and so we have no it's not
actionable for people like us who have a
problem with it I mean ultimately we're
gonna vote against this guy but we're
going through a period of time for two
years where the guy's not doing any work
and you know it's hard to see that there
are any implications to it other than
maybe he's not doing as much bad stuff
as he would if he was actually focused I
mean that's what's that that's the part
that sort of I find is the most
disturbing about all of this these days
is that there is no mechanism and partly
maybe I'm just going through you know
post midterm election blues and you know
don't have a sense of like okay well
what you know what do we do in the short
term to say hey you know you're
president you probably should work more
than two and a half hours a day
you know what I mean like it's on some
level we have no choice but to accept it
and that is you know and on some level
to you know to normalize it so much of
what has happened has become normalized
despite the fact that we spent so much
energy saying we can't normalize this we
can't normalize this you know human
beings after a while things getting to
be normally oh I totally agree with you
and that's something that is really I
mean it's been on my mind too I've been
thinking a lot about this that you know
we when Trump was first elected there
was this you know this just massive
outcry you know this isn't normal we
can't let the press normalize him you
know this is something we have to fight
I mean I I wrote a lot about that and
how important it was not to you know let
this become something that we just sort
of accept but over time you know I
realized and just as you as you say you
have to accept it because it's happening
I mean can we accept it it would be to
deny the reality of what we're watching
right with what we're experiencing and
so you know this is a very difficult
thing and I do I wonder about this a lot
you know what what do we what do we do
if and when Trump is defeated in 2020
you know much of what we had previously
assumed to be true about the presidency
about our government about the way our
politics work I mean that's really been
shattered and I don't know how easy is
because if you do I mean I shouldn't say
this we're not going to restore it
that's done I mean the past is over
we've proven that that isn't that what
we thought was possible or impossible
was wrong so we're gonna have to
reinvent here going forward and there's
going to be a big process and maybe that
can be a positive thing you know there
are a lot of things about the past that
weren't that great so you know maybe
there's a chance to maybe reinvent in a
positive way but it's a very strange
situation that we're in it you know
watching watching and I was I was so
struck watching the State of the Union
again when I see him get in the car and
come over there and go I still can't
believe oh my god Donald Trump is the
president all right well listen we gotta
take a quick break when we come back
let's talk a little bit more about the
State of the Union because we haven't
even touched on the fact that he the
president offered I guess would you call
this a rhyme or a limerick to argue that
he shouldn't be investigated and and you
could also call may be a threat but we
gotta take quick break I'm Sam cedar
there's a ring of fire radio be right
back with Digby
