[Music]
producer Lauren did you know that Dave
Rubin was on Tucker Carlson show last
night
Walt well in fact we did yeah I think we
caught this well well I guess we'll play
this in a second wall well Tucker was
safely ensconced in Tokyo to complain
about the suppression of YouTube does
Rubin fulfill some sort of gay quota
that for Tucker that peaked when he had
Caitlyn Jenner on is a disloyal log
cabin Republican do you know why Randy
Rhoads wasn't allowed to podcast from
tonight's debate lash the fashion I
don't know the answer to any of those
questions but we do have this clip and
one and again you know we all know what
Tucker Carlson is but it is funny to me
that I mean Tucker clearly understands
that dave is not the sharpest operator
so there's always a funny tenor to their
interactions because dave is like
slobbering with excitement that he's
doing a cable hit and Tucker is like you
know the same way with Prager like hey
you know you're the gay guy who cosines
on all of the bad things that's great
but there's always that little Tucker
like well it's really stupid
do I really have to walk you through all
this walk throughs you can't just do
this yourself all right let's check this
out Dave Rubin hosts the Rubin report on
YouTube the Google whistleblower says
that his channel is one of the channels
that Google's algorithms work it to
suppress watch this and write off
through the odds happens the content
crews right after the Masonic Lodge say
this is the difference you could tell
between tucker carlson and dave rubin
that in the tucker carlson production
process they were like why don't we cut
out the Masonic Lodge meeting by the
Creator started to demonetized and video
started at events I'm talking about did
remember
[Laughter]
tonight what do you make of that Dave
when you hear that Tucker I guess you
didn't know when you came to my house to
do my show to my little garage studio
and you played with my dog and saw my
backyard chickens you didn't know what a
crazed right-wing radical I was so I'm
glad that we've gotten that out there
laws of horse tucker carlson is a crazed
right-wing radical so why would he have
problems socializing with one what are
you this guy is so stupid it's
breathtaking all right keep going oh I'm
glad that we've gotten that out there
look of course this is this is complete
nonsense I mean we've discussed this
many times I am an old school liberal so
this is not like on some far-left II and
I'm not some far righty I'm a pretty
moderate guy I've tried to build some
bridges here and even that now is
becoming too extreme for what Google and
YouTube are allowing to happen one of
the things that I've done that I'm most
proud of actually is I've had
conservatives on my show we know you're
from that it's brilliant had
conservatives on like Tommy Sotomayor
and Stefon mother the way you build
bridges is you have Tommy Robinson on
you good really the Muslims have their
own Kuti of this city and why would the
file ever let you just be in like a
river that time you stand they don't
want you to talk about the brain they
don't want you to be part of this new
center where bill there's this new
center where people talk about
terrorizing migrants off the coast of
the coast of the Aegean are you saying a
gene that's a fun weird
yes I've had conservatives on my show
like you by Gregor Ben Shapiro etc and
I've treated you guys with respect and
decency and that really is what the
mainstream media and sort of the New
York Times CNN crew doesn't want people
to see they just want to create a
character of all of you guys so that's
sort of why they're coming after me
but I will say this just moments before
before we started here I just got
notified that Susan Wojcicki who's the
CEO of YouTube she actually followed me
on Twitter so Tucker like is starting to
get her like his little bloated squint
face or he's just sort of like writing a
little bit more mileage out of this
you're so excited you're so
for any kind of social validation that
one might follow is gonna completely
puncture in a segment Jesus Christ
you're an empty-headed vacuous Mura
I won't down my last rolls of sushi I
still trying to get you'll wash down my
throat I thought we were gonna go dunk
off and make some seven-year-olds
freaked out about Google supporting the
Davis agenda so when this idiot gets a
follow on Twitter and all of a sudden
he's come even upset for the segment god
this guy's dumb I could have been
honorary first made on a whaling boat
this afternoon and instead I'm in a
studio talking with us moral but I I've
got over a million subscribers on there
and I think as much as an email address
of someone at YouTube but maybe I am
starting to make some headway now and
you know quickly to your point on making
we're sort of libertarians are at right
now I think there's an interesting
moment here where generally small and I
think you're sort of in that group too
you know our limits are being pushed on
what small government actually means and
for me I would always prefer a private
answer to this in competition but maybe
there has to be a sort of two-pronged
approach where politicians are putting
pressure and then public people are
putting pressure because competition is
not kicking in cut well I love this this
is so incredible I mean Jesus Christ
okay so so no wow he is really so dumb
so first of all Tucker Carlson is
absolutely not
at least positioning himself brand wise
as a libertarian in fact Tucker Carlson
has made many provocative comments
including recently going through
sections of Elizabeth Warren's economic
plan and her 2003 book the - income trap
to talk about any number of economic
populist proposals that he's at the very
least willing to pretend to support he
said to Ben Shapiro I don't believe in
the market as some type of religious
force and if I knew that automation was
gonna eliminate some a disastrous amount
of jobs I would regulate against it that
is totally anti libertarian and when you
combine that with like the place - like
the the old folks about how like try it
in conversation with the teenager on pot
that does not fit with the whole like
libertarian I don't care if conjunction
of Monsanto Bear and Microsoft owns the
planet just so long as you could smoke a
little pot or whatever ways that they do
like they're fake like 1970s groovy
points on so Ruben doesn't even know the
basics of where he is
then there's like the deep point that
these are communications Commons and
obviously you can't leave it into the
hands of Silicon Valley that is the
appropriate Democratic response to it
the opposite of an actual libertarian
response so what Ruben though is doing
here and I think is actually sort of
especially by his standards and he's not
I no doubt he's doing it intentionally
but it's kind of clever he's still
saying like this basically should be a
private market mechanism because I'm a
mouthpiece for corporate America but
what we should do is we should have more
hearings where idiots and fascists and
demagogues like Steve King or just like
you know go to Facebook you know comms
teams and say look there's this a page
that tells kids that it's all right to
be gay well I'm wondering why the same
page that says they should slit their
wrists is not getting top of the
algorithm that's what he means by public
pressure where politicians are putting
pressure and then public people are
putting pressure and we can maybe make
these companies sort of be a little more
transparent be a little more open which
really is all anyone's asking for here I
yeah I got a feeling that if YouTube did
what we think it should do and just
banned people who launder white
supremacists and were transparent about
not accepting that like that that
knitting website that recently did that
hear about that they just like we're
kicking off all Nazis and everyone's
like can I guess you can just do that
yeah then I think Ruben would still have
a problem with that because he would
probably get swept up in that yeah I
think Ruben I think and I don't think
changing the title from racing IQ to
controversial opinion that's it idea I
don't think that would do so well and I
also don't think it would do so I also
think if you if you did what these
companies needs to do which is you had
an actual human editorial process I
don't think that would
boats all for him either and I also
think in any society where any decent
number of people across the political
spectrum still understood that eugenics
and racism and things like that were bad
things and undesirable and you didn't
need to be like awoke Lord to understand
that I don't think Dover Ubben is gonna
boat too well in those in that society
either it's not bring them to heel by
force tomorrow I wouldn't add valerian
solution I think past that time would
you would you allow will you allow a
power company you go to say we're
denying you electricity because you
voted for someone we don't like of
course you wouldn't we would not allow
well I think that yeah I think that's a
totally valid argument yeah you know as
my friend Eric Weinstein says it's like
one day are we gonna get to the point
where our Republicans are going to be
allowed to have phones in their homes I
mean that's sort of where we're heading
companies through public pressure will
mean but but you might be right and I
actually I think that's just an
incredibly rich debate that we should be
having more often I love I look Tucker I
I will confess I didn't watch the whole
clip but I had to do that whole work to
explain Tucker's politics and Tucker did
that for me
much more brutally than I've ever done
it you know he's a big government paleo
conservative and by the way I agree I'm
on that side of the debate these
companies need to become public
utilities they need to be heavily
regulated and I absolutely do not trust
any process in the long term that
Silicon Valley companies are in charge
of deciding these things that is insane
and even if they make short-term
decisions that are positive and we may
like and by the way most of the
short-term decisions they've made are
horrible in fact that's there's a reason
that algorithm has helped feed the
growth of these kinds of channels and
content that's a fundamental danger to
media and democracy they cannot be in
Silicon Valley's hands they need to be
in public hands period I think you're a
talker and us kind of understand that
equally on
level like we don't have an issue with
YouTube controlling the kind of speech
that's on there we both understand that
it's a vehicle for ideology he just
wants it to be a vehicle for white
supremacist ideology and we want it to
be a vehicle for you know liberation and
whatnot of course but but the
fundamental regulatory question you know
yeah I agree 100% yes and it is really
funny just to watch Dave just completely
not like and I love how that's always
his move which is like well it's it
reached calm Bruce it that's another
thing that clearly I have actually no
but I love to pretend that I'd love to
explain it I want to shout out a really
good video by Sean youtuber Sean I think
black people probably forgot before Sean
he did a what is white supremacy a
response to steven crowder video and
this little section on dave rubin
building bridges with people like Laura
Loomer I thought was very very funny or
as scary I don't know both she would
appear to disagree then to collect the
devil returning to Lawrence often
however she would appear to disagree
then what well you know you would have
agreed that some of it exists right like
there's something there somewhere that
yeah even even the Richard Spencer's of
the world like they're they're miss
they're even them they're kind of
misrepresented as well like Richard
Spencer is not a white supremacist he is
a white nationalist he believes in a
white ethno state he doesn't believe in
whites being superior so so Richard
Spencer is not a white supremacist
apparently he's a white nationalist
according to Lawrence oven however and I
I don't identify the white nationalist
dip to you know let that be known
history is often a zero-sum game history
is often about subordination and
domination and it's about patronage and
and so on and if we want to try to get
away from that in order to be
ideologically pure like oh every
ethnicity will have its little state
we're not gonna really go anywhere
there's Dave Dave Lau there was a really
interesting that's so interesting he's
dead he wants in
new speed but not a white because
because I could live like just because I
have my own house doesn't mean I think
I'm better than other people that's so
interesting
Oh sidebar that's it that is such a
great illustration too because I just
you know clearly the he has no problem
and he has no ethics and he's a you know
in addition to being incredibly stupid
and funny is obviously a very bad person
but he has no problem you know building
a platform that's leveraged by having
people like Laura southern and Molyneux
and so on on so he's made his money
I tell he's made his money and don't
forget sam Harris has drear aliy
supported him every step of the way and
been a regular as well but now that it's
a it's a two-step game because on one
hand you need to you know scream the
hilltops about censorship but now it's a
lot more like a binky ruin right like
he's not gonna he's gonna be trying and
the retitling the video name and all of
that he's gonna want that to escape down
you know the memory hole so you know
this is a good time for people who like
to do that sort of internet-based having
fun like that to just do you know good
steady reminders especially when dave is
like whining to the CEO of YouTube I'm
just you know you could drop in those
threads before and I'm sure he'll block
you but you could also forward it to
people like us yeah because he can't
block us we will share like oh this is
the type of thing that Dave thinks is
super important that we're clear about
online which is telling you know
uninformed fourteen-year-olds that
there's a profound intellectual
difference between supporting ethnos
state and being a white supremists thank
you Dave
very important intellectual work
appreciate that all hands on deck in the
posting Morris right now well exactly
and we are literally taking money out of
their operations pockets by doing things
like saying hey Buddha Jets don't go on
this white supremacist launderers show
right 100% and and and actually this is
what Sam mentioned this but what he
announced he was getting that gonna do a
book and we said we're going to flood
the algorithms so people know who he is
mission accomplished
all the simple things with him did the I
like that he actually I'm gonna look
writing a book is pretty friggin hard I
mean writing a book idea of him
composing an email about abuse no I just
picture like business cat sitting at the
computer kind of pawing at the keyboard
ideas the left I mean Jesus great and it
still hasn't happened I mean it's
amazing that they couldn't yeah that's
hilarious
alright you're calling from an eight one
seven
