[Music]
this is an amazing story that it's just
the this AOC was questioning a farmer
executive about the drug
it's a prep drug called true Vita it is
one of I think may be the only drug that
you can take as a prophylactic against
HIV and this drug was developed with
government grants was patented by the
government somehow they're not enforcing
the patent and a private company has it
it's charging nearly two thousand
dollars in the United States it's a
little bit cheaper in other places let's
just play part of this video people
should check it out
is this the which video is this it's the
longer one okay
yeah alright let's watch some of this
here so the list price is almost two
thousand dollars in the United States
why is it eight dollars in Australia
[Music]
we mr. O'Day you're the CEO of Gilead is
it true that Gilead made 3 billion in
profits from the sales of Truvada in
2018 3 billion in revenue oh yes in
revenue thank you and very quickly at
the current list price is $2,000 a month
in the United States correct the current
list price is 1780 in the United States
and just to correct the 3 billion was a
global figure okay for Fortran so it so
the list price is almost $2,000 in the
United States why is it $8.00
can you turn up the volume not hearing
any Santa Truvada is still has patent
protection in the United States and in
the rest of the world it is generic
there's no reason that should be $2,000
a month people are dying because of it
and and there's no enforceable reason
for it
[Music]
dr. grant Truvada for prep is the only
known drug that can prevent the
transmission of HIV correct it's the
only medication that's been approved by
the FDA it's also known that Tenaya vir
alone is is prophylactic for HIV thank
you and it was in dr. grant it was your
NIH funded research on prep that built
on the earlier research work patented by
CDC researchers is that correct yes my
clinical trial was informed by CDC
research in two ways one the CDC
demonstrated that the pre exposure dose
was added to the efficacy of the prep
and yeah thank you thank you dr. grant
and I would also like to seek unanimous
consent to submit to submit this Yale
School of Law study to the into the
congressional record which concludes
that the CDC's patents for prep were
both valid and enforceable thank you
very much dr. Lord thank you for your
advocacy here today is it true that the
public invested 50 million to develop
prep that is correct is it also true
that Gilead relied publicly relied on
publicly funded trials to obtain FDA
approval yes if you look at their
supplementary new drug application
you'll see that every sponsor of Truvada
as prep was a non Gilead sponsor when
folks can't access prep because it's so
expensive and we spread you know the HIV
epidemic continues that also comes at a
public cost right so so the public is
paying we pay to develop prep we paid to
finance the publicly funded trials to
develop this drug we also pay and foot
the bill with patient assistance
programs and also we pay when the HIV
epidemic gets spread as well
alright let's pause it here we don't
need to see anymore man the point of it
is it's it's stunning me first off I the
the idea that we're not
we have been this is like there's like
four different problems that are rolled
up and one in this but we allow drug
companies to maintain their drugs on
patent for way too long
we should be regulating drugs relative
to their importance in their costs to
people so that they are we have price
controls the idea that the same drug in
the United States costs one thousand
nine hundred and ninety two dollars more
than it would in Australia is absurd
it's just absurd it's not even a
question to try to figure out how to
lower a drug prices it's it's why are we
why are we with our mechanisms working
so hard to inflate them I mean we should
be upholding our patent in this and it
the another like major problem is that
the the the idea that that the
government the government's development
of these drugs is completely unseen by
the general population
yeah what's that's a really important
point to hammer on that I think she did
very well like they're always justifying
these drug prices by saying oh it Spurs
innovation its first research and
development when so much of research and
development is publicly funded
