[Music]
so okay the Democrats have Treasury
Department blew through the deadline
that the Democrats laid down for the
legal exercise of their legal right in
Congress to see tax returns not
something they should be doing on a
regular basis but in the context of the
president the United States who has
quite clearly lied about his business
interests relative to his role as a
president we know at the very least he
had claimed that he had stopped pursuing
a multi-million hundred million dollar
deal in Moscow I think it was for a
building and had claimed that he had
stopped pursuing that and then hadn't
that in and of itself is a good reason
to look at the tax returns but of course
there's been a lot of reports that he
has avoided taxes in the past I don't
know that that's actionable maybe he did
it ten years ago as opposed to seven
years ago and but it's always nice to
know that the guy who is president
United States may have been a complete
scofflaw for an extended period of time
but Sarah Sanders has an interesting
repose is that that what I'm looking for
response repost repost to to the request
of Democrats to send the tax returns
there Richard Neal Massachusetts he's
the house and ways Committee Chairman
sent a second letter to the IRS on
Saturday in his push to obtain taxes
Trump's tax returns after the agency had
missed the original deadline Neal now
said that
concerns about his request lack merit
and he expects a response from the IRS
by 5:00 p.m. on April 23rd please know
if you fail to comply your failure will
be interpreted as a denial of my request
then presumably I guess there would be
court cases and I have a feeling that's
what's gonna happen I have a feeling
it's going to go to the courts and maybe
it goes all the way to the Supreme Court
and maybe Donald Trump was already
appointed enough of those justices that
they will defer to his authority despite
the clear statutory basis for requesting
his tax returns here at Sanderson de
cera Sanders with a a new argument as to
why Congress shouldn't see the tax
returns
not quite based in the statutory
language and the president's been clear
from the beginning as long as his taxes
are under audit he's not going to
release them he's also filled out
hundreds of pages in financial
disclosures I know but will he tell the
IRS it pause it for one second no one's
asking Donald Trump to release his tax
returns no one is asking that at this
point what Congress is asking is another
is a a governmental agency to release
them as per the statute see the the you
see the the fine distinction here Donald
Trump thinks it's his IRS as opposed to
the US government's IRS go back just a
little bit here filled out hundreds of
pages in financial disclosures I know
but will he tell the IRS hold on Chris
this isn't Willy tell the IRS not to
release them now I will have to see what
happens on that front but the
president's been clear this issue has
even been litigated we went through it
in 2016 but one of the biggest things
that I think people aren't seeing is the
fact that the only reason that the
Oversight Committee has the ability to
request someone's taxes or for the
purpose of determining policy this has
nothing to do with whether or not
they're going to determine policy this
is all about political
partisanship this is a dangerous
dangerous road and frankly Chris I don't
think Congress particularly not this
group of congressmen and women are smart
enough to look through the thousands of
pages that I would assume that President
Trump's taxes will be my guest says most
of them don't do their own taxes and I
certainly don't trust them to look
through the decades of success that the
president has and determine anything
he's filled out hundreds of pages in a
financial disclosure form have you it is
a disgusting overreach that they are
making when they're not doing this based
on policy and it puts every American
who's filled out tax reform or tax forms
in the past it's a this is a yes or no
question have you filed your have you
file and everybody have you filed your
taxes yet I'm almost finished and then
cross oh my god how quickly can Chris
Wallace wants to move to that let's just
let's end on a jovial note here that
Congress maybe not intelligent that the
Congress people may not be intelligent
is know is going to be a tough defense
as to why voters get to decide that and
apparently there's uh you know I don't
even know why I know this and I think
it's even stupid and I don't want to
repeat it and I will express it only in
the context of like I don't know why
there's this obligation but I think it
was the New York Times reported that
there's like ten or eleven accountants
in Congress which who cares
the idea that Donald Trump and Sarah
Sanders
think that Congress might be too stupid
to look at his taxes that's just one of
those lines that's delivered because
they know Trump's gonna be a good job
and say in that bass well and not just
Trump for that matter oh yeah all the
Trump pieces and members of the
Republican I mean it is it is
well-crafted politics in that respect
but it also should not even be repeated
and and by you know you just don't
answer that question we don't need to
have a
Congress full of accountants 6er and
Sara nice job that was good good makeup
to calm stupid thank you
