[Music]
we were talking about the wall earlier I
see Ronald Reagan tweeted out an image
of what appears to be who's that
yeah exactly um Mike it was that the the
the unrequited racist from Indiana Steve
King and John Kelly with an image of a
wall that is it's like a tiny concrete
wall with panels and then they have some
wire on the top that's so cute and it
turns out that's not the one I wasn't a
very artistic one I want the artistic
one where you get the get the slats you
need to have the slats because it's with
the slats go down like this with the
wall it makes it slimming it's much
slimming here yeah so that's not that's
it that's an ugly wall they think that's
a pretty wall that's an ugly wall and
it's not even see-through well first of
all yeah it's first of all you can't see
through it so if some throws a bag of
drugs over you could get it you could
get hit on the head on the other side
I'm gonna hit bedrock or two it also you
look at that wall it looks fat
because it does not have the slats which
is slimming um did you read the
butterfly sanctuary article about how I
voted for Trump and now it's eminent
gonna dome it it's gonna eminent domain
my butterfly paradise oh no I did not
but yeah it was pretty amazing but when
they actually described the scar that
this wall is gonna put across the like
if we actually made it how much like
it's just sort of ecological violence it
would be it's just like it's ridiculous
I mean the guy deserves that for voting
for Trump but definitely like just that
part
bring your butterfly thing to it to my
house Saul would love it loves
butterflies here is Simone Sanders on
CNN and it is you know this does not
happen enough
the the basic premise of all of this is
that there is some type of crisis with
huge gangs and violence and terrorists I
mean they keep trying to make it sound
like a terrorist I mean excuse me a
crisis and they'll say stuff like there
were ten terrorists over the weekend who
were arrested at the border we just
didn't tell you about it until now
because we didn't want to brag or
sometimes hey look you can of things we
don't want to freak people out but there
is all of these all of these immigrants
they have all sorts of strange exotic
medical diseases that are spreading out
around look we don't want up anybody
panic that's why we didn't mention it or
or there's all this murder that's coming
across the there's murderers all
murderous this is like it's becoming
murder Central's murderer central and
the idea is to make it sound like
there's some type of crisis and the
reality is there is no crisis there I
mean to the extent that there is a
crisis we're creating it we're creating
a crisis in the lives of these children
that are being warehoused we're creating
a crisis in the lives of these families
there is no crisis we can afford to
absorb all of these people but you don't
hear that premise question enough Chuck
Schumer brought this up in the Oval
Office meeting they had last week we
gave you 1.2 billion dollar last year
where is it I as a fiscal conservative
and someone bothered by the fact that no
one really knows what the wall should
cost they asked for five billion well I
would like to see the 1.2 billion
dollars be put to work now I don't know
why you're waiting can we also debunk
the notion that somehow America's
borders are not secure I don't know if
you've ever left the country but I leave
the country quite often well and every
time I come back at the border I mean ok
but there's a tension centers because
they do another crisis crisis that the
border has never forget party this is a
manufactured crisis we can talk about
our immigration policy yes we have it we
have a crisis in terms our immigration
policy short it's broken in American it
needs
fix but the idea that we just have open
borders and folks are running up and
through the United States of America is
not what we are that's how families end
up not get separated States of America
though Amanda that is not true what do
you mean this not I mean there are
people they're undocumented immigrants
there are undocumented immigrants but
the idea that just there's nothing
happening at the border and there's just
an immigrant people just running are you
the vast but you have people who are
here illegally are here illegal because
they overstay their visa they overstay
airplane they're just not running
through they are people I've been to the
border and you see people crossing
illegally I mean it does have I'm not
saying they're I want to be clear I'm
not saying there are no elite manicures
going to the border in saying that
there's child prison camps because that
people are at the border in crisis being
housed and the president Trump is but
yes that is exactly what I'm saying and
every time a Republican operative or
member of Congress gets on television
says the Democrats are calling for open
borders and they just want our borders
to be open and our borders are not
secure I'm telling you that's not gonna
be able to resolve this well there's two
things resolves it there's two there's
two things here one it's a definition of
a crisis there is no urgent crisis where
it is it's like no danger here and the
the other issue is is just in terms of
like you know what the weather there's
no border security
there's border security I'm not going I
I wash my hands so I don't catch a cold
but I don't walk around in a plastic bag
and yes I could get a cold I could get
sick I could catch I could catch the
plague if I'm in the right place at the
right time but there's also just sort of
like where do you devote your resources
what is the cost-benefit analysis of
what you're talking about
nevermind you know basic questions of
humanity and basis basic questions of
decency or even basic questions of like
net positive that we get from immigrants
just in terms of like even if you accept
all the premises
there's no crisis even if you're worried
about what's happening in terms
of you know white identity I Got News
for you it's not because of what's
happening at the border that your what
your precious white identity is getting
diluted that's not what's causing that
that's not the crisis is actually
happening with your fellow Americans if
that's your fear and the crisis only
began to be manufactured at least this
one fairly recently like I feel like
people don't even realize that up until
2003 I believe the I NS worked mainly
with the Department of Labor and only uh
the 2003 I'm pretty sure it's 2003 the
DHS was involved and they made
immigration into a national security
thing well that was all in the wake of
of 9/11 yeah that was all the Department
of Homeland Security did not exist until
then it made uh yeah everything became
and terrorism is yes okay that was also
the original bigotry of all these
programs it was a Muslim hysteria before
it was a barrier they used it very
conveniently to leak into other areas
that they found to be politically at it
ya know we've seen that also the whole
as far as I understand the whole
infrastructure around like private
contractors and homeland security
sensitive in structure that's what maze
make a stunning amount of money off of
moody Giuliani made a ton of cash that
was his whole consultancies ton of cash
a lot of that stuff was privatized
during that there was a whole
privatization giveaway which is why at
one point like the the union's being
part of I think it was the TSA if I
remember correctly was such a big issue
because so much of this was a was
attempted to be privatized
