[Music]
let's get to Venezuela again ESMA does
as Maduro and the Venezuelan government
is there cases of corruption yes should
they have tried to update their currency
policy Gregory wilpert who as was a
director of Telus or who's now at the
real news network
has criticized them for that directly
are there some human rights abuses no
doubt the on conversely in Brazil you
know
Lula's in prison and you know with no
evidence and wag white oh is roaming the
streets calling for a coup so I think
that that's something to bear in mind if
you want to measure what is and is not
the responsibility of the Venezuelan
government you need to lift us sanctions
and stop trying to instigate a coup and
also end now a couple of decades worth
of economic subterfuge aimed from the
world's great superpower and of course
the prime imperial interferer in Latin
America against Latin America and now
Jeffrey Sachs who at this point in his
career is a very different profile I
mean it always should be mentioned that
he was you know a horrible influence in
Russia in the 1990s definitely
contributed to a huge amount of
corruption and human suffering when the
World Bank and IMF in wall street were
pillaging Russia in the 90s but he does
great work and he's on democracy now and
he's gonna lay out the reality of what
US sanctions US sanctions have done and
do to Venezuela so the US government has
been trying to strangle the Venezuelan
economy
it started with sanctions in 2017 that
prevented essentially the country from
accessing international capital markets
and the oil company from restructuring
its loans that put Venezuela into a
hyperinflation that was the utter
collapse oil earnings plummeted the
earnings that are used to buy food and
medicine collapsed that's when the
social humanitarian crisis went
spiraling out of control
and then in this year is with this idea
very naive very stupid in my view that
there would be the self proclaimed
president which was all choreographed
with the United States very very closely
a another round of even tighter
sanctions essentially confiscating the
earnings and the assets of the
Venezuelan government took place now
Venezuela is in complete utter
catastrophe a lot of it brought on by
the United States deliberately creating
massive massive suffering we know
there's hunger we know there's an
incredible shortage of medical supplies
we can only imagine because we won't
know really until the dust settles and
careful studies are done how much excess
mortality there is but surely in in a
context like this this is a catastrophe
largely created by the US because as was
said earlier this is an all-or-nothing
strategy what the US what Trump just
doesn't understand and what Bolton of
all of course never agrees to is the
idea of negotiations this is an attempt
at an overthrow it's very crude it's not
working and it's very cruel because it's
punishing 30 million people that's all a
hundred percent correct an objective
reality and another thing that's very
important to underline there is that
those of us who oppose a coup those of
us who oppose economic warfare against
Venezuela are quite supportive of
initiatives from the Vatican from
Uruguay from Mexico for diplomatic
negotiations to update the reality of
the Venezuelan government and also at
the same time yes this is not going to
happen inside Venezuela because of the
Venezuelan people there is a critical
clearly a end and they have tried so
many times at this point to do this
going back to the Chavez era which of
course was even more ludicrous Chavez
was an incredibly popular leader
and he did a lot to improve the material
conditions of people while not you know
making broader strategic transformations
that you would need to you know dealing
from commodities but that's a challenge
that all of the pink tide governments in
Latin America along with us interference
faced but the configuration of the fact
that in a real politic level the
military is entwined with the government
the fact that indigenous poor and people
of color absolutely have not done better
even now under severe mo and no doubt
are not gonna do well under a us-backed
oligarch government they're not idiots
sorry us and Curia lists and also I
think another contingent of people that
is an appointed out on my show the other
day she said look and she has family in
Venezuela and she said they don't like
when you call Maduro a dictator they
think he is a bad leader who has
economic policies they don't like and
they would like to see it change but
he's not a dictator that's a crucial
distinction yeah people inside Venezuela
don't support him so there's enough
amount of people that have Lilla they
just don't want an outside coup that
shouldn't be so hard for people to
figure out yeah if you were really a
brutal dictator guido would not be alive
right now let alone free to come and go
as he pleases let alone free to release
another guy from house arrest again
again look at mean in Brazil you have a
iconic hugely impressive president in
jail with no evidence in solitary in
this country where a guy's going on
periscope every couple of days all right
guys swoggle I know I'm just driving my
livestream all the cues about start are
waiting for a couple more people to drop
in he's still running around and and I
think you know look the terrifying
scenario here and the very possible
scenario is us actual military
intervention there's a report today and
Guido is getting more and more brazen do
we have that guado clip is that where he
I mean basically wond why doe is des
saying he needs more military support
so the Craven this and the transparency
of this is getting clearer and clearer
and this is a report from Business
Insider that was released I believe yeah
this is from today the US military is on
the balls of its feet about Venezuela
crisis here's what that means according
to a former NATO commander again we'll
see this there's a lot of different
chatter coming in and out and maybe you
know this could be disinformation to
threaten the Venezuelan government and
make them scared right so we don't know
but at the same time we cannot preclude
this and that we also have to remind
ourselves mean the Reagan administration
caught caught you know a huge easy
propaganda victory by going and deposing
a socialist government in Grenada now
this would be a lot harder to do in
Venezuela and then great but the idea of
a right wing administration deposing a
local government for you know good TV
and Trump's words you know in Trump's
understanding is is very much the norm
the Defense Department is said little
about that I'm quoting now from Business
Insider the Defense Department has said
a little about its planning and
potential action towards the South
American country where political and
economic turmoil have a mr. ated the
public and led to international
condemnation for president Nicolas
Maduro blah blah in recent days however
US Navy admiral Craig fuller the head of
the u.s. Southern Command which oversees
US operations south of Mexico's northern
border has said his forces are
quote-unquote on the balls of their feet
fuller hasn't said much about what that
means but James stavridis a retired
Admiral who led Southern Command was a
NATO's supreme Allied commander
elaborated on Monday about what's going
on at the commands Miami headquarters
their job is to look out through the
entire hemisphere to the south stavros
said during an appearance on the UU it
show and I'm skipping ahead now balls of
their feets means they're getting out
all their operational plans they're
looking out for all of their military
forces deployed throughout the region
particularly maritime forces in the
Caribbean but air sea and land
everything now
this also and there's a couple of other
things that I want to just note here a
group of Caribbean states who are taking
an enormous risk and are absolutely
treated as colonial property of the
United States in all administration's
and initially and this is actually a big
reason why there's been this is among
many reasons but the reason there has
been these massive uprisings in haiti
partially has been because of this
haitian government subservient role in
support of the trump administration's
Kumaon going against Venezuela
so there are Caribbean governments that
have supported the hawkish coup policies
of Trump and parents at the you know
Organization of American States and they
all signed up for the you know they
they've backed them in the past however
and this is a report from Telus or
Caribbean nations have called for and
recommit to a peaceful solution in
Venezuela and they go on Boulton her
press conference during the day called
Venezuela stop military officers
including the commander of the army and
National Guard to back wydo
warning of unsold consequences if they
didn't but Venezuela's Caribbean
neighbors who of course will face the
consequences of a invasion and/or civil
war in Venezuela more than we will
although in fact this will be another
factor in the border crisis and
terrorism against migrants of the Trump
administration but Venezuela's Caribbean
neighbors including those that supported
Washington's tough anti Venezuela stance
at the Organization of American States
OAS all signed up to the Chairman's
declaration of the regional groupings
continuing preference for a peaceful
solution to the Venezuela crisis
chairman of the 13 member Caribbean
community
Kermit Kerry calm dr. Timothy Harris
worked the phones Tuesday to remain
appraised of the situation Venezuela
where self-imposed US backed into room
quote-unquote president Guido has called
for a national uprising for a national
army to help him unseat Nicolas Maduro
Harris who's also the prime minister of
st. kitts and nevis spent much of the
day in consultation with other Caribbean
leaders and kuru becomes Secretary
General Edwin
Luke regarding developments in Venezuela
where opposition figures serving jail
term under house arrest is joined
white-owned street protests and
participate in what Caracas says was an
attempt to mislead soldiers at a
military base in the capital city so the
Caribbean region generally opposes this
of course the balsan ro regime has been
supportive but the Brazilian military
has been much more concerned about the
escalation Colombia's on board in
Colombia's governed by a hard far-right
government in the bolsa narrow mold now
the question about this though is Trump
I think has been obviously belligerent
about this from the beginning and I
think he does think of Panama and
Grenada and once a war but I also think
you know obviously this is orchestrated
by the Pompeo s and the Bolton's
and you know some people were tweeting
out I think max Blumenthal maybe some
other people were tweeting out him being
on with trish regan and again this is
disgusting in every level but he sounds
kind of burned out on the table i know
there was a big NSC meeting today and
you get all your top people trying to go
through various scenarios trying to
figure out what to do next
really what are our options right now
mr. president well some of them i don't
even like to mention to you because
they're pretty tough but you know we see
what's what's happening with respect to
the hunger you don't see things like
this anymore and they don't want food
i'm sorry hypocrisy doesn't matter but
this is an administration that every day
is literally backing a genocide allaire
war in yemen so i think you see things
like this and much worse but anyways go
ahead anymore and they don't want food
Maduro won't accept food i think he
should frankly i think it would be
better for him if he did because you
have people that are starving and
they've become desperate and you you see
what's happening on the streets and the
streets are very dangerous that it's
very dangerous for i mean frankly
everybody everybody and and we haven't
seen a scene like this in many many
years and when you think how wealthy
this country was Trish this country was
one of the wealthy countries not just
there
but this was one of the wealthy
countries of the world and now you look
at what's going on where they don't even
have food where they can't get water the
water is filthy dirty and people are
getting sick it's a terrible terrible
thing
look it's a tragedy and it's a tragedy
that's so close to home right you know
four hours from Miami what do you think
about nicolas maduro well he's certainly
run it tough but I think he's losing a
lot of control he really did go out and
do things that are bad it's an extension
of his his previous and previous was bad
that was unacceptable I mean it was
horrible and unacceptable it's really a
failure of socialism and I don't know
maybe this is beyond socialism but this
is socialism and you see what happens
now they're talking about it for our
country I can't believe it's real you
know when you hear some of the things
being said but they're talking about
socialism for our country that's not
going to happen especially with how well
we're doing but Maduro is he's a tough
player and positive there it is there's
the tell now again and I think the most
investment he has is in the is in the
propaganda purposes against you know
people like Bernie Sanders in the United
States but he's a tough player that's a
support so yeah that's so how likely are
we to actually do a ground invasion of
Venezuela because or like some air like
fly some journal they they thought about
it in 2002 when they were attempting a
coup on Chavez but and the opposition
there was like oh yeah we've totally got
everyone on our side just it'll be great
and then they realized that wasn't true
and the u.s. backed off is that gonna
happen again well the thing in 2002 was
it was so overwhelming like again I mean
obviously this you know this is not
Chavez era right like there's way more
discontent than there was during Chavez
but I mean what happened 2002 is that
they the arrest the Chavez for 40
hours there was a huge uprising on the
streets and he talked his own guards
into letting him out they were like they
basically were like no we don't you're
actually cool they flew him back to the
presidential palace and the people that
led the coup fled the country and the
Bush administration and the New York
Times editorial page who endorsed it
were highly embarrassed this image of a
window given a speech I think yesterday
if I'm Trump I'm like why do you not
360p like don't you have HD cameras in
this goddess would not look like a tough
day so can someone paint maybe it's a
wallpaper and there's some code leaf
paper yeah two dumb statues like this is
not impress this is not a that's part of
the problem is they haven't found a
guide to the Trump can relate to yet to
get it looks like okay yeah guy on a
horse then we'll talk yeah hey guys is
one Guido just gonna wait for some other
people to come in the stream we're
trying we're gonna go to the air force
base try for another Q you are like the
statues it'd be pretty rad if the SATCOM
or southern calm or whatever calm could
maybe come back us up here that would be
thank you for likes appreciate it trying
to do Q it's fascinating to see them do
optics like this though right like Ted
when it's just not working because where
should you should be in the street or
something right like listen to me he's
some in some like nondescript room that
has no significance to anybody with just
some statues in front of them and look
it's so bizarre looking it's it's
pathetic friends sad it's very sad and
again it's what if you were interested
in dealing with the crisis in Venezuela
you'd lift all sanctions and then you
would support trusted regional players
to broker a diplomatic process and part
of that diplomatic process by the way
might mean that people like Maduro get
ousted and the you know genuine Chevys
mo who've been marginalized and slide
lied by them
could actually come you know to power
and there are immunes like the communes
like other you know again so like I
don't know it's not about notifying
what's happening there yeah I don't know
if people realize this was and is to
still some degree like a dual power
situation like there are communes in
Venezuela where people you know
Communists and anarchists have set up
like a dual power scenario running the
local local
I'm very inarticulate but of Edie and
Maduro and they still support him
critically and he one of the left
critiques of him is that he hasn't
dispersed power to the communes quite
fast enough but he's dealing with a lot
of really difficult right is and
look and he might just be a bad leader
Anna kleptocrat and even it like that
might be the case but that is not I mean
there's the other principle at work here
that like look Venezuela is more
interesting and the history of the
government of the Bulevar in government
is even if it even if it was a failure
was a noble failure that has done many
really good things and certainly I
defend Chavez but I also again I'm not
we're not doing spin and propaganda we
can own the problems but you know there
is like the other principle at work here
that kind of is astounding with people
it's like I opposed you know I didn't
want a regime change action in Syria and
I offended a lot of people because I was
not willing to pretend that Bashar al
Assad has not killed hundreds of
thousands of people and is not engaged
in extrordinary war crimes that look far
bit as of course again I'll always say
we've committed war crimes in Syria the
Saudis have committed war crimes that
Marat T's the Russians and Assad okay
now Saddam Hussein invading Iraq has
probably still one of the worst things
that happen in our lifetimes now Saddam
Hussein there was a left defense of
Saddam Hussein so then as well as way
more complicated and there is a lot to
defend about the Bulevar a.m. government
but there is another element to this
where it's like
people come at me with all this stuff
about Venezuela some of which i think is
 and wrong some of which is I
think actually correct and very damning
all of that in in a situation like this
is totally secondary to opposing a u.s.
coup period case closed
it's not that complicated case State
Senate
