[Music]
from a three four seven area code who's
this hi how are you what's going on Sam
what's up who's this then from Far
Rockaway I don't know if you remember
the Orthodox Jew guy called the cook oh
yes Ben from far walk away
yeah how are you are you an orthodox
 I'm all right can't complain too
much I actually wanted to kind of talk
to you about what I hope will be a
transition from the card health care
system to something like Medicare for
all I actually work in the health care
finance field physically relating to
nursing homes and I know how complicated
the system is currently yeah one thing I
kind of curious to talk about is the
transition from the system there are
actually a lot of jobs that are
specifically and intrinsically tied to
the current health care system right do
you know of or are there any I mean
studies or conversations that haven't
had at the political and you know
political talk show level about how that
transition would actually take place in
a way where people won't lose you know
jobs will have to take massive pay cuts
to get another job in the health care
field that will be taking over I've seen
studies that that basically put the
numbers all over the place and I haven't
to be honest with you I have not read
any piece isn't exactly how it would go
down but broadly speaking
my sense is is that on on the on the
sort of the the claims level I mean on
some level right a lot of people are
going to find work in an expanded
Medicare system it's not inconceivable
to me that what one of the ways that you
could go to a single-payer system is to
have a single-payer and still have the
sort of the apparatus that the
surance companies use but they would end
up being you know sort of like assumed
into you know a larger system so they
may still it's conceivable you could
still have private entities but they
would be more equivalent to more
equivalent to I guess mortgage servicers
right then mortgage originator or I
should say yeah mortgage servicers as
opposed to originators except for they
wouldn't be getting the fees they
wouldn't be for profit or you know they
are to the extent that they would they
be contracted to to work in the Medicare
system but I would imagine a lot of
those people are going to end up working
in the Medicare system and I would
imagine there's going to be a non you
know a greater than zero
job loss but there are programs I think
that would be that would be contemplated
to help people make a transition out of
that yep Bernie's Medicare for all plan
does have a transition program attached
to been one sec one sec one sec Bernie's
Medicare for all plan actually does have
a transition program attached to it for
exactly that reason along with some
resources and if you pair it with a
Federal jobs guarantee which is also a
part of Bernie's platform you know it's
possible that there are people currently
working in the insurance industry for
whom that is not their passion and you
know maybe it would be a great chance to
do something else I mean yeah I mean
nobody wants to I mean well not nobody
but I I would imagine the number of
people who want to lose their job a you
know is greater than than zero who don't
want to lose their job but they're you
know there is this is the same problem
we're gonna have with any type of
transition into clean energy this is the
same transit this is the same problem we
would have if we cut defense spending
right I mean so yeah this is there's no
doubt there's a challenge there's a part
of Bernie's plan that that contemplates
this it's not something that would be a
huge surprise to people
and but you know I mean look that was
the argument as to why they shouldn't
they shouldn't go after a lot of the
banks for their fraud was literally the
argument is we're gonna have too many
people lose their job that was you know
following that the shutting down of what
was it Anderson accounting I can't
remember what the the full name was in
the Enron scandal it's like we can have
too many people lose their jobs and
there was no obviously that was this
criminal case but there was no program
to deal with the thousands of people who
lost their job when they went under but
yeah this happens there's a there's a
proposal for it but I'll look for for a
I think as we you know go along in the
campaign if the campaign becomes more
this becomes more relevant we will talk
more about it and maybe have somebody on
I would imagine there would be some
pieces out there written that would sort
of walk through this process I mean I
think it's a real it's definitely a real
challenge but you know again that's
there's a certain inevitability and it
shouldn't be something that precludes us
because nobody likes it nobody likes the
system people to the extent that people
are comfortable with the system as it is
now they tend to conflate the insurance
with their ability to see their doctors
they also underestimate how often they
lose that ability and they don't realize
necessarily how bad their insurance is
because of the nature of how often
people need to use it oh absolutely I
mean I understand that completely I just
the field I actually work in it
specifically nursing home finance which
is deals with Medicaid and insurances
and what it covers what it doesn't and I
started as a person that didn't talk
well no well here's your copay bill or
here's the private rate of hundreds and
hundreds of dollars a day and watch them
you know have to try and work that out
I know exactly I agree I understand I
know like three years ago my job if it
would have definitely did cut seemed
like I wouldn't have a job so I do agree
that it's something that is necessary
for this transition
was I like you said as we get closer I
hope it's something that will be talked
about more because I do think it's
something that they're gonna try and use
as a knight of attacking I agree though
and I agree and I think that you know I
would be surprised if we don't see more
written about that as this becomes an
issue on the campaign I mean I you know
the but I I appreciate the call thanks
Ben all right thank you so much for
having me
you know I mean this is something I
think we mentioned the other day that we
were contemplating in the the summer of
2016 which is that one of the problems
with having Donald Trump win is you know
where you know the the the desire and
waggle said it like you know if Hillary
had won be at brunch right now type of
thing there has been at least in my
lifetime over and over again this sort
of same thing plays out
I remember when Bill Clinton got elected
I think it was there to a certain extent
with Obama but less so because of the
2008 financial crisis but there is this
compulsion with Democrats broadly the
left to elect people have them be
competent and so that I can walk away
and do other things
it is almost endemic to the personality
type of broadly speaking I'm paying with
a broad brush here left and right
because I mean to be on the left to be
liberal and I think the vast majority of
people on the left are liberal still in
this country I would identify that way
and I'm talking more big liberal be big
al but rather than to sort of a a
specific political ideology ideas but
they are interested in things like music
and art and stuff that they don't know
and with that what is foreign they're
more open to it that is just the the
nature the concern
Servat of movement in this country is
completely built on this idea of of
anything that's outside of you
you have ignorance of is necessarily a
danger in some fashion and they've been
very successful at stoking that but on
the left broadly speaking you have a
hunger to be introduced to new things
and do other things a wide variety of of
things and how your government works
tends to be a minor piece of that and so
I just want it to work and I don't want
to deal with this hassle as opposed to
on the right where it's like the gay
Muslim socialists are going to you know
take us over if I'm not constantly
vigilant and you know I called this like
a Masada complex and I think that
dynamic is here
you know and Manisa what inevitable and
that's why I like this I think it's
early and I think it's very sort of
knee-jerk II and I have a feeling it's
gonna go away a little bit of this like
Biden also represents just a return to I
think people like it's just gonna be
like Obama like let's just go back to
like Obama and it's fine we were so you
know we didn't fully appreciate her we
did appreciate it I just want to go back
and and I think I don't know I guess I
raised that only because I hope that we
end up talking about you know I hope we
haven't having extended conversations
about how Medicare for all will be
implemented because that's important to
the campaign but it's conceivable that
won't be well this is why we need to
reach more people with even though it's
like not always easy to wrap your mind
around the connections and the reasons
why the kind of Obama liberalism led to
the problems that we're seeing now and
led to the rise of Trump and just
doubling down on that is only gonna make
things worse
and like I realize it's a difficult
connection to make and it sounds kind of
esoteric even when I'm saying it right
now but there are concrete ways of
showing it you
just like if you look at the statistics
of how poor people by and large do not
vote non-voters skew poor and they skew
non-white because class is very
racialized in this country and when they
do vote they vote for Democrats so one
way to get more people voting for
Democrats is to lift more people out of
poverty and Obama's policies did not do
that right no I mean I agree I just
think that the the mentality of a lot of
voters are that like I mean I think it
looks people in general regardless of
what we're talking about have trouble
planning you know and doing something
today that has implication me this came
up with with Weigel to like there are
some people who are like we need to make
a vote we need to vote for a president
in 2020 who's not just gonna win but
who's going to have you know create a
durable type of feedback loop where they
provide material benefit and create
political strength so that we're in good
shape in 2024 in 2028 in 2022 and 2026
but most people you know can't make you
know an appointment and keep it three
months out you know so I mean the
problem is is that that that long-term
strategic thinking is not there and on
some level like even the pitch that
things are this important and this
problematic that if you don't make this
choice it's going to be problematic down
the road is on some level I think and
maybe this has changed and I think it's
changed to a certain extent certainly
with younger people because they see the
implications like they can see the
implications of this stuff in a way that
I think older people can't but that in
and of itself just the idea that like oh
you're talking to me about being engaged
in politics that's four years from now
even if Trump wins that's annoying and I
don't want to even think about that I
want to be able to walk away I mean it's
it's sort of like there's a quality of
it like you know don't think of an
elephant when you start to talk about
politics as something that is not
something
that you just involve yourself in for a
brief period of time in moments of
crisis that in an itself sometimes
becomes a turn-off to people it's like I
got enough in my life either from a
hassle standpoint or in terms of like
that makes enriching that I don't want
to deal with that and I'm not asking
people to like join the DSA or whatever
although they definitely should do that
I've asking them to vote it doesn't take
that long and vote strategically well
the strategically part now involves like
now I got to do work I have to say that
my brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many high-level important
ideas here is Roca HANA actually talking
about the transition for health
insurance workers and makes a case for
Medicare for all that I mean there was
evidence that we saw this even in the
context of the Affordable Care Act which
only affected 10 million Americans in
terms of private insurance was 10
million on Medicaid 10 million in
private insurance there was in the data
some job loss that was a function of
people being freed up from
employer-based insurance and here is
rohana mentioning that he is the
national campaign co-chair for Bernie
you know it's a huge transition the
insurance industry is 1.7 trillion it
employs 500,000 people
Bernie Sanders is plan allows still for
supplemental private insurance if you
read the details of the plan and we have
to figure out how we make this
transition but I think that you raise a
good point though and I respect you for
bringing it up yourself which is it has
become one of the top two or three if
not V depending on which metric you want
to look at main employers in the country
so when you say hey this is going to
mean that government will absorb more of
this they'll be
private sector you could wind up costing
people jobs well the transition is very
important and people can work in
numerous other ways they can help
administer Medicare they can help work
in other health care jobs that are going
to be created with telemedicine I think
the transition is very important and
anyone honest has to look at that but
the basic point is and you know who
agreed with the single-payer system
Donald Trump in the America we deserve
in 2000 he wrote that the Canadian
system is better because it gives more
benefits and in has less cost and the
average American here's what it's going
to mean instead of paying $5,000 to a
private insurance company on average now
you're gonna pay a much smaller fee and
who's gonna lose out the insurance
companies are the pharmaceutical
companies and you're gonna get to keep
your doctor and have better care I
believe many entrepreneurs warren
buffett has talked about medicare for
all it's the single biggest cause for
wage stagnation Vice President Biden is
absolutely right middle-class wages have
stagnated if you talk to economists the
reason for wage stagnation is the rising
healthcare premiums employers have been
giving that money to health care costs
as opposed to raising wages and this is
why we have to make the economic
argument for Medicare for all well it
will be interesting obviously you're
gonna have to find ways to make this all
digestible for the American people deal
with the Opposition in party and see if
you get the ticket to take it to the
president and we'll watch it all along
the way and Congressman you were invited
here to make the case when you can well
Chris I really appreciate the
opportunity and I'll tell senator
Sanders he should come on - well it was
really good to see those guys get along
yeah but no that is the I mean that is
the argument and you know I think
clearly the the transition for those
half a million workers needs to be
worked out I would imagine I mean it
doesn't it wouldn't surprise me if half
of them or you know a little bit less
40% of them found work on day one in in
Medicare you're still dealing with a
tremendous amount of workers but there
are contingencies in the plan
to deal with retraining and and and
maybe I'm under estimating you know the
the issue the you know when we compare
the efficiency of Medicare to that of
private insurance and every dollar spent
in Medicare something like 96 to 97
cents of that dollar goes towards health
care three percent four percent goes
towards administration costs on on the
private health insurance we had to
mandate that eighty percent of the money
taken in for premium pay goes to health
care so you have twenty percent there
and it's not obviously administrative
costs it's also a profit share holders
you're not going to have that and so you
have that greater efficiency in Medicare
but that doesn't mean that you don't
need bodies in there to actually
administer this and you're still going
to need people who are gonna evaluate
claims in some fashion it's not gonna
work in the same way it's gonna be a
much easier from a user perspective it's
gonna be easier from the perspective of
the doctors because they're gonna be
dealing with one entity they're not
gonna be dealing with like 12 sets of
rules you know oh I mean I I just
remember the amount of time that went
into with a doctor's office and it's
conceivable you know doctors offices you
will see job loss because there's at
least a person at least a person in a
doctor's office who is full-time doing
all these billing things and the billing
is going to become sufficiently easier
you're gonna have doctors with more time
they're gonna be able to see more
patients because they're not gonna be
filling out the same type of information
I mean so there's gonna be a lot of
change in the system some of it is going
to be a challenge and other of it's
gonna be just I think people would be
shocked at how much simpler and easier
things are and I think doctors are gonna
appreciate their work a lot more and I
think if we take the people that are in
charge of going up to a family saying
hey
we'll save your kid if you can pay the
700 dollar bill
I think they'll might appreciate moving
on to a different line of work yeah like
has anyone actually asked the health
care workers themselves all these people
who are like concern trolling about the
job loss
I'm gonna guess no and you know what
neither have I but I'm gonna guess at
least some of them will be happy that
they now have affordable health care
they don't have to worry about
constantly and I'm also gonna guess
unless you are a sociopath you probably
don't like denying care to people and
delivering bad news so like this is
something that's tougher to quantify but
going back to like David gray vers
 jobs I think most people want
their jobs to be contributing something
to society and to the world and I know
that I would much rather have a job just
like helping people get the care that
they need and that they can now afford
then you know adjusting claims and
denying people care for whatever reason
turning to
