[Music]
but let's let's go to the Middle East
and let's include in it even though
obviously they're not relegated to the
Middle East these are highly used in
certainly in South Asia and also in a
place like Somalia but let's include
this sort of like drone global warfare
component in this sort of broader
umbrella because as you know I mean
Middle East policy has been reduced to
in addition to obviously supporting
vicious monarchies dictatorships and so
on also this very kind of
one-dimensional note of terrorism which
has had major global consequences and
sort of organized modern US foreign
policy that's absolutely right so so
step one is end the drone war today I
think it has absolutely no strategic
purpose and just serves to infect
inflicting violence on people who are
already oppressed step two is to totally
invest in alternative energy at home and
I think you're never going to have a
just American policy in the Middle East
unless you know it actually seriously
works to get off fossil fuels and of
course it's not like a lot of this oil
is necessarily flowing to the United
States but it's flowing to America's
allies and there's gin that the United
States essentially needs to extract the
oil from the Persian Gulf and the
various reasons so that's what I think
really keeps us there so I think the
first steps of really changing America's
policy towards Saudi Arabia is to you
know for example film New Mexico with
solar panels or something or on all the
government-owned land for so that would
be a first that really reform energy
policy and once you do that then a lot
of your opportunity and if your
imagination really opens up so you could
totally reform the sanity of Ray bian
relationship really essentially ended
stopped providing Saudi military with
and also of course the Israeli
government with millions of dollars in
arms I think you would stop supporting a
liquid Israeli government that totally
expands that constantly abuses Gaza to
really what a terrible an almost an
unimaginable degree what the Israeli
government does with regards to gods in
the Gaza blockade so use America's an
enormous overweening influence on
Israeli politics to really change is
really policy with regard Gaza and also
with with regard from the West Bank
developed some sort of reparations
policy at the very least for for those
Palestinians who were who were who were
expelled during the Napa and all of the
all of those really terrible crimes that
the United States didn't stop or at
least and in some sense implicitly
supported and then the question is what
you do with Iran I I think people don't
quite appreciate how actually
destructive sanctions are they're sort
of used as a soft tool but they're
actually truly destroyed lies and
despair the size of ordinary people upon
whom you'd theoretically want to build a
more progressive future so really you
also need to stop sanctions in a serious
way and really reformulate how the
United States deals with with countries
that are essentially a liberal or are
following a different way of life and I
think that involves a total complete
transformation of how the United States
understands Islam and Islam's Rolland
and foreign societies and Islam's role
in the world and I think leftists are
also going to have to really consider
what values and they want to promote and
what the role of the United States is in
promoting the liberal values that that
we here take for granted but that might
have that might not have a particular
valence a--'s and societies that the
United States has long been implicated
in so it raises a lot of really
interesting questions about
transnational solidarity that will
essentially need to be worked out in my
opinion in practice yeah I want to
briefly follow up on that before we get
to Asia because I think it raises a
really interesting point particularly
the you know the themes around Islam
solidarity rights liberalism liberalism
but also just a much broader sense of
sort of the different foundations upon
which people want to build their
politics and their societies and at
least for me I think actually people
like a Martius Sen are really helpful
for this because you know who was a very
prominent Indian economist and
philosopher I think he's at Harvard now
and his sort of argument going back to
the 90s
specifically he was actually answering
autocrats in Singapore and Malaysia who
were putting across this thing called
Asian values which in contrast to the
sort of anti-muslim bias of American and
European elites they were kind of drawn
to some of these Asian values debates
because Asian values ideas because
places like Singapore and Malaysia were
certainly posted you know incredible
gains and accomplishments in terms of
market development but also were very
very socially repressive like the idea
of you know getting canes in Singapore
for spitting on the street is actually
like not an urban myth like that
actually has happened right and so these
guys said look we have a different way
of organizing our society we're building
it on Confucian values and so on and so
forth and basically did to just make it
really simple I mean sends intervention
was look the Western idea that the only
place in the world that came up with an
idea of individual of a sense of
individual rights group well-being and
power accountability being just
specifically from the Western
enlightenment tradition is false and you
can actually trace ideas of holding
power accountable and expanding or
certainly the intellectual roots that
you could build Democratic models on
literally exist in every single social
and intellectual tradition on the planet
and what you might find and so and also
these Asian values guys are wrong too
because they're distorting Confucianism
to justify their own autocratic
tendencies and so the answer is is
you've got to sort of build these global
sort of you know these these
cross-border recognition where you're
you're not throwing the baby out with
the bathwater and being a total
relativist like oh yes Saudi Arabia can
have gender apartheid because you know
that's how they do Islam and we're super
open-minded that's wrong and we oppose
it but then conversely maybe we also
recognize that somebody wants to build a
rights oriented flourishing society that
also you know they might be rooted in
different Islamic traditions as an
example I don't know if that makes sense
but know that that makes total sense and
I think you see a lot of these
discussions come up and a lot
issues come up in debates over the veil
which was such a hot topic about 20
years ago because I'm from from what was
then the American or really the French
depends at the time it was viewed as an
Anna prescient piece of clothing but
when you actually see how it
historically operated you know for it
for example in Cairo and various moments
involved or at various moments it's
actually a symbol of women asserting
their space in the public sphere right
so it's actually as a symbol of
liberation when it was totally
interpreted here by many people by many
liberals and those on the right as a
symbol of oppression right so we also
need to be very important not to impose
our own frameworks onto these other
spaces in which the United States Empire
is is is involved and I think it just
highlights the importance of that there
is no one solution to any to any of
those issues about cultural differences
and cultural relativist and that you
really have to get on the ground and
have a deep knowledge of the area and
really always the cynic on donna this is
always listen to the local people's you
know if you're a member of an American
NGO that happens to have a lot of
resources you should never ever
left-wing NGO or whatever it may be a
good organization there's a lot of
problems with NGOs we could get to that
different pay so let's say you're a good
person trying to do good things what you
really need to do is listen to people on
the ground and really build networks of
solidarity across borders where you're
not just imposing your own view and it's
a very difficult thing to do because
we're all prisoners of our own
identities but it's something that I
think we need to really work toward as
long as the United States and playful
this overwhelming power right I think we
can't retreat from these questions
because this is the pure material fact
that so much capitalists enter here in
the military the world's military is
really the United States is military so
we have to think about these questions
even if we prefer you know to leave them
aside because they're really quite
difficult and oftentimes won't have a
good answer 100 percent all right Asia
which I know that's huge but I mean I
don't know so what we got mean obviously
there's the North Korea dimension
there's China the re-emergence of sort
of power politics you know TR aap India
whatever way you want to take it but
what's the what's the progressive
orientation towards Asia so that I think
this is really
important because I think this will be a
big division between progressives like
myself and realists like Stephen Walton
John Mayer Shimer so realists like who
otherwise you unless this should should
build coalitions with particularly with
regard to US policy in Europe and the
Middle East where there's a lack so a
lot of agreements but we're the biggest
disagreement between people like me and
Walt emerge timers at Walton murmur
think that the rise of China as a
serious great power competitor
necessitates the United States to
maintain some sort of serious presence
in East Asia in the South China Sea so I
would disagree with that because I think
that assumption is based on the idea
that the United States should never face
any peer competitor and that unipole
that some sort of privacy and
unipolarity is actually really necessary
to maintain world peace and i think this
is a very mid twentieth century idea
understandably emerging from world war
ii but in some sense and in my opinion
the rise of another great power could
actually good be good for world peace
and good for us stability one because
it'll actually allow the United States
to exit from the reason the region and
have some sort of ideally peaceful
security transition to where China
essentially assumes responsibility for a
lot of the security concerns the region
and which will bring a lot of capital
home and will also prevent the American
perversion of an area of the world in
which it hasn't been involved
particularly long and about which it
doesn't know very much now the other
problem though is that China is
certainly authoritarian and it's not
only authoritarian but it's
authoritarian capitalist so this also
creates again difficult questions about
what do you do as you know as a leftist
who has a particular value position on
the world when you're essentially ceding
an enormous part of the world to an
authoritarian capitalist power and of
course I should underline the United
States and of course an enormous amount
of damage to the region so I'm not
saying that the US would be better or
has been better but I'm just saying
these are difficult ethical questions
for a foreign leftist to actually pursue
right do you want for example Chinese
authoritarianism to now govern the
entire eastern hemisphere of the world I
mean ideally no because that limits
freedom and limits liberation and really
important ways that I think less this
should be concerned with but then again
there's also the reality of that the
United States shouldn't and doesn't have
the political will to maintain
permanent presence in a region that's so
far from its shores so I think the first
step to do is get beyond this idea that
a great power competitor is always
necessarily negative for the United
States but then we really have to think
through what we as left us do to help
combat the authoritarian impulses of the
Chinese Communist Party and it's not an
easy question now I think some of these
things will be regionally worked out on
their own
particularly the sino-indian conflict
which is kind of always at a low ebb but
I think with the rise of Modi it's
getting even more powerful you know
another member of this authoritarian
access that Bernie had pointed out in a
recent speech so I think in some sense
it's up to the peoples of this part of
the world to work out their own history
for them without the perversions of the
United States but we in the United
States could also take some sort of at
least sort of ethical position about
what is the proper way to resist
authoritarian assort or the transform it
in a democratic and Liberatore direction
yeah and without military aid without
military aid but and included in that
right already you know issues that I
don't want to let you know that that of
course I mean I understand why people
crit it I think there's like three steps
right there's the sort of recognition
that human rights are proxy and have
absolutely including you know literally
like a proxy for US militarism and
invasions and and also but even in a
more soft variety of proxy to formalize
a Western dominated order okay that's a
very value valuable and correct critique
and there's a certain intelligence and
corrective in you know don't get your
own house in order you know particular I
mean in fact the United States focus on
what you're doing in Yemen or you know
and so on hundred percent but I think
the third step is there is this if you
really have this left perspective there
is a real concept of global solidarity
and so therefore like the Yugo the you
grew population can't be eliminated in
that I would occasionally they want to
have
you know tibetan society and i would
recognize you know sure there's some
romanticism I think there's also that's
another area where there's been an over
corrected critique of that society as
well all of that being as in May it's
it's occupied and it's being you know
culturally cleansed and environmentally
destroyed you know these are real issues
of anybody who is concerned about these
issues wherever they may take place yeah
and I think that's right and
particularly what's going on now with
the Uighur from my limited layman's
understanding there seems to be a lot of
there did being organized and
concentration camps and the left
shouldn't shrink from criticizing that I
don't think the left does shrink from
criticizing that and could be frank but
the question is and then what do you do
when you don't want the American
military to do anything essentially and
you don't want sanctions which will
destroy the lives of ordinary people so
I think you could essentially adopt on
one hand the ethical position that
living in the Imperial Metropole that
you do have more voice than than many of
the voiceless who are affected by these
policies and on the other hand I think
like you said build true global
solidarity uh whether they be
working-class solidarities whether they
be cultural solidarities or whatever it
may be build these sorts of solidarity
so that at least you could give a DIN
assistance to those living within these
societies who want to transform it in
ideally a peaceful way both mostly
because I think any other non peaceful
way will be immediately crushed by the
awesome power of the Chinese military
let's go to Africa
