[Music]
Burnie came out with a new plan
he had two new plants actually released
in the past two days
one is a a plan to eliminate Americans
medical debt they will negotiate pay off
past new medical bills in collections
that credit agencies have reported they
would also ban the collection of medical
debts beyond the statute of limitation
limitations and instruct the IRS to
conduct a review of the billing and
collection practices of the nearly 3,000
nonprofit hospitals so broadly assault
meta medical debt the other big plan
that he dropped was a wealth tax that
you recall Elizabeth Warren had
introduced a wealth tax some time ago
this one is even more dramatic it would
create an annual tax that apply to
households with it and I want everybody
sit down because I don't want you gonna
freak out about this a lot of you it's
gonna apply to households so it's not
just an individual married couple who
have this amount together with a net
worth above 32 million dollars yep this
will affect a hundred and eighty
thousand households in total top point
one percent he would create a one
percent tax on net worth above 32
million with increasing marginal rates
that top out at eight percent on net
worth over ten billion dollars so those
people are gonna get hit hard that is
for single filers the brackets would be
halved meaning the tax would kick in at
16 million dollars ish I gotta start
looking into some places in the Bahamas
or something mean I'm an ardent in
Bernie supporter but it's disturbing on
some level when you look at like the
stats that most Americans
can get you know $500 together as an
example this is the type of thing that
gives us a brand for being disconnected
from middle-class concerns here is
Stuart Varney the expert brought on to
Fox & Friends to explain why this is so
bad senator Elizabeth Warren has a
wealth tax proposal if you've got if you
are worth 50 million dollars or more you
would pay a wealth tax of 2% each and
every year on your accumulated wealth
Axios reports that Bernie Sanders has an
even more aggressive wealth tax in other
words he would take more than the 2%
over 50 million that Elizabeth Warren
would take either way they are rotten
proposals number one they're a brand-new
form of taxation and who needs that
and number two it assumes that the
government will do more good with the
money they take off you then those route
wealthy individuals can do with it
themselves like create jobs innovate in
technology put their money to work in
different kind of ways it's a rotten
idea when they popped a bottle and they
sit down on their laptop they say wow
that's a populist message let's blame
the successful people for the struggles
I'm feeling maybe for middle-class and
working-class they say I like that idea
do you think it would do more hostage
posit posit for one second I just want
to go over I just want to review I wish
we had the ability to put a quick chyron
up but we could we could show the two
points that he makes against these
proposals first one is who needs that
that's literally it creates a new tax
who needs that that's the first reason
why you would not want to do this
because who needs it and the second one
is do you think that government will do
better with this accumulated wealth tax
then those who are sitting on this
accumulated wealth now definitionally
accumulated wealth is not being invested
in creating jobs it is it is
accumulating it's a hoard that they're
sitting on it is exactly that what a
populist idea that's popping up in your
head
where the power comes from exactly its
definitionally people people create jobs
to the extent that they create jobs with
their businesses this is not a corporate
tax this is on individuals none of that
money that these individuals are sitting
on create jobs now to be fair maybe they
are spending this money on a McMansion
or ten or extra hundred or 200 foot boat
but it's not that 2% or 1% above 32
million that they're spending right like
the idea that like oh I only have 32
million dollars between the two of us
sweetheart we're gonna have to pay
another three million dollars in taxes
that's gonna leave us only with 29
million dollars so I guess we're not
going to go out and spend 22 million
dollars on the house that we were gonna
get or the boat or the car and amazing
monetizing you too there is no exactly
there is no scenario where this is going
to stop wealthy person from buying what
they want to buy the fact of the matter
is they can't find enough to buy but
let's let Stuart Vani
have one more crack at this that money
to work in different kind of ways it's a
rotten idea when they talk to bottle and
they sit down at a laptop they say wow
that's a populist message let's blame
the successful people for the struggles
I'm feeling maybe for middle-class and
working-class they say I like that idea
do you think it would do more good to
take money off wealthy people and get it
to other people that's it yeah yes the
answer is yes it would in fact it would
the there's a tremendous amount of data
that shows that it would I can just tell
you like it at first the concentration
of wealth is underfunding our Social
Security program
the concentration of of wealth is
slowing the velocity of money it is not
traveling through the system as much not
as many people are touching it because
you have it all you have what three
families in this country who have more
wealth than the bottom 50% of the people
of course of course it would
there's not even any question in fact
all you can come up with for the reasons
why it's no good is who needs that the
under a Bernese plan this is how much
these more these billionaires would owe
this year the walton family would owe
fourteen point eight billion dollars
jeff bezos eight point nine billion
charles koch 3.2 billion sheldon adelson
2.6 billion rupert murdoch one point two
eight billion just contemplate this is a
1% or i guess on some of these guys an 8
percent tax the idea would be within 15
years you would basically take out
billionaires you would tax at a rate in
which they cannot accumulate this kind
of wealth and so good for bernie i don't
know we will see it anytime soon but the
idea the the fact that two of the
leading candidates are debating how much
should we take from billionaires i i
like quite a bit there's this a contrast
that kind of points out how well they
aren't using any then using this money
for anything useful because as this
yahoo finance clip the points out it's
all stuck into things that aren't very
liquid that's right
okay so yeah here's another example of
this here we go the here is their
they're looking at this on yahoo and
they're trying to figure out like well
how do we talk about this like how how
can we possibly make it sound
sympathetic that someone with over
thirty two million dollars just parked
somewhere is in some way well it's gonna
be complicated it's gonna be so
complicated to do this it's not it's bad
for the market but it's also very early
in the primary season and as is the case
in every primary season it's all about
appealing to your base so the Bernie
Sanders the Elizabeth Warren wing of the
party however defined is appealing to
that base and almost sort of one-upping
IC or 2% wealth tax and raise you up to
I think Bernie's proposals as high as 8%
yeah but the statement he tweeted this
morning it I think 901 about 8% on over
10 billion or 8% on I'm sorry and
billionaires that worked for couples I
think that is yeah come to cat leaving
aside the legal challenges to it the
practicality is hard people who have
that much money don't have it in a bank
account or in a brokerage account it's
held an illiquid hard to value assets be
it private companies be a real estate be
it art for that matter valuing those
things on an annual basis has all kinds
of positive there's a lot of friction in
valuing them because because all that
art that they're hanging out like those
like 20 million-dollar paintings that
they have in their in their house those
are creating a lot of jobs because you
have to have someone come in and dust it
you have to have someone come in and
make sure that the climate is correct in
your McMansion so that the canvas does
not get too crunchy in your apartment
dude we're talking above McMansion and
Wayne oh this isn't even me right yeah
but I love the idea that bet this guy
saying like the implication is you know
when Bernie or Warren get into the
general election they're gonna have to
soften a little bit to bring in a wider
coalition they'll probably have to drop
that wealth tax down to you know to to
drop it up D like it'll be 40 million or
above one or a billion dollars lawn
mower over trumpet every single debate
like oh you're out here making a big
show well I got a tax how about that I
mean it's just I don't mean I know we'll
never change because this is you know
it's not empirically based but it's just
it's stunning like
every single poll says socially moderate
to even center-right economically
center-left to populist like that is the
this wherever the elusive center exists
that's what it is
and these people just still talk as if
there's somebody and it's gonna be a lot
of somebody Akron making like fifty
thousand dollars a years like you know
what I'm pretty concerned about this
wealth tax because there's really
creative people who run the economy and
I I sure wouldn't want them to
jeopardize my lower middle class job
that's why the arts not Bernie that
certainly hasn't had a try gonna buy all
house more boutique version right do
that there won't be any more public or
New York
