Oh
so this weekend I am debating charlie
Kirk from talk turning points USA
turning points USA as you know is an
organization that is funded by some
right-wing billionaires and what Charlie
Kirk does for I think which should be a
substantial amount of money well maybe
that makes it better than doing it for
not a substantial amount of money is he
goes around and spreads fake memes about
people and apparently and look I'm not
responsible for what Matt tweets out I'm
not responsible for Jamie tweets out I'm
not responsible for what Brendon tweets
out but if any of you guys tweet out
racist stuff I'm putting you on notice
and I find out about it I'm not gonna
check it every day but if someone emails
me and says these guys are putting out
racist stuff I'm gonna let you go that's
what I'm gonna do I'm gonna make that
commitment right then I'm gonna get read
pilled and so Charlie Kirk has this
problem where there are members of his
organization people that ostensibly
receive funding right I mean they must
receive funding from the National
Organization it turning points Florida
were caught somebody leaked their
internal I don't know it was a slack or
chat thing or something what's up I
believe they're whatsapp channel where
they were sharing all sorts of racist
Aria memes using white supremacist
symbolism etc etc saying stuff like you
know talking about groping Latinas and
all sorts of gist and they also say just
avoid you know when you're on this just
remember just avoid saying the n-word
don't reference Richard Spencer too much
some is okay yeah and don't you hate
just cuz all the time cuz so you can
have the option of Jew hating for a
reason all the time or Jew hating just
cuz some of the time so you've got a lot
of attitude there for your Jew hate
that's nice
they are liberally livers yeah they
don't want to be too policie about
speech just a little bit and so
apparently a student in Florida is this
at the Florida University so
international you know this is Andy Andy
from the young D si
Andy from who is the chair of the
Florida International University he's on
campus and he sees that the talking
points are turning points I should say
USA president is sitting at a table
I guess handing out literature and Andy
goes and says hey what's the deal with
this and of course look the important
thing is dialogue and these guys aren't
afraid of it if you have they have
nothing to hide I'm sure this guy will
express regret and explain what happened
here it is
[Music]
why not why don't you have anything to
say
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
well dude dude the guy gets up and runs
away and I look it is I I just want to
say you know high school is a little
more awkward of time but there's also
some awkwardness in college and if I was
the president of an organization where
people were being outwardly racist I'm
sure I would feel uncomfortable talking
about it too but it's important at times
like why what is contra like what is
this guy afraid that he's gonna say
that's gonna get him in trouble at this
point right like that's my question it's
like oh I don't want to go too far out
there apologize too much because if I do
then what I make it voted out of office
said the the attorney I mean why can't
he just say you know what those people
have been removed from our organization
oh maybe they haven't or why can't he
just say like yeah we don't condone this
because maybe they do
why no comment honestly like this was
national news did they not know they
were gonna have to address this or they
just think like whatever man we were
just we said not just cause all the time
we put restrictions on the Jew hate what
do you think about that do you even care
to be fair they have been helping people
with their student government elections
reportedly so that's right maybe he
needs to hold on to that power yeah
that's true
he's got big funding behind him he's got
donors I ran for student government I
never had that pressure the donors
pressure I did all my signs by myself
wrote big block letters cedar and I had
the advantage it was during Passover so
I got more attention for those signs
people thought maybe there was a seder
right I just want to point out to Andy's
tactics there cuz he goes up there and
says I want you to address this and when
they say we don't have any comment he's
like well I'm not going anywhere I don't
have to leave this and the kid says well
I'll call security
like like you know white people have
learned to do
and then he just walks off just really
well played if you are on a college
campus with turning points USA and you
want to do this tweet me the video
because I'd be interested in that there
you go nice it is also remarkable the
degree to which all of these Turning
Point USA people just look like giant
babies one notice the other thing is I
feel bad for the kid who was left at the
booth because you you couldn't really
hear it very well but he's as can you
leave me on this I don't know what
you're talking about
and the kid says you didn't hear about
this yeah that that guy maybe also like
I'm supposed to stay with the pamphlets
but maybe I'm gonna go play for at night
right
did you see the HR email are you getting
to that the HR email like they offered
to service to give a free social media
check to anyone who's concerned that
they might have tweeted something racist
yeah who's this the HR at grassroots
organization attorney points us yeah
they do a free Human Resources and
turning points is doing like we can
check and say if you've done racist
stuff on your social control fund and
well we should probably offer something
like that too I'm pretty pretty
confident oh no that HR I'm gonna need
that HR letter for this weekend maybe
after the siRNA vich thing I must admit
I went back through all my old tweets
and I've been at Twitter for like 10
years and there's there's really nothing
there boiler alert I was really emo when
I was in my mid-20s I cared a lot about
vegan food music boys and cats so that
is embarrassing but it's not like a
fireable offense as long as we're doing
confessions I think I probably got a
little bit too excited about the Red Sox
at times and maybe the
I mean some of the Patriot stuff I'm a
little bit because of the elections that
is fraud folks I don't want to spend too
much time on charlie Kirk but there
seems to be a trend amongst
conservatives a brain worm it is weird
now I think people are probably aware
that Kanye who is a singer right would
you call him like a hip-hop R&B artist
right rapper
and Kanye of course apparently according
to him was diagnosed as having some
emotional difficulties and decided to
stop taking his medication and then
somehow he ended up in the Oval Office
and talking about some stuff that's not
terribly coherent that finds but here is
a Republican guy what's at Benny Johnson
Benny Johnson of the Daily Caller he
said the Daily Caller and he is
defending Kanye because look when you're
a conservative it's very rare that
anyone who's in a creative endeavor is
in any way supportive of your stuff I
mean it happens there's James Woods and
Chuck Woolery I know you're thinking
like wait a second where's the
creativity but he had a certain flourish
when he would do some of the the hosting
of that game show and here's Benny
Johnson talking about Kanye a black man
born impoverished and into a broken home
works his way into a multi-millionaire
global pop star fashion guru and a
cultural icon he dares to think
differently
politically meets the president limps
he's mentally ill token negro can't read
trader attack his dead mother and it's
weird because if you are well it's he's
not the only one who did that now Betty
Johnson
did that what like three days ago a week
ago a week ago he got a little backlash
but I'm not gonna tell you what that
backlash was here is Charlie Kirk with
like strikingly similar similar tweet
yesterday from yesterday
think about it : a black man born in
poverty I'm thinking about it in a
broken home worked himself to be a
billionaire and to world fame a fashion
guru pop icon Grammy winner spends hours
with the president dares to think
differently in his then attacked for
being an unstable token negro now I'll
tell you what's fascinating about this
to me what is the similarity in these
tweets like there's a lot of language
it's very similar it's almost as if they
get the same talking points what's also
fascinating is that you would think one
of two things one if you were
disseminating talking points you would
do the slightest bit of research about
Kanye or - that you would you wouldn't
apply dries but it turns out that Kanye
West grew up in a middle-class suburban
home and his mom is like what a doctor
is a professor a professor has a PhD
let's do it that way all right P she's
dead now and she's passed away but
there's this weird assumption there's it
either let's put it this way they are
either share talking points and don't
update them even a week later or they
just have this weird assumption about
black people that they grow up
impoverished so there it is well I guess
we gotta wait another week and to see
which other conservative star would
start a pool on that you know there's
been document a lot of documents that
played your weird plagiarism like
Milania just ripping off sort of formal
speeches by Michelle Obama yeah it's a
really weird practice that the write
does I mean plagiarism is obviously not
just a right
thing but I feel like there's something
I don't know that makes me think a
little bit like sociopaths that's the
same thing is when they brazenly lie and
everybody knows that right they don't
care
yes I think that they're I think that's
exactly it there's no accountability on
the right for that stuff efficacy is
really the only thing that matters
plagiarism is irrelevant there is no
there you know that is just a that
you're imposing your sort of like normal
brain upon and that's not the case
