[Music]
just to give you a sense and now I know
that earlier in the program I
characterized Bill Bar as the Attorney
General essentially functioning as a
Donald Trump spokesperson and that of
course is something that someone who is
of the left and critical of the Trump
administration and feeling like the
Attorney General's role is not in the
same way that Comey you know Comey when
he came out and said Hillary Clinton was
irresponsible but not criminally liable
for what he did he was doing the same
thing that bar did here except for bar
is going the other direction that bar is
saying like well to the extent that
there was obstruction it's not really
obstruction Trump's just cantankerous
and he had reason to be can you imagine
if you were being investigated and you
felt like you did nothing wrong you'd be
mad too and so this is what this is the
show that bill Barr provided for us
don't take it from me folks take it from
Fox News the obstruction case and as he
pointed out there were at least 10
instances that the special counsel
raised that could be considered
potential obstruction then you got into
this very curious area where the
Attorney General seemed almost to be
acting as the counselor for the defense
for the counselor for the president
rather than the Attorney General talking
about his motives talking about his
anger his feeling that this was unfair
and he was being there were leaks and
really as I say making a case for the
president I suspect the Democrats heads
on Capitol Hill were exploding and
they're gonna come down very sharply
about the way that that bill bar today
laid this out because there's no
question you know this was gonna be this
was the first look in a sense that
everybody has gotten today at the Muller
report
and this was as good a case as the
president and the president's lawyers
could make that there is nothing to see
here let's move on I mean I love the
look on hammers face here where he's
just like basically a Fox News
correspondent or a host has said Wow
Bill Maher was really and I also like
how they just only Democrats are gonna
be upset about this rather than like as
if it's like a I'm not partisan but they
the partisans will probably notice the
fact that of what I'm saying so there it
is Fox News
goeb are functioning as the defense
attorney for the President as opposed to
functioning as the as the Attorney
General
