[Music]
they're pushing this the this just
happened okay this is Donald Trump uh
just now in the White House as Bernie
Sanders said military action could be
basically one of the greatest
catastrophes that could happen to the
planet right now
this is Donald Trump I would imagine it
was a general or somebody made a mistake
I would imagine it was a general or
somebody that made a mistake in shooting
that drone down and fortunately that
drone was unarmed it was not there was
no man in it and there was no it was
just it was over international orders
clearly over international waters but we
didn't have a man or woman in the drone
we had nobody in the drum you would have
made a big difference let me tell you
what it made a big big difference but I
have a feeling I may be wrong and I may
be right but I'm right a lot I have a
feeling that it was a mistake made by
somebody that shouldn't have been doing
what they did I think they made a
mistake and I'm not just talking to cut
the country made a mistake I think that
somebody under the command of that
country made a big fish
okay so that's that's interesting cuz to
me that clip actually still shows that
unlike monk behind Mike Pompeo and John
Bolton and I would add you know
obviously people like Tom cotton and
Rubio in the Senate who are you know
relentless war mongers and all of the
propaganda infrastructure around this I
mean you can look and see a lot of the
same people that were writing editorials
and spreading lies about invading Iraq
are doing the same thing right now with
with Iran Donald Trump might not be
convinced to do this he seems to be a
little hesitant you know in the context
of such a potential catastrophe the fact
that you know of course he has no idea
that definitionally a drone is on is
unperson okay sure it's kind of amusing
it's typical Trump but you know look
let's just get to two quick things on
this that are really important one
they've been the doubt the Trump
administration in
stated and has been constantly
attempting to instigate crisis with Iran
from the outset they tore up the Iran
deal every single not even independent
observer including the Trump State
Department certified that Iran was
following that deal to the letter and it
was of course certified by the IEA IEA
which is the you know independent and
most trustworthy source on these things
the United States has threatened Iran
they've terrorized economically the
Europeans who while still dis coercing
support for the Iran deal have actually
not sort of put where their money where
their mouth is so there's huge economic
and humanitarian consequences in Iran
for three-section
ratcheted up sanctions and they've
claimed that Iran a month ago attacked
uh you know boats in the Straits of
Hormuz they claimed a week ago that Iran
was behind the attack on the Japanese in
Norwegian tankers both times they
provided no evidence and you know matera
material you know actual evidence that
is available points in other directions
including as an example the head of the
Japanese company suggesting that it
wasn't a mine and wasn't something that
was planted on the boat it was actually
an aerial attack which directly
contradicts what Mike Pompeo and the
Trump White House have said about this
the other thing that just is
extraordinary is that they are claiming
an al Qaeda relationship with Iran which
lets you know first of all let's remind
everybody of how potent and how
dangerous these lies are by playing this
brief clip of George W Bush back during
his administration this was after I this
was after the invasion of Iraq when some
of the lies that the Bush administration
told we're starting to be punctured a
bit and here he is sort of vaguely
backing off I mean before the invasion
there was suggestions that there was Al
Qaeda camps you know that Saddam Hussein
was supporting that you know God knows I
mean as Condoleezza Rice said she didn't
want the smoking gun gun to be a
mushroom cloud that was how heavy the
propaganda lies were about the WMD
program and al Qaeda specifically this
is George
you Bush repeating those lies and
slightly backing off or the reason I
keep insisting that there was a
relationship between Iraq and Saddam and
al-qaeda because there was a
relationship between Iraq and al-qaeda
this administration never said that the
9/11 attacks were orchestrated between
Saddam and al-qaeda we did say there
were numerous contacts between Saddam
Hussein and al-qaeda
for example Iraqi intelligence officers
met with bin Laden the head of al-qaeda
in the Sudan and of course numerous
contacts between the two
of course the main lie that they were
actually spreading was the checklist of
akhiya meaning I believe it was but
where they suggested that one of the
9/11 hijackers met with Iraqi
intelligence and of course that was
totally false so here's what's going on
with al-qaeda and Iran I think the
primary motivation is because of the
AUMF which has just been this disaster
that has been used to justify drone
programs and military conflict across
the globe in this never-ending self
looking ice-cream cone of war from
Afghanistan to Somalia after September
11th which is not been restrained to
reform despite the efforts of Barbara
Lee we'll get there in a minute a couple
of minutes but you know the Trump
administration wants to be able to say
that their military action in Iran would
be covered under that so that's part of
the motivation for the new lies about
Iran and al-qaeda and I think there's
also just the old you know trusty
standby that if all available evidence
shows that whatever else whatever other
differences there are with Iran
obviously you can negotiate with them
there was a deal that was made with Iran
that was successful and productive for
everybody in terms of international
security that you're going to need to
sort of reach to a big lie to justify
belligerent policy with regards to Iran
so let's get specific about this after
September 11th when the United States
started bombing Afghanistan and the
Taliban government fell al-qaeda members
fled and some of them in fact did flee
to Iran they were in some cases allowed
to stay in Iran by the Afghan border the
Iranian government restricted their
communications with other members of
al-qaeda and basically held them in some
sort of basically kind of detention type
of situation this also happened in the
same period of time where the Iranians
were also sort of unofficially helping
the United States because al-qaeda and
the Taliban were enemies of of the
Iranians most basically on the Shia
Sunni divide which most people seem to
still not understand even after like 20
years of of bombing Middle Eastern and
other and Muslim countries I'm just
gonna quote briefly from Daniel Larson
who writes on this I will say very well
for the American Conservative just
really briefly here it's important to
emphasize here that Pompey is not simply
exaggerating things when he claims that
Iran now kind of work together he's
grossly distorting into the opposite of
what the evidence shows he's lying
Iran Hawks have desperately sought to
invent ties between Iran and al-qaeda to
further their aggressive policies
against Iran but it isn't true and no
one's falling for their deception this
time pushing a fraudulent story about a
connection between Iraq and al-qaeda
before the 2003 invasion was an
important part of the Bush
administration's propaganda effort to
sell that war to the public now he goes
forward to basically say that
essentially what that some people and
this is going towards rouhani basically
that they might be allowing some
al-qaeda people to stay there in a non
operational way as a leverage
and a potential negotiation point to be
able to be turned over to the United
States or other international
authorities but again and also their own
security self-interest because don't
forget and it actually was a terrorist
attack in Iran about a year or two ago
that was conducted by an Isis group that
certainly officially you know Sunni
extremist elements would be opposed to
Iran and of course this is demonstrated
very amply where in Syria the Iranians
are fighting and killing and being
killed by al Qaeda affiliates on a daily
basis in the proxy war there so the
prime relationship between Iran and al
Qaeda is on opposite sides of the Syrian
proxy war and in fact the United States
is a bit more at least unofficially
aligned with some al Qaeda at least
adjacent groups there the these
declassified documents show that bin
Laden was always very concerned about
what Iran's position was they were you
know clearly not able to sort of move
freely those that were in Iran and
collaboration was not you know sort of
forthcoming how quote now just briefly
from a piece by Nelly allowed in the
from the Atlantic Council al Qaeda
wanted to avoid a confrontation with
Iran one document dated January 2002
thousand seven likely authored by an al
Qaeda operative explains that if
following the Taliban's fall Taliban
regime will fall jihadists fled to Iran
out of quote-unquote necessity Iranian
authorities he had it allowed it allowed
jihadis and their families to reside
temporarily in the eastern city of
z'ha'dum and a set of security and set a
set of security conditions to prevent
them from communicating with jihadis
outside of Iran before processing him
out mostly to their home countries when
jihadis violate these terms the author
Lorentz laments everything changed and
Iran's policy switched in early 2002 to
one of her
arrests and deportation so and then of
course things switched again after the
invasion of Iraq in 2010 apparently
there was a bin Laden family member that
was married in Iran so the point is
though is that none of this has any
there's no claim that's remotely
credible of Iranian financing of Iranian
logistical support of Iranian
ideological promotion of anything to do
with an al Qaeda attack in the United
States or Europe at all and in fact in
Iraq and Iran in Iraq and Syria there on
the opposite sides of proxy wars
although the Iranians may have cynically
allowed some sort of forces from al
Qaeda adjacent groups to go into Iraq in
2003 after the invasion as part of their
own strategy for a destabilizing the
invasion that's possible you know
politics of politics but when they talk
about a relationship with Iran they are
implying that there is Iranian support
for these groups and for these actions
and that is a complete lie which
literally smacks in the face of the fact
that Iran right now militarily is
fighting al Qaeda groups more
aggressively than we are in a Syrian
context so that's important context to
know as we continue to watch this play
out and I mean it's uh it's very
concerning to me
