[Music]
so we talked yesterday about how
Alexandria Cascio Cortes correctly
called the situation of the border and
where children are being put in after
they're being kidnapped and stripped
from their parents as kidnapping and in
acts of kidnapping that they're in
concentration camps
and we had to go over yesterday and Sam
did a very good job
first of all explaining that yes in fact
even if you want to just be a paedon and
miss all of the vital moral and
political urgency of the moment where
again children are dying after being
kidnapped and separated from their
parents in ice and which is federal
government custody so let's just let
that sink in as always before we get
into you know this nonsense that people
want to fixate on in terms of the
pedantry children are dying in
government custody because they have
been kidnapped and separated from their
families as a matter of federal policy
implemented by the president's supported
by the main cable news network the
entire far-right infrastructure and the
Republican Party children are dying
that's what they're doing right now as
they speak as we speak concentration
camps could refer to situations where
Jewish people were held before they were
murdered which would be another
definition concentration camps also
applied the internment of the Japanese
in this country which is quite analogous
obviously in many respects to what's
happening today in the United States so
we first make this extraordinary mistake
and it makes sense why Republicans would
do it of course because they want to
justify the fact that they are in the
legacy of the greatest mass murderers
and bigots in our history and they are
responsible for killing children right
now as we speak but then a whole bunch
of centrist and Democrats and rational
quote-unquote people wanted to get us
off in a wild goose chase by debating
about definitions versus focusing on the
point of her tweet which is a
congresswoman saying that we have a
responsibility to end a policy of
kidnapping killing children seems
slightly important and I think part of
the problem here and we're gonna get to
this Chuck Todd clip in a minute is that
and and this should never been the case
obviously because they've been covering
politics through plenty of important
things skyrocketing and equality people
not having health care the invasion of
Iraq the Patriot Act the criminal
justice system police murders and so on
but even with all that these people are
used to covering politics is essentially
a totally trivial affair and in fact if
you wanted to just cover politics is
this sort of like pop entertainment
exercise I have no idea why you wouldn't
prefer to be covering sports or the
music business more interesting
personalities more fun stuff to watch
but nonetheless these people have been
talking about poll numbers they've been
talking about TV hits they've been doing
relative comparisons between candidates
there they are used to talking about
this stuff in a banal and trivial way
and it's shocking when the US government
is presiding over concentration camps so
what do you do when you're confronted
with that well if you Chuck Todd you're
gonna fuse a misplaced moralism and a
deranged pedantry to distract ourselves
from the crisis that aoc spoke on
welcome back tonight I'm obsessed with
what's happening at our southern border
you can call our governments detention
of migrants many things depending on how
you see it it's a stain on our nation
maybe a necessary evil to others a deal
with untenable situation perhaps but do
you know what's you can't call it take a
listen the United States is running
concentration camps on our southern
border
and that is exactly what they are they
are concentration camps I was obviously
New York congresswoman Alexander Ocasio
Cortez on Instagram after being
criticized Ocasio Cortez tried to make a
distinction between concentration camps
and Nazi death camp tried to make a
distinct there is a distinction in fact
a Chuck there's so much to get to
because of course in the first he's
already making the deranged moral
equivalency he's already the person that
would have softened them Nazi crimes
right out of the gate by saying you can
call it a really horrible thing or you
can call it an ulcer evil but there's
one thing you cannot call it which is
actually now I will read the
merriam-webster definition of its
concentration camp a place where a large
number of people such as prisoners of
war political prisoners or refugees or a
member of an ethnic or religious
minority we could I think be dealing
with three or four here are detained or
confined under armed guard used
especially in reference to the camps
created by the Nazis in World War two
for the internment and persecution of
the Jews and other prisoners so that's
the definition and then she went and
correctly noted that yes there is a
difference between that and the camp's
that turned into murder chambers by the
Nazis no Chuck so far you've done a
false equivalency in terms of defending
concentration camp policy and then even
by your own little nerd logic you're
wrong read the merriam-webster
definition this is an amazing
demonstration of them being more
comfortable with use euphemisms like
necessary evil than just actual literal
usage of terminology precisely to the
point where they will distort and try to
evade the literal use of the terminology
I was obviously New York congresswoman
Alexander Ocasio Cortez on Instagram
after being criticized Ocasio Cortez
tried to make a distinction between
concentration camps and Nazi death camps
where the industrialized mass slaughter
of the Holocaust occurred fair enough
but congresswoman tens of thousands were
also brutalized tortured starved and
ultimately died in concentration camps
camps like a cow if you want to
criticize the shameful treatment of
people at our southern border
fine you'll have plenty of company but
be careful comparing them to Nazi
concentration camps
she didn't compare she said
concentration camps which would of
course apply also to the internment of
the Japanese and would again going back
to our Marianne Webster definition be a
correct use of the word if you think it
only applies to Nazis it's because you
have a shallow understanding of history
it's as simple as that
that's it I understand you watch
Schindler's List you want a pat on the
back but never again and the whole moral
upshot not just in fact of the Holocaust
but other great atrocities like Rwanda
or Bosnia or crimes not in the scale of
genocide now in fact if she said they're
committing a genocide yes that would be
inaccurate she didn't say that she said
neither death camp nor genocide
she said concentration camp which you
know what Chucky let me do this one more
time a concentration camp from the
merriam-webster dictionary a place where
a large number of people such as
prisoners of war political prisoners but
now what we'll wait for it wait for it
refugees or members of an ethnic or
religious minority are detained or
confined under armed guard
there you have it read a book
deal with the moral consequences of
what's taking place right now and if you
want to defend it if you want to say hey
look I'm not prepared to deal with the
fact that the president United States
and the Republican Party and Fox News
and by the way if you want and if you
wanted to complexify it you wanted to
criticize you could say building off of
an infrastructure that wasn't expanded
and institutionalized under the Obama
administration absolutely that's a fair
critique is responsible for killing
children putting people in ice lockers
who are seeking refugee status if you
want to reduce that to a false moral
equivalency between people who rightly
call it the horrific crime that it is
and other
people who were delusional paranoid
racists who have no understanding of how
policy works go for it but spare us the
pedantry when in fact she's using the
term correctly you know someone should
really protect Chuck Todd from himself
because he's embarrassing himself here
not just morally but definitionally and
in the walk terms he wants to excel in
and I've seen this take from plenty of
other people including people with some
supposedly liberal bona fides
concentration-camp refers to what I've
just read from merriam-webster
dictionary several times and if it
upsets you that that term could
accurately be applied to what's
happening United States right now well
good it should profoundly upset you take
some action
these aren't connotations you should be
protected from precisely I don't know if
there's more of this nonsense oh yeah is
there not at all comparable in the
slightest but here's where it's
upsetting as her comment some Democrats
have been reluctant to condemn her
remarks I don't want to get criticized
in Twitter fellow New York Congressman
Jerry Nadler tweeted in response one of
the lessons from the Holocaust is never
again we fail to learn that lesson when
we don't call out such inhumanity right
in front of us Jerry Nadler surely knows
migrant didn't answer yes Thank You
Jerry Nadler thank you for the correct
upshot of an education on the horrific
atrocity of the Holocaust that is in
fact what people are talking about Thank
You Jerry Nadler well done he did in
response one of the lessons from the
Holocaust is never again we fail to
learn that lesson when we don't call out
such inhumanity right in front of us
Jerry Nadler surely knows migrant
detainment camps are not the same as
concentration camps so why don't he just
say that
why are we so sheepish calling out
people we agree with politically these
days obviously this isn't a Democratic
Party thing it's an even bigger problem
on the Republican side of the aisle when
it comes to President Trump and the
didn't there are we really so ensconced
in our political bubbles liberal versus
conservative that we cannot talk about
right versus wrong anymore wait that's a
word doing Chuck some things are bigger
than partisanship at least they used to
be you mean in the interlock like some
extra pathetic false equivalency not
looking up to merriam-webster dictionary
definition of something before you do a
pedantry filled failed morally moral
calamy segment to loop back to your only
purpose for functioning and public life
which is drawing false equivalencies and
reducing politics to a dull Sunday
morning show with no human stakes which
is why you could turn a segment about
detention centers or concentration camps
where children are dying into a
dumb-looking everybody be willing to
kill up the extremes on their own side
too often Republicans look the other way
when Donald Trump says something
objectively bigoted but at the same time
Jerry Nadler didn't attack a lc4
correctly using the term concentration
camp I'm so committed to norms and the
center that I won't recognize
concentration camps or atrocities in my
own country in its defense Wow I don't
even know I mean what is it what does it
turn I mean look I useful idiot Chuck
Todd is a useful idiot for ice right now
at least they used to be and in the
interim the crux of what's truly at
stake is lost what is this country going
to do about what's happening at the
border and this humanitarian crisis
we'll get to that at some point I guess
after we have this debate I've no doubt
Alexander I don't think Meet the Press
is ever any good yeah I don't think
you're gonna get to a Chuck I think you
showed your hand here about what you
want to get to because you could have
just spent two minutes talking about
children dying in ice custody because of
a trump policy that is supported by the
Republican Party but instead you did a
pedantry filled and actually in fact
wrong segment whining about a tweet
which accurately described the moral
crisis that
you will never get to because you are
not equipped to do it disgusting
disgusting and embarrassing
it's amazing to go to the pedantry and
also be wrong about the pedantry I mean
you know and even in even in a in any
kind of way like there's no there's I
don't know I'm trying to sit in the like
put myself in the meeting where they
were writing this and being like what is
it that we're trying to say here
ultimately that we've gone so far that
norms are gone and therefore we can't
even talk about what's actually going on
no I don't even get it I don't even know
where they're going they have the same
problem that Megan McCain has which is
they're trying to keep two feet on
different sides of a fault line that's
massively going away from each other
because they don't actually speak like
it they don't they can't go here we
can't go here with people that are just
like yeah what's going on the Border's
fine it's not concentration camps like
no those people look I I'm not
trying to get into this but I mean look
Joe Rogan we played a clip of him a year
ago saying if you're somebody who is
looking at a mother having her kids
stripped out of her arms and you see
would you follow the rules I believe the
phrase he used you're not on Team human
I believe was the phrase he used and I
only bring that up to say like that that
is not a a progressive voice saying that
like there exactly there's no middle
ground there's no there's no negotiation
point if you think it's acceptable to
kidnap children and put them in prison
conditions if you think it's acceptable
to in prison refugee if you think it's
acceptable to terrorize and threaten
people living here right now we're not
on the same team and there's no there's
no middle ground on that and then and
it's funny because the middle ground
that people I chucked out always want
right of course is precisely that it's
well are we gonna call a torture ok the
rock war was a mistake but obviously if
you say it was a lie and a crime
Bush is a war criminal that's well
that's certainly not you know that's
that's not rhetoric for the palm yeah
let's call it a necessary evil that's
wit that way both sides get something
out of the term both sides both sides
it's necessary but it's evil oh yeah
that's that's office tree in action yes
isn't that nothing nothing you might
want to pull apart in that language your
whining and freaking out because a OC
used the dictionary definition correctly
you just came up with maybe one of the
most well I mean it's it's a commonly
used Orwellian term I mean what are you
gonna say like Oh will you you said
civilian casualties of bombing that's
super inflammatory maybe we should call
it an unnecessary byproduct of a
necessarily evil thing
