[Music]
let's start off with this because this
is pretty funny because I don't think
that I've seen anyone more ill suited to
be a television commentator or a or even
a YouTube commentator who has more like
seems to be one of the guys who you
would imagine would be you know youth
tossing around the term snowflake but in
fact is I mean sometimes I think people
hate what's inside them so much that
they project that hatred outward in such
an overblown way and now of course this
is I'm not a psychiatrist I mean this is
a complete lay person's opinion and I'm
also not a financial expert so I don't
know if Dan bond Geno was the reason why
NRA TV collapsed I have no way of
knowing that none of us do none of us
could there's the lemon and lime budget
yeah I mean I don't know it's also
possible that you know it appears at
least from the reporting that the NRA
was in some ways just sort of a slush
fund for a lot of people that's what I
would pierce from the reporting I don't
know but that's the way it would appear
and that's often in my experience
personal experience that when you have
sort of a fraudulent enterprise
sometimes the least qualified people get
hired for jobs and that's how maybe
someone like someone like a Dan bond
Geno could get a role there even though
they were ill suited for it because of
their disposition now what I'm talking
about is apparently there was a story
where some
I was at a Starbucks he didn't feel
comfortable because it was a bunch of
cops in there I don't know that seems a
little overblown to me I guess I or I
can understand why you might feel that
but like you know you have to do you
leave unless unless any you know
everybody's got a right to be in the the
in the the Starbucks as it were I guess
if you don't like II leave it is one of
those stories that are just like you
know every day there's always something
where some people are acting you know in
a way that seems a little bit silly to
you if you're on the right you blow that
up into a national emergency and that's
what's happened here Laura Ingraham
because there's no there's not enough
news going around but there she brings
this guy on to talk about it and then
Dan bond Geno comes on and talk about
not feeling safe reacting with emotion
yeah but I think I was looking at some
of the data and that was one of the
things I was thinking to myself the
police aren't average according to
reports kill about a thousand people a
year since since about 2015 it's been in
the 900s nine 90s in some cases the
majority of them are actually white men
so I can understand if this is a white
guy maybe him feeling a little
uncomfortable that your answer to this
Starbucks thing is the police are
killing people
no I'm just no I'm just saying that I
can understand why that person may have
felt uncomfortable that's what I'm
officer it's just it's data so the data
Jonathan says that people are I mean
Jonathan is it's kind of his calm but he
say the data indicates that people are
rightly concerned is that for one second
now this this democratic strategist is
simply commenting on the fact that you
know this white guy in the Starbucks
felt uptight about the cops he's just
explaining why someone might feel
uptight about the cops yeah you know I
you know I can understand it I guess I
just don't think that the Starbucks has
an obligation to tell the cops to leave
but Dan bond Geno seems to be having a
breakdown but you wonder if he's having
a breakdown about this or about other
things that are going on
with his career or something I don't
know good police officer it's just it's
nice so the data Jonathan says that
people are I mean Jonathan is kind of is
calm but he said the data indicates that
people are rightly concerned is that I
don't really care if he's calm but he
just said was so dumb that I'm stunned
he said it on national television are
facts done a police officer the worst
day of a police officers life I was
there I'm pretty sure Jonathan wasn't
the worst day of your life is it use of
force incident number one Laura because
god forbid you have to use force you
think that's funny John heartbreak 10
seconds secondly you're probably gonna
get sued and lose your livelihood after
you unfortunately had to use force
against another human being it's John
absurd email have you beat it now I'll
tell you something if damn Bungie know
is reflective of a typical cop let's
think guess what that's matter if you
just prove the case as to why the guy
should feel uncomfortable
yeah damn bond gina goes from zero to
sixty this is a guy who can't keep his
composure on a TV set what would happen
if he was actually in some type of
situation where someone's life was on
the line this guy like say for instance
he's a Secret Service agent yes is a
Secret Service agent getting himself a
latte
your argument or a prostitute do carta
haina that's saying wow I have expected
Benji bun Gina tell him to show him his
hands yeah right exactly
man that's a new pocket started Wow yeah
the table Laura Ingram had to basically
try and calm him down with like we only
got 10 seconds left I wonder if that was
one of those quick hooks but man was
poor Dan bongos at least he's recovered
better than grant stench field I don't
even know who that is
he's the other NRA TV guy there's a lot
of talent there
