[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any away
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday November 27th 92018
nice my name is Sam cedar this is the
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
eating NAFTA obesity diabetes and free
trade meanwhile Paul man affords plea
deal falls apart a new report says he
had multiple secret meetings with Julian
Assange leading up to the release of
those hacked to emails GM to layoff
15,000 people close plants in Ohio
Michigan Maryland after billions of
stock buybacks and millions hundreds of
millions of tax benefits from the Trump
administration meanwhile Republicans
want more tax cuts in the lame duck and
the midterm elections are now over folks
Democrats pick up another in California
Orange County all blue the total number
they flipped 40 and got the largest
national midterm win ever great victory
for us mark Penn
turns out mark been involved in the No
Labels assault on Nancy Pelosi and will
a suit against Apple's App Store revive
antitrust lastly Bernie Sanders will
force a Senate vote on the ending our
Yemen support all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen we
are back full complement now in studio
after the holidays apropos of today's
topic Jamie is back from south of the
border Here I am how was it it was so
amazing oh my god I have to hear more
later in the program but amazing sounds
good and they let you back in across the
border you know they did um I feel like
I'm pretty low on the totem pole in
terms of political replications of
passports but you know if they start
 with folks like Noam Chomsky I
might think twice about whether or not I
want to stay here but for now it's all
good there you go folks all right well
we will we will get into this guests
coming just a little bit later than
normal on today's program but we will
get there shortly
meanwhile this GM story is big for a
number of reasons and let me just start
with this I got an email from listener
miles hey Sam I'm a tenth grader who's a
big fan of the show let's mark it very
good I was curious about your assessment
of trade policy in light of the 15,000
jobs lost from GM I know you've been
critical about Trump's trade war and
international tariffs I know also that
the progressive movement and prominent
Social Democrats had harsh criticism and
opposition towards TPP NAFTA
and PN T are among other free trade
agreements I'm not even familiar
necessarily with the PNTR I don't think
I've taught my yet permanent normalized
trade relations that with a European one
I would assume so I don't think but no
PNTR was with China years ago I don't
know what the most recent one is to be
honest I'm not positive of a hundred
percent if you oppose these deals to
support renegotiating them but I know
this idea was a key tenant of the
Sanders campaign and many leftist
political organizations as your position
changed on protectionism
because of the effects under Trump or is
there something specific about Trump's
protectionism that puts it at odds with
say Bernie Sanders yes well my position
has not changed broadly on protectionism
I think that maybe a little bit narrow
the the problem is we have a free full
flow of of capital we do not have a free
flow of flow of of labor and broadly
speaking that is is problematic and we
do not require in the context of these
deals the safeguards for labor
environment consumer in that is
bilateral or is reciprocal and that's
problematic for for both ends on that
deal
today's guest is going to speak to this
dynamic in particular and then of course
I have problems with in particular the
the resolution dispute system that is
really contrary to the sovereignty of
the countries and and completely
anti-democratic but we will talk more
about that with today's guests and as
far as GM it's unclear to me that the
issue is now that the issue is a
function of Trump's tariffs and its
thank you for the email well this kids
in tenth grade yeah very very
intelligent mmm yeah clever little devil
yes we're not it's gonna say I hope my
liggett's there in tenth grade oh yeah
shots fire I don't know that you could
attribute what's happening with GM to
the the tariffs on Chinese steel
certainly when Ford it was announced or
I should say reported that Ford was
preparing to layoff twelve percent of
its workforce and I think it was like
something like 24,000 people the the
implication was that it was a function
of the steel tariffs I haven't seen that
type of reporting with GM what we have
seen is that the tax breaks the tax
gifts the giveaways to GM that the
Republicans promised us was going to end
up in workers pockets did not end up on
workers pockets what we also did see is
five years four years of stock buybacks
which recall was an illegal practice
until Ronald Reagan decided that it no
longer was and what these stock buybacks
do and I've said this on this program
mod nauseam is it simply pays off the
biggest shareholders which contrary to
what some on the right will tell you is
not pension holders and it is the CEOs
the c-suite members the Board of
Directors and some very wealthy
individuals 84% of the stocks in this
country are owned by the top 20% of the
people and so this is a a broader story
I don't know if it's directly
attributable to the steel tariffs but
another part of the story in addition to
the stock buybacks and the wealthy
lining their pockets is of course that
promises made promises not quite kept
here is Donald Trump this is from 20
what was this in 2017 2016 2016 in
Warren Michigan
ladies and gentlemen Warren Michigan
here is Donald Trump he says about
Hillary is so bad he said she has
terrible instincts but we have good
instincts and I've been saying your car
industry is being sucked away from
Michigan's happening if I'm elected you
won't lose one plant you'll have plants
coming into this country you're gonna
have jobs again you won't lose one plant
I promise you yes well if you lived in
Warren Michigan and you worked at the
GM's plant a transmission plant in
Warren Michigan I've got some bad news
for you he lied now of course it was a
silly promise for him to make in the
first place but Warren Michigan lost its
plant it was one of the at least six and
maybe I think nine plants that were shut
down by GM here is Donald Trump in
Youngstown Ohio in 2017 I was looking at
some of those big wants incredible job
producing factories and my wife Melania
said what happened I said those jobs
have left Ohio they're all coming back
don't move don't sell your house don't
sell your house remember I got a lot of
credit this is hard to believe but the
press gave me a lot of credit because
the number of years ago I said this is
the time to buy a house during one of my
speeches I said go out and buy and they
did this big story and all over the
Trump predicted let me tell you folks in
Ohio on in this area don't sell your
house don't sell do not sell it we're
gonna get those values up we're gonna
get those jobs coming back and we're
gonna fill up those factories or rip
them down and build brand-new ones so
it's gonna happen Lordstown Ohio lost
one of its plants in this closing so get
a new credit card too but look the the
bigger story aside from the fact that
Donald Trump's a pathological liar and
if you believed him then it was not
enough caveat emptor is out there is GM
over the past four years had fourteen
billion dollars fourteen billion dollars
worth of stock buybacks now they're
closing say in their closing
announcement they say they're gonna save
six billion dollars annually by firing
fifteen thousand people 14 billion
dollars half of which come has come in
the last two years there was a story I
saw this at I don't know it's like one
of those uh stock stock places wolf
Street and the guy wrote after wasting
14 billion on share buybacks GM prepares
for Carmageddon closes eight plants but
here's the thing is that this concept
that they
were incompetent right that they wasted
this money is what is the problem here
they didn't waste the money the people
who made these decisions made off like
bandits
they are extremely wealthy now because
of these decisions they would look at
this and say waste what are you talking
about
we made millions millions hundreds of
millions of dollars billions probably of
dollars we bought back our stock we
raised the value of our stock we are
compensated in stock because capital
gains taxes are cheaper on stock and
then we sold the stock we paid less in
taxes than we would have if we actually
went out and worked for that money if
we've gotten paid in wages and we're
super wealthy and we didn't have to make
better cars we didn't have to help any
communities we didn't have to provide
for our employees we made out like
bandits this was not wasted we did
exactly what we wanted to do mission
accomplished and of course you know then
we had to layoff 15,000 people what are
you gonna do competition would start
kicking in yeah yeah there it is if I
may there are some people who want to
equate Trump's sort of phony opposition
to globalization with Bernie's what
Bernie's real opposition to the problems
caused by globalization and
neoliberalism and like some of his
rhetoric some of Bernie's rhetoric has
sounded somewhat economically
nationalists but I think they're coming
at the problem from two very very
different directions and especially
lately I've seen some good good stuff
coming from the Bernie camp on how to
deal with these problems in a way that
is actually constructive which involves
supporting an internationalist workers
movement not closing the borders well
the the the bottom line is and when we
talk to our guest today is that these
trade deals among other things not
necessarily favor one come a country
over another it favors one class of
individuals over the exactly and that in
that respect it's there's a certain
reciprocity we're gonna get Mexican
Mexican millionaires and billionaires
richer and we're gonna get American
millionaires and billionaires richer so
it's truly bilateral so win win you win
wing but we will talk to her momentarily
in the meantime you've heard me today we
have two sponsors today that I am super
excited about both products that I use
well I guess technically daily I
certainly used my toothbrush daily one
would hope one would certainly hope in
fact I use it more than daily I use it
at least twice daily go for three
sometimes I do when you think of the
perfect gift you probably don't think of
an electric toothbrush but the quip
electric toothbrush is one of the most
gift guided gifts of the season oh I
guess that means they're in a bunch of
the gift guides for me I've actually
given the quip as a gift it is it's a
good gift it is the perfect sibling or
[Music]
like family gift I don't know if I would
give it to like you know you're it's not
a romantic gift but you're trying to say
I'm just saying my breath not good
enough no I'm not what
dangerous that's right that's right but
here's why it's the prayer it's perfect
for everyone with a mouth and they'll
use it twice a day no think of you you
know I have I have a quip
I don't know if this is even gonna come
up in this but they have a special
all-black one yeah I'm actually thinking
about buying a new toothbrush because
it's more stylish plus a multi-use cover
that mounts to mirrors and unmount it's
not in the ad I shouldn't probably even
talked about it and unmount the slide
over the bristles quip makes holiday
travels clean and easy and with
sensitive sonic vibrations it's gentle
enough for sensitive gums better yet the
built-in timer pulses to remind you when
to switch sides
it is you'd be surprised how important
that is I love my quip it is an it is
the only electric truth route that I
think you can actually travel with
without feeling like you're a dork it's
stylish super effective makes it super
easy to clean and when they send you the
refills it reminds you to change your
brush heads that's why I love my quip
and why they have over 5000 verified
five-star reviews quip looks like a big
ticket tech gift with a stocking stuffer
price starting at just 25 bucks and if
you go to get quip dot-com slash
majority right now you get your first
refill pack free with a quip electric
toothbrush but you don't have to tell
your giftee that you just go and get
your first refill pack free at get quip
g-e-t qu i p.com slash majority this
next sponsor ok I've mentioned this
before our immediate broker sends us a
list of companies to approve of I barely
ever get to look at that list because
it's just I don't have the time
occasionally I go in there and I look
and see what the products are because
I'm not going to approve of stuff that I
think is dicey or whatever it is one of
those times it was last year probably
right around now I saw a story worth
story worth makes it easy and fun for
your loved ones to share their stories
so you can get to know them in a whole
new way with questions you never thought
to ask alright so here's how it works
you purchase a subscription for someone
you love
or someone you like someone you're
interested in each week story Worth
sends them an email with a question
about their life they simply reply with
their story or they can record it over
the phone by calling the story worth
numbers so you they can dictate it all
stories are private they're only shared
with family that you choose you can
easily and securely save and edit all
your stories on story worth comm and
after a year the stories will be bound
into a beautiful keepsake book brings
families together every week it's a
great way to connect with your loved
ones you learn about your relatives
preserve your memories for future
generations if you want to do like a
family tree type of thing you send it
out to all your family members a story
worth makes a great gift for the
holidays and any of your loved ones who
enjoy telling stories and you know what
more so from my perspective this is why
I did I sent it both my parents because
I don't know much about their lives even
now cuz I was never terribly interested
and but I realize like you know you want
this chart you know I mean you know your
kid I don't yeah as a kid you don't care
my daughter could care less about my
life now or before clearly but someday
when she gets older she's gonna be like
I wonder what dad was like as a kid you
know when you get you get more mature
hopefully hopefully
so I sent to both my parents we're
compiling this stuff now we're almost at
the end of the year must have been for
Hanukkah last year and then I'm gonna
send them a book I'm gonna send my
sister's books from my parents it works
multiple different ways so you can get
20 bucks off visit story worth comm
slash majority when you subscribe that
story worth sto ry worth wor th comm
slash majority 420 bucks off this is a
great idea
it's a good idea I might actually do
that it is sometimes you got to get on
some of the parents what I'm not gonna
I'm not gonna name names one of my
parents was a little more diligent about
it then then the other parent I'm not
gonna I'm not gonna I don't think I
divorced a long time ago I'm not gonna
open old wounds but but you just got to
get on them and then when they do it's
great and but it's I think something I
may do for my sister's to send to my
sisters and then I can give that to my
kids that's the thing you can get the
gifts come in both ways
all right look enough of that but it's
it's exciting to have a product that you
like all right I'm gonna just touch on
this briefly next week we'll have marcy
wheeler on the program to talk about
this in a greater detail but what has
happened with mana fort over the past
couple days is a big big deal here is
the two or three-minute wrap-up you'll
recall in September Muller made a big
plea deal with Paul Manafort strip Paul
Manafort of all his assets he's broke
now totally broke but 46 million dollars
came in paid for the Muller
investigation okay they said they got
him on a couple of charges they got him
off on another charges but it was all
contingent upon him being truthful and
providing good information so yesterday
or the day before Muller announces guess
what Paul Manafort has been lying to us
we now he's been lying to us we are
going to lay out at his sentencing
hearing cuz we want him now to go to
jail all of the details about what he
lied to us and at that time it became
apparent that Muller didn't even need
man afford to prove whatever they needed
to prove because they knew everything
that he was giving them was a lot
and then the question becomes why would
you do that why would Paul Manafort lie
to Muller
well mana fort is not the brightest he
has gotten away with this stuff for
decades he thought he could pull the
wool over men afford over Muller's eyes
he's banking on a pardon from the Trump
administration and by copping a plea he
doesn't have to pay for lawyers who are
litigating all these cases and if he
knows he's gotten a pardon he knows he's
getting a pardon how does he know he's
getting a pardon there's probably some
contact with the Trump administration
but that means the flow of information
is going to different ways
Manta Ford is finding out he's gonna get
a pardon and maybe mana Ford is sending
back information the other way to Donald
Trump telling him that what's going on
with the investigation what are they
asking what is Manta Ford saying in his
lies unfair right so comes out today in
The Guardian that Paul Manafort was
visiting Julian Assange
in the embassy since 2013 probably doing
all sorts of different type of work with
WikiLeaks in some way unless he was just
a real fan of WikiLeaks felt very
strongly about the work they were doing
with Chelsea Manning right he was
looking for hacked emails he was looking
for information or other things by 2016
he visits right before in the month of
March a lot of things go down in March
right after he visits Julian Assange the
phishing email leads to the hack of a
DES is personal email Trump names
Papadopoulos page Carter pages advisers
Papadopoulos lunches with miss food or
myths flood and Putin's niece
Papadopoulos just went to jail
incidentally mana for named the unpaid
convention manager all within 10 or 15
days of that meeting
20 days Muller probably knew all this
there is apparently videotape I'm saying
that only because nobody said that but
they are there's a description of what
mana fort was wearing when he went into
the embassy here's the thing if it's the
case that mana fort was sending back
information to trump this is what I'm
telling Muller we're really pulling the
wool over this guy's eyes Donald Trump
probably in took that information and
then spewed it back out when he wrote
his written questions written answers to
the questions that Muller had asked him
which was submitted last week so you
understand the dynamic here this is a
case of a teacher giving a test I'm
gonna give a special test to you Matt
because you're gonna be sick or you're
going away so we're gonna give you the
test five days early here's the test
Matt you fill it out you go tell your
buddies what's on the test they fill it
out also for the test they they write in
the answers for the test but it turns
out your teacher pulled a fast one on
you Matt the teacher knew that you were
not terribly disturbing how much school
is this I think it's amazing if this is
actually what happened Matt um he gave
you a fake test to see if you would pass
it to your buddy and when that test came
back from your body he realized he did
except for the difference here is not
just that you flunk it's that you've
perjured yourself about stuff they
already knew and then the worst cover-up
ever
we will be talking we will be talking to
Marcy wheeler about this in about four
or five days hopefully not too much more
will happen but this is going to be this
is we're headed towards crazy bill yep
that's what he said I mean that's what I
said that's obviously what the position
is yeah
incidentally Paul Manafort is going to
probably spend the better part of the
rest of his days in prison unless there
of course is a pardon but it turns out a
lot of those things that Muller will now
be recharging manifold with are also
state violations as well and Manta Ford
has no cash to fight those all right
we're gonna take a quick break when we
come back
Alicia Galvez on eating nafta obesity
diabetes and free trade we'll be right
back
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program the author of
eating NAFTA trade food policies and the
destruction of Mexico she is a professor
of Latin American and Latino Studies at
City University of New York and an
anthropologist by training
Alicia Galvez welcome to the program
thanks so much it's a pleasure to be
here so are obviously our relationship
with Mexico has been in the news trade
has been in the news recently Donald
Trump I guess
tentatively renegotiated NAFTA let just
I guess let's just start with the
question of like why approach NAFTA and
this relationship between Mexico and the
United States from from the perspective
of food and eating well it's one of the
ways that trade gets to us really it's a
it's one of the most direct ways that
our lives are impacted by trade deals
most of us are not you know dealing and
you know chips or circuitry or car parts
or airplane parts but all of us eat it's
one of the best ways that we have to
kind of see how these things operate and
so is it it is that particular in terms
of our relationship with Mexico I mean
or is it particularly with our
relationship with Mexico yeah it's not
exclusive with Mexico but there's no
country that we have a closer
relationship to in terms of our food
systems so we get I live in New York
City and you know much of fresh fruit
and vegetables that I eat comes from
from Mexico and a few other trading
partners we also get stuff obviously
from Chile and from New Zealand and
things like that but there there is a
lot of the produce that gets consumed in
the United States is coming
Mexico and they're consuming a lot of
our commodity grains a lot of the corn
and soy and wheat that gets produced in
the United States is being consumed on
the Mexican side in the form both of
processed foods and beverages but also
animal feed which is contributing to a
you know large growth in terms of the
market for for me so alright so let's I
mean give us let's go back and give us a
little bit of the the sort of the pre
NAFTA history I guess and and then and
then we'll go into NAFTA because that
dynamic of this exchange of food is I
mean largely a function of NAFTA in many
respects right well NAFTA is really a
product of the thinking of a few mainly
University of Chicago educated
economists who were operating in all
three countries so Mexico's economic
policymakers typically have studied in
the University of Chicago as have US
policymakers and Canadian as well I
assume and we have a you know Milton
Friedman you know motivated orientation
towards the free market towards taking
down barriers to trade and the interest
of the expansion of capitalism that you
know really comes to dominate thinking
about economic development and economic
policy in the 20th century and not
thinking you know basically prefers
foreign direct investment taking away
any sort of barriers to cross-border
trade getting rid of tariffs and
subsidies and things like that so that
capital and goods can flow freely across
borders that sort of thinking was so
dominant that you know Margaret Thatcher
famously said at one point there is no
alternative you know this is kind of the
economic model that Reagan Thatcher is
I'm produced
and we see it you know turning into very
concrete policy proposals so NAFTA is
one of those policy proposals and the
idea is to sort of knit together the
three countries of North America into a
single economic market unlike you know
other examples we can think of like the
European community that took away
barriers to the circulation of people we
never really had a serious conversation
about taking away barriers to people but
we did try to take away barriers to
goods and capital to try to create a
single unified market and that was where
NAFTA came from you know and we should
say this was a longtime libertarian
policy agenda in many respects this
internationalism this is you know one of
the things I think that came out of Mont
Pelerin was this this notion of of
bringing down these barriers to capital
and on some level sort of fighting
against the sovereignty of nations at
least in this respect right it's and and
I think actually we interviewed someone
about it we're looking for the name
right now but we this was a long term
agenda and in many respects NAFTA was a
it wasn't the culmination it was at one
of the one of the culminations I guess
and so yeah so this all right so this
dynamic I mean this is really
fundamentally the the issue isn't it or
is it that there is a disequilibrium in
terms of what can what can cross borders
easily and what can't or who can't yeah
well there are a few problems and maybe
because I'm not an economist maybe
because I'm an anthropologist I'm able
to see some of those problems and ways
that they're visible perhaps to me in
ways that they aren't other disciplines
because there are some sort of
taken-for-granted mantras within the
sort of thinking that I find a little
bit hard to understand and hard to
believe so the one of them
is the idea that what NAFTA is is free
trade and if we you know kind of look at
what free trade is supposed to be it's
supposed to be getting rid of barriers
to trade getting rid of subsidies
anything that kind of artificially gets
in the way of the market doing its thing
but if we look at NAFTA NAFTA was never
a Free Trade Agreement and spite of its
name the United States never got rid of
its subsidies we still famously you know
pay farmers to grow corn whether we need
corn or not to grow wheat to grow
commodity soybeans etc and so we have a
market that's already not a free you
know marketplace where supply and demand
are determining everything so that's one
thing another idea that's very sacred
and the sort of thinking is the idea of
comparative advantage and this is the
idea that you know if one place is good
at something they should do all of that
thing and other plate so if the US is
good at corn the US should produce all
the corn for everybody who wants corn
and nobody else should bother because
they can't do it as well as the United
States can and so maybe Mexico can build
airplanes and work on car parts and
leave the corn growing to the US this is
a very central idea to NAFTA and it's
part of the reason why NAFTA is such a
problem for public health and Mexican
culture and for the health of people in
the United States as well because
basically not all corn is the same the
commodity corn that we grow in in Iowa's
not edible it's not sustainable in the
same way that heirloom corn landrace
corn is in in small-scale farming in
Mexico it can't be eaten the same way
can be used the same way it doesn't have
the same symbolic or cultural value so
there's this idea of sort of equivalent
that gets constructed that's really not
not very logical or coherent and then
related to that yeah sorry
okay well you know what I mean I just
want to I want to just flag that because
I want to return to that dynamic I think
it's really
to talk about but-but-but continue and
what we'll come back around yeah no just
related to that and this may be what
you're thinking about is the idea of
efficiency and again you know I'm not an
economist but my understanding of
efficiency is that it's a ratio is you
know you look at what you put in and you
look at what you get out and if you get
a lot out for what you put in and
something is you know it's pretty it's a
pretty good deal it's a pretty good
effort and when we look at corn you know
part of the logic for the United States
growing everybody is corn is the idea
that the u.s. is more efficient at
growing corn and that Mexican
small-scale subsistence farming is
inefficient but again if we think about
the ratio we have to think about what's
going in and what's coming out and to
get the incredibly massive yields per
hectare that we get in US commodity corn
we have to look at all of the inputs we
have to look at the patented corn the
the seeds we have to look at the
chemicals we have to look at roundup
that's being sprayed on the crops we
have to look at the million dollar
tractors we have to look at the
administrative wings of most farm
operations where they're you know
applying for and administering the
subsidies that are coming from the
federal government estimate if we look
at small-scale subsistence farming
oftentimes the plots of land are so
small and irregular that you can't even
have a tractor it makes no sense to have
a tractor they might be rain fed or they
might be irrigated partially the seeds
are saved from one year to the next so
nobody is you know making a profit seeds
are not intellectual property very few
chemicals are often used and so we see
you know yes very small yields but
there's very little that's going into
that production and in fact that's
damaging the the environment far less
than you know the much more chemically
intensive production all right well so I
I want to go back let me let me let's
just go back over that I want to talk
first just to to go back to the
of free trade and that and and I will
say that you know there are I mean there
are economists who make the point Dean
Baker comes to mind who says like these
aren't free trade I mean we hear that
you know and whether it's TPP or this
it's not really free trade it's just a
word that's associated with it and it
sounds good but I mean and and you're
not an economist but I mean can we I
mean are there examples even of free
trade I mean do we I mean is it I mean I
guess maybe within the context of the
European Union within the context of it
yeah you see you see free trade there
but I mean we don't maybe in the
consideration yeah I can't point to any
I can't point to any because I mean it's
it's it can lead to some you know
cruelties they're they're harsh aspects
to the market you can have people plant
and or nothing and you can have people
you know grow more than the market wants
and and go bankrupt you know there's a
lot of unpredictable factors you know
I'm I'm not an expert in this but you
know part of the reason we have
subsidies is just try to smooth those
things over but but what we end up
having is a very hybrid system that's
protecting some the interests of some
are being protected and some are being
insulated from exposure to risk while
others are bearing all the risks and
that's the point of my book really is
that you know they're you know the the
little guy in all three countries is
bearing more of the risk you know this
is rhetoric about Mexico winning and the
u.s. losing is a false rhetoric because
it's working people in all three
countries that are losing its people who
are vulnerable to the vagaries of the
market who you know have feast or famine
situations in terms of the jobs
available to them and you know we're
left with the crumbs after everything
else has sort of been sorted out by by
the power brokers who were you know the
1% and the corporation's who are really
managing these situations to their own
benefit and for their own
motives in all three countries but it's
it's working people who are who are left
with you know a really miserable
situation and that's the losing and the
winning that we have to be attentive to
all right and I want to go through how
how those folks are losing here and in
Mexico I'd like to try and keep it on
the down low but so but but I wouldn't
but but one of the ways that that
certainly Mexicans are losing is a
function of what you were talking about
in terms of the corn which i think is
fascinating so the idea of this
comparative advantage suggests that if
something's called corn in the United
States it's the same thing as corn in
Mexico and it is is not and the nature
of our corn when used in the way that
Mexicans use corn is I mean it's like
it's almost like poison right I mean
yeah so okay walk us through that
because I this dynamic I think is
fascinating because you know the the
idea is like what difference does it
make in addition to the fact that we're
what what we're doing in terms of
displacement of people in in in rural
areas in Mexico I want to talk about
that but just let's just talk about the
cultural use of of corn as a food
product when it comes from the United
States it's not the same corn and that
means something right
so I think about 95 percent of the corn
grown in the United States is one of two
varieties that have been engineered to
be very high starch and sugar content
they have less fiber less protein than
than heirloom raises of corn and they
have been basically grow cultivated over
time to to engineered over time to
produce characteristics that are
favorable to industrial uses
so a lot virtually all of that corn
doesn't get eaten in any way that we
think of as corn right when we think of
you know sweet corn that we eat in
August you know with butter and salt on
it at a you know a picnic or a barbecue
that corn is not what we're talking
about when we talk about corn in the
United States that's a tiny little
infinitesimal fraction of the corn
cultivation in the United States but the
vast majority of it we never see is corn
its speed its industrial corn that's
going straight into corn syrups corn
starch is corn fillers cornmeal and and
and almost every product on the Shelf in
your supermarket you pull down and you
will see some it will either explicitly
say corn starch or it will be some other
ingredient that you cannot pronounce
that is based upon corn in some way
virtually everything that's in a box and
not in saran wrap essentially in your
supermarket probably has this unless it
explicitly is trying to sell itself as
without corn I think even McDonald's
chicken nuggets have more corn than
chicken you know these are it's
everywhere it's everywhere
if you've you know you pull out a hair
from the average Americans head and test
it you know we're people with the corn
far more than anybody else historically
we are corn it's in everything we eat
and and I have a list that I you know
cite from from another source in my book
and one of the footnotes I think it's 45
different terms of chemicals and and
product ingredients that go by other
names maltose dextrose all of the you
know all the different ways guises that
that corn might be hiding in in
industrialized food products ethanol
right it gets used for ethanol it gets
used for all kinds of it doesn't factory
farming of of meat essentially yeah
which by the way I mean I'm you know I'm
not new providing any new information on
this but you know we can look at Michael
Pollan's work
in terms of how you know cows are not
meant to eat corn and so if you feed
them a diet based on corn you have to
give them antibiotics and other things
to enable them to digest it because
their grass feeders anyway there's a lot
of there's a whole bunch of it right
there's a lot of issues that are
problematic about our essentially our
corn policy in this country it was the
early seventies when we decided we want
consumers to have more spending power
and one of the ways that we did that is
our government began to subsidize corn
heavily because it would make food
products cheaper and a smaller portion
of our disposable income would go
towards food and then theoretically we
would buy more products etc etc that
that is that's that's a first order
problem for the United States it's a
second order problem for Mexico because
when this corn gets to Mexico they don't
use it to as filler in their products
they don't use it as a sugar substitute
they don't use it to feed their cattle
they use it in the way that they have
always used corn which is very different
than way we do and well thank you baby
both right so so when we when when US
corn because we have so much of it we
try to get everybody else to use it too
right so Mexico since NAFTA has vastly
increased its consumption of processed
foods and vastly increased its
consumption of soda of livestock of meat
and so all of these things are things
that are built on on on that cheap corn
all of the offshoot industries that have
transformed the Mexican diet and so the
way that the average Mexican eat is much
more similar today because of NAFTA to
the standard American diet than it ever
was before NAFTA so that is they are
eating it the way that we eat it as well
but they also have a tradition of having
a corn based diet the made by based diet
that meant by the cornfield where you
have intercropped corn beans and squash
which goes back you know thousands of
years in the region and their tortillas
the staple food in the Mexican diet
historically tamales de correos I could
go on and on and on all the things that
Mexicans jokingly called beep I mean
that they vitamin T all the words of
wonderful words that start with T
including tacos the you know the the
corn based diet is is based on heirloom
varieties of corn which incredibly
nutritious when they're combined with
beans they're a perfect protein you
actually don't need any animal protein
apart from that although people you know
people did eat animal protein but
generally a much smaller quantity than
they do today and they grind it they
they mix them alive it which is a
wonderful way of infusing it with
mineral lime which releases and makes it
bioavailable the niacin the vitamin B
that makes corn so nutritious and
prevents pellagra and other deficiencies
that we see when corn is eaten without
that sort of processing that that that
release of the vitamins and nutrients
and they you know have a marvelous
variety of uses for the corn what we're
seeing now which is really tragic it was
scandalous a couple of weeks ago there
was a revelation that a lot of the
tortillas that are being eaten in Mexico
are coming from my Seco which is dried
corn flour that comes in a sack that you
can get it at the supermarket you can
get it in any US supermarket these days
as well as every supermarket in Mexico
and Mexico has sort the ideas which with
fresh tortilla factories that are also
frequently now using this dried bagged
commercial corn flour that commercial
corn flour is still supposed to be
produced from Mexican corn because
Mexican the Mexican government has
prohibited GMO corn it is prohibited
monsanto from from testing its it's GMO
corn in the mexican environment but
guess what my fake guys
full of glyphosate it's full of GMO corn
and so this is a sign that either
Mexicans are being fed corn that was
never intended to be eaten in the form
of tortillas and so the corporations are
passing off us corn as Mexican corn or
there's corn being grown in Mexico
that's being purchased from Monsanto so
either way this is a problem it's a
problem for house it's a problem for for
the economy it's a problem for small
corn growers and we're seeing you know
all of the array of health problems that
stem from this kind of invest realized
food diet all the non communicable
diseases that diabetes has become the
number one killer in Mexico since NAFTA
we've seen this explosion of health
issues yeah I mean let's talk about that
because the implications of this are
obviously on people's health on public
policy on the expenditures of the
government I mean it has a ripple effect
and it is I mean how how big of a change
is it on the culture of of Mexico and on
the life of Mexico and just sort of
mexican society I mean yeah easy for
people to sort of you know well okay
there's a higher rate of diabetes you
know it happens I mean I think right
like I mean just how what what kind of
impact does this have well it's it's a
whole array of issues so one is the
disruption in the countryside which has
displaced so many people so a lot of
people are no longer living and the
places are in the communities that they
grew up in and there's a very strong
link between trauma and violence and
diabetes and so as many as 10% of the
Mexican population moved to the United
States after NAFTA right so when we hear
you know the President and other people
talking about an immigration issue it's
an issue that was produced by US policy
because it displaced so many people from
the countryside so you have people
living in new environments eating in new
ways experiencing trauma that makes the
body changes the way the body
metabolizes sugar and then you have a
completely transformed food environment
in which
you know Mexico is now number one
consumer in the world of instant noodles
people can't afford both in terms of
time and money they can't afford to eat
their traditional foods which are
labor-intensive which require access to
fresh ingredients and so people are
eating ramen noodles and they're having
a Coke a liter of coke while they work
because it provides sugar and caffeine
to get you through the workday when you
don't have time or money to eat a proper
meal and the consequences are severe
because diabetes so it's number one
killer but you know when we think about
diabetes in the United States we often
think about it as you know something
that nobody wants to have but it's a
pretty manageable thing for most people
it gets addressed early and it can be it
can be dealt with over over decades in
Mexico it tends to be diagnosed much
later and it tends much more often to be
fatal
so people are you know being diagnosed
at a stage when they can no longer
reverse the effects through you know
either
diet and exercise or or insulin
treatment and so we see you know this
incredible death toll which is actually
you know bigger each year than the
entire drug war put together and you
know we we have a lot of information
about that right there Netflix series
you know scandalous news reports every
day of the week about drug violence but
we don't hear about the slow death of
diabetes is claiming many more lives so
ok so let's let's talk about that the
the the the second aspect or at least in
terms of like the the dynamic between
the free flow of capital which you know
we clearly have here right and these
these these theories coming out of these
neoliberal policies coming out of the
University of Chicago these like I guess
libertarian
policies that are quite similar in terms
of of globalism that came out of Mont
Pelerin and I and it was Quin Slobodan
who had written a book the end of Empire
and the birth of neoliberalism they
talked about at least this agenda in
theory right and NAFTA is it in practice
and so what so what would it look like
if I mean how is the idea cuz you the
the the book essentially says the idea
of NAFTA the problem is not that we
shouldn't have a relationship a trade
relationship with with Mexico the
problem is this is a relationship that
benefits only one class of people and
right so how would how would it be
different and if it if it was a trade
agreement that benefited all the classes
of people or at the very least maybe it
excluded the capital you know these
billionaires with all due respect to our
large billionaire contingent that
listens to the program but I mean what
would it look like and what would be the
different dynamics in terms of
immigration and in terms of I mean what
give us a sense of what it would look
like yeah if properly done and what may
be the broad policy strokes would be to
get there right well Sam I don't know
did you get your invitation to the trade
talks because mine seems to have gotten
lost in the mail I don't think that we
were invited to sit down at this table
we were not part of the discussion and I
think that you know when I say we I mean
everybody right like all of us who who
are impacted by these deals but we're
not at the table who is at the table you
know trade deals are negotiated under
what's called fast fast-track Authority
which is basically when Congress thinks
that something's going to be too sticky
to get through our democratic channels a
normal way they send it behind closed
doors they have you know negotiators who
are deputized to work on behalf of
government they hammer out a deal and
then they come back and tell us what the
deal is and and our congressional
representatives have the option to voted
up or down oftentimes the deal itself is
pretty much a black box right we already
know that Congress people don't always
read the bills that are not being
negotiated behind closed doors but these
are really giant deals with a lot of
complexity and everybody just kind of
lets the trade negotiators who've been
you know deputized to do this for us sit
down at the table and work it out for us
there are a lot of really scary things
in this deal in the original NAFTA but
also in the new newly revised version of
NAFTA so one of the things is these
trade arbitration courts that are sort
of a supranational realm where the
investor dispute resolution yeah they
can they can sue Mexico or the United
States they can they have you know kind
of power to sue governments for not
adhering to the rules of trade just for
protecting their own people so Mexico
can actually be found liable to vote for
violating the terms of NAFTA because it
wants to for example keep GMO corn
outside out of it out of its economy or
it wants to protect its local corn
growers you know these are things that
are very problematic for our idea of
democracy and we you know we're not
being consulted so if if and in
corporations by the way in theory are
also not at the table but we already
know that there's a revolving door
between a lot of agencies in Washington
and the corporate sector to begin with
so we can't imagine that there's really
a firewall between corporate interests
and government negotiators anyway but
they have other ways they have you know
right marketing budget without a doubt
and and you know under under Obama
it was a former city bank employee who
you know city city group Froman and I
mean their industry industry and they
are getting you know under TPP anyways
they were getting a lot of the heads up
on what was being negotiated but putting
aside the dispute resolution thing which
essentially strips countries of their
sovereignty does not
penalizes and it also can penalized
States too if a specific state wants to
protect you know a specific you know the
stay DPA wants to pass like they've got
it they could theoretically end up
having to pay hundreds of millions of
dollars to just simply exercise the will
of the people through their own
government or they will not do it
because they don't want to get involved
in lawsuits but getting to that claim
getting to the the other parts that are
sort of a you know more you know
structural like what would Reich like in
terms of people what would the people
raiment of this be and how it implicates
immigration well one of the things that
we would want to think about profit you
know is is why did we leave people off
of the table right I mean we've got you
know tear gas being sprayed it babies on
Sunday at the us-mexico border that
border why why is it why do we feel such
a need to wall off our trading partner
what if we didn't militarize that border
and instead of just letting goods and
and capital flow we actually allowed
people legally to go where their jobs
are you know that would be one thing to
consider it would solve a lot of issues
another thing to consider would be what
would it look like if our food system
had food at its heart and not industrial
commodities at its heart right so
instead of thinking about how much you
know industrial corn and soy we can grow
what if fruits and vegetables were given
priority what if we you know if we were
going to subsidize things
why not subsidize things that are
actually good for us
bitter expensive you know fruit
shouldn't be a luxury item when we go to
the supermarket it shouldn't be you know
I'm going to splurge today on a pound of
grapes but that's the situation that
were in today
and you know our health and our
well-being are being put secondary to
corporate interests so if we actually
had people at the table who said well
these are the ripple effects this is
what this is going to mean in terms of
diet related illness over the long run
if people don't have access to fruits
and vegetables and they're being you
know inundated and and buried by this
avalanche of processed foods we might
have a very different approach to trade
and just the idea of progress and
prosperity it would look very very
different so is there is there is is is
that concept of comparative advantage is
that even salvageable because it occurs
to me that there's just like you know
too many things are too integrated in
many ways I mean there's two issues with
it right one is too many things are too
integrated in too many ways into a
society if it's a significant portion
you know as measured by a significant
portion of the economy or even just in
terms of people's daily life if there
was some other metric to measure that a
and B that also raises some issues in
terms of the security food security I
mean just I mean you see it maybe it's
more on man right right
yeah and we're so susceptible we're so
we're so compartmentalized we have you
know such a small handful of producers
giant behemoth corporate monsters that
are controlling our entire food system
that if there's one problem it ripples
out and it can it can make millions of
us vulnerable
you know we nobody had Caesar salad for
the last week because you know there was
a coli in our food system and it's so
complicated and so big that you know
it's not like you can isolate okay
that's the romaine that needs to be
destroyed because it might have been
contaminated we have to assume that the
entire system is contaminated because
it's so giant at such an integrated
system that's a problem mono cultures
are a problem we shouldn't be growing so
much corn in the United States we should
be having a more bio diverse
agricultural system where we're
producing more things than just
commodity corn coming out of our years
so you know there's there environmental
issues health issues economic reasons
and cultural reasons why you know Mexico
should still grow corn we should be
growing a multitude of of crops and a
multitude of ways to protect ourselves
from from you know but from climate
change from you know if there's some
super bug that comes through that gets
around the roundup think about you know
the famine that could result because
we're all depending on these mono crops
so we need a system that's that's more
balanced you know I I don't want to get
rid of global trade I live in the
Northeast I would be eating apples and
potatoes nine months a year
I like having avocados but how can we
strive for a system that is a
recognition of our codependence of the
diversity of our palates and of our of
our societies right where we have access
to a variety of products but we don't
have a system that's so precarious and
that's so razor focused only on
corporate profit alright lastly Alicia
if I could just ask is Jamie just came
back from Chiapas and saw a caravan of
internally displaced people nearly a
thousand or so maybe a little more than
a thousand and what what is your sense
of when you see internally displaced
ostensibly coming from rural areas
ostensibly by you know paramilitary
groups probably yeah doing the bidding
of of the government / corporate patrons
what mean where does that fit into this
yeah it's all interrelated the security
issues you know Mexico has had to
somewhat perversely modify you know its
government's mission to suit this model
of foreign direct investment and
development which really leave
a lot of things that a healthy society
needs outside and it leaves them you
know it leaves them in the cold you know
a healthy society needs a robust system
of laws and legal accountability so that
you know people who are you know taking
those old cornfields and michoacán and
turning them to opium you know face
consequences for doing that and the
organized crime that's that's so rampant
you know the new president coming in has
said you know accountability and
transparency in the legal system is the
number one issue that he has to tackle
and everything is sort of radiating out
from that but a lot of it you know when
we see in Central America when we see
that the migrant caravans that are
crossing borders and that and the
caravans of people who are internally
displaced a lot of them are running from
the worst wounds caused by this sort of
neoliberal model of development that's
making it impossible for people to stay
it's making it impossible for them to
you know david bacon has this you know
the right to stay the right to leave the
right to stay and a lot of us you know
in the united states who are worried
about migrant rights you know are
worried about how are we treating
migrants and refugees but we also have
to think about do people have the option
of not migrating can they stay where
they are and you know have access to to
the basic necessities of life and
increasingly the answer is no because of
climate change and because of these you
know these organized crime networks that
are making life impossible and a lot of
communities and i think you know we have
to really reconsider what we think you
know in the book I'm writing a lot about
food security but I think it's security
food is one aspect but it's how we think
about all of these things and I think
we've boiled down our notion of security
to this really paranoid narrow notion of
like protecting ourselves from terrorism
which you know there's there are other
kinds of terrorism behind besides
the other way it sort of conventionally
defined and it that includes you know
being unable to stay where you are
yep and we also have to of course
protect ourselves from the caravan Misha
Galvez the book is eating NAFTA trade
food policies and the destruction of
Mexico thank you so much for your time
today I really thank you all right folks
gonna take a quick break heading to the
fun half it bonus time today super bonus
folks don't forget this program exists
because of its members you can help
support this program the the free part
of the program and then as a thank you
we give you extra content every day by
becoming a member of the majority report
simply go over to join the majority
report calm click on the link become a
member
choose your membership if you want to do
a one-off donation instead of becoming a
member that's fine too
if you don't have the funds but you want
the fun half send us an email at
majority reporters at gmail.com we will
help you out we never turn anybody away
for finances also reminder we are now 45
days away from the live majority reports
show and how fast are tickets selling
extremely fast like sacks of potatoes
sacks of potatoes there they are selling
with the same ease in which sacks of
potatoes fall from high distances you
can go to majority report radio.com
majority dot F M and click the link or
you can head over to the Brooklyn pod
fest and I would also imagine you could
find it at the Bell House website as
well we are doing the live show January
13th 2:30 p.m. on a Sunday it is 18 and
over so if you are 18 and over you can
come
tickets 15 bucks gonna be a fun time may
have a special guest they not we may not
even show I'm working of course will
show just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off tonight is Tuesday
November 27th though the Michael Brooks
show Richard Wolffe is here that is
gonna be a major showdown the tension
between him and David Griscom is
electric Richard Wolfe actually and I
talked to about this on the phone over
break so a lot of people are saying it's
like Nicki Minaj and cardi B it's sort
of like Nicki Minaj and cardi B I think
of it more in terms of a sort of you
know rising like maybe like the Genovese
family trying to open new turf in the
game against the Gambino's I think
that's how I seen Nicki Minaj and cardi
B you think of it I could see that
although I think they're equivalent
families I was going with the yeah
that's all Michael Brooks show you know
all right whoa Michael Brooks show on
YouTube we're streaming live at 7:00
we're also covering northern ireland's
and brexit and for the michael brooks
live show on February 1st
it's like empty sacks of potatoes or how
fast those are going so boom get yours
also on the majority report fill your
sack or empty fill or empty your sack or
whatever they're also there at the Bell
House and it's a Friday February 1st 21
and above the air of all day matinee
access for everyone is over Jamie yeah
so Sean and I just got back from Mexico
apologies if I'm still a little bit out
of it I got in pretty late last night
but we had the honor of visiting the
autonomous Zapatista community of ov
antique and seeing their principles in
action they're basically libertarian
socialists although they don't identify
strictly with any historical tendency
they've made it clear that they're their
own thing so that was us with a
libertarian perspective
[Laughter]
and it ties in with a lot of what we
were just talking about actually in the
interview so we're working on putting
together an episode based around that in
the meantime we also have a crossover
edition of history as a weapon with Jake
Flores and Alex Batac of the show pod
damn America in which Sean and Jake and
Alex go over the history ideology and
practice of the Industrial Workers of
the world or IWW which is a famous
revolutionary Union check that out
patreon.com the Intifada and Matt yeah
literary hangover recent naps have been
on sort of Massachusetts Bay Colony and
racism and feminism and things like that
coming up this week for patrons will be
more of my narration I'm gonna try to do
to finish up hope Leslie for people so
you can check that out and the week
after that is my democracy in Chains
breakdown so wait for that one democracy
in Chains is a great book it's very
funny to see how well I'm not gonna I'm
not gonna leave don't let the area
exactly alright folks yeah quick break
heading to the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number see you there
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report and I neglected to call into the
phone at six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
yesterday I neglected the AIIMS
the cultural of neglect it was it's just
it's just total neglect around here
let me go to jonathan Armstead sam today
is the 40th anniversary of Harvey Milk's
assassination Wow
I realize about 40 years on this day and
as discussion of identity politics
distract some people I'd like to remind
folks of Harvey's most important idea of
identity the US is in his mind whether
it was the union organizing integrating
the san francisco police force or
working with immigrant communities
Harvey Milk's work extended beyond that
of a mayor gay rights leader in his
words hope for a better world included
everyone as to quote without hope not
only gays but the blacks the seniors the
handicapped the us is the US is will
give up so the good moon every give him
was that a good movie the was a shot
that's pretty good I mean I think it's
worth seeing okay self commissioned
officer well Sam you did it you found a
guest corn ear then Kindler Congrats
okay that was it that was it and now
there's a ban we're not indulging
anymore I get you banned themes Darwin
Sam two things first why no love from
you yesterday on my tweet to McGinnis ah
yeah themes Darwin one of those tweets I
think we mentioned it didn't we yeah I
think yeah yeah we multi is the way much
yeah you don't need to you know put a
neon sign on that's right
do we downplay those types you
that second I want you to know that your
snub aside I'm psyched to see the
sweater vest making a comeback I was
wondering who was gonna be the first
person to say that
remember the FMR fan motto I'm right I'm
Volk ein sweater vest
Scott cabra I know you guys have
dismissed the pro-gmo side before but
this is getting ridiculous
I dismiss you wait all right guess false
claims of health risks inserting GMOs
and glice of fate undermined her entire
position first of all first of all okay
your your straw Manning this glice of
fate
there has been ample evidence that gly
so fate is has potential carcinogen the
other thing that she said was having a
monoculture and there is no greater
monoculture than roundup corn and
roundup products can create food
insecurity in the event that there is
some type of super bug that can overcome
roundup this is an important issue and
it really hurts
mrs credibility every time the show
uncritically addresses this issue no I
don't think it does they might with you
there's a reason why the scientist the
scientific community is at odds with the
public on this issue you owe it to
yourselves in the audience to
investigate why without dismissing
everyone as a Monsanto shell look we
have made this very very clear very
clear never said that there are health
risks associated with the notion of
genetically modifying crops nothing
necessarily intrinsic to that but there
we do not have examples of of industrial
GMO products that do not have the same
product
problems that you're creating a
monoculture that you're using a
tremendous amount of material that at
least large international organizations
have at least issued concerns that
they're it's a potential carcinogen and
then on top of which I have a lot of
problems with the former Monsanto now
Bayer with the the industrial side of it
I don't care that the science of GMOs is
that it's those specific things in a
vacuum are healthy because I'm talking
about the policy and in the policy it's
in the real world I mean it's
maleeh like the functional equivalent of
saying guns don't kill people people
kill people
yes I know and they kill them with guns
and I don't understand why what what the
what what the argument is I mean Slama
me and explain to me how that benefit
how this benefits people it's logic lord
nerdery run amok but i mean the thing is
if you really want if you're so
passionate about GMOs then you should be
passionate about breaking up these agra
companies and reclaiming science as a
public discipline and then write and do
it that's a long haul so focus on that
i'm not bothering us with nonsense and
you're not just I don't think I'm
getting a Joe Mattos podcast bag man
excellent story the downfall of Spiro
Agnew's story most don't know about it
because it was happening during aura
gate deep into money laundering bribes
secret personal life while governor
continued as VP the IRS caught him so
many parallels to today Brandon Bowl
Green Sam regarding your interview with
Dane yesterday I wanted to warn new
members about hastily forming caucuses
as you know I'm a huge supporter of the
house freedom caucus but recently I got
up I got beat up in my own house and now
whenever I'm traveling my wife is all
right glass steagle seeing the ship rain
livestock that represent the department
of homeland security agencies on the
news the past few days angers me to no
end abolish them all bender dad got my
tics 4mr live bringing home at Sam
please don't insult this technical
prowess this time thank you in advance
left is best all is forgiven all is
forget how do you get to say all's
forgiven when you were the one who did
wrong I mean I forgive my chili I'm
gonna give myself a pass on that I'm
gonna beat myself yeah I think I did
fine
Ayesha those in Mississippi go vote for
Mike SB indeed yeah that's that is
important we should we should signal
boost on that yeah in fact here is just
a clip as on this day it's number 10
just an image of of the front page of
the local paper in Oxford Mississippi as
you know Cindy hyde-smith multiple
examples of her racism that have come
out in the the past weeks not the least
of which her starting talking about
public hangings and a refusal to
apologize at first and then bringing out
who was it the the governor or the mayor
who's talking about governor well
there's a lot of black babies that get
aboard and the real problem is people
are trying to twist her words to drive
us apart right and and then reports
about what's ending to segregated
schools and all sorts of stuff I mean I
don't know if SP has a shot well he has
a shot I mean there's only two people
running but
it's nice at least that the message is
coming from non politicians as well
the first female road Scholar from the
University of Mississippi did an
interview with the local paper the Eagle
and it caught up with the University of
Mississippi senior jazz Brissac I just
like the idea of like we caught up with
her she's moving she's constantly moving
she was named scholars our minor
celebrity well at least in North Dakota
art we know our scholars is that right
Jensen's
not in Massachusetts my friends um was
named the 26th Rhodes Scholar in school
history last week the first female and
she's asked you know sort of how does it
feel to be the first um s first female
scholar
says she's honored to be a role model
for other Mississippi girls looking for
ways to make their voices heard in a
state still very much dominated by
patriarchal structures given that our
state amplifies the voices of white
supremacist women like Cindy hyde-smith
who reinforce and uphold misogynist
policies I'm able to provide I'm glad
I'm able to provide a very different
example of how an empowered Southern
woman acts owned obviously job offer
that's the first thing now something
will have gone really really wrong if
you have to take us up on that as a
Rhodes Scholar but but just know that
job offered you could and and not only
the job offered pick a job you can you
could take mine here frankly I'd like to
do my same impression just like goodness
you got a job I'll call in every now and
then but good for her if you are in
Mississippi go out and vote folks and
don't vote for the racist
I just make that click against Sydney
Heights right speaking out out of
 fear speaking of racists let's
see what's going on over at fox nation
oh well at fox nation there's a big
green screen or is that a video backdrop
I can't quite tell and tell me Lauren
she's still at it
I didn't realize she's in New York now
though isn't she she in New York
where's she living these days and she
have a problem with all those
cosmopolitan types in New York anyways
here she is now we're gonna talk more
about what's going on in Tijuana
obviously there's there's some nuance
into the reality of what's going on
there it is funny to hear the various
right-wing apologists trying to justify
our policies look caravans aren't new
migrants at the border trying to get in
aren't new the idea that many migrants
that the majority of a caravan could be
male is not new but most importantly
none of this is threatening we at the
majority report are willing to offer a
migrant caravan insurance policy the
idea was Dean Baker's I don't know if
we're licensed to do this so it's a
little bit under the table but for 300
bucks
we will insure you up to five thousand
dollars if the migrant Caravan in any
way hurts your home or property or
person if you live in any of the non
contiguous states to the actual fence
but even then we'll do it
get enough people to call it I don't
know if we're license to do it but we'll
try it but meanwhile here's Tony Lauren
it's just searching desperately
searching for something to criticize the
migrants for and are you ready for this
they're rude said them it's an invasion
and an ungrateful one at that in a
recent trip to Tijuana a DW Espanola
reporter interviewed a woman living in a
migrant encampment and she stated the
food she'd been given in the camp was
fit for pigs and that she would die of
hunger if she didn't eat it huh
apparently tortillas and refried beans
aren't good enough for these so-called
asylum seekers imagine that what she's
so dumb not only is it Sarah Palin ex
but here's a very similar cut here's the
thing being stupid I don't hold that
against people it's more it's not just
being stupid there's a lot of stupid
people who are perfectly nice who are
perfectly aware of their limitations but
she is a mean stupid person she's a mean
stupid person who who makes up for her
own stupidity by a sense of superiority
that really is unearned we should say I
mean honestly if you're still toiling
away at fox nation I mean it's one thing
to go off and do something independent
because you have problems with authority
and you can't work for people I
understand that but it's another to be
in this the basement dweller I believe I
terrible
I believe I called the top on her career
a while ago and people were unconvinced
that she might have a future at Fox News
well that's the thing is you would think
but really there must be something like
we we may only see the best of her I was
right about her top but I think you also
said that she might be going centrist
though which was the I don't remember
saying that
I think I said she wasn't choose to
howling but the problem is these my
glutes through that was he's super at
removal these migrant recall the wrong
call I made I do recall saying the
correct thing the issue is of course
that the migrants are rude and are
unhappy with the food that you get the
point is that it's it's not only an
invasion but it's an ungrateful invasion
super ungrateful invasion I don't
appreciate the pepper spray for their
nachos meanwhile I found this video we
sometimes get emails from we get signed
up for all sorts of right-wing stuff and
some type of Republican war room sent us
is you know sent an email saying like
even MSNBC admits the truth about the
migrant caravan and the thing that we've
been hearing for a long time about this
caravan for months is that there was a
lot of military aged men I think it was
that said Gorka said the implication
being I mean you know in the United
States that we do we refer to military
aged men getting around it's more like
hey there's some college students or
there's some Jenna you know millenniums
or there's some pursuits there is men
vomiting in front of the pizza right
exactly I mean we don't say this unless
they're in the military but the
implication is of course you say this
when you want to scare people and the
right seems to be hanging their hat on
this notion that the majority of the
people in this Caravan are male which of
course makes total sense because these
are men who are going up to the United
States to either escape violence or look
for work to send money down to their
parents or their kids or whomever and
they have generally the most strength to
make this incredibly difficult Trek and
even then
they have to go in and show that they
can they apply for asylum and they have
to show that they warrant it and if they
don't warrant it this is what happens
they are not led into the country now I
don't necessarily subscribe to a policy
that puts the bar that high but that's
the policy that we have but somehow this
video according to the Republicans blows
the lid off all this listen folks and
find out that the majority of the people
there are actually men there's only a
significant portion of women and
children to stay on this for a moment
because some people look at these images
and they listen to the president who
says it's not women and children it's
stone-cold criminals so my first
question is you're in that tent camp
besides that family give us a profile of
who is there mostly and what are they
looking for because it seems as though
to your point they don't actually have
the necessary information so they know
how to cross the border there could have
people there could be people yesterday
who were running because they thought it
was their only chance right and it's
very difficult because this has become
such a polarizing issue if we kind of
take a walk you'll you'll be able to see
for yourself again this is the inner
sanctum of the shelter
so you're gonna see a lot of families
here a lot of women and children but the
truth is the majority of the people that
are part of this Caravan especially
outside if we can make our way all the
way over there we'll show you the
majority of them are men so our positive
position now he is walking through a
huge encampment with hundreds of tents
where there are families and children
and women hundreds of tents he is
walking through them and he says yes the
majority of the caravan is male and
they're outside of this large area to
protect the families and the kids
they're in a distinct area
the idea that it's like well if they're
not all women and children that were
tear gassing
if we're tear gassing any men then it's
okay in some way this is a bizarre the
one-drop rule exactly drop all right one
man at least the gas here we go we're
men so when this becomes a polarized
political the United States you have
people on one side that point and say
there are women and children here and
that is true and then there are others
who point and say these are men that are
trying to cross the border and that's
true too from what we've seen the
majority are actually men and some of
these men have not articulated that need
for asylum instead they have talked
about you know going to the United
States for a better life and to find
work but if we come this wall here okay
we're just listen that is what the big
revelations are then he goes out and he
sees people getting food and and and
that there's you know police officers
that are down the road and they may be
coming into the camp or they may be
protecting the camp but this idea that
like oh we've got them there's men there
there's the majority of men there's only
40 percent women and children either
well exactly and then it's like aha
there are some of those men who are not
gonna qualify for asylum the vast
majority of these people are not gonna
qualify for asylum under our per some of
them are being honest that their
economic migrants injured and then on
top of that it's like what a reveal yes
they want a better life they want to
work hard the bar has certainly dropped
from those times where we were getting
thousands of ms-13 people who are here
if they're terrorists in there this is
the big revelation now that the
Republicans are holding their hat on is
that there are people there who just
want a better life and want to work and
some of them the majority of them are
men ms-13 is also an export from us
of course it's literally crazy just
looking at the narrowness yes of
they're the evolving fear of the migrant
caravan is now there are men who want to
work and make a better life for them and
their families that actually sounds like
the exactly the type of traditional
values we need more of them exactly I
thought we weren't supposed to be afraid
of masculinity exactly well that some
things get a little too masculine if you
know anything these Mexicans bringing
toxic masculinity over here here is our
traditional ideas here is the Sinclair
media with the embedded borscht epstein
gift from the Trump administration who
is explaining to all the viewers from
these 39 30 some odd percent of the
country why we really got a gasp these
people tear gas the kids the women and
especially the men here is boorish
Epstein it's one of those must run
segments that get sent out from Sinclair
HQ all the local stations need to carry
it the migrant crisis on our southern
border has greatly escalated this past
weekend the United States was forced to
temporarily close a major point of entry
in San Diego California in response to
hundreds of migrants attempting to storm
the us-mexico border in hopes of
claiming asylum
dozens of migrants attacked US border
enforcement by throwing rocks and
bottles ultimately American authorities
had to use tear gas to stop the attacks
some on the Left such as Democrat
congresswoman Maxine Waters were
immediately up in arms about our
president and his team standing up for
our men and women in uniform and for our
national security the fact of the matter
is that this is an attempted invasion of
our country period our border must
remain intact and secure it is not a
partisan position
to believe that our immigration system
is broken and needs to be fixed however
it unfortunately appears that there are
many on the Left who believe it is wrong
to defend our country and abide by the
rule of law I would bet that many of
those same people live behind walls and
locked doors but do not want to afford
this same benefit to our country as a
whole
here's the bottom line the notion that a
caravan of migrants can be allowed to
break through our borders is ludicrous
and dangerous do United States of
America should not and cannot be
intimidated by those willing to use
force and we're gonna get into our
country illegally share with me your
bottom line think for yourself
it is share with me your lines to the
bottom I bear out with it and let me
just add get out of my country right
Boris goodbye yeah Levi's bringing their
best yeah leave my home I know a lot of
people in him that hire Boris live
behind gates and locked doors but as an
American right does not have a gate to
live mine I don't want this guy in my
country oh but you lock your door don't
you know I'm - it's kind of hypocritical
you want open borders but you have a key
if you allow people into this country
you can still keep your door locked no
you can't know you're not by your locker
hypocrisy now let me ask you this
Michael at your home you lock your door
but do you have a runway for airplanes
no I do not well but you are perfectly
happy having an airport having a runway
you got me right boom I should be
calling for an immediate there's a god
of LaGuardia yeah there you go
complete political incoherent tell me
something Michael do you have a dock at
your apartment I do do you have a dock
that a massive shock for my life I know
a ship and I understand no I don't have
it okay well you have no problem with
there being docks all over this on the
that's interesting Piron Apocrypha that
is unbelievable hmm bottom line I like
that I like the figure motion bottom
line you have no dock in your department
but yet you want ships all over the
president Trump say no the heart will
stop at baccarat see the hardest part of
swamp the hardest part of a Boris Epson
impression is like making yourself out
of breath in the correct way about what
he's reading that was a log one packing
throwin comma please next comma please
their word Boris a president presents
red board up there were the three
different commas in that but you ran
right over them liberalism mithya he
will stop Swamp every time every time he
gets on camera he gets a panic attack
because he realizes like I can't believe
I got this job people come in country in
different ways some doctors some refuge
others family involved in human
trafficking nobody remember it was
acidophilus who vouched for me I think
he mama da polis is my friend he
probably has a certain amount of anxiety
about this right I mean it's not like he
writes these things what is he bringing
to the party no I don't know he's very
smart in a certain charisma which gate
natural assume I shared out of breath
anxiety and fear of Fran thumbs which I
share with rest of base I wonder know
she an immigrant who wants to pull up
the ladder behind him okay fine you
pressure me I have to pee take the
camera I've been looking for it I am one
who over there I think I think it's
quite possible he he was the guy who
shot the P tape and that's why he has
that job no one thought that we could
get Oksana Baiul to do it but president
Trump is great negotiate let's go to the
phone's gone from a 702 area code who's
this where he come from 702
702 going once 700 to twice hey what's
up Vegas Marco Marco in did you say
Vegas yeah hello hello what's on your
mind this mean yes it is you
hello gotta do this learn the proper
phone etiquette which is when you're
being great I'm from Baltimore this is
Sam calling him from Baltimore
these are from a 9-5 - hello
something weird going on yeah it looks
like it's it's sending from here but
somebody did mention they weren't able
to hear the show from really on hold
let me try it again that's weird I mean
it's it's we got to figure this out
because it would be a real bummer if
there weren't any colleagues that's
that's that's on veut thank you for
calling into the majority report Sam
will be with you shortly give us one
second folks hopefully uh we've gotten
this fixed 95 to e there I'm from
Baltimore
yeah Sam yeah hey Sam well what's on
your mind
I um I really like you guys this
coverage of these IDW looking forward to
Michael's book and they are doing a
little world tour across the West
spreading their propaganda Feinstein
freak and penguin Plaza fee is a touring
company but also a YouTube channel
putting out their talk and other videos
so the conversation would not be video
at grab Australian stop cut payments to
the speaker and uh don't worry cuz I'm
cancelling there in New York City
Compton
and um you know no that could be fun
forget into the audience with rad yeah
so what happened was there's a there's a
group there's a guy pang penguin
Pangburn think it's Travis Pangburn yeah
and he was basically organizing these
IDW oh does this tweet explain it kind
of does but if you have a little bit
more be essentially he organized an
event in Australia for them and he's
supposed to be organizing like this big
IDW tour I think actually our buddy
Josh Zepps was involved in the Australia
one but that's for another day um but
the more interestingly he hosted a
debate between Cornel West and Charles
many ways anyways okay okay so the point
is is that people didn't get paid out
properly from the one in Australia and
now all of these people Harris and all
of the big names have pulled out of
future events and Pangburn has or not
refunded people's tickets for the ones
that they've purchased in New York as an
example so basically this IDW guy is
just like massively swindling the IDW
audience that it's very funny like the
fire festival is the fire festival of
nerdery well I mean I I'm I'm all for
that I mean I think it's there's a form
versus form follows function quality to
this the speaker's were gonna swindle
their people and so they get this
swindler swindled the swindles yeah a
lot of funny like I think Sam Harris had
like I think this guy Pangburn had a
quote a couple weeks ago where he's like
I'm gonna be splitting some time off
social media to like work out a book or
stuff they of course the favorite move
of these people Ed Harris like quotes we
do is are you out of your minds people
need their buddy vacuum no big ideas I
love this comment to the Barry Weiss
thing saying I'm very sorry I was
looking forward to it but I cannot
participate in good conscious given that
Pangburn has failed to Mesa PACs
meant to make past speakers whole and
ticket holders whole and then some of
your rights I'm a devoted fan of your
right in speaking we're just weird
enough to say to Barry Weiss
but you're not punishing Pangburn by
pointing out at the last minute you're
punishing those of us who already paid
to attend it's nice you're standing up
for others but you're also making it
worse for a new class of victims and
that's really what the Sam I appreciate
your call well you know the reality is
she's not doing it for the I mean you
guys right or she's not doing it for the
audience she's doing because she ain't
gonna get paid yeah I just like that I
just like called their class themselves
as a new class of victims very fun from
the IDW crowd so one things go back to
that 702 caller policy history but quite
as different from you know having a
ticket not get refunded obviously I like
the one above it but that's just my pure
I'll sense of humor talking hmm 702 come
from a 702 area code who's this Murray
come from Hey
yes I was just wondering that's two
things
who's this what are you doing Oh Marco
sorry baby I go okay um what do you guys
think the practicality would be of us
having basically all the progressive
organizations like justice Democrats or
Bernie Sanders our revolution uniting
and backing progressives nationwide
instead of having different
organizations doing the same thing and
my other question would be um how
practical do you think it would be for
30 Sanders in Rokon to fight for the
Union to unionize a big corporation
employees like Walmart or Amazon instead
of just fighting for the $15 minimum
wage just give the power to the people
instead of giving them though the money
I guess all right Marco I'll let you go
in that's it okay well one I think
there's value in having
various groups because they exist for a
reason they the people who founded them
probably feel on some level that the
existing groups don't fulfill all of
their needs or represent them well and
so this is fine you know I'm not sure
that you get a better benefit out of a
large structure as opposed to multiple
smaller ones and there are specific
legislative things that Sanders or ro
Cana can do to help unions like card
check we could actually really do that
as opposed to pretending though that's
going to be done it's obviously more
difficult now because of the Supreme
Court and what the Supreme Court has has
found in terms of protections for unions
I think maybe rolling back parts of
taft-hartley there was someone actually
I want to interview on that but that's
that's a good question I think it's one
we're gonna try and see if anybody
that's written any pieces about but
there's a lot of legislative things that
they can do broadly speaking that can
enhance unions I don't know if you can
do anything to - I mean I think pushing
for a minimum a $15 minimum wage is not
necessarily mutually exclusive from the
idea of making it easier for people to
unionize but having a National Labor
Relations Board that is going to be Pro
Union it's gonna be helpful that of
course we're gonna wait until you know
the next another good reason to back
Sanders if he runs that will be like by
far the best appointments from him for
something like that come from a 562 area
code who's this where he come from
hey hey I'm talking to thumb yes who's
this oh it is about a project I thought
I'd send you an email I don't know if
it's possible for you to contact me
later after ritual
it probably you could call me yes with
every feral and so I don't have to waste
too much time and too much time
explaining right now
I mean I'll check my mail but I mean I I
mean I you know I can't if I contacted
every listener after the show that I'm
in I'm not sure what what I mean what
what is it that you're interested in
well I have a very unique project I
covered the creative part of you lots of
people who may be in the field probably
producers filmmakers and I was like yeah
I gotta tell you I'll say two things one
is I have very little contacts in that
world now in fact none if I had great
contacts then I would be I would be I
would be in Hollywood all the time but
beyond that I I got a pretty full plate
these days but but I if I wish I could
help but I the the one thing I do not
have is the ability to you know is that
film or producer world but I can tell
you and I appreciate the call I can tell
you that from a general perspective you
know the way that people break in there
it's very difficult and it's long and
arduous and it's usually not just a
function of one good idea but rather an
entire career
you got any general if you have a
concept and you'd like it directors gig
in a major studio call this show the new
black West email sab at the Chari
reporters at gmail.com repeatedly and
then if he doesn't get back to you
promptly you call the show call the show
whether you want voiceover the worst to
people who want well think what
voiceover work directed job but maybe
see what say like maybe a character
actor role right just call the show well
we do have a direct line to George Soros
so if you want if you actually are
looking to appear in our long dramas do
call that is one area I can you know
calling from an eight one three area
code
I was just wondering maybe you hadn't
heard clearly what he said because I
generally people should call for that
eight one three area code who's this
what can i I would be and and and what a
gig are you looking for
well maybe take your job if you go on
vacations like that
my name is Peter from Tampa well pay him
then take this as an audition I'm doing
well how are you well I'm doing pretty
good you know still kind of I had still
spinning a little bit from Sunday
morning talk shows and you know you will
not be taking over to Sam during
vacation the first thing I think your
interest be the first thing is Jim the
fat sad speaker phones no good speaker
phone no welcomes the jar report many of
us who watch TV now I take care of a
speaker that's you know what happened
point that I wanted to make was that you
know watching a franchise that I had
respect for for many years I watched Tim
Russert pretty religiously for a lot of
years and to see someone on that program
basically start preface a statement by
saying well I'm not a science
and then they go off into this wild you
know
nonsensical viewpoint that you know
they're like and what are they doing to
our media what are they doing to our
journalism Peter I gotta tell you the
pointing I've got I've got I've got I've
got something else to tell you that you
think you're gonna find disappointing
that said that that program has not
changed I think maybe you have because I
remember Tim Russert and Tim Russert
specifically said it's not my job to
call out or challenge
what they say it's my job to get him on
the record I ain't saying that he never
did though yeah I'm saying that if you
go back and you read the media criticism
I can tell you you know and I only
started paying attention to this stuff
you know and you know in the the early
aughts you will see this exact criticism
of of him now I don't who knows what he
would be doing if he was around today
but I can tell you that there is a
straight line I think you can draw from
that type of treatment of politicians
who would come on on that show anybody
who would come on that show and the rise
of of a Donald Trump because when you
let politicians and it was frankly
mostly Republicans that would get on
that show the imbalance has been there
forever
it still is in many respects and you
basically let them go on there and just
because you need to put it on the record
and you're gonna let society figure it
out or time figure it out you're
basically your muscles in developing a
you know an assessment of what is true
because you know look nobody has a a
corner on the market of truth but you
need to feel it's your job to pursue it
and then people can assess what what the
that that is that is the that is the
Russert that was a big problem with
Russert a big big problem and you go
back whether it was you know the the
conduit for Cheney saying you know that
the New York Times's has reported this
and the unquestioning the really the
unquestioning at probably the most
important time to be skeptical in
question politicians when you're about
to enter a war of choice
I mean he may have been a good
broadcaster but what you're complaining
about it you're just saying it's the
same as that everyone I'm saying that a
lot of these people were responsible for
what we have now yeah
because I'll tell you that there I'll
tell you the difference that on that
Chuck Todd version that woman said that
thing but moments after that there was
another guest on that panel who said hey
we should be hysterical this is a big
problem and I Got News for you
and Tim Russert stay that other person's
not there Tim Russert would probably be
a proud boy today no I would go back
look beter go do giris or a turtle
organization go go bugle search on you
know from like 2004 2003 to 2005 on Tim
Russert and read the blogs specifically
you'll see the critiques that were going
on at that time I think there's a I
think it's the YouTube April fourth
someone uploaded the 2002 Tim Russert
interview with Dick Cheney and I mean
that alone yeah the way he was a conduit
for Iraq war lies I know you mentioned
it but it was so I mean down to the
point that it's very well reported that
Cheney would say privately that that was
his preferred for him oh they all loved
going on Russert yeah cuz he would not
like you can google him saying my job is
not to it's not the questions to get him
on the record and one didn't he also
have an approach to that like the point
was also not that ever the merits of
anything it was the secondary thing it
was like it was like oh well you have a
different view and tax policy than you
did two years ago and here's some tape
doesn't that make you uncomfortable to
change your sort of but that's what I'm
saying getting him on the record
never the merits of well what was you
not Allah see you supported why did you
say it's all right I got it it's all
just the superficial contradiction yeah
to get a moment are you internally
consistent with your lies right not
whether or not you're lying right
or are you internally consistent with
like
um your your genuine assessment I mean
it's it's it's not this idea of the
press and not being their job to even
assess attempt to assess whether
something is true or not is is the
problem that we have with I mean we saw
it in the in the in the context of the
caravan right like the premise was not
that the caravan existed the premise was
is this an actual threat to the United
States as the president is saying it is
and it's not it's clearly not and just
because the president is saying it yes
you might you you you may have to report
that the president is saying this I'm
actually just thinking I can't blame the
Russert methodology of Trump always I've
been saying this for a long time but
saying this for a long time that's one
of his tics it is true it is true
whatever he's at least being consistent
calling from a six-30 area code who's
this white boy Muslim from Chicago
police off of speakerphone thankou okay
double on a speaker that better yep that
is better yeah yeah so I was I was
looking up my representative see what
committees he was on and he's on it's a
Bill Foster and he's actually he's on
the Financial Services Committee but
he's like one of those a new wave
Democrat or whether they do a new
Democrats right yeah basically I'm
wondering like you think go ahead
do you think I should like call him and
and and you know I don't know what do
you guys think should we try and primary
that guy or what do you think yeah yeah
IIIi would be surprised if all the New
Democrats are not on a list that is
being generated right now yeah and I
would hope that it's being generated by
our revolution I would hope that
justice Democrats whatever mechanism
that AOC was talking about that it's on
their list I mean this is the time for
those lists to be developed and good
candidates good candidates not just with
good politics but good candidates with
good politics it's kind of a we're in
kind of a weird purple district being
being where we are and I wonder I would
maybe maybe I can get some info from
John from San Antonio or something on
what the the polling strategy is going
to be for this well look the the the
bottom line is in in purple districts we
have ample proof now I mean it depends
on what the demographic breakdown is but
we have ample proof from what stacey
abrams did and Gilliam did that you can
run on progressive policies and also you
should have at the very least be able to
speak to whatever the base of the
Democratic Party is in your district I
mean without knowing your district I
don't know exactly what what that is but
you know there's looks like he's a
little bit more of like sort of is he
like maybe actually a bit more
progressive on economic issues but a
little bit to the right on social issues
he like maybe more that kind of style
because he's a co-sponsor of card check
at least back in 2009 so maybe is there
a lot of unions that distribute and he's
one of the he's one of the guys who
signed to that letter against Pelosi
actually well yeah but that's a very
either way letter I mean that's not
necessarily good sign at all I mean but
I'm saying some of the people going at
but Fitzpatrick in Pennsylvania also
supposedly Pro Union I mean a lot of
that is transactional in a district like
that but I think the idea is that
there's nobody in that district no
voters anyways no substantial bloc of
voters who are like yeah we want
somebody who's really gonna let the
bank's off the hook that constituency
does not exist
the first thing I would do is go to
opensecrets.org and find out who funds
him that's where I would start mm-hmm
and that'll give you an assessment of
really what this guy's about and why is
on that committee and then from there
you know I think reach out to your local
justice Democrats or our revolution
group and and see if they're starting to
talk about primary him I Barack Obama
call for a complete ban on white
stockbrokers till we figure out what the
hell's going on
appreciate the call his uh top donors or
education institutions education
institutions like do you mean like hedge
fund no no charter schools University of
California Northwestern University
University of Chicago's Stanford
University I became is a former
physicist so maybe no interesting no
maybe you got to do a little more work
on that guy I mean yeah I'm not saying
he's good is he's interesting I don't
know indicates everything I'd say about
science nerds yes well I don't mean
obviously I'll vote I would vote for him
purely just to not have a scientist in
Congress here is a Donald Trump you know
on the White House lawn talking about
how wrong these thirteen agencies which
found a genuine threat to climate you I
mean I would wonder I wonder if we could
at one point someone should quantify the
amount of reporting solid reporting on
this climate report right like going to
the locations that this report says is
in danger versus the day the the
reporting that was involved and they
suppose a danger of the caravan like to
put the caravan and and weigh the danger
it represents in terms of world history
a world history of just popular any take
really take any population center in the
country right like take any subset of
world history take any subset of world
geography measure the danger that that
Caravan represents to the health and
wealth of any human beings in time or
across you know Geographic plane and
then weighed against what the danger
that report talks about like the it's
it's almost impossible to compare those
two things like it would be the the
Delta between those two sets of danger
is so huge that it's almost it's like
it's trying to conceive of like ten
dollars versus a trillion dollars so
difference in kind not degree exactly
the degree is so great that it is a
completely different form of danger and
here is our president not talking about
the danger that that report represents
[Music]
John
I've seen it I've read some of it and
it's fine
yeah I don't believe it no no I don't
believe it
and here's the other thing you're gonna
have to have China and Japan and all of
Asia and all of these other countries
you know address addresses our country
right now we're at the cleanest we've
ever been and that's very important to
me but if we're clean but every other
place on earth is dirty that's not so
good so I want clean air I want clean
water very important so let me see if I
get this straight I've read the report
probably like fine it's fine it's a fine
report I don't believe it I don't
believe that we have any global warming
but he doesn't even say but if we do it
just goes on to blame other countries
for something that doesn't exist and
then he sort of makes that shift I like
I like clean things I like clean and I
like clean no germs I don't like germs
remember what I said about germs so if
we're the media let's forget about that
let's focus on the caravan because
that's where the real danger lies ladies
and gentlemen meanwhile is there anyone
that this is why it's so bizarre why
would you I mean just contemplate who
you would bring on to talk about this
climate report okay it's not enough that
the president of the country doesn't
believe it he doesn't believe these 13
agencies why not bring out a guy who had
to resign his position from Congress in
disgrace who they called him hot tub Tom
back in the day because of all the
shenanigans the guy who got into public
service because he was so mad that the
EPA outlawed the pesticide he was using
for his pest control business because it
was so toxic to human beings pets why
not bring that guy on to respond to a
guys who's not been in government for a
decade why
bringing that guy on the guy who set up
Denny Hastert to be his front man to be
his front man because he knew that Denny
Hastert may have been very compromised
and he could have control over this guy
why not bring that guy on to discuss the
climate change report here's Tom DeLay
you know about this is there something
that Republicans should be doing here
how they should be standing up for good
solid I tried to read the report that
came out Friday and frankly it is
horrible it starts it's a plea document
I can't understand what by the Trump
administration allowed and I know that
the statute calls for such a report but
for this kind of report which is nothing
more than a political document and an
alarmist political document why they'll
it let it out like this they should have
written a completely different kind of
report based on real science the climate
change is real we do you think
scientists in the administration you
think that they went so you're basically
saying that there was sort of a
conspiracy to do something that was
inaccurate I guess I'm not following you
well look at the report the report is
nothing more than a rehash of age-old 10
to 20-year assumptions made by
scientists that get paid to to further
the politics of global warming that's
that's what this is all about it's 90
new science it's not any new and the
only new stuff is the alarmist stuff
that in 80 years we're going to see
people dying and starving and all that
kind of stuff that we've had I remember
growing up with Paul Ehrlich in his
Population Bomb he predicted that right
now we would all be starving worldwide
and he's been discredited and deposit
for one second see is I don't know if
there's a name for this type of argument
but the argument of all of these
scientists and these 13
agencies are wrong because I read a book
right once that was wrong Paul Ehrlich's
1970s population alarmism somehow
validates wow maybe that's an incredibly
odd thing that's like a little notice
that's astral travel that's a just
totally different domain that's
mind-blowing and most people what that
is also very that's politics that is
Miller because nobody watching that it's
good
oh yeah right Ehrlich I remember well
but the argument is just I mean the
argument is an age-old a conservative
argument which is like scientists have
been wrong to strummin yeah this is this
is a there's more than one guy no
Breanna everybody bought into that
population bond mom and it affected the
politics and a lot of bad stuff was
passed in Congress and others that never
had benefited anybody or or had any
change we need to be focused on adapting
to climate and droughts and fires and
those kinds of things we can adapt you
mentioned Houston the only reason we had
the huge flood that we had was the
government-run dams that failed outside
of Houston so in other words it's real
but we cannot mitigate it we don't we
apparently have no way of telling what
is causing it we have no way of knowing
we it's a complete mystery
it's as if like cars just existed we can
drive them we should get out of the way
of them but don't look under the hood we
couldn't possibly understand what's
going on in there
the one thing we do understand about it
though is that it's gonna be too bad for
Republican donors bottom lines for them
to even consider I'm like who does he
think is paying off all these scientists
and for what end
the global plan need to get more money
to scientists
white people get the tape say if you
really push
the monitor you got them on like a James
O'Keefe style camera they would well
they'd say Sora so they'd say like it's
Socialists yes where it dovetails with
Illuminati and Flat Earth conspiracy
theories because the only motivation
ascribed to the people who are
supposedly paying off the scientists is
like they're just evil Blizzard no don't
want to create Robertson said green on
the outside red on the inside that's
right they it is socialists and
communists who were spending the big
bucks so that society will then
theoretically take away their money
right its Soros who's doing this so that
we have a socialist society and then
he's not allowed to have his cash it
doesn't make a whole lot of sense I
guess that's where the flexibility comes
in its masochism white people were can
look it's Bill Mitchell this guy like
wealthy capitalist and socialist
this is this guy expresses the why is
the only solution to manmade global
warming is always socialism now mmm
first of all that's obviously not true
things like cap and trade which
Republicans have been against is not in
any way socialistic it is simply a to
them that's pretty social well that's
not I mean I actually agree with that I
think socialism really is the only
long-term solution but it seems like the
Conservatives are filling in the blanks
for themselves well but here's the other
thing is that they perceive any action
that is collective to deal with climate
change to be socialism so uh
that's why the only solution to manmade
global climate change warming is because
it's a global problem and it's going to
involve not individuals making choices
but in fact entities large societies
making choices and definitionally for
them that is socialism this comes up
again in john ziegler he says if
liberals really want to persuade
conservatives global warming is real
they need to
yes and it's all the same sort of thing
you always are on about about like
liberals are just too in-your-face about
it and they're saying it's settled and
stuff like you've got an egg you got an
egg global warm no you go don't like
negging they don't like necking they
want here's the same thing again later
in the piece he says when you add the
fact that surely by pure coincidence the
solution to this massive and imminent
problem sounds like an excuse for
implementing global socialism and it's
no mystery why conservatives won't
blindly go along with it no it's no
mystery why they blindly go against it
exactly and I'm saying you neg climate
change
you don't neg the Conservatives you neg
climate change like clowns gin not that
big of a deal and then conservatives go
no it will be it is a big deal that's
the that's the prescription that they're
saying I wish that we had the money to
perpetuate a global conspiracy for the
purpose of overthrowing capitalism but
if this is the case and all these
scientists are actually secret Marxists
I take back everything I said about
science nerds me to you
exactly I like bill bill Mitchell's the
guy what are we doing a bit about him
one so he's the guy who like he says
these things that he doesn't even know
he isn't even aware of like like hey
attention Nazis the Jews never stopped
me for bacon buddy it's like the
the alt-right but say stuff like black
kids on your street well I do push-ups
folks as you know it's very positive as
you know one of the reasons why we have
to have an ID W and in a intellectual
dark web is because we do not allow
people to explore enough issues in an
intellectual way we punished them too
much
for instance take these children who
high school students they were in a
Wisconsin School District you remember
we talked about this they took a some
type of class photo or something like
that before junior prom before the
junior prom
Bera do Wisconsin
and they're all giving the Zieg Heil
signal actually there was one or two
guys in there who did not one guy flesh
in the three white power three high
power three thing now of course you know
what happens next
these kids they go on to be suspended in
some cases they get punished they get
reprimanded by their school for
partaking in what appears to be a Nazi
salute oh wait a second no I'm sorry I
got these two stories confused nothing
happened to the kids with the Nazi
salute however you'll recall that high
school threatened to punish students who
kneel during the anthem hmm right and of
course there was that girl who wore the
cornrows to school that's a pretty
common problem and was punished because
of what it expresses about cornrows so
there you have it ladies and gentlemen
now I am sure Dave Rubin and others in
the intellectual dark web we'll be
spending hour after hour on there
they're going to Dave Rubin will
interview one of the weinstein brothers
and then the weinstein brothers will
interview ben shapiro and then ben
shapiro will interview dave rubin and
dave rubin will interview the Weinsteins
with Ben Shapiro and then you know
Peterson will sit in in a roundtable all
of them will interview each other it's
interesting comps and then they will all
do a question in the round thing and
then they'll shoot a video of all of
them eating dinner asking questions
about it and they will be talking about
this ad nauseam how clearly the
inability to protest during the anthem
is a huge deal for them I would imagine
that's going to be the next six months
of videos and of course YouTube them
will all D monetize every single one of
their videos because they're so
controversial and then of course the New
York Times will write another a feature
on all of them for taking up this mantle
and let's not let Baraboo out of the
news it's interesting what's going on in
this town
this is from the Baraboo news Republic a
guardian says I'm frustrated with that
because you know I see Baraboo being
divided between let's figure out what we
can do so this never happens again on
one side and the other side saying oh
but the boys didn't mean it
blodgett said you know it doesn't matter
if the boys meant it or not the factor
is fact is the pictures out there and
yeah I think Baraboo should be
associated with this picture until they
take proactive measures to make sure
this doesn't happen great of course what
this town should be known for alright
lastly you know I guess it was weeks ago
maybe months ago again somebody asked me
what do you got against get stefan
molyneux why do you think he's crazy
why do you think he's not a rational
presenter of ideas sir
and here it is here he goes stefan
molyneux heads to poland this is a there
was an attempt to pass a law that said
you can't really talk about the
Holocaust or at least don't be so
negative about polling about it and here
he is talking about how nice it was to
be able to go to a country and have no
one lived there who doesn't look like
him you know I go to Poland what is it
99 percent white I don't need any
security the streets are incredibly
clean crime is almost non-existent
nobody gets called a racist there's no
talk of white privilege no identity
politics no endless diversity nagging
you know I spoken against white
nationalism but I'm an empiricist I'm an
empiricist
I went to the country I saw how it was
like we could put something out on
social media to have a social gathering
and we actually had the social gathering
without bomb threats without violence
without attacks without things coming
through the window black people
I've spoken out against white
nationalism bottom i'm an empiricist
positive for one second this guy has
figured out that weis net white
nationalism means you should have only
white people and that it eliminates the
problem of having non-whites around
he's also an empiricist in terms of
where his audience is going right this
broader scheme well internet I have a
theory about it if you're constantly
talking about race and the only way we
go ahead it's just yeah I'm an
empiricist and I see that nature does
not like a vacuum and perhaps when Gavin
McInnes and the proud boys lose some of
their mojo maybe this guy fills the
vacuum and I think he's saying right off
just take a quick look at where we
stopped the video he's like yeah sounds
like someone's ringing the cash register
continue I'm listening I'm just new to
my experiences kind of argue with the
facts can I give it the reality I mean
you can nothing the strongest way to end
that right yeah he's not crazy at all
no-nothing culty you're crazy but I'm
I'm just bad overtaken by the validity
of white nationalism don't like it but
empirically I must be one he looks like
a very healthy well-adjusted person and
let me just say apropos of nothing God
pray for the woman of Poland white
nationalism seems to be better for white
people who knew who knew calling from a
609 area code who's this where you come
from 609 609 609 let's try it again come
from a 9 1 0 area code who's this where
you come from
hey Sam this is Daniel hey Sam this is
Daniel caller from North Carolina Daniel
from North Carolina what's on your mind
hey sir I just wanted to talk really
quick about you know
the electoral map sort of for 2020 and
like the so-called South you know I've
grown up in North Carolina you know I'm
from an immigrant family but I've lived
here most of my life we're a pretty
southern state but you know we're we've
kind of been like more of a swing state
than most other than most other southern
states and so I'm just thinking the
Democrats really need to target you know
white working-class as our white
working-class voters in these red states
because the Republicans are not doing
 for them and you know I know
Candace Owens has this whole legs that
movement that she was trying to do man
there needs to be a regs it movement we
need to tell all the rednecks in the
South many of them are my friends
they're good hearts they're good people
they're not backwards like this media
misconception is we need to tell them
only to leave the Republican Party these
dudes are screwing you
North Carolina's 48th in the country and
education your jobs are getting shipped
overseas through these trade deals
nothing is you know they're only cutting
taxes for their wealthy friends and
stuff most of y'all now support
legalizing marijuana most y'all support
even raising the minimum wage most y'all
need health care so I don't know why the
Democrats aren't like doing enough that
I feel like everyone is trying to do
this identity politics of more appealing
to minorities which is still important
but we need to get these white
working-class voters I feel like many of
them in the south and these red states
are persuadable but I don't see the
Democrats going after that well I mean
Daniel you know we've saw basically the
the model you're talking about was
tested in some respect in Georgia right
and I don't know that these two things
are mutually exclusive but there's a lot
of evidence to indicate that the problem
that white working-class or let's put it
this way non-college educated white
people to the extent that I've seen data
it suggests that
one of the issues they have with the
Democrats is they're afraid that the
Democrats are too Pro I guess people of
color right and people characterized
that fear you know as they want let's
let's not you know I happen to think
that's sort of based in racism but let's
just for the moment I feel like that's
more ok exploited by Trump ndb's yeah
not just dude no I agree I agree and and
there's a lot of significant amount of
data that during the course of the Obama
the Obama presidency it was easier to do
that to exploit them but but they're
they're they're being exploited and
preyed upon in that situation so the
Democrats have a choice they can not
they can try and distance themselves
you'd have to actively distance yourself
right from their base I mean the fact of
the matter is that Obama won North
Carolina I think was a no 8 I don't
think he won in 2012 yeah but no he
didn't he won in Oh 8 in part because it
was before a lot of those white people
frankly were sort of became aware of
fact that yeah a Democrat was actually a
group called rednecks for Obama we need
to get like rednecks for Bernie well
yeah I understand that but but my point
is is that you cannot alienate the base
of the Democratic Party in North
Carolina
you could get all those white
working-class voters but it's not going
to just be based on at least a you know
you know based upon what the data it's
not going to be just based upon the fact
that you're you're fighting for the $15
minimum wage for some of those people
you're gonna have to prove to them that
you're not the party of people of of
color and I don't know how you do that
or why you would want to without
sacrificing
those people of color who have issue
sets that they also want addressed and
so I think I think you got to bring you
got to go progressive with your policies
you've got to offer these things I think
you know Stacey Abrams I think you know
showed that she got the highest vote
tally in ages
but you also need you also need to speak
to people of color because frankly
they're the base of the party there
there is a group called redneck revolt
that advances socialist politics it from
a working-class perspective and it's
largely in places where there are mostly
white working-class people I've do
really really quick thoughts about this
most working-class people most people
were struggling financially did not vote
for Trump in fact most people who are
struggling financially didn't vote at
all the people who elected Trump there
is a small slice of white working-class
voters who did vote for Trump but mostly
it's the same people who always vote for
Republicans and that does not skew
poorer than people who vote for
Democrats so I think what they really
need to be doing is talk about the
working class as a whole if Democrats
want to appeal to working-class people
honestly if you voted for Trump you
might not be coming back I care way more
about the people who don't vote who
don't normally vote and that's not just
white working-class people that's all
working-class people
turnout among black voters cratered from
20 2008 and 2012 I think Michael had on
malaika Jabalia on his show recently to
talk about that how people of color are
not turning out for the Democrats either
and and I think the rise of Trump
sometimes we give short shrift to the
important role played by the collapse of
the Democratic Party in the collapse of
turnout among people who might vote for
Democrats so I think that's way more
important than appealing to the small
slice of white working-class people who
might be persuaded to swing and we
should sweat we should say this too okay
now the the midterm elections we just
had was the greatest victory of any
party in a midterm elections by
percentage in North Carolina the the the
midterms were essentially 5050 it just
happens that they're gerrymandering
they're so Republicans 1/10 of third
total repudiation of republicanism
that's what runs across the board
writing from from a populist left surged
which totally overlaps these issues and
also you know credit where credit is due
a lot of you know a lot of indivisible
moms made it happen in a lot of
districts and there's a center-left to
genuine broader left coalition and
that's always been the nature of the
democratic party in the sight of
collaboration and battle so you know I
do fear some people may take this the
wrong way like avenatti who are saying
that you know the nominee has to be a
white male like you know I don't want
absolutely off the rails with that I
thought plenty of Democrats taking the
utterly wrong lesson from the failures
of 2016 and I knew that they went from
the beginning like their lesson in ode
emma-crats need to get a more racist
again or stop caring so much about
identity no they need to care about the
working class as a whole they do not
need to substitute these empty
neoliberal identity politics for some
like empty pandering class politics
which is what folks like Michael Aven
are going to do and I will say this too
and I appreciate the call Daniel that
one of the reasons I mean in terms of
voter turnout there is a significant
difference in the structural impediments
when you remove structural impediments
or add structural impediments in terms
of the turnout numbers and you know
entering into Congress and saying we're
going to do motor voter registration
entering it to Congress and attempting
to shore up voting rights that's why
that should be the first thing that
Democrats do get these structural
advantages do the right thing that are
also going to help and maintain your
power and build upon it
so all right folks we got time for one
more quick phone call that's it who's
this you come from a 907 area code
everybody else I'm sorry 907 holy yes it
is you but get off your speakerphone now
let's do this quickly
we're just met oh one second the idea
that better Stuart what's on your mind
no yet so I'm calling from the brink of
the abyss up in Alaska and I don't know
if you guys have paid too much attention
to kind of what's unfolded here for our
state politics after the election but
we're in an interesting situation right
now so we were the one state to get
completely routed by the Republicans and
they've appeared that they've swept all
three parts of our state government the
governor state House and state Senate
however the one deciding vote for the
majority of the house the Alaska House
is tied 266 now two thousand six hundred
and sixty one votes to two thousand six
hundred sixty one votes with a couple
questionable ballots being counted but
it could literally come down to a coin
flip so like our what's all this between
us going full Brownback is potentially
the edge of a coin it's interesting time
when when will that coin be flipped if
it's going to be flipped um let's see so
they're doing a recount on Friday I
think and if not and if it comes up the
same or it's the one like ballot found
in a sleeve with the machines as it was
turned in doesn't get counted or it gets
counted and there's another absentee
vote from a overseas military personnel
or something like that it'll be the week
after that I think she's nuts they'll
keep us updated Stewart appreciate it I
definitely will but thanks it's really
just a big dunk on anyone who says that
your vote doesn't matter because it
literally can decide the fate of the
entire state
you're voting out of fear
appreciate the column oh yeah
Oh wouldn't shout out to Mike don't stop
laughing at callers never
believe me that is there you go I just
hope on you to happen I run a tight ship
on Thursday let's go to my Em's Winnipeg
Craig Sam you should probably know that
Michael said his live show is going to
be much more fun than the mr live show
well I mean it should be would the
prices that he's charging it should be
as far as I can tell almost 50% more for
the non VIPs I mean I I think I just saw
$10 the non VIP is a $25 ticket and then
it's 75 25 versus 75 for a VIP decade
right are you planning to pull like a 50
cent on Michael Sam what is that
just like buy up all the VIP tickets so
that when he shows up there's nobody
there at the Michael I don't that's a
great idea
you want to buy all of the tickets and I
could just go relax well if I bought all
the kits I would actually give them to
everybody okay and then you would
actually have to work I mean they all
works to me every ways a win thank you -
just coffee co-op of ticket scenarios
we'd win you do that - ja rule ja Rule
and that was I don't have I don't have
those type of show but that was deep
pocket pocket wait how many time I
appreciate the 50 cent what is what is
the 75 that what is that how many times
is that of $15 it's six times five times
there's a 500 percent markup on the
ticket there would be seven times well
at the no five at the majority report
show everyone's a VIP and there's
another way of saying nobody
on an unrelated note whatever happened
to that boxing match you two were going
to do now that would be worth 75 bucks a
ticket that I would have no problems
charging 75 bucks to take it for when I
saw you I am me that I was about to take
a picture it's gonna take a picture of
it
okay blue Parrish after China's gone a
gene-editing case yesterday I sadly have
to agree bill kristol and regime change
in Beijing they're playing with fire
there should be a global treaty to ban
gene-editing
no Berman new Berman isn't an
interesting coincidence the glut of
health problems in the US and the rise
of corn subsidies in the 70s I think
it's pretty well established a strong
connection there I love Sarah Palin nice
job on MSNBC last night by the way
Jennifer Rubens by the way love Jennifer
Rubin swag you should work on those
connections get her on the show one of
these days to buttress your point last
night the Republicans have no choice but
to go down with Trump since Obama Fox
News has trained Republican voters hate
Republican politicians only people
outside of politics like Trump can win a
national election because they don't
have a voting record my indication is
they'll go down with Trump is Fox News
almost never mentions rank it anymore
Mitch from Houston been seeing some
people push for bado 20/20 can you
explain this why would they want to run
a guy who just lost he's charismatic
he's charismatic for Senate again I mean
I you'd lose the corner and for what
it's worth I mean I I would I want to
say this if you're gonna and I don't and
I'm and I'm actually this is just
because I think that stacey abrams
actually is like the rightful winner of
that race right like i don't think she
ran close and came up short
i think you've heard you had a clean
vote right that wasn't suppressed it
wasn't stolen she's the governor of that
state so i feel like if we're in the
business of talking about candidates
that for whatever reason aren't
occupying the seat they ran for i'm
going to advocate that the one who
actually one should go run I think it's
part of what we talked about earlier
where there's this sense of whether it
needs to be a white man we need that
great white hope and I mean I'm not a
gang I'm not no I agree with you and I
mean and I'm not gonna go the flip side
on and I'm not gonna go like oh no white
man so no Bernie that's I think all
those arguments need to be jumped but
specifically beta O'Rourke I mean I I
like him but like it's enough already
well I think it comes out of a certain
amount of panic Bret actual ideas can't
win an election so let's get the
charismatic guy up there who has no you
know substantial record I mean obviously
has a record in Congress but who is
charming and you know captured the
imagination of young people and and the
other reason is he raised a tremendous
amount of money from across the country
to raise thirty two million dollars for
what people you know start out the gate
thinking like that is gonna be sort of
quixotic is impressive I mean that is a
legitimate impressive feat but take it
forward it will max and Phoenix you want
to take us back to the 20th century in
the opening just made my day
I also wish it was 1986 majority report
thought you guys y'all looking
scrumptious today Nick from Manitoba hey
Sam did you write pilot season who's the
caboose and bad situation just so you
could kiss sarah silverman don't lie you
totally did you sleaze well I had kissed
her before those were written truth be
told
yeah
which way did you say the beach was
definitely not Michael Brooks hey Sam
can we wrap up the show I want to go
listen to 50 cent and read mine Kampf
Miguel likes Co you mentioned that
productivity may not be important to
human happiness or quality but does that
include a relate to innovation lusca
speaking of food production corn and
soybean farmers saw record yields
despite a 70 day drought in the summer
and 13 inches of rain mid harvest
treated grain is more ready for climate
change than people running out of time
to cut it bang barded never Trump a Rick
Eric Erickson has gone full flash oh
yeah we got a we got a didn't we pull
that we'll do it tomorrow
Kentucky Fried comrade wants a thanks a
Sam for wearing a sweater vest today
that completes my mr bingo card left his
Basque and oh now my bingo card is
complete nice nice job and the final I
am of the day I wish you guys could stop
advertising blue apron that service
creates a ridiculous amount of
single-use plastic waste the tiny
packages of soy sauce and spices
individually wrapped produce etc we have
to reduce plastic waste it's destroying
our oceans and harming our bodies just
get a recipe book go to the grocery
store it ain't all that hard not
everything in life has to be ultra
convenient I mean it's difficult I
appreciate what you're saying I think
they are trying to cut down on the
amount of waste that they create a lot
of the stuff in the box is recyclable we
recyclable right recycle in New York and
if you want people to use less
prepackaged food improve their lives in
ways so that they have time to shop and
cook there you go
all right likes my money yes I know I
like blue apron I use it I use it and so
it's about the advertising and more
like it's something I use if it has been
very very helpful for us see you
tomorrow in Matt's it goes back to get
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
oh the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
