there's a way to serve a formidable
thing hold on for static party we got
some breaking news this is wow this is
an exclusive from the Gateway pundit an
exclusive just breaking Yorktown elitist
and Brock's hoaxer Alexandria
Acacio Cortez went by sandy well into
college at Boston University there is a
video associated with this can we scroll
down to see the Wow where the heck did
she get this sandy from oh there's a
picture of her look at that she's
wearing a some type of tank top
interesting very in fact Acacio Cortez
went by sandy at least into her junior
year sir way that we at the university
can you get like a people's restraining
order no kidding like the guy and if you
ever looked at any pictures of him I
think that rushes man the others I'm not
even making I'm not even making that I'm
being that cheap although I'm perfectly
willing to be I'm talking a certain a
certain call Interpol look about him and
then you combine that with this fixation
on AOC it's very bizarre now is there an
actual video where we see someone refer
to her as sandy I mean that would be
devastating no but in the in the really
embarrassing video of her dancing she
was credited as sandy Ocasio Crowes
video credits that's she didn't wipe
that she'd I think the one to clear her
history and I mean guy I know this is
the when it's hard for us like what's
the balance of propaganda and
intellectual honesty because that's I'm
I'm running up against it yeah I don't
know what to say here's the guy who was
able to key to whitewash Obama's birth
certificate why couldn't he get ahead
this story gettin sloppy I guess I heard
Bill Ayers his health isn't doing great
maybe that's why hey alright let's go to
the phones you go
