[Music]
this is the thing that I also don't
understand and I agree with again I
agree with the critique I feel that
people went overboard with this I'm not
surprised
certain politicians leveraged it and you
know to the extent that we didn't
necessarily spend a lot of time
critiquing it but basically what we just
did is did other stuff that we thought
was more important I mean implicit in my
editorial decisions every day is a
function of what we think people should
be paying attention to but what what are
the stakes
from your perspective because you know
one of the things I'm you cited Matt
Taibbi piece about it being like weapons
of mass destruction and I get the I
think it's a bad analogy and I get the
idea that this was a that people
perceive it as a big hoax or that they
were carrying water that was a
conspiracy theory but it seems to me the
import of a hoax and whatnot is the
stakes that's involved here and because
I don't see really I mean there's
marginal implications to this to this
investigation to Adam Schiff you know
hyping it into maybe Rachel Maddow
dedicating too much of her show to it
but I don't really see the what what the
what the massive stakes are that it that
seemed to be there
okay so I'll give you my view of that
The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists has
this Doomsday Clock that is measuring
how close humanity is to apocalyptic
catastrophe basically the destruction of
the planet and has had this clock since
the end of World War two and that clock
is currently at two minutes before
midnight midnight being the destruction
of the earth and humanity's as a species
which is the most acute rating it's
given to humanity since 1953 when the US
and the Soviet Union came very very
close to nuclear annihilation and in its
report explaining why it's at two
minutes before midnight it lists two
principal reasons one of
which is apocalyptic climate scenarios
the other of which is the threat of
nuclear war between the United States
and Russia so the US and Russia even
though the Soviet Union fell and the
Cold War sort of is over although I
think it's been revitalized over the
last three years continue to have
thousands of intercontinental ballistic
missiles with nuclear tips pointed at
one another cities and so when you
create this kind of narrative that
Russia is our enemy
something that President Obama to his
great credit and I credited him
contemporaneously was desperate to avoid
he was desperate to avoid provoking the
Kremlin putting the u.s. in a position
where it was geopolitically adverse to
the Kremlin when you create this
narrative that the Russians are our
enemies that speaking to Russia is
evidence of some sort of sinister
motives I think that's an extremely
dangerous and reckless thing to do and
and and and then the other part of it is
I think that there has been this
revitalization on the part of a huge
number of people who are paying
attention to politics for the first time
because of fear of Trump of putting
faith in these institutions that the
left had finally successfully convinced
people at the in the wake of the Iraq
war to start distrusting like the CIA
like the FBI like the NSA like the
military
I think there's been this very kind of
jingoistic Pro military Pro security
state ethos neo-cons being integrated
into MSNBC into the liberal kind of
fabric that I also think is
independently damaging from a domestic
political perspective okay first off in
terms of like the atomic clock thing
from 2018 the first three paragraphs of
of the it's now two minutes to midnight
assessment talk about North Korea
that's from 2018 in 2017 it mentions the
United States and Russia but then
climate change comes in and they also
include in that first paragraph Pakistan
and India and in 2016 I mean I think
it's I mean there is in 20
sixteen it is the same and 2015 it's the
same in terms of like there's no change
2016 was more climate change of course
but there the the amount of change that
we're talking about in that thirty
seconds is a function of of North Korea
and so which of course has nothing to do
with this and I agree with your I mean
so that I that to me seems I think a
dubious impact from this I'm looking at
polling from where the American public
looks at Russia and there's no doubt
that there's been you know it's more in
the popular culture maybe Saturday Night
Live is talking about it but the polling
shows no difference between 2015 and
2017 or 2018 19 between your overall
opinion of Russia 70% were unfavorable
in in 20 in February of 2015 and 73% in
February of 2019 and that's within the
margin of error that change same with
like in terms of whether they're a
danger like the atomic clock thing I
think is really I think it's a
non-starter I mean maybe there could be
some element let me address the other
one right the other one about the the
institution's MSNBC was tacking to the
right before Donald Trump one in
anticipation of Hillary Clinton winning
this is this is public knowledge they've
they've almost every contributor that
they've hired over the past couple of
years has either been at this point a
prosecutor former prosecutor and I agree
and or a Republican and I I think it's a
shame
believe me I think it's a shame but like
I you know MSNBC is not a you know an
important pillar of our society so like
I think like these are I think there are
legitimate critiques but III think
they're overblown frankly I mean they're
I just don't see the fallout from this
and it's not like Russia didn't do
you know and you and I agree I think
that it was probably not as significant
as people make it out to be but that
part of it is not even a function of
whether Donald Trump colluded with it or
not right so right right so I mean right
so you know I think I do I do think that
the kind of disproportionate treatment
of this kind of like Russia interfered
in our sacred democracy rhetoric is
misleading and dangerous because not
only have these two countries done it to
other countries far worse forever but
even to one another right like the u.s.
boasted of helping Boris Yeltsin you get
a better let's say that that's very
problematic and lets us not do it like
to leverage that as that's a bad thing
to do
so therefore we should not be involved
in any way what's going on in Venezuela
right both so but let's so let's look at
this because this issue about the state
of us-russian relations and I've
reported a lot on the bulletin of Atomic
science and part I don't have it in
front of me I think that we have some
differences about the extent to which
they're emphasizing the dangers of
nuclear war between those two countries
obviously in 2018 when Kim Jong and and
Donald Trump are threatened to
annihilate one another on Twitter that
became something that got the attention
of The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists but
throughout that reporter there's a
constant reference to the US and Russia
because under the trump administration
contrary to the prevailing wisdom there
has been a far greater proliferation of
belligerence and confrontation with
Russia in really dangerous ways so you'd
look for example I think the one of the
most difficult one of the most
disturbing examples is the question of
sending lethal arms to Ukraine probably
the most important country
geopolitically to Russia in 2015-2016
you can google this Democrats and
Republicans who are demanding that Obama
send lethal arms to Ukrainians to fight
against the Russians and he said are you
out of your mind why would we risk
provocated provocation with Russia over
a country that's of immediate interest
to them but not to us
Obama refused the Trump administration
sent Leath arms to the Ukrainians the
Trump administration is currently in the
process of trying to destabilize and
remove from power a really important
leader of a very important geopolitical
country or an oil-rich country that is
in a longtime ally of the Kremlin which
is the Maduro regime while the Russian
military is on the ground trying to
defend the Maduro government from being
removed on top of which you have Donald
Trump going to Germany and badgering
Angela Merkel successfully to some
extent now to stop buying natural gas
from Russia and instead buy it from US
companies on the not unreasonable ground
that the u.s. spends huge amounts of
money through NATO to defend Germany so
why should Germany be buying natural gas
from Russia instead of buying it from
the US an incredibly threatening thing
to do to the Kremlin because if Europe
stop buying natural gas from Russia it
would probably take the entire Russian
economy so you see the US and Russia
there's a huge naval buildup in the
Black Sea
the Americans confronted Russia for the
first time in the in the Japan Sea since
1987 there's a possible military base
being constructed and pulling in all
these hotspots around the world you see
Russian us tensions increasing at the
same time the climate in Washington is
such that you can't even talk to
Russians which is why a lot of these
Trump officials lied about their
connections with Russia because every
time you talk to a trump of a Russian
official it gets depicted as some kind
of treasonous conspiracy or collusion
and that's what I think is so dangerous
is you have this increasing belligerence
and escalation between the US and the
Russians on the one hand and hotspots
around the world
Syria being another that I didn't even
mention Trump bombed
you know Assad very limited in a very
limited way but Obama refused to because
he was scared of the escalation problems
that that would bring and at the same
time an inability to talk to the
Russians which miscommunication
miscalculation in the past is what led
to in everton nuclear exchanges so I do
think men
the danger of that is is ill-advised and
then just quickly on how we see but wait
wait let me just let me just address
those because every single one of those
policies that you've talked about
we're long-standing Republican policies
I mean every single one and whether it
was Chavez or Maduro right Ryan gas from
the US is a function of all you need to
do is look at some of Donald Trump's
biggest supporters the same ones who put
you know every head of EPA in there they
all want this they wanted this from day
one they basically built a petrol the
first there's a reason why he built his
his first version you know Trump cabinet
v1 was basically just full of oil
executives and in generals and so the
idea of I mean all of these things are
completely consistent with long term
Republican agendas and to the point
where where when they when when manna
fort probably I don't know if we know
was so insistent on changing the
Republican platform that's why all the
lights went on you know started flashing
because and it was specifically about
that provision about not selling lethal
weapons to Crimea I mean that's why it
was such a big deal that it was such a
divergence from standard-issue
Republican policy that it but Sam Donald
Trump himself is a huge divergence from
standard Republican ideology he ran
against the Iraq war even though well I
know what he did in the election he but
but I don't you mean what has he done
that has been divergent from Republican
orthodoxy since he's been in office I
mean he just well I mean like going for
cuts in Medicare he just had massive tax
cuts no he I mean no domestically he's
he's a full I mean
visit one of the things that I think is
true about the Trump presidency and I
actually said this last week is that you
have kind of his freakish circus
tweeting that obviously is wildly out of
the range of normalcy for how presidents
speak and conduct themselves and that
stuff he says his campaign rallies and
then you have over here kind of the
actual governance and the governance
itself is I think well within the range
of standard Republican orthodoxy I agree
with that entirely I was simply saying
that Republican orthodoxy and by the way
Democratic worked at Orthodox remember
Obama's refusal to act against Russia in
Ukraine to bomb Assad was wildly
criticized by the whole bipartisan
foreign policy class in Washington they
they thought Obama was appeasing Putin
constantly so I agree I think I agree
totally with you that that the Trump
administration has been belligerent
toward Russia in a way that Republican
orthodoxy has long called for which is
why I have been so contemptuous of the
idea that Donald Trump is this Russian
asset sitting in the White House forcing
the United States to act in Russian
interest when in fact Russian American
policy over and over and over and over
again has been directly contrary to and
threatening to vital Russian interest
not ancillary Russian interests but
vital Russian interests I think there's
an argument that the the sanctions
relief which he certainly pursued which
is basically just putting money in
people's pockets at the end of the day
that is a pretty big Monsanto I mean so
you know for every for him following all
the Republican orthodoxy and the this
national security establishment
orthodoxy you do have things like we're
gonna burn the translator records or
we're not gonna take any records of of
this meeting between these two heads of
these two states I mean that's fairly
that's the only unorthodox thing he's
doing and that's a very like you know I
can understand why people would be like
wow that's a very strange thing to do
and what's behind that I mean that's
fairly intriguing right I mean we're
gonna have no right you can look at it
that way or you can I where you can look
you know what the Trump people say is
every time Trump talks to the Russians
it ends up leaking because
people in the CIA or people in the FBI
who wanted to pick Trump as a Russian
stooge which was going on since the
campaign end up leaking what he says to
Putin and you can't have Frank relations
between leaders if both of them think
that what they end up saying to one
another is gonna end up being leaked and
so taking precautions to make sure that
those conversations aren't leaked
doesn't seem like an entirely sinister
thing to me at least to do I mean
there's that's that seems like a fairly
rational thing but let me just address
this the second part about public
perceptions of both Russia and the FBI I
think that if you look at overall
polling you're right that if you compare
2015 polling about how Russia is
perceived or the FBI is perceived to
2019 polling about how Russia or the FBI
is perceived or for that matter
WikiLeaks it kind of stays the same
so the number of Americans who view
Russia favorably in 2015 is the same as
the number of Americans who view them
the same in 2019 view them favorably in
2019 but what has changed radically is
the partisan breakdown so in 2014
Republicans adored and revered the CIA
and the FBI and the Democrats are
skeptical that has now almost completely
reversed there's a huge upsurge in trust
in faith the Democrats place in those
institutions and a complete collapse in
the trust and faith or Republicans been
putting them because Republicans have
been fed the narrative that this is a
corrupt deep state trying to overthrow
the democratically elected government
whereas Democrats have been fed the
opposite narrative that the these are
the agencies that are going to save us
from the criminality of Trump same with
Russia 2013 2014 Marco Rubio John McCain
all of those guys were saying Putin is
this evil regime Obama is appeasing them
so that the Republicans were being told
that Russia is this grave threat that
Obama was insufficiently standing up to
that has completely reversed the 22 2012
said gee oh it's the number one
geopolitical threat Obama mocked him for
it said the Cold War once there or the
1980s wants its foreign policy back so
all of its kind of been fundamentally
reversed right in the way that often
happen
when the parties change the white house
so you're right that overall the
perception is the same but I don't think
there's any question I think the point
out who you're referring to demonstrates
I know it does on the question of the
FBI I'm almost certain it does and the
question of Russia that Democrats see
Russia as a greater threat than they did
three or four years ago which would make
sense the Democrats trust the FBI and
CIA more than they did three or four
years ago and that's what I'm really
worried about is that you know for a
long time in this country we did have a
Democratic Party that were the cold
warriors right Harry Truman is the one
who dropped two nuclear bombs on Japan
it was John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson
who prosecuted the Vietnam War the sort
of Iraq war of that generation and I'm
really worried that the Democratic Party
is embracing and it's wide the neocons
are now migrating back to the Democratic
Party
this kind of militaristic imperialistic
jingoistic ethos that I think is really
harmful and that I've always been
opposed to from the time that I began
writing about politics that's the worry
that I have not that overall the ball of
body politic is embracing these
narratives that Russia is a threat in
the FBI and CIA are good and trustworthy
but that Democrats in particular are
because not just MSNBC and I mean Rachel
Maddow is really influential but it's
not just her at all it's it's CNN also
has a huge number of former prosecutors
former military officials that they also
hire to help shape the news those are
the sources at the New York Times in the
Washington Post quote I just think that
there's been too much of a
rehabilitation of neo-cons and the truth
of these agencies and that's whatever I
couldn't just I couldn't agree with you
more about that and and I think you know
I I think that's I mean I think that's
true and I think to a certain extent
some of that is inevitable I mean as a
you know a joke that and fortunately I
don't think it's been him as much
although some to some extent but one of
the biggest problems we were talking
about in the summer of 2016 was if
Donald Trump wins then we all have to
pretend like
Jonathan Chait knows what he's talking
about again and and I listen I agree
this is all but to a certain extent this
is all sort of predictable in cyclical
and in a function of of who's in office
and who's not out I mean that's why I
like it seems to me all the critiques
you're making we're just as valid
regardless of what the Muller
investigation found I mean you know like
it it wasn't hinged on in my mind as to
what we find in that report all those
things are true regardless as far as I'm
concerned
