with Sam Sita the destiny
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any ELISA
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Friday January 18th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today it's
casual Friday and of course rarely is
the week casual in this era on the
program today
Digby from the blog hullabaloo will be
recapping some of the news of the week
and David Feldman from the David Feldman
show will be joining us to recap some of
the stuff in the week or just to talk
about who he's mad at and the sopranos
20-year anniversary meanwhile Donald
Trump told his personal lawyer to lie to
Congress
joining Richard Nixon in the pantheon of
presidents who had this act included in
one of their articles of impeachment so
is the cover-up Henry you ought to play
it pray wait you're not
your name isn't Henry get out of my
office Mike meanwhile bill bars
testimony has just gotten a lot more
interesting DHS and I separated more
migrant children than they revealed LA
teachers still on strike drawing massive
crowds
the shutdown continues as Trump becomes
even more unelectable and apparently the
administration leaked the commercial
travel plans of members of Congress to
maybe
endanger their safety as they plan to go
talk to NATO officials and troops in
Afghanistan representative su cancels
the medicare-for-all hearings amid what
seems to be no reporting on that and
representative Republican Jason Smith
apologizes for being caught as a racist
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen big stuff happening
with this BuzzFeed piece we've already
gotten Jeff Merkley senator Jeff Merkley
calling for the president to either
resign or get impeached this is a big
deal because as you know Richard Nixon
they had drawn up three articles of
impeachment with Richard Nixon we'll
talk about this would Digby but you
should know that article three of what
was going to be undoubtedly an
impeachment that certainly Richard Nixon
thought would happen which is why he
left includes the following words
counseling witnesses with respect to the
giving of false or misleading statements
to lawful lawfully authorized
investigative officers and false or
misleading testimony and duly instituted
judicial and congressional proceedings I
mean this is one of the major
obstruction charges we'll get to this
clip when we get Digby on the program
starting early this morning obviously
appreciate your joining us
let you know as a small business owner
many respects are elected right I wonder
if that's always the case with all small
business owners no thank you because you
hate freedom well I'm trying to always
constantly essentially plan freedom and
it never goes well however if you are
trying to centrally plan freedom for
your own small business this may help
particularly if you have a client based
business right like you're a graphic
designer or you
I don't know UCP you know whatever you
would have clients for I guess
honey book com can help you spend less
time handling the administrative work
and more time doing what you love honey
book is an all-in-one business
management platform for creative small
businesses they make it easy to
streamline your process with client and
calendar management tools and custom
branded proposals and contracts you can
even get signatures generate invoices
and get paid faster all with one online
system over 75,000 photographers
designers event professionals other solo
entrepreneurs have saved hundreds if not
thousands of hours a year with honey
book they have on there you know what I
you know like the one business thing
that I understand that concept is that
80/20 concept you want to spend 80% of
what you're doing at work doing what you
do best and that is there that is one of
their of logos essentially on their
website and they get this idea you don't
want to be if you are one of the people
who are working in any of those type of
fields you don't want to spend more than
10 15% 20% of your time doing
administrative work and we have
partnered with honey book calm to offer
majority report listeners 50% off the
first year of honey book when you use
the promo code majority so get started
at honey book calm today use the promo
code majority 50% off your first year
again that's honey book.com promo code
majority check it out folks
also if you have heartburn or acid
reflux keeps you up at night try medic
line it's a new natural solution to a
problem that affects thousands of
Americans and I think this probably
applies to a lot of different sleep
problems that people have it's a
comfortable acid reflux pillow system
for your bed that keeps you in the best
sleeping position for natural relief
no more sliding down a wedge or putting
blocks under your bed frame no more
dangerous medication no more suffering
medic line system is available in three
sizes it has a patented arm pocket so
you can sleep comfortably on your side
without pressure on your shoulder the
soft supportive body pillow keeps you
from rolling to your back so you get the
rest you deserve if you're suffering
with nighttime heartburn
try a medic line tonight with their 100
day guarantee relief guarantee you've
got nothing to lose the system ships
free with this special offer and comes
complete with a full set of pillowcases
for more information visit goodnight
heartburn dot-com or call 866 tene oh
seven that's eight hundred six one oh
sixteen oh seven enter the code majority
a check out for fast free shipping
that's good night heartburn calm or call
866 teen oh seven to learn more and try
medic line today Med Kline today
alright folks gonna take quick break and
we'll be right back with Digby
you
ak Sam cedar on the majority report
ladies and gentlemen it's casual Friday
and fortunately today we have a guest
who allows us to play this little ditty
I don't know why that song makes me
laugh so much but I enjoy it's very
chill very chill at all I could handle
today that's great it's it's it feels
like sort of like I don't know the the
lounge music like the the lounge music
that hit like about five years ago no it
wasn't but that came back a little bit
there's an artist named Jim noir who was
in that sort of style is that right
there was also like some other whatever
we let's not get too caught up in this
but what is old is new again isn't it
Digby we were going to McDonald trumpets
to hit all three of the same articles of
impeachment that Richard Nixon was faced
with and this story and BuzzFeed we got
to be a little bit careful because
there's this stuck out for me in this
BuzzFeed story and I want to get your
take on this obviously but it was
reported by two law enforcement officers
who are familiar with the investigation
I guess that that Donald Trump
specifically told Cohen to lie to
Congress about Cohen's repeated I guess
can you know contacts over this Trump
Tower building in Russia now the Trump
Tower building in Russia itself you know
it could be just as innocuous as
you know the you know he wanted to build
a Trump Tower in Russia he's perfectly
allowed to do that for some reason he
didn't want that to be known and he told
his lawyer to lie to Congress about it
and his lawyer I guess did lie to
Congress about it
and I just read this before you came on
but it's worth reading again I mean III
think you know this is that the third
article of impeachment Nixon was
specifically the words were counseling
witnesses with respect to giving false
or misleading statements to Lava
lawfully authorized investigative
officers and false and misleading
testimony in duly instituted judicial
and congressional proceedings check
right I mean if this story is true from
BuzzFeed check absolutely I mean this is
and you know this isn't the the first
week heard of this it just has some new
detail that we hadn't heard before and
one of the reasons why I think it's got
so much credibility is that this
discharge turned up in the Michael Cohen
I'd you know the Muller was sensing
agreement for Michael Cohen for his
lying to Congress and this so we we knew
that this sort of was out there but what
we didn't know before what this adds to
it is the fact that that this has been
confirmed by to law enforcement
representatives when assumes this must
be from the Southern District of New
York which is interesting in itself
because we had assumed that this stuff
was sort of centered in the Muller
investigation but it's possible that
they're both kind of looking at this
Trump Tower Moscow deal for different
reasons and that's how the information
is being shared among the two offices
but there's also this detail that there
is some documentary evidence now what
that is we don't know
I heard Leopold on TV this morning one
of the reporters right Jason Leopold
saying that they were very confident
they wouldn't say that they had seen it
or not seen it that they'd been briefed
whatever it is but they're very
confident that it exists you know I
yes you can think they're lying about
that but it wouldn't make much sense and
what that means is is that it's either a
tape which would be except extremely
don't you know you want to talk about
the Watergate parallels or you know it's
some kind of an order that came through
on paper now I did you know that's not
how Trump does business he's generally a
guy who who does who gives his orders
verbally so I'm thinking that it's some
kind of tape that could and we know that
Cohen was taping right right we know
Cohen was taping things throughout that
period of time it sounds like he was
taping it almost four years on some
level like he was wire like I've got to
I've got to protect myself all right it
makes this testimony from William bar
that much more important and it's
interesting you know there's a lot of
times and and and and particularly I go
back to when we saw widen and Merkley I
think it was when they would ask
specific questions about you know of
clapper regarding the NSA spying and
there was a sense that they had answers
right about certain things that they
couldn't talk about and they would ask
questions that were specifically a
function of that and I think they're in
and here is Amy Klobuchar
and you get the sense that Amy Klobuchar
are two days ago had a sense that stuff
like this was maybe out there to drop or
you know it was just paying attention
but here is her line of questioning of
the attorney general nominee who just
had his hearings two days ago
in your memo you talked about the the
Comey decision and you talked about
obstruction of justice and you already
went over that which I appreciate you
wrote on page one that a president
persuading a person to commit perjury
would be obstruction is that right yeah
yes okay or any-any well you know any
person who persuades another okay you
also said that a president or any person
convincing a witness to change testimony
would be obstruction is that right
yes okay and on page two you said that a
president deliberately impairing the
integrity or availability of evidence
would be an instruction is that correct
yes okay
and so what if a president told the
witness not to cooperate with an
investigation or hinted at a pardon you
know I'd have to know the specific
figure I'd have to know the specific
family and you wrote on page one that if
a president knowingly destroys or alters
evidence that would be obstruction yes
okay so what if a president drafted a
misleading statement to conceal the
purpose of a meeting would that be
obstruction again you know I'd have to
know the I'd have to know the specifics
well you probably will soon but so I
mean there it is I mean she's basically
lays out two or three things that I
think you know are fairly clear that
Donald Trump or is suspected of doing
and if this reporting is true but what
do you make here's what what it's like
this is the first if I'm not mistaken
this seems to be the first information
we have about this investigation that
has come from law enforcement yeah I
mean III don't remember a single other
piece of information what we've we've
gotten up to this point are different
defense attorneys trying to protect
their client by giving information about
other client other people who are caught
up in this investigation I don't
remember a another story of of
significance it seems to me in which law
enforcement officials were cited what do
you make of that well I think like I
said before I think that this had to
have come from the Southern District of
New York and I think that Leopold and
cormier the two reporters for BuzzFeed
they also dropped that the story about
the Trump Tower Moscow deal that was
going on through 2015 I suspect that
that's where it's coming from that they
are dare more leaky and that the Muller
investigation I mean I really have no
idea outside of the actual court filings
what that case looks like but the
Southern District of New York
it could be FBI agents or some kind of
you know other investigators that they
have on staff something like that it's
interesting they call them law
enforcement so yeah I guess that could
apply to prosecutors to I don't even
know but that's where I suspect that
it's coming from is from there and it
like I said it's it's very curious
because it means that this particular
part of the Russia investigation it has
to do with Trump Tower Moscow I you know
I'm assuming that that much of that
originated from that that in Cohen
investigation that that's where they got
this documentary evidence that that's
where they discovered this and maybe
it's just something that you know they
had and then they turned it over to
Muller and they're just sort of
repeating what they already knew but I
don't think that's true because this
complete this sensing agreement that
Cohen just did with Muller that had to
do with this perjury or you know lying
to Congress so that's pretty recent so
I'm assuming that they must be working
in tandem there there's something
there's some kind of a you know a
co-equal investigation on this Moscow
Trump Tower thing and it's really
looking like that is a much bigger part
of this I think then we may have
realized that there's much more to this
Trump Tower Moscow saying I mean I you
know there was I read something last
night that there's someone saying that
in the in the agreement that Trump
signed you know remember he said there
was no signed agreement then later turns
up the signed agreement that they were
they actually had a deal that in that
deal was supposed to be a million
dollars in earnest money that the
Russian developers were supposed to give
to Donald Trump and now people are
wondering gee does that money ever get
get sent I mean was there actually a
million dollars exchanged somewhere in
the middle of all this which you know
and and of course you're wondering whose
interests are being served going either
direction I mean we know that Donald
Trump's interests were being served by
Russians helping him win the election
you know what were the Russians getting
out of this at the time and who which
you know which people were they I mean
we know that the Russian system tends to
you know the government is very much
involved with these developers and these
you know these oligarchs with all the
money and that this is sort of a you
know a very elite group that sort of
works together so who is who was
involved in all that so that part of the
story which is not something we
concentrated on until recently for
obvious reasons we didn't really know
about it that seems to be a much bigger
deal so it's it's interesting that this
is that this is the first leaks we're
getting out from that those kinds of
sources in this because you know Sam
remember and all of the other
investigations I mean you go back to the
90s date these prosecutors leak like a
sieve and they did it very you know
strategically they were trying to put
pressure on witnesses and doing all
kinds of stuff I mean it would they
played a lot of those those you know
so-called pseudo scandals in the Clinton
years in the press I mean they did they
miss the press part of their their
strategy and that's just not happened
with Muller before and so it's not
something that that is unique you know
this kind of a leak coming from law
enforcement isn't unusual what's unusual
is that there haven't been leaks coming
from lunch right so right interesting
and and and and I and I have to say this
I'm not I'm not drinking today in the
past not well I'm not drinking yet today
but in the past you know we've did we've
done a show where we drank a little bit
and you know we talk about sort of more
barroom theories and so I'm not going to
go too far with this but when I hear
about a an international deal involving
a lot of money that is set up I Felix
aider who is a the you know it's it's
unequivocal he to the point where
Loretta Lynch wrote a an affidavit on
his behalf he was or is or an FBI asset
and at different times a CIA asset I
imagine he's based in New York I imagine
the New York FBI was involved in some
way
running this guy it's you know I don't
have a sense of you know I don't know
enough about these things to know you
know what kind of relationship they have
but if this guy's out there working
deals with international money right and
has done this multiple times was a
special adviser to Donald Trump I I
can't help but think that there's that
that the story is bigger than Trump and
that it involves Felix aider and you
know whoever I just the idea that Felix
aider is setting up these deals right
where he has been basically providing
information to the CIA and the FBI about
tracking money international money flows
and they weren't aware of this I just
did I think there's a lot of other
subplots here to this we may be talking
about the one that has the most
relevance in terms of the presidency but
that doesn't mean that's the biggest
plot line that is going on there and
that's you know people can go back and
listen to the episode we did with
Perrine over the make vacation if they
want to you know hear more of sort of
backfill that stuff but I you know like
for certain law enforcement to be
leaking this suggests to me that there
is some other game being played here
right because the Muller investigation
has been super super tight and the
Southern District of New York is also
known as being fairly super tight you
know when you talk about these leaks
during the Clinton investigation that
was all coming out a ken starr's you
know merry band of followers and they
were all you know the people who were
doing the leaking there none of them
were career investigators right they
were people like Brett Kavanaugh who was
literally in charge of leaking to the
press in the Ken Starr investigation so
the idea that that people need feel the
need to get this information out there
at this time is fascinating to me
well it is and and you know you have to
you have to wonder if this is coming up
just before I mean when is Cowan
scheduled to testify within yeah so it's
right around the corner and by the way
let's not forget this other little game
that's being played by the President
himself who is now out there tampering
with the witness Michael Cohen by
threatening his father-in-law and yeah I
mean this is real mob stuff this is just
this is you know nice little
father-in-law you got here you know be
shame if anything happened to him I mean
it's really outrageous and he just did
it again this morning in his in his
tweet about all this so you know the the
fact that Cohen's testimony is coming up
seems to maybe be a catalyst for maybe
you know both what Trump is saying about
the father in law st and why I mean who
knows maybe they're putting pressure on
Cohen yeah there's a whole lot of
information they wanted from him that
they didn't get which is why he's going
to do three years in prison instead of
getting off because he refused to talk
and we assume I mean maybe that's got
something to do with Felix aider I mean
this is said I mean can we even believe
we're talking about this I mean this is
the president it's the president's
lawyer it's the president of the United
States I mean this guy this is cheap mob
stuff even the Felix fader stuff I mean
this guy went to jail for a barroom
brawl where he cut somebody with a with
a broken glass right you know I mean and
and have subsequently played this very
strange role in being an asset and also
a criminal and you know I just couldn't
make this stuff up and and you know
maybe that maybe there's something to do
with that as well I mean if it's the
Southern District they've got a whole
you know different set of priorities it
seems maybe they're breaking up
something that's there in this is this
may be a bank shot
in some respects but you know it's all
conjecture now but the you're moving
from from this sort of
the the law and order stuff to the sort
of the political implications this puts
a lot of pressure it seems to me on the
Democrats to start hearings in the house
right like put aside everything else you
just as a president you can't tell
people to lie to Congress I mean you
can't do that as anybody but as the
president you know like I said this was
there were three charges against or
three pieces to the to the Nixon
indictment and one was obstruction and
one was you know lying essentially to
Congress into investigators and it was
you know this is this is the stuff that
people get impeached for and it strikes
me as like no I've said I don't think
that he will get convicted unless there
is tapes of him running naked around on
the front lawn of the of the White House
probably chasing a small child but short
of that I don't think the Senate's gonna
do anything like that but the house it
seems you know they're gonna have to
start proceedings on this right I mean
this is we're probably that's what Cowan
is probably gonna kick off in some way
well I mean yeah it's obvious look if if
this doesn't this and I mean by the
whole story not just this specific thing
that we you know drop last night in
BuzzFeed if yeah if that doesn't merit
if all of this does not merit a an
impeachment inquiry I mean nobody's
saying that they've already come to the
conclusion is he's impeached and let's
move on to the Senate I mean obviously
they have to hold hearings they have to
do you know a full investigation they've
got to lay out the case that's the whole
point of the impeachment is is that they
have to they have to lay out a case and
you know the idea that well we have to
wait for Muller know they don't and and
that's it that's a mistake to think in
those terms because Muller as we learned
from the bar hearings earlier this week
that report if there is one may never
see the light of day or at least not in
the way that that impe
managers and and the public would need
to see it because they say if if Muller
presents us to the new Attorney General
William bar and if William bar continues
to protect the president which up until
now we have good evidence that that's
what he's been hired to do although
perhaps that might change that he you
know if that happens the report comes to
the Attorney General that's the way the
rules are he's right about that and he
will decide what is made public and what
isn't he may very well decide to
summarize it in some way that does not
tell the whole story and that does not
lay it out for the public the Congress
has to do their job on this now it's not
right and and all that Muller and that
investigatory material should go to the
Congress even if it's classified they
should the the committee should have
access to it but you know that this may
be a problem so yes they have to get
started and they have to get started now
you know I mean I made the argument
before the election that it was that
they didn't they never needed to run on
impeachment oh my god you know the
Democrats they're gonna run on
impeachment and the public will be upset
and blah blah I never have to run an
impeachment they have to run on
accountability they have to run on
Oversight they have to say they're going
to hold hearings they're going to look
at all this stuff well now that you know
there's more and more information coming
forward there's more and more people who
are talking they have to you know
there's nothing that says you you you
you there's yeah you can't hold an
impeachment inquiry which is what we're
talking about and they have to get
started because there's not enough time
and and if the fact that the the Senate
you know the Republicans in the Senate
who basically are a bunch of dying
potted plants as far as I can tell they
probably won't convict him okay fine but
then you have an election and what
you're running on is the case that the
Democrats lay out that of Donald Trump's
you know lies and in various crimes and
then you have a bunch of Republicans who
refused to do anything about it I don't
understand why that's a bad thing for
the Democrats I mean it's the
Republicans who look bad and you
I mean I mean that's a good point to
sort of pivot a little bit to like I'm
not convinced that that's the that's the
thing that you you necessarily run on I
mean I think to a certain extent that
you know there's there's there's the
context in which you run and then
there's the thing you run on right like
I I think that and it may be something
that you know in terms of like the
congressional races and certainly
senatorial races is a touchstone but I
think you know explaining to the country
that Donald Trump is a bad person is not
I think it's I think it's I I think it's
just it's annoying because they all know
right like we see this poll that came
out the other day now I guess it was
yesterday this I think it's a Marist NPR
poll and we haven't quite seen we
haven't quite seen stuff like this out
yet or you know in the past but now
where is this I had it there before but
it shows basically that Donald Trump is
unelectable like something like 57 or 67
percent of the population
57% of the population says they will not
vote for Donald Trump period and it
suggests to me that on some level like
you need to go now that that we're a
ways out these polls you know shift
people don't know but his approval is
slipping with the base it's conceivable
that impeachment might you know shore up
that base a little bit but that's not
going to help him beyond that and so the
the bottom line is like you know Donald
Trump is you know getting rid of Donald
Trump but I think it's going to be a
feature of a campaign but I still think
that like you have to run on affirmative
ly like like bringing people stuff
that they want their government to do
right like I think like one of the and
again there were like 30 different but
fours right with the with the race with
Clinton but one of the things that she I
think like did not make as a as a
primary feature of her campaign was you
know she spent a lot of time talking
about how horrible Donald Trump was she
was right but I don't know ultimately
that you need to prove that to people I
mean I think people know that he was
horrible they just want to make sure
that they're they're gonna vote for
something affirmative Lee as well so you
know you impeach the guy and you just
basically say like it's it's about the
Republicans then right it's about the
Republicans in the Senate it's not even
about Donald Trump anymore it's just
about people standing in the way of
accountability and that and all right
well so let's talk about this a little
bit in terms of what's going on with the
shutdown the government shutdown I think
they're just sort of like this slow burn
a little bit where the American public
hears stories like the New York FBI
having a food bank for people who work
there right that you have government
employees who are working without pay it
feels like you know if the TSA or the
FAA and you know the the flight
controllers decided we're gonna stage a
one-day walkout that this whole thing
would come to a head and I guess the
question is like what you know we gonna
have to wait three months for that to
happen i it's it's so painful to watch
this whole thing unfold I mean look you
know Trump he's backed himself into a
corner here he's in a very very he's
made he's done this to himself and by
the way you know me I wrote about this
for a salon this morning and there's
you know I'm so struck by the fact that
this guy was supposed to be he sold
himself to the public as the greatest
negotiator in the world and there has
never been a worse man so one thing I
agree with Ann Coulter on
he's the worst negotiator the world has
ever known he is really really bad at
this and in fact he was quoted in the
New York Times this week saying you know
why can't I get a deal you know he's
whining to Mick Mulvaney why can't I get
a deal I'm getting crushed you know
because he doesn't understand how this
works he doesn't get it you know he has
he is unable to do that he has to offer
amps here that are available to him one
is to come to the Democrats and offer
them something really good he could do
that but he doesn't know what they want
he doesn't understand how that you know
what kind of things might induce them to
agree to maybe come halfway on his wall
or some kind of thing he can't deal he
doesn't know how to do it it's it you we
know this because he called them up to
the White House they all went in there
they're sitting there and he said will
you give me my wall and Nancy Pelosi is
her opening gambit says no I won't he
says buh-bye and he gets up and leaves
that's his idea of a negotiation that's
not a negotiation not in politics anyway
maybe when you're doing a licensing deal
for it you know keep ties for Macy's or
something maybe you can do that but
that's not going to work with someone
who has equal power to you and you have
to go across you know you've got to do
some some kind of horse trading he has
no idea how to do that and he's refusing
to do it do you so you know this is my
sense like like he must know that if he
offered daca right like because they had
this deal a year ago I had to deal with
everybody with five times the funding
for him and and it seems to me the
problem is not so much that he that he
he doesn't know what the Democrats what
would bring the Democrats a table is
that he for all the sort of accolades he
got about knowing what his base would
accept he seems to have lost sight of
that and I think like to a certain
extent he's got conservative Republicans
coming in he doesn't
realize that they have nowhere else to
go or he's afraid of he's afraid of
somebody who's telling them you can't do
this in terms of daca and maybe it's
Stephen Miller maybe which is just weird
to me that I think it's mark metas it
could be mark meadows somebody's telling
him you can't do this and if you do this
they'll turn on which is sort of strange
right because theoretically Trump
supporters are a threat to everybody in
the Republican Party but he seems to be
intimidated by the freedom caucus in a
way that others aren't well he's being
played by them and just to say I mean
everybody can play Donald Trump because
he's an idiot so he the freedom caucus
is playing him to say oh you can't do
that don't give an inch if you give an
inch then you're going to lose your base
and we all know that you know Trump is
terrified of losing even one voter you
know I and I don't even understand that
either I mean he thinks that's the
universe of voters I mean if he behaved
differently there might be a different
universe of voters for him who knows but
in any case that's where he's at and
Mark Meadows has a different agenda
altogether you know mark Meadows has his
entire career has been about shutting
down the government and about not giving
an inch
that's all he does he has no other way
they like it when the government is shut
down they like it when everything is
chaos their entire worldview is based
upon just you know be having this rigid
set of demands that you either do it or
we'll burn this place up I mean that's
that's where they are and so this is
working out very well for Mark Meadows
and he's able to get the president I
think it's wait I think it's also a hard
interrupt but I think it's not just
meadows I think honestly think like this
is like Sean Hannity thinking we got a
clean quiet layer of Rush Limbaugh
saying if he just hangs in there and he
stays in there like I do think that he
and Coulter and Rush Limbaugh and Sean
Hannity are basically saying they'll
fold and so he can't and he doesn't know
who to listen to
and in this like HIDA he has lost sight
of the idea that he could shoot somebody
on Fifth Avenue because I'm quite
convinced he could tell his
say to you know he could just make an
announcement tomorrow we had a secret
funding we built the wall it's there I
agree
say 87% there and there'll be a couple
of stories in Washington Post we checked
it and no there's no more wall there's
just the amount of wall that there was
yesterday
and none of his voters would know that
and they certainly wouldn't talk about
that on Fox and end of the story but at
one point this thing comes down now I
wanted to shift this just a little bit
because we got only a little bit of time
here but there was a a thread and you
touched on this a little bit in your in
your salon column but the Nancy Pelosi
says you know what don't come to
Congress and give a State of the Union
it would be wrong because the government
is shut down and then Donald Trump turn
Brown said oh you should not take the
Air Force planes for the contingency of
of Congress people who are going to meet
with NATO officials and then to
Afghanistan and then apparently leaked
that they may have commercial travel
plans which you know that's like getting
a little bit endangered like you
wouldn't go and say like the president's
gonna go to a surprise visit to
blankety-blank tomorrow because Secret
Service doesn't what he do that but so
give me your sense of the way this is
playing out because there was a piece in
The Times I think it was that was like
voters are gonna get sick of this like
you know people have got to grow up and
you know they sort of like the No Labels
we got to get stuff done here forget it
that three weeks ago the Republicans
controlled all of government and could
have passed this legislation if it was
passable of course and you know that
that's I you know is it surprising that
the press is doing this I noticed it all
day yesterday - oh this tit for tat and
look they're being patty and they're
going back and forth this is it nonsense
again this is about Trump this is about
negotiating and what Nancy Pelosi knew
was that Donald Trump really likes
big speech lots of clapping and
everybody's watching he checks the
ratings if this joint session of
Congress thing is a big deal to Donald
Trump so she knew that if she said you
can't do that it would put a little bit
more pressure on him to perhaps open the
government which is what this whole
thing is about right I mean this is just
in this shutdown so she ratcheted up the
pressure on him by saying okay you're
not gonna get your big speech until you
do this she had the power to do it
that's a smart negotiating tactic it is
not a petty thing where she's trying to
slap him down or make him feel bad it
was about trying to get the government
open because the man will not move off
the dime because of what we just said
Ann Coulter and Rush Limbaugh are having
a fit and Trump doesn't know what to do
he can't take the off-ramp which I
thought was available to him which was
to declare the emergency and let the
court sort it out for some reason
they've they've I think that's mark
Meadows again who has convinced him that
he shouldn't do that because what Mark
Meadows wants to do is to have a
showdown with Nancy Pelosi he wants to
you know break the Democrats back so
that they you know they'll never try
this again or something or just for
kicks but whatever the case they you
know this is this Pelosi is trying to
get Trump off the dime now Trump's
reaction of course was just a you know
more of a temper tantrum saying you know
okay well I you don't get your trip now
like they really cared right and Nancy
and the rest of them are going alright
whatever but the speech was actually
something that that Trump values and
that it was important to him and he's
not getting it until he makes his move
the media is just intent upon turning
this into exactly what you described one
of those no labels think so the adults
in the room there aren't any they're all
just playing games and this is not what
the people wanted they want a bipartisan
agreement and blah blah well all that's
true
people do wanted bipartisan agreement
but you can't deal with this guy his
word is no good
he just before Christmas he agreed to
that continuing resolution that would
have funded the government for a year
and they would have come back and hashed
out more stuff about the wall for a
couple months but he backed off because
Ann Coulter got
better than so what you can't deal with
somebody like that that's the second
time he's backed out of a deal that was
made the first one was with the
Democrats that we talked about before
the immigration deal with daca and the
wall and all that he backed out at the
last minute because Stephen Miller
yelled at him then this year he did
exactly the same thing so you know we're
not in a position where you know you can
just say well golly if only they'd just
sit down in a room this guy you know
sits down and then says bye-bye when
they won't give him what he wants so
this is a problem and has nothing to do
with the Democrats they're doing the
best they can and they cannot give in to
this guy because if this becomes the way
he negotiates you didn't want to think
about what happens when the debt ceiling
comes up again you don't even want to
think about what's going to happen in
the future any funding bill he will use
as a cudgel this is not somebody that
you can allow to negotiate this way now
it's awful and they've got to do
something about it but you know the idea
that there's some facile answer if
everybody just act like a dolt is you
know it's one of those Beltway tropes
that just drives me crazy well it also
basically says none of none of these
decisions really matter right and that's
basically the underlying is like at the
end of the day as long as we've got our
tax cuts everything else is just details
and and that is the thing that people
but the problem is and greg sargent you
know we had him on the other day to talk
about a little bit about this asymmetry
is that Democrats respond to that type
of New York Times piece in a way that
Republicans don't write like they just
don't that's not part of their their
media that they have successfully gotten
their base and the people that move them
to ignore and have disdain for what the
New York Times writes or The Washington
Post right meanwhile you know Chuck
Schumer is sitting down at the the
Bailey's kitchen table going like I
can't believe this Times article uh
I don't know if you know the Bailey's
that's his imaginary family from Long
Island that gives you an advice and
that's not my construct that's his but
that this makes them nervous
and there's the asymmetry right there
well this is one good thing about this
new crew that's just come in I think you
know a lot of these new freshmen they
don't give a damn about that they
clearly do not care and you know they
get hit they're getting hit daily from
you know Alexandria Ocasio Cortez to you
know across the board all of them you
know they're being they're being hit
hard by the media the right wing's going
after them and they you know they're
just letting it roll right off their
back so that dynamic may be changing
partially because of that I also suspect
that in this situation I mean I I see at
least on a part of Pelosi trying to keep
her caucus together she's good at that
but you know nobody's it she's not
omnipotent I mean she has to do things
to to appeal to all these people that
this is a case where they truly do feel
and I mean let's face it it's a miracle
they've hung together because in the
past we would have seen a bunch of you
know more conservatives rushing right to
try and help the demo the Republicans
out and they would they'd be standing
you'd have them standing up giving
speeches the Joe Lieberman type course
anymore the sort of was doing this too
good two days ago
exactly but they're not doing it this
time and in fact Trump even invited this
week invited the moderates I mean Newt
Gingrich and I know exactly how this
happened I happen to be watching it Newt
Gingrich went on fox and said hey look
back when I was in charge we used to
deal with this very easily we'd get 30
or 40 Democrats we'd get them together
and we'd get them to put pressure on the
president and and that's that's what
Trump needs to do now he needs to put
pressure on Pelosi by getting 30 or 40
of her Democrats together bring him up
to the White House and make a deal and
then she'll have no choice and I'm
watching I'm going man you are you are
so living in the past right I mean first
of all he didn't really
that very well at the time and he's
exaggerating his success I'm anything
but you know this is this is such an
old-fashioned view of how things work
and you know Trump tried it he called up
the moderates and said you know we're
gonna get this centrist coalition you
know the No Labels coalition gonna come
up to the White House I'm inviting you
up and whatever in the end Democrat said
now we're not interested and I was
surprised I mean I'm still surprised
that that hasn't that there that crack
hasn't appeared but it hasn't and you
know this is one of the advantages of
having Donald Trump who is you know such
an so toxic right you don't want to be
seen with him at the White House nobody
well look that pressure comes on
Democrats as well as Republicans right
if Democrats deal with Trump they get a
primary I don't have any any doubt about
it that you know any Democrat who's seen
as a trump Democrat that you know they
they are not going to survive and they
must know that but it is kind of a
miracle that they're doing this and so
that dynamic the press is trying to play
this old game they're they're they
brought out their old playbook of you
know this new we need more adults in the
room thing yeah I just don't think it's
I don't think it's going to work and if
you look at the public opinion polls
yeah it's pretty clear who they're
blaming yes the guy it's great Trump
made it pretty easy all right well let
me just you know I just want to touch on
this but we have to go and maybe for a
future conversation that point about the
freshman Democrats who come in right who
are the it's interesting because a lot
of these folks are ideologically to the
left of where the center of the
Democratic Party has been okay for the
past 20-30 years and but it is what's
operative right now is that they are
more partisan right I mean this is the
sort of like paradox that that we don't
hear about with someone like AOC right
is that her ideology is is one thing but
what is really in effect right now is
almost like her partisanship yeah right
like we're like she's doing what
he wanted Dems to do 10 15 years ago
more and better Democrats that wealthy I
write in it but that meant two different
things right that means like we had you
know we we all had our ideological
aspirations for these Democrats but we
wanted them simply to go in and fight
even on their own terms right and she's
just going and doing that like you know
going to go marching over and we should
say it was you know not just her it was
you know Katie Hill and Lauren Underwood
and Angie Craig and and others I think
who went over there to look for Mitch
McConnell to bring the fight literally
to Mitch McConnell which is something
that I've been begging Democrats to see
more from Democrats to do for two years
you know because for somehow Mitch
McConnell stays out of the news the
other day they walked over there and
they made the story about Mitch
McConnell and this has nothing to do
with ideology right this has to do with
just like you're in a political fight
this is how you get media attention to
where the the the the points of pressure
should be put and for some reason the
Democrats prior to you know those
freshmen Democrats going and doing this
could not figure that out or would not
put themselves out there I mean I I it's
a mystery to me and and I think it's
it's fascinating sort of like you know
paradox she's there her her her her a
claim is ideological but what she's
doing right now
you don't have to believe in you know
medicare for all single-payer health
insurance to go and say Mitch
McConnell's responsible for the shutdown
right you don't have to be free college
you don't have to be free you know that
forgiveness or for you know the
government being involved in
manufacturing generic drugs or any
anything to go and say Mitch McConnell
is the person that we should be
directing our you know media attention
to that's just that's just like tactical
politics of course and you know and I'm
impressed because I think that you know
that they understand something which is
they understand the moment that they're
in
which is a real problem for some of
these people who've been around a while
right they just you see so much I think
it goes back to what we talked about
earlier the you know the fear of
impeachment of going down that road
they're living in 1998 they think and
you know they're thinking Donald Trump
is Bill Clinton I mean it couldn't be a
more different situation number one or
more different world that we're living
in and you know you see a lot of this
fighting the last war thing among among
the veterans and and these younger you
know or I shouldn't just say younger
there's some who are older who come in
the newer you know members of the
Congress are much more living in the
moment they're they're looking at the
situation much more clearly as being you
know what it is that partisan battle is
where the battlefield is there's not you
know I think there'll be plenty of
fights down the road about single-payer
you know we're gonna see that yes coming
very short all that there's time for
that and it will happen and you know
that's that's fine you know that's what
that's that's that's the way it should
work but in this moment these are people
who are willing to sort of live in this
in this in the time that they're in and
fight the battle that is before them and
I'm really impressed by that and it's
it's so necessary because the Republican
Party has gone batshit crazy and you
know there's got to be some pushback
here
Digby Heather Parton thank you so much
for your time today I really appreciate
it oh my pleasure have a great weekend
you too bye-bye okay you know and I I I
sort of feel like Nancy Pelosi is not
necessary well I don't know Nancy Pelosi
should been doing a pretty decent job
you know at least tactically but some of
these Democrats it's not even fighting
the last war as much as it's fighting
like the first war that they were in I
think that's what half fighting well
they're still they're still you know I
think a lot of this generation still
sort of like it the lesson that they're
operating under was George McGovern and
I don't think they necessarily took the
right lesson from that I don't know but
regardless there
you know they don't seem to have picked
up any cues from any of the other fights
since then but alright we got to take a
break when we come back david feldman
will be joining us
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program I'm pretty
sure this is like this his third visit I
feel like he was on maybe years ago
and then he was on like a month or two
ago with Michael he is the host of the
David Feldman show which I believe it's
on some terrestrial radio obviously
available as a podcast David are you
there yes yes it's great to be back Sam
thanks for inviting me
well it's my pleasure thank you for for
joining us and I should also say that I
remember seeing you
I still remember jokes of yours from
stand-up I saw at Katsuragi you like my
getting tarnished now because I thought
I scrubbed most of them there off your
Twitter feed but this was this was this
was 20 years before Twitter I remember
seeing you at the catch rising star in
the early 90s in Cambridge yeah I've met
that was I remember that was one of my
favorite rooms yeah I remember the jokes
do you see I mean I guess that's not
terribly impressive for you I remember
the joke that you had where you would
say you know we need more women leaders
we need more women leaders because
they're the the the the best and they
will never start a war except for you
know Margaret Thatcher and Indira Gandhi
and you then you listed every single
leader a female leader of a country who
had all started wars did you include
Golda Meir told in my ear yes I think it
was probably golden I just want to make
sure that he wasn't keeping for Israel
well were you and George Herbert Walker
Bush started a war too and he was kind
of but this would yeah this was
you're saying that there George Herbert
Walker Bush was was a kook was a
Zoe's I don't I don't I
it's not for me to to speak ill of
people who deserve to be dead well there
you go
but no I was raised do you remember that
joke I kind of remember I had some bits
that today would I don't know if they
would be particularly oh no none of them
were it would be funny no no not at all
but but I but but you know you were you
were doing like a political sarcastic
sort of type of humor at that time but
you know I've just told you I mean
that's it that's a bit of a compliment
right I mean I remember jokes of yours
from 30 years ago and you just sort of I
said I just think you put me if to be to
be honest and I'm glad you invited me on
the show and I love your show but I
don't think it's a compliment to
somebody my age I think you're just
showing off your memory in front of me
you're just saying look how young I am
look what I can look at the synapses in
my brain old man well it wasn't an under
15 Club at that time that you were
performing and I mean I was obviously
old enough to attend a comedy club and
be doing comedy yeah but you know it's a
passive-aggressive compliment what
you're saying to me is you know you were
one of the grievance a you're one of the
Great's he just said to me when I was
carried away I mean I didn't I didn't
say that I mean you know I mean I wasn't
I'm pretty accurate I just I said it's
our like age Samms how I gave before you
came in the air that he used his his ID
proving he was 21 for the first time to
go see you that's right and then I
wasn't he remembers no I was taken there
by my parents as a pre bot bar mitzvah
gift will you take me David velvet
please I'd like to big tiragon tease me
you're saying like I was Jewish let's go
see an old Jewish comic like Sam
Levenson Oh Jackie made yeah it was 30
years ago you're just putting me off to
pasture this is not the proper way to
treat a guest
I feel I know I apologize I meant no
offense whatsoever I know this has been
trying process for you I think I hang in
there trade
hang on hang on hand the nurses removing
the catheter okay yeah you know what
it's still claim don't we leave the
manual they want you to buy a new cat
this is just fine it's clean
okay go ahead hmm that's gross yeah yeah
super gross now now David I know this
has been a little bit trying for you my
understanding you had a little bit of a
complaint about your pre-interview your
producers there's a phalanx of like
three producers that I have to go
through before we go live and they the
priyad I've you know I've done talk
shows before and this is like the first
time where they don't ask me what I'm
gonna talk about they tell me what not
to talk about run the show right they
didn't screen any of my debts they just
said these are the things your producer
Bemelmans Battlement right 25 gentlemen
okay the kid with a feminine the kid
with the baseball cap turn sideways
right there's a couple of those but yes
yeah I like how Feldman boys everybody
right you mentleman like the most
Gentile things happening in this studio
he's turned into Bemelmans right well
he's not he's not working at what are
you a Brighton Beach until the summer so
he's here for winter but yes bammel men
is that Michael Brooks talking yeah yeah
because I know we tell what his
Mandelbrot Michel Mandelbrot that
Michael Mandelbrot Michael know the real
name was Burke of each was that right
Brooke of each she couldn't get it yeah
and then it was Berkowitz
you mean Brockovich know who says brach
of each people from that part of the
world I hit the old country which old
country we from Italy ya know like
Romania is up doing rock of each bucket
each okay well speaking of which
transition what's that oh I don't want
it to be a surprise right we'll get
there but David no I'm sorry
are you still there yeah yeah anyway I
listen so I went through Mandelbrot and
demo men and Potemkin potential I don't
even think was really there your
producer to temp Caen I never actually
stopped again like I said we gotta wait
for Potemkin he's coming in yeah
cerebral horse anyway right I had no
intention and I said this they're the
pre-interview they gave me the list I'm
not gonna bring up your facelift and
political show right
no my would I bring up your facelift
right there's no reason for you to do
that I mean it's probably probably best
that you hadn't not bringing that up not
bringing Michael Brooks right don't work
for Dave Rubens new network why would i
I'm interested a night huh do
you take money I'm not good I'm
working towards it yeah that's where all
the big money is well what else did you
might have taken to bragging of money at
one point in my career actually but
that's a story for only members only
well there you go
of course CH cop /tm BM yes for the
fracking story the fracking stir was
there anything else that you had told
not to bring up or it's okay I won't
bring this I won't bring the stuff
well I appreciate that thank you that's
that's help and the fact that the show
is not that in Brooklyn the fact that's
being done in the Cayman Islands right
well it's nobody's nobody's business we
could we could move all to the Cayman
Islands is it also voting in favor of
that where do you do your show David
I've never been the Milt Cayman Islands
it's some islands named after an old
Jewish comedian a Milt came and very
cake and the Borscht Belt notes Cayman
you remember milk Cayman I don't
remember milk came in no yeah I mean I'm
I'm I'm much younger than that far too
young to know milk game is he a real guy
there we go so no I'm sorry I didn't I
didn't mean in any way now David we've
prepared something for you because we
know and and Michael was you know in
between the time he was running around
doing errands for Dave Rubin setting up
his new patreon system battery on right
not sure you yes whatever it is and but
there a case is there cased system I
caught you loud and clear fell though
you let it go I'm the live show I
watched it did I was trying to be
agility and I thought Sam was Benny
classy but now I realize he just didn't
get it
I didn't hear what are you talking about
though it's alright don't make I like
her don't of course somebody you were
going after no wives okay yeah okay this
is a good transition leave a woman in
show
out of it right let's leave your women
and children i we have something to play
for you to celebrate the 20 year
anniversary of something that my
understanding is that you are a big fan
of here it is this is Brendan and I okay
murder was like 94 this is bread that a
nice favorite scene here it is it was
just right I knew there was something
Tony you don't think I title me all the
property I motel dentistry for the club
the Jew with the black clothes and curls
and everything that calls I see them I
see them but I don't believe it is the
20 year anniversary of The Sopranos yeah
I see them but I don't believe them
Paulie walnuts that's right you're a big
Sopranos fan and little Steven was on
the the picket lines the LA School
strike picket lines yeah see yeah well
so how do you want me to respond to this
I don't know uh Jesus I mean Jesus did
we offend you in some way there's
another yeah I'm fine sale my I'm doing
like a beta version of myself so I'd
like to respond I want to cut through
the left-wing progressive clutter okay
and stand out right you know there are a
lot of really great people doing what
you do right and what you do and so on
yeah but you know I want to stand out
all right you want a brain are for
someone like I'm sorry you want to brand
yourself
I want to brand myself and it's hard for
someone like me I read one book and I
smoke a lot of dope right so
what was the book was a Christopher
hedges I don't remember as a Christopher
hedges book and I I learned what the
word oligarch meant so I can explain
away a lot of the Democratic Party has
tools of the oligarchs uh-huh so and
that's working for me
I can dismiss practically everything in
the Democratic Party still be a
progressive and bring up you know
Hillary and the Clinton Foundation hey
right of course but hey that's a real
snoozer
but to what that's a real one sir that's
a real story
yeah yes and that's what I'm talking
about yeah I read Christopher hedges and
their you know the Democratic Party you
know we need a purity test so I'm gonna
be I want to be I want to be the big
nothing burger guy that's my debate the
big nothing burger so like give us an
example of what would be a big nothing
burger AOC Alexandria okay so course
it's a big nothing burger she's part of
the same swamp they all come from and
you know she's she's an oligarch you
just got your that you are just not
saying it that's my so this way I don't
have to read because I don't like I read
be honest with you I read like the first
sample of the Christopher hedges book
sample and I learned Oleg Ark and I
think I know what plutocrat means so
just bring up whatever you want and I'll
be the guy says it's a big nothing bird
okay I need a purity test and then I'll
then I'll scream and rant and rave and
smoke some more dope and so you brought
up The Sopranos that was a big nothing
burger what was decided of course but
but but let me ask you about this then
alright then this is appropriate the
there was a BuzzFeed article that came
out today
I mean it is you know it we it hasn't
been confirmed outside of this buzz but
apparently the president told his
personal lawyer to go to Congress and
lie do you think that's really nothing
burger big nothing burger michaël code
big nothing burger the rush
investigation I mean come on you know
what you know hey what about the
McKinley assassination huh what about
the Garfield assassination
I mean booth got away with it for like
who was hiding booth if they're all part
of the same system
all right big the deep dark States but
the suddenly the are plutocrats like
part of spy agencies because I'm not
sure I'm using the word plutocrat but
you know clapper right and you know he's
part of the same deep dark plutocracy
that was you know behind the Clinton
Foundation so there's nothing there with
Russia and it it's just a distraction to
keep our eyes off something that you
don't know about that I can I can lord
over you because I read Chris Hedges I'm
smart okay
Michael Cohen they all lie before
Congress that's what they do they do
they lie before Congress what about
Congress lying before us you don't talk
about that what about the polluters the
plutocrats I mean you know it's just so
I don't know you're not saying the
forest through the trees by the way it's
a nothing burger and I'm kind of like
driving into the skid of getting older
right and I've come up with a new new
new term and it's this isn't my first
rodeo Sam is that the new term
yeah the new term but I came up with
it's not my first where of you but
that's not I just think I've seen things
but what is the new term that you
brought up this isn't my first rodeo
this isn't my first rodeo because it
gives me you know Gian Forte that that
congressman's body slams people right it
makes me feel like him like he's the
kind of guy I see so you saying it's not
your first rodeo it's it's a it's
obviously a metaphor but it also implies
that maybe you've actually you've you're
a cowboy yeah it comes off no all right
so you think people can I ask you a
question on the opposite end
okay so sure obviously perjuring
yourself before congress lying to
congress no big deal because that that
uh congress lies to us as you said what
about those some things in a positive
direction what about Bernie Sanders
getting even really conservative and
sort of more corporate members nothing
burger members of the Democratic Party
to sign on to Medicare for all what
about that that must be a positive
Senate Medicare for all is a big nothing
now why do you say that and because I
don't know the difference between
Medicare and Medicaid I'm testing this
out yourself no no it's going with it I
actually think that you're probably
pulling members off of our show right
now they're all just like signing up for
the new for the new David Feldman show
or the I use that were you gonna call it
with this new persona you're gonna call
it like something like not my not the
you know not that not your dad's rodeo
or something like that yeah well I'm not
doing this to make money I've gotten rid
of all my memberships to be honest with
you I'm getting money from one person I
can't mention his name now can you give
us a sense of who it is I mean I people
are gonna probably want to know he's one
of a lesser known
how brothers the one who was
excommunicated for wasn't one of the
code now there's another there's another
Koch brother that nobody knows about
Wow he's been giving me money yeah how's
it Jane May or miss him
yeah you want to know his name
sure cuz his last name was coke right
mm-hmm you'd be one of the electric so
give me one of the lesser-known coke huh
which what was that what was his name
the first name well you know it is it
really changed him growing up because
people made fun of him for having the
first name that didn't really match coke
and so what would that be yeah you want
to yeah I go peepee in your in your his
name was I go peepee in Europe
yes and it really affected him but can
you be it could you imagine growing up
David Koch Charles Koch oh that's our
that's our older brother I go pee pee in
your so older brother he was an older
browser so this was so the code was the
older brother he's so mr. mrs. Koch
started with this and then they realized
probably not a good idea like that was
funny for a while but then it turns out
to be not good so let's just go with
David Koch and yeah is that a family
name or what was that we were just like
this could be funny let's try it out
they just I don't know why they would
name it sake I don't know I honestly in
all honesty I don't know why somebody
would name their child I go peepee in
your no idea no idea it was a strange
thing all right well I mean let's get
back to you just one more
you know one more I guess it's you what
about this teacher strike is that
hopeful are you hopeful in any way when
you see tens of thousands of teachers
going out on strike and and you know
labor actions
listen you know it's a nothing perfect
it's the plutocrats within the unions
using the teachers to further their oleg
ARCIC old needs because and and here and
now I don't know if you can see the
crazy in my eyes okay
the trust me is crazy in my own I
believe it which you've got to
understand about the teachers strike and
this is why it's a big nothing burger is
Crimea Crimea
Khrushchev Khrushchev had given Crimea
to the Ukraine back then it was the
Ukraine as a peace overture so Crimea
was always a part of Russia so and and
we knew that when Obama was president
but suddenly Putin is an oligarchic
plutocrat for for taking Crimea was
always a part of Russia that's why the
teacher strike is the big nothing burger
and if you don't see that you need to
read and Roubaix cific you you need to
study military history that's why the
teachers strike is not going to make it
that's it this doesn't do it for me
it's one big nothing burger but you
don't know history you don't know
anything about Crimea and Khrushchev
it's I mean III knew some of what you
were talking about but you're right I
guess I don't it's not going to change
anything the teachers strike because
they all lied before Congress we know I
don't wait a second so is there do you
think there's anything that would
constitute a full-on burger there no
there's a big everything's a nothing
burger I'll tell you why I smoke a lot
of dope and you know I read the New York
Times my mind wanders that can't be my
fault right so I need to explain the way
things and say you've aged quite a bit
lungs are so much dope right I don't
like to read I like to talk about things
and when I pick up cuz I pass you know I
have a lot of anger right
I just don't know things to be angry
about
I've got rage that has to be channeled
somewhere and I try to read the New York
Times yeah but it's you know you get
past the first first letter and your
mind wanders in each article like icing
the like I'll see an article though I'll
read this this looks interesting and I
see the letter B like by I think it's
like bite and I have lost interest I
smoke a lot of dope yeah but I do I
think I know what plutocrat means right
well I I gotta say the this new David
Feldman I think there's there's market
there's definitely a market now it's not
it's it's not one that isn't being
fulfilled a little bit right now I gotta
be honest with you but really yeah well
I mean do you look out there I mean have
you have you done any like sort of
market testing is there anybody out
there that you think that you might be
bumping up against you know that I'm so
threatened by anybody that I can't watch
other people's shows or listen to other
comedians or read other writers because
you know just reminds me of my own
inadequacy so now well I'm not seeing
those is the the rage yeah you great
yeah well that's you know that's a
different patreon level that's what the
people pay for but you gotta pay for it
right that sounds like a good business
model to me actually David well listen
I'm glad I mean it's just the debut have
we seen this now the for the first time
because you had to say the beta test
yeah I'm well yeah thank you
I'm hoping it's gonna work I think I'm
gonna cut through the Claire of the
Internet are you intentionally using I'm
hoping the word dope to talk about weed
is like is that an AIDS joke as well
dope it what what are the kids calling
marijuana these days what is it what do
they call it Brendan Brendan doesn't
know what Matt what are the kids gone
dope these days yes sweet Mary Jane man
okay grass ganja right people on account
of grass anymore how do you call it weed
when it's not even like a most people
are vaping it herb of the medic I'm not
vaping it well David this has been great
I'm glad we got the first taste on this
is do you have a website that people can
go and check out your new beta version
of david feldman
see that's the other thing the internet
I can't type right I can't use a
computer I should mention that
so the Internet's a big nothing burger
as well you're done with it
that's gonna kind of use reentered
that's gonna cut into your patreon
subscriptions slightly a bit right I
thank you so much for coming on it's
been a pleasure I'm glad we got the
first taste of the beta version of david
feldman thank you and this has been one
giant delicious nothing burgers like you
know you know I've done a lot of these
this isn't my first rodeo
no we could tell well versed can I say
something David I think this is so funny
that's so exciting I'm gonna remember
this riff 30 years for 30 years oh well
leave a stone at my grace when you
remember David Feldman ladies and
gentlemen thanks David everybody go
subscribe to david feldman spod cast for
real he's great he's a gym all right I'm
gonna take a quick break
head into the fun half and we're gonna
do it with a oh this may not be long
well we'll switch to something else if
we have to but this is a we got a ton we
should say in the fun half we're gonna
go over a ton of like fan trolling of
Dave Rubin and like fans on every Lake
fans who are like our friends with their
own like bigger showed in us to that
people who are creative awesome people
on YouTube that we're meeting for the
first time it's basically everybody
there is like the Marvel book universe
this there's a you know it's interesting
I think it's consider just like the of
the the nature of the news right now or
whatever it is but Dave Rubin went on a
and we'll talk about this in the phone
app but he did a and ask me anything
live video stream to announce his
shutting down his patreon and he started
getting trolled about
his ducking me and us here and and then
there was a video and then there was
like 14 videos that were mashups of him
all of them fantastic we will we will
play them in the fun half but here is a
new a new a song who who did this
John vagin oh goes by Riptide on YouTube
oh do we also have are we gonna we also
have that a do we have a we don't have a
Jimmy reefer cake song this week but
we've got a damn rain stopper song oh we
do
alright let's play a little bit of it
how long is it let's play just a minute
of it and then we'll go into the very
majority report now what is the name of
this I think we should play this a very
majority report thing and then come back
and then go to rain stopper and then
okay that's a little dia this is called
a very was the very very majority report
a very very the majority majority report
with sam cedar remix and this is by
whose it john vegan vegan vegan vegan
Riptide on youtube gone from a nine one
nine
[Music]
let's just do this exercise Oh super
sick saga super sick oh yeah right you
don't need the means that's no security
you don't need the means that's not a
kid nobody care the way that you have
access right time for politics right now
just legit Alexandra this is a friction
finally there's the mom
legal very good I thought this was it
[Music]
I think you're really
[Music]
that's very sweet I like that I want to
make that harmonizing my ringtone
alright and so here is an atom rain
stopper this is an open letter to Jimmy
reefer cake all the hypocrisy an open
letter to Jimmy reefer cake him they had
a falling out I believe so yeah I
believe atom rappers a bit upset with
maybe Jimmy's lack of you know taking on
certain criticisms of like tulsi gabbard
for instance and rain stopper doesn't
want to be associated with that at night
personally you know I think some of us
can understand why all right well let's
this is all right well let's see if we
can hear someone
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
wow that is like early early
replacements I mean that obviously a lot
of punk from back like the feels like
early eighties but there seems to be
yeah some issues there alright we're
gonna take a quick break
heading to the fun half of the program
just a reminder it is your support that
makes this show possible you can become
a member at join the majority report com
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off all of your coffees
we will be here on Monday with our MLK
compilation back live on on Tuesday
today is Friday free speech that's what
we need
why would Dave Rubin great Sam cedar all
he wants to do is argue not engaging at
patreon has changed the Terms of Service
I no longer feel comfortable being on
the platform but people can be cancelled
merely for having a certain viewpoint
that may or may not be mild
meanwhile this week on tea MBS more of
that sort of thing David Adler he is on
the governing body of the m25 and an
adviser and co-writer with Yanis
varoufakis we talked about some of the
left nationalist projects arising in
Europe and what the sort of broader
strategic answer for the left is it was
a it's a good great conversation and on
Tuesday we had on Atticus Berrien and go
to check out our youtube links and get
the whole thing at patreon.com slash TMS
and come see us at the live show Jamie
so on episode 35 of the anti Fattah we
talked about this and
Netflix series about leon trotsky or
leon thoughts key as the case may be and
we have our friend alex Kendler who grew
up in the waning years of the USSR to
sort of situate this brilliant cultural
product in the context of putin's
neoliberal and authoritarian Russia
while the rest of us ponder how one man
could lay so much pipe and still have
time to plot an entire revolution all by
himself there you go
we also have a bonus for our patrons
where we talk we read some Trotsky he's
talking about his Knight Rider esque
Chad train that won the Russian Civil
War and I also explained a dumb inside
joke so that everyone can enjoy the clip
that I have of john benjamin saying it
for me there you go
recorded last night two plus hours on
nathaniel hawthorne's the House of the
Seven Gables
it's gonna be good folks we'll be off
this weekend all right folks see you in
the fun half
you
[Music]
you
the pausing at every face I get yeah
that was the bit uh we're still laughing
about david feldman so good and i'm the
thing is i don't think he was trying to
be funny anyways alright so look folks I
just want to say the that when I think
about why America is great this is part
of the reason because there are people
out there David Rubens probably never
going to put himself in a situation
where we're going to be able to have a
conversation
I suspect although you know who knows
but increasingly people are out there
and it's not just I want to make this
clear I don't think it's just empty
trolling the bottom line is New York
Times will go and write a piece touting
this guy is a member of a secret society
or of some group of intellectuals the
the intellectual dark web now
it's absurd that the idea that what
they're saying has no opportunity to be
heard it is across the board it's
extremely well-funded it is also he is
saying stuff all these people are saying
stuff that has been said for decades and
in some instances even longer in this
country none of its new it has all been
aired people know that there's an idea
out there that there's something wrong
with Islam or people know out there that
there's something wrong with the idea of
or the idea that you know the patriarchy
should not be in any way disassembled
people know out there that the idea that
you know certain people can be uppity or
specific or offended by you know being
in some way subjugated those ideas are
not new you don't need to go to the dark
web to find them they exist all around
us offline to even and so the beauty of
people trolling Dave Rubin in a way that
shows that he's completely hypocritical
that for all the talk about all of these
new ideas that they want to get out
there they are all incredibly cloistered
for all the the you know the stuff that
a steven crowder does when he goes out
and says you know changed my mind I'm
actually talking to the people just so
happens I'm cutting it up in such a way
that I find the people who are the least
informed and you know or maybe people
who are in college have a class to go to
right
so when people troll these guys it is
funny and it is you know but it also it
is it casts a a light on the fact that
they're full of crap
so here's Dave Rubin on his
much-ballyhooed
signing off of patreon and you know he's
a martyr for doing this cuz he's not
he's signing off and he actually had to
build his own payment system man that's
just like what Gandhi did right what a
martyr this guy is for the cause that's
what the thought come on I'm signing off
patreon and actually just investing in
my company with the hundreds of
thousands of dollars I probably got from
the Koch brothers to develop a payment
system that uses a back-end that is
probably owned by the same people as
patreon or whatever and I get less of a
of a cut take a nap Wow but here he is
going on his
I progress do that with an ask me
anything now I want to be clear you can
ask him anything but he won't
necessarily answer anything here is hey
Dave this is a very brave move on your
part kudos
have you heard about the SJW nonsense no
III don't even care about those guys
does it really just honestly doesn't
matter
viva la free speech good luck Dave
you patreon alright I'm reading these
live yeah yeah no it's interesting
oh he he's reading him live so he can't
be held responsible for a becomes house
mouth but he just showed us that he has
the ability to ignore a question and
like read in advance as to what it's
saying and not answer it why don't you
just run to your safe space days no
kidding the older man no but what was he
talking about
somebody said kudos and if you heard
about the SJW at the Redwood sounds good
so far oh yeah we're gonna find out here
is and who's this by again this is a
brine McAllister Brian McAllister
apparently it was his buddy who oh no I
don't know if he says buddy oh well he
was aware of of what happened in this
chat and so play this I don't have any
lime or salt or anything we'll figure
that out
hey Dave this is a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense
nonsense
I don't even care about those guys does
it really just feel honestly doesn't
matter
[Music]
a complication start
[Music]
oh man I don't have any salt or anything
we'll figure that out so the the
question was have you heard about those
hey Dave if you a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense on the majority report
where they keep challenging you to a
debate should have Sam on and totally
destroy him in the battle of ideas
proceeds could go to charity I remember
that was we should note that was $100 a
super chair $100 super chat and then he
had a couple other $5 ones where he was
like debate Sam cedar debate Sam cedar
and then he asked if he was stored in
the balls and so a lot of people made
mixes of this and here's another and
look I encourage all of you to go past
these individual ones around and post
them so these guys get some hits on this
this Bailey steam yeah this is a curb
your liberalism Dave Rubin dodges Sam
cedar debate first off I thank you guys
that we're all jumping in on super chat
and I know that's a cool way of getting
your voice heard and I'm reading them
all right here we're not censoring any
of this content well great
hey Dave this is a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense
[Music]
this is a progressive voice it doesn't
get oh that was a dog me that these are
all great but that wood is really a work
of art watch that like ten times not get
does not get less mature than this books
here is progressive voice did Gabe Rubin
is scared of Sam cedar hey Dave this is
a very brave move on your part kudos
have you heard about the SJW nonsense no
III don't even care about those guys
does it really just honestly doesn't
matter
viva la free speech good luck Dave
you patreon alright I'm reading these
live
[Music]
it does
[Music]
I don't know what you people are doing
what are you people doing you're all
fighting with each other saying horrible
things they're often the ones that
amazed me the most or I really mean this
and I just glanced for literally like
literally 30 times I did was like
there's all these people that seemingly
don't like me in this comment section
and I don't care if you don't like me I
actually don't but what I would say to
you is what are you doing with your life
get off this channel what are you doing
if you don't like me go find something
to do good work everybody
I would I would send Dave some very very
polite I always say be polite to people
don't be you know insult absolutely but
be polite be straight up but I would ask
some very good follow-up questions about
this to him and all of his various but
the original question set him up so
perfectly is because like say you're
brave taking on these SJW nonsense and
then just go seamlessly right into it I
think even like I mean I if I was to do
something like this I might even go with
like hey you know Dave I know it's
really annoying but you know it probably
would be great just a debate Sam cedar
just to clear this up I think you I mean
it would be yeah I think it'll be a
little frustrating but I mean obviously
we have total confidence in your ideas
and your ability to articulate I really
I mean I don't know if we have the
ability to do this but maybe we should
set up some type of reverse payment
system that will subsidize the super
chat's contribution and speaking of
which though I buy certainly I don't
know how super chat works but Dave give
that guy a refund well that is what I
that was the one thing that I tweeted
out appears he got a refund action oh he
did yeah from Fredrik if he revoked it
or if Dave gave him a refund but somehow
Dave didn't not get that money all right
well if that's the case bill his end of
the bargain let me just say that if
that's the case I think that shows a lot
of integrity and I promise I
will on Twitter make a correction and
say that I think it shows a lot of
integrity for Dave Rubin to refund that
person who asked about debating me when
Dave didn't want to talk about it and
then I just I just want to say Dave for
that I do respect you for that tiny tiny
thing I have my respect I don't I have
zero respect but nonetheless good thing
to do
ah freedom of speech I don't have the
ability to and I am still quite sore
frankly if we go into the history of
these things that I was literally silent
don't don't step on the the documentary
that will probably be made about this
and that was when Sam came in and told
me my free Street Beach was being
suppressed on behalf of a
self-proclaimed speech warrior yep
disgusting that's like he's like it like
a reverse like sjw no he's not only we
just we just played a clip of people
responding to Dave Reubens inability to
articulate the words the majority report
and debate Sam cedar on his AMA I don't
know we're not sure if it's a medical
condition that prevents him from saying
it or what because he he did announce
and he was not kind of censor any of the
questions but with that said it's not
just Dave's listeners who are revolting
about his inability to to answer all
questions and to have actually a real
debate with non classical liberals on
TYT was just last night which show was
this on I think this was on the main
show last night and and I just yeah well
can I just say I love Ana Kasparian
our friends progression from a very
sincere this is a guy used to work with
and it's so disappointing to see him
become this just absolutely
a moral shell to him to her going to
like like she said on my show this week
well Dave's a simpleton right here's uh
here's John idaero and Ana Kasparian
if you support Wolfson ro and Tim
pronounce bowls and Arles don't talk
about politics okay I think that's
pretty soon he had no idea how to say
the man's name but supported his fascist
agenda for Brazil anyway interested in
talking about ideas or maybe even I
don't know experimenting or exploring
with new ideas don't be so afraid to
debate Sam cedar Dave hey Dean
and I think John would also probably
agree that even if you can pronounce
Bolden and I are both are neuro pulsar
know even if you can pronounce bolson ro
you should probably also not support his
fashion yeah probably not and also
especially if like your big get out card
for every single despicable thing you've
ever said and supported and promote it
is I'm gay I'm gay I'm gay I maybe
shouldn't support like potentially the
most overtly anti-gay head of state in
the Western Hemisphere that she isn't
even on a self-interest a lot of
tolerance right well I mean both
scenarios idea is that people like oh he
would prefer to have his son be hit by a
car to me gay Reuben had to shut down
his eight having the same conversation
you had with Ben Shapiro like would you
come to my she I'm having a party with
my partner to celebrate our anniversary
still a gyro would you come to my
anniversary party no I will take your
support off for killing indigenous
people on YouTube but I'm afraid I
cannot go to your birthday party or our
anniversary party is against my my
values ooh looky both in a row it's so
great that we could exchange these ideas
let's just do this one clip about of
limbaugh this is this is this from fox
and friends or yeah okay boxing for
playlist so what do you do if you're fox
and friends and you want to make the
argument that there is a lot of support
for Donald Trump in his shutdown despite
the fact that you're looking at polling
that shows that Trump's base is even
abandoning him right now
not totally there's you know we've said
for years there's thirty five percent of
the country that will never ever that
will always support somebody like this
and there was it's down even
significantly under among suburban men
he has his approval rating according to
this NPR PBS Marist Poll thirty nine
percent approved fifty three percent
disapproved that's a seven percent
change from December this can go back up
who knows but also there's only thirty
six percent of people said they would
definitely vote for him while forty
eight percent said they definitely would
not fifty seven percent said they will
definitely excuse me fifty seven percent
said they would definitely vote against
him those are bad numbers now it's quite
possible somehow Trump brings out more
even more people the last time but fifty
seven percent of people saying they're
definitely gonna vote against you
there's no matter who the candidate is
you know he could win there could be
three candidates three major candidates
in this election I mean that's
conceivable right I mean so it's not
like but in terms
of any conversation about you know who
who the Democratic Party should nominate
the idea that there are people you know
I'm sure there are some people who
cannot win in any situation I like the
joke that Martin O'Malley would have won
in 2016 I don't know specifically martin
O'Malley would have won it's just my way
of saying most Democrats would have had
the same liabilities would have matched
up better with Trump in particular I
think you know Clinton matched up
perfectly well with all the other
Republicans but you know people who play
sports know the the you know you can
have certain traits that certain
candidates or players have that match up
Oh better or worse against other ones
that's a you know a dynamic that's not
hard to see but so Fox and Friends is
trying to make trying to salvage this
and what's their argument as to why
Trump still has a lot of support and why
you know Trump can win well it's obvious
rush limbaugh does a radio show today I
want the president to continue doing
this even the people that are furloughed
said please president press on rush
limbaugh ha doesn't say we should just
say that's not true
I saw segments about a government worker
rationing her insulin intakes which was
actually mortifying and depressing but
just as point of reference for like what
they're asking the president I am sure
there are government workers out of the
800,000 who have been furloughed who
have said I hope President Trump
continues this sure I would say with
more assuredness the vast overwhelming
majority of federal workers do not want
this to continue does it stay
I'm just gonna tell you folks at
president trunk and hang in there
if I can if he can hang in there not go
wobbly he can win this it's gonna be a
few more weeks they give me a lot of
risks they're gonna be a lot of
temptations to drop the ball and came I
don't behave there's gonna be okay but
he could win this if he just
hangs in there I went to a commercial
[Laughter]
can we get a Photoshop of Trump on that
cat poster like hang in there baby
yeah no kidding but what do see was
drunk what was going on there and then
he went to a commercial yeah
hang in there you can win by still
compromising he's not going to get
everything he wants it's impossible for
everybody wants but yeah but he's got to
get he wants between obviously over the
1.3 up to 5 point 8 maybe give up some
daca pathway to citizenship there's
something else they could do there but I
think doing a deal also shows great
leadership because right now the polls
show he is getting most of the blame
49% blame him 33% put Democrats that but
the general population right but going
in he said I'm gonna own it
and so the American public reflects that
all right meanwhile the now they're so
confused about this first of all they
play a Limbaugh clip now
now the Kilmeade has a show on radio and
I would imagine he's he he needs to be
in Limbaugh's good graces to be on to
get more affiliates but it's odd that
he's completely undercutting Limbaugh's
point in many respects the deal that he
was talking about was on the table last
year the daka stuff the democrats I
think would make that deal Trump will
not make that deal maybe at one point he
will but that that's a deal that was on
the table that the Democrats thought
they had that they'd agreed on and then
Stephen Miller's that somebody stepped
in and said no no no no
and then you've got Ducey seems to be
drunk and mad at kilmeade like oh I'm
gonna contradict everything you're
saying then he went to commercial mr.
book author mister guy who writes
own books you Brian yeah and there
but but he said he owned it that's why
the public's responding that way and you
could see kill me just gone like ruining
it I love it you're ruining it for me if
there's that real tension there that
would be great yeah I would love to hear
the tell-all book about that that would
be here is kill me Bob we're on it and
then here is kilmeade with Mark Levin is
this Mark Levin no who's this Oh a small
business owner of course so let's bring
a random small business owner he's the
owner of heartland brewery
John Bluestein this is gonna be
disgusting what Democrats are proposing
I worked in restaurants my entire life
my family owned bars go back forever so
here's the thing the entry-level wage is
not supposed to be a way you earn a
living
it's supposed to be entry-level you get
another job you move to a better job
that's way it is positive wait a second
I just want to just I think we should
just focus on two things he just said
one my parents owned a bunch of bars so
when he went for the entry-level
position it was a guaranteed way for him
to move up if he wanted to he says
entry-level position is not supposed to
be to make a living what are you
supposed to be doing with that
entry-level position is it an internship
yes they want to intern eyes the economy
it's a bizarre thing to say go back to
I've heard that that's actually a very
common Republican very revealing
actually that's a very car I've heard
that talking point many times this is
your first job you're not supposed to
make a living yeah they're still
pretending the only teenagers have these
kinds of jobs yeah I don't know I was
gonna look up the percentage maybe I
will in a second but it's a very high
than amount of people who work
minimum-wage jobs who aren't teenagers
it's not supposed to be a way you earn a
living it's supposed to be entry-level
you get another job you move to a better
job that's the way it is you can't have
businesses that are giving people houses
thank you that's
the way it's always been and this you
know the politicians are effectively
buying votes at our expense wow they're
buying votes as opposed to those
politicians who say stuff like we're
gonna give business owners like
heartland brewery a big tax cut they're
not buying votes that's every Enterprise
single Republican who votes for
Republican will talk about tax cuts
which presumably are money in their
pocket at least there that's what they
contemplate and they're buying their
votes that's that's what I mean that's
what everybody does that's what we want
politicians to do but it's definitely do
you give it to black people as I
explained so adroitly after I was
defeated by Barack Obama and while we're
at it when you're being racist you
shouldn't be rude about it
it's my new call about ethical
leadership for the Washington Post this
is not always the way it's been needless
to say the purchasing power of the
minimum wage has gone way down since the
New Deal era well in Justin well it in
terms of the minimum wage as to where it
should be it should be around $21 based
upon inflation and living and
productivity so it's absurd
all right we've got to take a quick
break because I've got to run Michael
will take over and land the show or you
know fly it for a little bit and then
land it right and and just tell
everybody everything's fine Oh
everything's fine I've just I'm I'm
taking a trip and I got to go to the
airport alright well quick break I'm a
free man ya know that's six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
alpha males almost has one
I am a total can we bring back the
EG anarchy song yeah or a couple of just
put them in rotation yeah that was a
moment where Sam sort of sounded like
Tucker Carlson that can happen yeah you
occasionally sound like Tucker
oh I know that I just never noticed that
about Sam before how's everything going
over there look at Brendon sure oh
close my computer
no just kidding like a true gentleman
but I am looking and feeling a little
bit rough today so we're gonna let
Brendan's fresh face be on the camera
welcome to the chair Brendan to the
copilot chair I don't care thanks man
all right let's let's take a call while
we're getting ourselves organized here
you're calling from a seven one nine
area code who are you where you calling
from hi this is Ryan can hear me hey
Ryan how you doing I can hear you good
how are you guys doing wow I think we're
doing well I think I speak for all of us
when I say we're doing well what's on
your mind
all right I mean I was hoping to talk to
to Sam but that's okay I goodbye I had a
funny that he I will tries to call out
yes Crowder for debating college kids
and most of his YouTube videos are in
debating college kids himself but wait
that's I do we take all comers I saw
what you tried yeah I mean you don't
understand the difference between having
a daily open phone to a very old racist
in the last six months with right with
no screening like frankly there should
be a little bit of screening right but
there's no screening call in and debate
him or when I'm in the chair on any
topic and you're comparing that to
highly produced and edited videos where
you go out with the Boston College uncut
video and debating someone know there
no I mean they're not the ones I've seen
at least but whatever I haven't watched
all them sure so you mean it's carefully
staged mineva nad commentary over it
like Sam cedar does to some of his
videos he'll say he's like destroyed ben
shapiro like that commentary over some
Ben Shapiro wait so can we just can we
just go back your first point do we re
let's see one at a time yes do you
accept that your first point was
basically yes the disc no not
at all I mean go I mean the stands that
are not debate college kids wait so you
know I think we're gonna be stuck here
fruit yeah because this is only Crowder
exclusive means called maybe uh maybe we
can move I just know that we can't move
on
cuz it's fundamentally stupid I mean
yours why I said you debate me on
anything anytime but you're not going to
debate me right now yeah but in order to
have a debate you have to degree on
terms yeah dude I'm right I'm a term
that's well the terms is like are you a
college student yeah I am I well why you
should waste our time with you why
should we waste I don't want to do it
Steve Crowder does certainly I mean I
could leave that for Sam why would I
waste my time with somebody so dumb well
that's not very nice you're just going
to add how many times are good they're
good okay so you failed on our first
point hold arch I will do one more
because we're tight on time here so but
just the state so everything is
established and I am being mean to you
because you are coming like you're
you're almost you're being so ridiculous
that I'm hoping that this that this is a
bit so you're saying just to really we
got to be a little pedantic about this
you see zero difference if Sam cedar got
a microphone and a group of camera
people and he went to random college
campuses and he said spent several hours
because this is how like filming
segments like that works right you it's
not live it's not spontaneous
what I'm not talking about even the cut
well you still if you don't mean they
choose who you're gonna choose which one
you air we're gonna choose who you ask
which one you air
also precisely opposite to presumably
you've been calling and trying to get
through the line and I guess planning
what you've been saying for a little
while um versus sitting there and saying
hey you'd change my mind on immigration
you think what that and you think that
that is completely guide and you said
yourself that the same thing no amazing
a good idea to scream some of the colors
and you're saying that because he does
that that that somehow no I'm saying
that I think okay again you're not able
to understand distinctions screening a
call which we do not do so it's already
worried in the world right I pathetical
z-- you said that late night dude I'm
going to hang up on you if you know yeah
I acknowledge that but what do you want
to tour in a second right this okay I
are what's next this is a dumb point
what else do you got well you're not
expand like back in 2017 you mentioned
that like he said that after Trump was
elected the NRA can't pretend that the
federal government is coming after your
weapons and I just runners on that ass
take on now is look that what do you
mean what's changed since 2017
oh what you know Trump is banned bump
stock now so okay okay so okay so your
argument by the way to say the federal
government was trying to take your guns
before Trump was elected was also a
delusional statement and you're saying
that because of one executive order on a
particular type of ammo it's a type yeah
it turned it basically converts
semi-autos into basically oh that was
always using Las Vegas yeah okay so like
a gun regulation against that they're
coming to take your guns I guess so
basically you think that I mean they are
literally taking away a firearm from
American citizens without compensating
them for that which violates two parts
Constitution okay yeah I think you just
own Sam do you think God really oxen
reason do you think gun regulations in
general violate the Constitution well I
mean the Second Amendment
listen
what are you saying yes or no dude can
you get the gun regulations violate the
Second Amendment can gun regulations why
are they do they do they was the
question not can they do what attending
the regulation doesn't that I'm a
scientist wait right now stupid
you're calling from an eight for seven
area code who are you wearing look and I
know people so we'll look you and them
you can't debate but you got to not be a
 pennant and you got to be able
to answer questions so we started we
started on a trivial thing that you
couldn't make any distinction about
which was embarrassing and then it's
like you know what dude what the nra
means in the ads they run are saying
that federal troops of some unjust of
some sort of nondescript variety are
gonna go to tens of millions of homes
and forcibly take people's guns away no
that's not happening there's a one
executive order and some people are
going and returning them I'm fine I'm
sure there's still bump stocks and
circulation I can play the pedantry game
to the NRA is not pretending that the
government is taking guns even if they
are because Trump's in office right
that's exactly em was right you dumbass
right yeah all right you're calling for
my eight four seven area code who
already were shoot where you calling
from what's on your minds listen to that
guy talk no offense
yeah well I want to talk about the altar
boys because that third wake up is not
here I'm just kidding via I want to talk
about bread that you guys are talking
about it yesterday and I wanted to ask
you a question about this see what you
would be thoughts
sure so so do you think Portman should
call so wisdoms after voting for the
no-confidence yesterday said they will
not go further no confidence
so if Corbin doesn't call for second
referendum yeah
I'm wondering if you think Corben should
say should call with them look and say
if we get into power we will call for
its second referendum I don't know the
answer to it to be honest I'm not sure
about that I think though that and I'm
part of the reason that I'm not a big
into criticizing Corbin is because he's
like you know there's just this like
relentless onslaught against him and
also brexit isn't the only issue and
he's a hundred percent right about all
of the most of the major issues facing
the UK and it's obviously a very
important leader but I think that
whatever it's gonna and I actually
thought his initial plan that he put out
a year ago with the customs union was
pretty good but he needs to have some
type of two sentence summary of his
brexit position but I am very I'm
skeptical of a second referendum because
to me there's no real proof that the
thing will get reversed it would be a
true nightmare scenario if if it
actually went through again and then
basically how what do you do like you're
basically saying like okay the UK is
collapsing to some degree because of
brexit brexit was profoundly stupid okay
I understand there's left-wing critiques
of the European Union they're correct we
talked about them yesterday but they had
nothing to do with it because that
wasn't the power configuration so the
way this is playing out is really bad
but you have a legitimate Tory
government you have brexit then you're
gonna have an election where say Corbin
best-case scenario Corbin comes to power
he might need to coalition though it's
very divided
hopefully he wins in a clean clean sweep
but that might not happen then you're
gonna say in a matter of another couple
of months we're gonna have another
brexit referendum like at a certain
point you've also got to figure out how
to like put the pieces of governing the
country back together and I mean I so
that's my weariness and I also know that
right now
the forces that are calling for a second
brexit just on a strategic level are
aligned against Corbett I think at some
point yet to be honest like I don't know
I mean it's insane that the UK is
leaving the European Union like they had
the best arrangement imaginable they
weren't on the currency which proposed
actually creates real problems and they
had the best of both worlds and you know
just catastrophic ly stupid thing to do
but the main issue for the UK right now
is getting a different government in
power that will stop austerity and try
to actually do some democratic
accountability thanks for the call man I
will keep going but there's too much
ambient I don't know you always are on
them yeah thanks we don't want a
situation where labor has to own the
Bragg's it vote either right well
everybody owns brexit right like it's
such a catastrophe and it's so like I
hear what you're saying
but I feel like like it's a big enough
thing that I wouldn't let like a like a
consideration like that block that if it
was the right thing to do because it has
such massive implications but I'm just
not convinced that you would go from
like all of this instability and
catastrophe and then you have a
government in place which is gonna be
under siege from day one because it
represents some type of threat to the
established order and then you
immediately have another referendum like
that's just it starts to become crazy
just in terms of the pile up of not
actually you know doing what needs to be
done but I mean I don't know man they
really
bread's it I mean we can go obviously
into the deeper conditions of what
brought Trump and what brought brexit
and a lot of those things obviously are
things just like xenophobia and racism
and stupidity but also legitimate anger
at the elites but you know unfortunately
the first two iterations of that
uprising were massive own goals like
brexit and Trump are bad that's reality
now you're not gonna go back I mean
Britain really lays it out you have like
Tony Blair is like the unofficial lead
remain campaigner then you have Jeremy
Corbyn as an actual option to get us out
of our actual predicament more broadly
speaking and then you have just like
brexit Tories and all of these you know
far-right cretins actually running the
country into the ground like across the
board yeah it scares me that so much of
the opposition to this sort of
neoliberal global capitalism has been
from the right and not the left well
let's actually let's speaking of which
do we have this Biden thing I want to
play it it's on the list
it's number four on the list or is that
okay I guess that's an old sound sheet
all right that's fine get to it some
other time
this is another important question
answer that took place from the bar
hearings with Amy Klobuchar it's
actually you I mean it is useful to note
before we do segments like this of
course the Obama administration had a
very bad record on journalists and
prosecuting leakers and as with so many
things there's the space that those
profoundly wrong policy the damage they
caused and then the space they opened
for the next escalation which would of
course be even worse this is Amy
Klobuchar are asking William Barr about
the possibility of imprisoning
journalists now it's really important
and it's also important to remember in
this preamble the Obama administration
in fact opted at the end of the day to
not indict Julian Assange for
journalistic work they actually did not
cross that path so and they were
horrible on whistleblower and
transparency stuff no question so take
this first bet under this current
administration my dad was a reporter so
I grew up knowing the importance of a
free press we obviously have the tragic
case of adjourn
who worked right here at the Washington
Post
Jamal Khashoggi and it's a particular
concern so I want to ask you something I
asked attorney general sessions if
you're confirmed will the Justice
Department jail reporters for doing
their jobs I think that you know I know
their guidelines in place and I can
conceive of situations where you know as
a last resort and and where a news
organization has run through a red flag
or something like that knows that
they're putting out stuff that will hurt
the country there might be a sit there
there could be a situation where where
someone would be held in contempt
well attorney general sessions had said
he was going to look at potentially
changing those rules at one point so I'd
like you to maybe respond in writing to
this because that was very concerning
and Wow so of course the only answer to
that question that isn't bone-chilling
is no that's it now and language like
that of like throw up a red flag he
wants to imply something that like
recklessly endangers people's lives okay
so that's already very very dangerous
ground because the national security
state that's their claim about
everything that's why we shouldn't know
about the drone program that's why we
shouldn't know about mass surveillance
add that to which the president that
he's gonna serve that guy would consider
criticizing one of his business deals a
quote-unquote red flag so that's a
mortifying statement and it's an
indictment of the whole political
terrain and really I mean that's if you
go into the 90s and you look at some of
the legislation that the Republican
Congress passed and Clinton signed
unlike effectiveness and death penalty
act as an example horrifying legislation
which basically sped up
the death penalty and reduced appeals
but this infrastructure of surveillance
and opposition's of journalists is
definitely um flows from the war on
terror like we are still in pure war on
terror Bush started it
Obama codified it and now the keys are
in the hands of these people what is
this 4:01 number oh okay let me get that
apologize will probably be the last call
we take today because we got to leave in
a few minutes we're already at almost
two and a half hours uh you're calling
from a 401 area code who are you where
are you calling from
hey this is Connor from Rhode Island
Connor what's going on hey so I'm a big
fan especially of like the Dave Rubin
and Jordan Peterson segments and I have
to be honest I'm kind of disappointed at
the lack of coverage of Owen Benjamin I
don't know if you remember him yeah Owen
Benjamin did a funny video I played it
on t MBS about Sam Harris I mean dude I
you can do your your update on what Owen
Benjamin's been up to but there is some
degree of us like I think we said this
yesterday with gorko like it isn't just
finding random personalities to make fun
of it also has to do with some degree of
relevancy I don't think like Owen
Benjamin's not and I mean Oh Benjamin
wasn't on my radar to begin with it just
happened to be that what okay now I
understand I figured all right
but anyways real quick you want to tell
us what's going on Lauren it with Owen
Benjamin yeah well he actually has a
pretty sizable following on YouTube yeah
like I think a quarter million
subscribers now and you know I kind of
stopped paying attention after the whole
assault in Mohegan Sun thing um but uh
it got me thinking like once you dip
your feet into this sort of I guess
intellectual dark web stuff with Jordan
Peterson you kind of just go overboard
and he's uh he's like uploading moon
landing conspiracies and like this race
realism stuff you know that is you write
about that so all right man
i-i'll see if he comes across the radar
but I mean you know there's other people
who have more even more YouTube people
enough that we don't spend as much like
you get you can't just you can't track
all of the garbage and part of it is is
also like people that we see potentially
having overlap with or whatever anyways
but I'll look into it man I appreciate
the call thanks so much all right the
final call of the day goes to a 401 area
code who are you where you calling from
hey this is logic guy I'm calling from
Boston logic guy that's an ominous
sounding name but what's on your mind
yeah I want to talk about breakfast no
I'm just kidding I don't talk I sent
Dave Rubin the hundred dollars here we
go
well you sir I gave you I guess you
couldn't hear it I gave you a fanfare
but first of all the most important
question did you get a refund and the
second follow-up most important question
I've heard a debate on this for it well
first of all did you get a refund yes or
no yes okay so my follow-up question was
was it from Dave Rubin or YouTube as a
platform who gave you the refund yet
YouTube gave me the refund not David
[Music]
okay sorry
no go ahead hello yeah so yeah so it
came from from YouTube not Dave Rubin
they gave me the refund because he
didn't he did not read my comment that's
good started to and then cut off and
that's not $100 super check you know
$100 to get one third of your question
read what can a major major loss in the
battle of ideas
it was very was lost in the battle of
ideas um any follow-up thoughts about
this I'm assuming have you also been
blocked by Dave on Twitter well I've
been blessed like Dave Rubin for ages
now I did once get the chance to troll
him IRL I went to a real life Dave Rubin
event at UMass Amherst last year it was
like April it was a nice afore he had
that run-in at New Hampshire the
University of New Hampshire right and so
I got a chance to want to ask him a
question
IRL and people at that event were asking
about Sam cedar so Dave Urban's audience
wants to know they want the skinny on
Stampeder right well I just think and I
and I would say this too I think we all
do I think that you know there should be
a real move I think as I said earlier I
would approach Sam I I think the reason
you nailed it so well is you immediately
played - you know his silly usual shtick
and I think that there should be a lot
of like hey you know I know it'll be
really frustrating because he's an sjw
blah blah blah but like I think if you
just you know debate Sam and show your
ideas are better it will be good you
know for everybody and just uh politely
and you know with constant regularity
remind Dave Rubin on a daily basis that
you know he's ducking Sam also um
maybe one out of ten you could also be
like wow fascism in Brazil huh okay
yeah yeah but boulders are oh man yeah
yeah you know what there it is that is
what what and each Dave huge fan from
Brazil here we're reversing the tide of
sjw's any chance you can get both
massero on to talk about transgender
people in the Brazilian public schools
yeah yeah I thought important it's
really not a good idea to be sending
super chats to reactionaries and
districts I don't know if I can swear
sorry I was pretty sure that however I
did it I was gonna be able get my mic
back and I do want to say that I donated
the hundred dollar refund to charity I
donated it to uh
charity called give directly that was
Kane recommended and I thought to show
that you know I don't I don't do this
frivolously I'm not just throwing right
you know money at fascist said a joke
right
right no no that was perfect I was I was
concerned I thought it was great when I
first saw it I was actually I was
definitely worried you know like oh man
I don't want people wasting money like
that and obviously I don't want any
money going to him but that was
beautiful was great and you know
underlines all the obvious points so
well done and everybody remember dave
rubin didn't have any conscience about
his you know silencing of speech or I
guess in this case straight up just
violating Terms of Service essentially
it was YouTube that did it
infamous YouTube YouTube that will
verify and monetize baking soda will
cure your cancer channels but still is
not monetizing the Michael Brooks show
channel that now has well over 22,000
followers and subs and gets on a lower
end video about three four thousand
views on that note if you're a if you're
say Dave Rubin fan or if you're a caller
we hung up on because they're making
stupid points about guns and you want to
send us super chats like this guy just
did wanting us to want to know why we
hung up please just send more super
check oh yes and more super chats and
we'll get ya I'm into that principle or
if you go to here's another thing if you
go to the Michael Brooks show YouTube
channel as well because now because of
this with YouTube we have a
PayPal set up specifically for that you
can send a note
most people were doing PayPal donations
just want to support the show but if you
have like a question that you need
answered that is dumb and also like I
only take patron calls on my show send a
PayPal note and I will answer your
question that's how to do it let's let's
free market this and let competition and
I start kicking it anything else man
that was awesome the remixes of all and
I'm sure we'll be having fun with for a
very long time yeah thank you for your
great I'm loving them and don't forget
this is a guy that you know Sam Harris
regular sits down with and really enjoys
so
for people who are like you guys I
understand all the rest of the
intellectual dark web but sam harris is
just like a commuted secularist who are
yes I know he endorses like race science
but he sports a ubi sooo maybe should be
fair thanks for the call and thank you
for taking my call of course thanks man
alright folks uh no more calls today
we're gonna get to a few pieces of sound
and let's start with this one this is
incredible
basically Fox is still drumming up fear
about the migrant caravan no doubt it
served its purposes for stoking up the
fantasies and the racism of the base
during the mid term still got him
crushed yeah still got him exactly they
still lost the house by historic margins
and the races they won were ones that
they should have won and if they lost it
would be even more catastrophic so 2018
was a total disaster for the Republican
Party and now as Trump drags the country
through this catastrophic shutdown Fox
needs to turn the propaganda machine
back on to full thrust to freak out
their old and uninformed viewers and so
what do they do well they get Brian
Kilmeade in studio and then they sent
some in Guatemala to harass
people are some to Guatemala to
harass people on the street let's check
it out
there's Mexico gonna do different this
time Steve
you're really as we can see some more it
looks like a very young man here he
looks to be about 16 or 17 most of them
carrying just one sack and strangely
enough a lot of the young men that I've
talked to had absolutely no money in
their pockets for what could be a
month-long trip one man told me today
I'll rely on people on the road to feed
me we haven't seen any handouts we
haven't seen any finance and we have
seen some like church soup kitchen
lunches people providing for the
migrants but largely they've really been
on their own it's mainly right so
basically the appropriate reading of
this both ethically and analytically is
so people are leaving situations that
are so desperate that they're willing to
walk miles and miles and miles and miles
and miles and miles and miles without
money without food without any basic
necessities guaranteed in an attempt to
get refuge in a country that everybody
is knows is run by an incompetent racist
sociopath who's caging children where
two children have died and yet you're
still trying to make this escape so the
natural question for anybody that wasn't
totally stupid totally evil would be
what the hell is going on and place like
Guatemala that people would want to go
there and then that person will go huh
what kind of trade agreements like NAFTA
has the United States imposed on poor
countries in Central America
what kind of governments from the 80s to
today that are oligarchic governments
I'll use that word like Feldman that are
in bed with US corporations and violent
narco traffickers that we support with
aid and military assistance or even on
the flip side in a place like Guatemala
where the United States is both
aggressively interfering with and trying
to destabilize the government and at
times certainly that government is
having a repressive response what are
all the things happening there that we
are a part of through
our policies that lead to that and even
incidentally if we want because frankly
look I think everybody should be able to
go and spend time wherever the hell they
want obviously but I do think most
people it's a truism most people would
like very much if where they grew up and
was born and were born was a nice place
that they could stay in that is most
human beings desires even on inside the
United States talk to people it's like
oh man I didn't want to leave where I
grew up but there was no opportunity
there so they had to move to some city
or somewhere else so the obvious answer
for everybody even if you have some
concern about this migration which is
zero concern with is what are the
conditions behind it and what do you
think like these these kids that you're
harassing or just doing this for fun or
also like what can I do to help like
when I see someone who's in that much
trouble like the humane the human and
humane reaction is to say wow is there
anything we can do no doubt no
doubt
Anand gr Dardis that was all right what
is it is doing great work sometimes you
get these people who through a
combination of their own like social
capital and backgrounds they basically
like they get platforms and they get
deployed in spaces and but they're
really like a skunk at the garden party
in the best sense of the word which is
that he's an Aspen Institute in the best
sense of the term he's an Aspen
Institute fellow here he is on Bloomberg
and if you follow his Twitter feed like
this is not you know sort of warmed-over
corporate social responsibility talk
this is not like you know hey
occasionally I'll make a provocative
statement but basically I'm just the
Democrat this is a guy who has something
of an actual critique of capitalism and
the financialization of American society
and he's doing a great job on these
platforms I played a couple of weeks
Oh him at some ideas festival in Chicago
and saying like hey I do notice that one
of the sponsors on stage here is still
sponsoring the Saudi investment event
with MBS that everybody's all freaked
out about because of khashoggi and of
course I'm sure he would add Yemen the
other I mean just you know the
extraordinary crime so here he is on
Bloomberg and he says he explains how
every age of inequality has its own
 story line that justifies that
inequality this is absolutely true and a
great place to say that truth balances
to a beneficial outcome for all I think
it ends when people stop believing the
BS of every age every age of savage
unequal distribution has its own BS if
you watch Downton Abbey you know there
was a there was a set of beliefs that
held the Upstairs Downstairs world of
feudal England together everybody sort
of believed the story the story of our
time is that the people who have
monopolized progress who have stolen the
future from the public in in Britain in
the US and elsewhere are the change
agents Mark Zuckerberg who's one of the
great monopolists of our time and
compromised American democracy is
changing the world the financial
industry which caused the financial
crisis rebrands itself through CSR and
little programs to empower some people
here empower some people there instead
of actually ever being brought to
justice
Amazon there was a restoration of
democracy in this country and and the
United States and elsewhere where you
actually have public policy and leaders
who reflect the aspirations of regular
people but Anand there's there's one
actually number that I can't reconcile
which is life expectancy worldwide has
increased seventy one point five years
now it's difference if you're a man or a
woman but aren't we having collectively
a better life what is your like the
world is not really a world you know
there's a lot of variety what's going on
you're right at the aggregate number the
aggregate number is largely because of
what's happened in India and
China over the last 3040 years each of
which has their own very particular
story of the really crappy policies they
had before which they got rid of in the
last 3040 years getting past you know
their experiments and having some mix of
capitalism but also a lot of government
action in both of those countries over
the last few decades
my focus is many of the advanced
countries of the West which are have
have left most of their people feeling
and and often it's it's actually true
that the world is rigged against them
that there's no correlation between the
efforts they make the things they study
and their ability to live a good life on
the other side I know this is a business
panel I'm not a business channel guy but
but I will say right exactly I mean is
it true is it a belief that they can't
or or are there actually barriers yes it
is absolutely true what is the core
belief of the United States where I come
from social mobility the American Dream
you will end up where you end up because
of what you do in your life do you know
that belief is least true in the United
States among the rich countries the
thing that Americans most think is true
about them is actually least true so
this is absolutely right and I love it
you know because that's that about these
first of all I love that there is no
world there's no economy there's no
national security these big block terms
that sound so important and so official
and seem to explain so much mean nothing
unless you disaggregate and break them
into their particulars then you can
reconstitute them into some sort of
whole but as a generic aggregate they
don't teach you anything and he's
absolutely right about China and India
China and India basically got out of
their own ways in some super basic ways
and China in particular which is the
real sort of powerful growth center
there and I am no defender of the
People's Republic of China and policy
wise but they have aggressively defended
and nurtured state industries and didn't
in no way followed any type of classic
World Bank IMF formula that we forced on
far more vulnerable countries in Africa
and Latin America
and that leads us to the second part of
the clip where Anand calls Davos which
is about to happen
what it is which is a family reunion of
world ruiners watch this part your
messages to the elites at Davos who
frankly many agree with you and would
like to see a calmness or a leveling of
some of these excesses what's your
counsel to the elite of Davos time is
running out for them to get on the right
side of history the people gathering
first of all I believe Davos I know
you're heading over there I believe it
should be cancelled this year but the
United States government here I know you
have you should you should still go
there and just enjoy the town oh I do
the takeout pizza is awesome why should
they cancel Davos this year
Davos should be canceled this year
because the United States government is
shut down
Trump's canceled because brexit chaos
because of what's been happening in
France would really show is that all the
more reason to have it so that no leads
can argue all the more reason to have
something different that is the anti
Davos which is actually representatives
of people around the world people
actually from communities not the
plutocratic completely that has seceded
from communities let me just say this is
also emerging market economies right so
it's also countries trying to actually
showcase to investors the reforms
they're due money so it's not only about
the elites it's also about attracting
cat family reunion I'm Savas as a family
reunion of the people who broke the
world okay the world we live in that you
cover has worked for a narrow slice of
people as your dad warned you to expect
and the people that didn't just happen
that's not just forces we often talk
about the forces of alright these aren't
forces these were outcomes designed
through policy and fighting for policies
that were going abbreviating well the
u.s. oh this is perfect there's nothing
to add to that he's a hundred percent
right my only addition is I've been
listening to Quinn sloboda ins
rate the globalists neoliberal history
there's so many amazing books that have
about the this these topics in the last
like decade it's pretty insane I listen
to a great interview on Doug Henwood
behind the news last night and the name
of the guy escapes me but he's an expert
on neoliberalism and he talked about
something that I hadn't fully thought
about which is that neoliberalism isn't
just about getting out of the way of the
market but it's about acknowledging that
for this kind of market capitalism to
continue there needs to be a lot of
government intervention actually that's
when Sidonians it was probably when
savonia the market yeah it was probably
him because that's his it's a history of
how what is called in like sort of
propaganda discourse deregulation
opening markets is a specific type a
mechanism of a specific type of very
controlling global governance that
allows those rules to be written that
favor corporations and the wealthy yeah
he also made this point about um that
sort of that's Steven Pinker stat that
that lady quoted earlier where you know
dire poverty is going down
therefore we live in the best of all
possible systems which you know even
even if that's true and it is true like
dire poverty has abated around the world
for various reasons you we still have
inequality and that's one reason that I
think most of us here are skeptical of a
ubi something like ubi under current
economic conditions because even if
everybody in the world no nobody is
suffering from like dire poverty anymore
it still enshrines this hierarchy with
most people at the bottom and that's not
good enough yeah definitely and also
those numbers are starting to that that
little surge that was China and India
driven is starting to flatten out so
like even that stat is does not pack the
punch that they think it packs like if
you take our I know China is obviously
the largest country in the world India
is India the second-largest country in
the world like if you take those
countries of those sizes
and you through some combination of like
direct foreign investment and getting
out of the way with certain types of
just totally like you know failed
revolutionary experiments at times and
failed policy sets you like I'm not
trying to rob of the achievements of
China and India but like you'd have to
go out of your way to not have there be
massive spikes of growth in those
countries in terms like their human
capital their financial capital their
raw material resources like there's so
much to work with there and in the
broader arc of history it's actually
like arising obviously from European
colonialism through like the peak of us
hegemony after World War Two right
that's actually in the grand scheme of
things that's several hundred years so
India and China like reimbursing is
actually like in the course of human
history things just getting back to
normal like those are big big
deal countries in the level and the ways
that people talk about things being a
big deal in terms of you know power
politics and economic resources and so
on particularly China obviously all
right a few items then we gotta got out
of here I love Sarah Palin when you guys
inevitably release a final body bag
style video for Dave Rubin can the outro
be nas's hate me now that is a very
strong contender
I love hate me now jab what's up but
tulsi gabbard followers when you point
out horrible record and actual issue
positions they lose their on you
it's like talking to cult members is her
in Beto's appeal because they're
photogenic have a good weekend yeah it's
definitely part of it I don't think I
think it's uh I mean I think in both
cases it's deeper than that and in both
cases I could be maybe more charitable
about certain things but the bottom line
of that comment is the word cult and I
definitely I see that around I do see
that around bado in a different way and
I certainly see it around Gabbard and
what's more disturbing in gabbard's case
is
sometimes you get it from people who
would have been more different like they
were like wait
she was iffy on the Iran deal she met
with Sheldon Adams that was shadow
Allison she Swartz drone like this would
be and rightfully so a deal-breaker for
any other candidate with these people
but for some reason with her it's
negotiable and I think that's super
 bizarre but you would know
something about cults right
well that's true yeah but it pisses me
off when you get people that say like oh
you you just support an empire by being
against Tulsi like Tulsi is not a
challenge to foreign policy
establishment I bet you there's a bunch
of them licking their chops because
guess what anti interventionism isn't as
popular with some of those people too
and and they'll see Tulsi bringing in
basically progressive idiots that just
see her stance in Syria is like oh she's
the anti intervention candidate and
won't look at her stance on drones or
like meeting with Sheldon Adelson wonder
what her position on Palestine is like
and all of a sudden that those thing
those things don't matter for Empire
right like it's just what your position
on Syria is yeah that's exactly I mean
the truth that matter is as far as I
could determine Hulsey gabbard's foreign
policy and again if you're being
actually real about Obama's foreign
policy I think it's like okay Libya was
a catastrophic intervention uh so
probably I could say gabbard probably
wouldn't do that and that would be
preferable to Obama okay Syria I don't
know because actually Obama didn't do
much in Syria contrary to a lot of
mythology and hyperventilating he did
way more than he should have and I am
totally not convinced that somebody like
tulsi gabbard who in spite of her
embrace of Assad has also said that like
criticizing amount of generals and
government is like an inherently
offensive thing I think this is uh
somebody who will be quite attentive to
what the Pentagon says they need okay
and then besides that actually then on
the flip side though those are areas
where Gabbard might be better uh she
would be way worse on the Iran deal
she was critiquing Obama in
the beginning on that strongly and even
spreading some conspiratorial language
about Iran
she went to Netanyahu's joint address
which Democrats boycotted including Tim
Kaine for Christ's sake she went there
when Tim Cain's like no I'm not gonna
listen to Netanyahu come here and trash
Obama and try to undermine US diplomacy
but she does that should say something
uh and then uh rhetoric which certainly
matters I hate to tell you she would
embrace a far more neocon pared down
simplistic Islamic terrorism rhetoric
which was helpful Obama didn't embrace
in terms of even just Civic space in the
United States there's no indication she
would be any improvement on things like
surveillance issues and she supported
his use of drones which i think is one
of his worst legacies so I again I don't
know and especially I have to say like
Bernie has made those moves now okay
like you could rightly criticized Bernie
in 2016 on foreign policy right but by
and you still can of course but by this
point we've got a cavalry likely
potential candidate who is who's been
much more forthright on the Israeli
occupation who has called for a global
progressive coalition to defeat fascism
is building democratic relationships
with people like Yanis varoufakis and
Fernando Haddad and all these different
formations so I I don't get it I don't
get it and Matt and Matt dust is very
big and serious about the Iran deal
III don't know I it's bizarre she likes
to surf and she's hot and weed so there
you go yeah that's kind of
where's the life
I mean honestly exactly I mean on paper
I would like I think Hindu spirituality
is cool I think somebody from Hawaii
would be cool like I don't like I don't
set I think I'm glad she endorsed Bernie
like I'm really the last person to set
out with some type of like anti tulsi
agenda I'm
is going on the record and
there's a lot of bad they're sorry
and I'll hit other candidates just as
hard for all their bad but I don't
have like nutty people on my timeline
telling me that Kamala Harris is
actually a global revolutionary
and again the idea that she calls out
the war machine right like I don't see
this she when when people were worried
about Trump filling her entire
administration with generals Tulsi got
really indignant on like Meet the Press
or something same tequila what's I think
you're insulting their service like that
this is this is not and she's running on
her foreign policy sort of bona fides
and people need to be clear about what
those are and what she represents
hundred-percent and just just like cozy
relationships with authoritarians and
weird rhetoric and Islam an Obama's
drone program is not you know does not a
great foreign policy make so and I would
read read Yanko Brockovich is peace that
came out today about Tulsi on the Iran
deal and Jacobin Lauren I see your
question um and I want it can you email
that I am that again on Thursday and
I'll make sure to get to it because it's
just that's that's gonna be a long
question I know that we'll all go around
with it but I see it TBS is my jam I
missed new doric jay-z one of the most
important things to remember about
brexit is that the same way that it has
to be remembered about Trump is that it
was a result of a diverse voting
coalition it wasn't disempowerment in
economic pain which drove the heeled
well-heeled citizens of leafy Tory
shires to vote brexit well that might be
a reason for the people in Sunderland
who were so critically dependent on you
for trade but God these last 10 months
12 months been exhausting you can't
track all of the garbage genuinely words
for our times
right I know doh 91 percent of Americans
living in Mexico or illegal 37.8% and
key increase in just two years according
to study by national institute of
geography and statistics around
more okay oh yes there's a lot of people
Americans living illegally in Mexico
I don't really again I'm not a not a
biologic guy but I certainly see the
obvious hypocrisy so it's be fair I
would want to poll Americans living
illegally in Mexico so if they were
supporting Trump border policies then
they should be deported but if they were
opposed then they should go on hopefully
having a great time in Mexico it seems
like an awesome place to live
I might be one of them someday I support
a living wage but I dislike but I
support a living wage but dislike unpaid
internships surely we can create an
entry salary category eg a three-month
trial salary and only some energy so
many percentage of employees allowed
this reduced rate and only for smaller
companies I don't
I mean look that sounds like that sounds
way too complicated if you're talking
about like companies that you know like
not corporations there's all sorts of
ways to insulate and subsidize like the
local bodega from these types of rule
changes and what you do is the same way
you do everything else you know we're
implementing a 30 sales we're gonna do a
$25 an hour minimum wage and that's
obviously going to apply to Starbucks
Daniel with Dwayne Reed and oh you're a
yemeni family who has like two employees
and you're scraping by to bodega
well we're adding a surcharge chat tax
onto amazon on to all these other
retailers that are gonna subsidize the
added cost
dunt all of the answers to these
questions always involve reclaiming
wealth from the wealthy that's it
there's no like whether it's a modest
social democratic proposal like I just
outlined or something more radical
there's no step that doesn't just say
okay well here's the answer that
question take the money that is here
bring it here
and it's not just I mean I think I think
in broadly just out of one B it's D
commodify things too right that's right
you need this can't all be tied to wages
you need to
in healthcare like major thing energy or
anything like that so people have
because it's like people understand this
when we talk about healthcare right you
want a decouple healthcare from
workplace that's true for everything
food housing shelter time transportation
all of that of course all right Matt
strikes me as a bond Ripper is that true
how much Keef do you have stored up
Colin from Nebraska with a question for
Matt lek III don't really itemize it
like that I don't really
itemized it like that I'm good okay what
is this thing that we're gonna this is
uh yeah Ben Shapiro Shapiro at the March
for Life does he really actually look
like that yeah I mean oh no Jesus Christ
all right let's play this the argument I
guess here is that would you kill baby
Hitler and the truth is that no pro-life
person on earth would kill baby Hitler
right because baby Hitler wasn't Hitler
adult Hitler was Hitler baby Hitler was
a baby and when you presumably want to
do with baby Hitler was take baby Hitler
out of baby Hitler's house and move baby
Hitler into a better house where he
would not grow up to be Hitler right
that's the idea okay I I mean mom doted
on him by the way yeah but that doesn't
necessarily mean good parenting that's
actually like the first yeah but that's
actually the first thing I've ever heard
bench bureau say that points towards the
some type of like human redemptive
capacity so I want to give points there
I I don't think that's really the point
of the kill many Hitler thought
experiment this has been I'm anti
thought experiment this is the
right-wing retreating into a weird sort
of pedantry that they feel more
comfortable in because it's obvious in
the question that you would know it was
Hitler because you're some sort of
 time traveler or something right
like like just to quibble over the
premises that is the libertarian sort of
mode of argumentation that is exactly
remember when they asked that question
of anti fat Jeb nobody said he was like
oh yeah you got to do it yeah I mean you
got he fought through them in a
furnace-like luca brasi turn up vega
i hope for those who got that I hope you
appreciate it
turn up Vega speaking of strikes it
seems like there's a decent chance the
Denver Public School teachers will vote
to strike on Saturday depending if the
city rejects their newest proposal of
salary raises instructure go la go
Colorado thing I know one thing Colorado
education is when they passed marijuana
legalization I think this is true they
use that as their weighted like lower
property taxes for education funding so
raise those property taxes back up but
keep the weed stuff good job keep
fighting out there guys it's awesome
okay the final I am of the day hey I got
to listen to em are live coming home
from the birth of my son here in Japan
this is Jake from Japan could I get a
Japanese horn a Jew Panisse horn in
honor of the newest member of the M R
and T MBS crew yes indeed you can take
from Japan congratulations
Monday is gonna be okay I was I was
proposing that we do the ads and I would
read them as MLK like I want to talk
about blue apron edit twice a week get
it twice a week you're too busy you're
leading a March and Selma I forget what
it's called but sort of a garlic tater
tots oh my but Don't Tell Coretta I eat
that don't tell a whole lot of things so
I'm sorry that uh the very important
occasion of the birth of one of the most
important leaders in American history is
occasion prompts me to do that
impression but I'm actually sorry not
sorry because it's funny so but that
will not be happening on Monday what
will be happening on Monday is a
compilation of some excellent historical
speeches from dr. King which trace the
trajectory civil rights movement
anti-imperialism his proper role really
is one of America's great radicals great
intellectuals it's something you'll want
to listen to and it's something you'll
want to share widely Sam said earlier
your kids as well and then we're back
here on Tuesday for regularly scheduled
programming
take care
to get to where I want but I know son
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
option
[Music]
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
