you know back in the day when I was on
traditional radio we would play we would
talk about crazy laws that were proposed
by right-wingers in the state
legislature across the country and I
remember criticism from some people like
why you cherry-picking these guys you
know and then then about five or six
years later the law gets adopted by you
know three or four states or that
politician ends up being a congress
person or I don't know the vice
president United States here is so
Washington state representative a guy
named Matt Shay a document that was
associated with him in some way I know
it's a four-page outline it's a
manifesto of sorts I don't know what did
he draw this up or he wrote this and
then a local sheriff found it and it's
basically outlining I guess you could
call it a holy war that this elected
state representative is planning for
seeing here we go here's the report from
local channel NBC 6 in Washington state
it's like you fight to win so you don't
have to fight again make an offer of
peace before declaring war if they do
not yield kill all the male's positive
second this is from the document God is
a warrior you fight to win so you don't
have to fight again that's actually also
I think Machiavelli said something to
that effect
maybe Sun Tzu to make an offer of peace
before declaring war and if they do not
yield kill all the males
kill all the males those are lines from
a four-page document the Spokane Valley
representative Matt Shay has taken
credit for writing and tonight because
of that document Shay now finds himself
at the center of a potential FBI
investigation that four-page document
titled biblical basis for war is a
radical Christian call to arms outlining
14 steps for seizing power and what to
do afterwards in explicit detail it
calls for an end to abortions and
same-sex marriage saying everyone must
obey biblical law and if enemies do not
yield quote all males will be killed we
reached out to shape multiple times to
ask about this manifesto contacting him
on Facebook calling his legislative
offices in both Olympia and Spokane
Valley as well as his Spokane law firm
so far he has not returned our calls
but his legislative aide didn't tell us
that our message was being passed along
to representative Shay what I'm about to
expose he did however post this video on
Facebook in late October in it Shay
admits to distributing the document but
calls it a summary of a series of
sermons in the Old Testament or a quote
Just War Theory philosophy tell me what
this is this right here is the biblical
basis for war the manifesto which was
only given to a few people close to Shay
was made public by this man it is quite
frankly one of the more horrific things
I've ever read as far as somebody's
agenda I don't believe that this type of
thought process has any business being
in our government and quite frankly it I
mean it just goes against the philosophy
of everything that Liberty is meant to
be you don't kill people because they
don't subscribe to your religion you
don't advocate for that and I think it's
necessary that people understand the
mindset that they would be voting for if
they voted for Matt shape there you go
folks we're gonna happen a couple of
weeks somebody on to talk about Mike
Pence the guy who literally wrote the
book on Mike Pence
and I don't know if he has done a like a
one of those like the crib sheets what
he called monarch notes of all the
reasons why you can wage war
if you're a Christian theocratic
seems like it might be close failing to
prepare is preparing to fail there you
go
you really got you want to be able to
access that stuff quickly that makes
sense to me
