[Music]
this is laura ingraham with a sorry uh
yeah this is actually pretty crazy you
know especially for me it takes a pretty
high threshold to actually do a sound on
somebody like Laura Ingraham she crossed
it with this one let's check it out
their slavery a poignant one what about
the descendants of Union soldiers and
then you get into this discussion when I
say who's next about whether there is
something unique about the African
American case so what about Native
Americans for example would that be the
next reparations fine obviously both
white and black soldiers frankly took
this country from the Indians yeah well
yeah people would argue that the whole
world and I would that the whole world
has been reshaped by people taking other
people's land I mean it's called it's
called conquest I mean it's called you
know the Ottoman Empire had to shrink
back you know we had a totally different
map and throughout Europe in Asia I mean
that's just not the way the world is
they want to they want to live in a fake
world where you mean as Trump always
says you don't get do-overs no do-overs
that's it and it was a you know there
was an argument sometimes 1980s there
was a quote you won we lost that's that
yeah like around ascribing world
politics we won you lost that's that
it's that's just I mean it changed add I
mean who's we Laura yeah I don't know
who we is Wow
I mean but again what is actually kind
of great about this and you have the
intricacies of how you actually
implement these things in policy and
what's emphasized and how things are
done but we all know that there needs to
be a radical reclaiming of wealth and a
redistribution I always say reclaiming
because that's literally what it were
wealth
it's your well made that wealth and what
I like though is that you know you'll
listen to some tortured economic
justification for when history starts or
doesn't start what's on the historical
record
not on the historical record or you know
all of these sort of facile arguments
and what's funny is that actually
there's a there's a good clip of
Christopher Hitchens argument for
reparations several years ago and he
goes and he says the first line of
defense is always these ancillary
examples here's a Laura Ingraham giving
an interesting greeting to the
Republican National Committee what she's
doing here might be reflecting a certain
political viewpoint that I had a very
much a we win you lose
politics but she's the white nationalist
she's just saying but I mean she's but
even even people that aren't white
nationalist I totally agree with you
that's exactly what she is a UH
when they say as an example like that
nutty Walter block guy that like oh well
that's just when history started and it
just happens to start right after the
genocide in the Native Americans and the
theft of all their land there's always
some version even maybe more
pseudo-intellectual ones of saying
precisely what she just laid out which
is that we win you lose suck on it
yeah that's white nationalism that's
republicanism and that's ultimately
capitalism and if you don't think that
that's going to be applied to future
problems like climate refugees and all
that you got another thing coming well
it's being applied right precisely it's
being applied to children right now that
are dying in concentration camps
due to the administration that this
woman chills for every night and
policies she promotes absolutely I I do
think at the same time what she's saying
about the Native Americans right there
are no do-overs you can't put the
toothpaste back in the tube and she's
right in a way right you you can't send
all Europeans back to Europe as part of
a colonial program and this is some of a
critique that I have with certain kinds
of anti colonial politics like we can
only move forward in time and the
working class of every nation not just a
particular colonized nation needs to
band together to ultimately overthrow
the
tiny group of people that's controlling
everything also so literally the only
possibility of it's happening right like
marks focused on the working class as a
point of power not for moral reasons but
because literally he was like this is
where all the bodies are there's no
there's very few other ways of coming up
with the sort of raw numbers you need to
actually shift political trajectory
that's another reason why the Sanders
kind of core argument is so important
