I mean this is pretty stunning talk
about shoehorning your favorite topic
into this Jake Tapper wants to make sure
that he's not accused of some type of
both cider ISM so for him it's he is
really trying to flatten some nuances
down here a little bit let's just play
this and we will we will digest it in a
moment it's pretty sort of shocking it
just gives you a sense of where Jake
Tapper is on this and I think you know
for for some people in the news media
there's a desperate fear of of taking a
position of of against like some type of
form of white supremacy it just seems
like you're just getting too political
and so you got to balance it out and but
it's a little bit tricky in this
environment in this country to sort of
balance it out by talking about like
well what about the Black Panthers
weren't they violent or you know like
like if they get up there they go like
what about the semanas liberation say
this is one I'm gonna have to give Bill
Maher of props on this because and this
is years ago I don't even matter what
the context was but he had on right on
Salaam it was like a relatively smart
conservative and Bill Maher was actually
making it it wasn't even about anything
like this it was literally like a state
lawmaker said a slur somewhere and Bill
Maher's like you want to guess which
party this guy was from right and right
han salaam started talking about the
symphony's Liberation Army something
where the Weathermen and Bill Maher
looked everybody was like you weren't
boring yet well like what are you
haki no that's the problem that people
have who are desperately sir is seeking
some type of and so you got a shoehorn
it now so where does Jake Tapper where
does he keep score his like I gotta
prove my bona fides I think we all have
an idea is that you know you hear
conservatives all the time rightly so in
my opinion talk about the tone set by
people in the Arab world Palestinian
leaders talking about and the way they
talk about Israelis justifying in the
same way you're doing no direct link
necessarily between what the leader says
and a violence against some or Israeli
girl in a pizzeria but the idea that
you're you're validating this hatred
yeah yeah and yet and yet people don't I
mean I'm you can't compare I'd be
ideology of Hamas with anything else but
at the same time if to either tone
matters or it doesn't well now here's
the thing I wonder if he's really this
this a nuanced in his thinking tone can
matter and material facts on the ground
matter so let's just compare this I'm
gonna stipulate that Hamas has very bad
they set a very bad tone in terms of the
way of their rhetoric in terms of the
way that they should the Palestinians
should behave towards Israelis I'm just
gonna stipulate that for the sake of it
right and we're gonna stipulate that
Donald Trump does the same now Hamas
represents people a million plus people
who are living in an outdoor Jail who
have forty some odd percent unemployment
constant food insecurity they have every
couple years if you're a civilian like I
know we got to presume that all million
people let's just well can I get
everybody to agree that like all million
people are not attacking Israel with the
kites okay can we just say that like
let's say let's see we can I don't know
jaqen agree - right well let's just say
that Jake I'm sure Jake would concede
that half a million of the people there
are not right let's I'll stipulate the
other half a million are all sending
kites cross into Israel that are flaming
kites okay half a million of those
people are doing it but a half a million
or not and those people are still also
subjected to you know every several
months bombings no freedom of movement
the economic deprivation whereas the
people subject to the tone of Donald
Trump are subject to the same stagnant
wages of the people that they're
attacking they they're living under a
Republican administration so there's
cuts and all sorts of support in terms
of their environment and corporations
are getting all the tax cuts and whatnot
but you can say that tone matters and
also not equate the situation that these
right-wingers are living in with the the
situation of the people of the
Palestinians are living I also have to
say I mean what makes it even worse and
again I'm of course I can condemn any
number of things about Hamas I think
that we have to uphold certain basic
standards or there's no standards to
uphold right I don't have any problem
with that as long as you understand the
profound power asymmetry but what makes
that even more racist and ridiculous
I'll use those words to describe it
myself I'm not putting that on anybody
else is that the direct analogy you
could draw if you wanted to talk about
the Middle East would be Netanyahu and
the Israeli government right like if you
want to talk about a pretty direct
McGrath illiterate wretches Oh a
governing party that is in power and has
control over thing but he's news isn't
bigoted I know he's looking for a
license to be able to critique
nationalists the only way I can get that
license if I show my bona fides by
saying however there are some brown
people I do think deserve it precisely
precisely well in
he does that all the time I mean he's
always fear-mongering and always
distorting what's happening at least but
again I don't want to give him any ideas
but if he went to Pakistan and he said
well this is a thing like the like the
ISI and some members of the Pakistani
military they play a double game where
they work with us on certain security
issues but then they back the Taliban
and they fund certain preachers who do
instigating rhetoric isn't that like it
would have been also a ridiculous stupid
stretch but at the very least he would
have done one that here's the read early
implicated here's the better thing than
exact example Netanyahu is Trump here's
the better example he could say if
you're looking for that tone we
assassinated an American citizen named
anwar alwaki
indeed based upon supposedly there was
operative ties but they were never made
public or proof that's one of the
beauties about being able to assassinate
somebody it makes the court case a lot
simpler but the big complaint was that
he was inspiring people radicalizing
them online in video clips I don't know
if he was saying like it's an invasion
and then people adopted the terms it's
an invasion but the idea was that he was
saying something and they were adopting
those terms in that frame but again
maybe not as it doesn't work quite as
well he's not doing a good job making us
disbelieve the credible rumor reported
by David cleon from someone who used to
work for Jake Tapper that he pushed for
greater scrutiny of Ilhan Omar and
Rasheeda Talib in advance of the
midterms well one never knows I would
not be completely surprised by that I
don't ever remember Jake Tapper being
like this he's always had a real thing
for Israel identity stuff and then also
for just like having tantrums about
Louis Farrakhan and again I don't know
all my jokes aside of course I'm not a
fan of Louis Farrakhan he's not a
leftist one he's not a leftist and to
like I'm sorry Louis Farrakhan has very
little power in the society I mean
that's really what all of these things
come down to do you want to actually be
real about who has power who doesn't
that's one of the reasons I use the
Pakistan example as you could say like
yeah there's right-wing Islamic forces
that have a lot of power in Pakistan and
they cause a lot of problems like at the
very least let's just do some actual
power symmetries here but yeah that's
not really is any interest it's also
bizarre too because when you think about
it like right like the idea is that well
it's the president saying this and so
that is I get the heart of sort of like
the president is completely sim central
like is centered in what we consider to
be mainstream society right like the
president just sort of largely
generically is considered to be centered
in our society and you can argue that
Hamas is centered in the Palestinian
society at least within the contours of
Gaza and you could argue that the
president says something everybody
thinks like oh that's normal mainstream
what Hamas says that it's a normal
mainstream
that's that's the the case I guess maybe
his argument is about like the
implications for it's just a very weird
social sanctioning but also for it's
worth it Hamas is rhetoric has changed
radically like yeah last 10 years so
that would be that's the other problem
with the analogy it would actually be
like if 10 years from now somehow we had
another Republican president who it
steadily deescalate it instigating
language so-called progressives are
actually regressed yeah that guy has
instigated his language every step of
the way and there's members of the
Israeli government who are not him who
have literally called for genocide in a
place that they are actually occupying
and regularly killing civilians and so
you could do some pretty exact analogies
if you wanted to but I'm sure you have
some questions about why
medicare-for-all
is bad right this actually I enjoyed its
on MSNBC
