[Music]
earlier in the program Larry Kudlow on
Meet the Press Sunday morning airs at
10:00 a.m. a lot of times what they'll
do is the pre-tape stuff particularly if
you've got to do an LT n connection with
let's say Fox News and so you'll
pre-tape it so there's enough distancing
a little bit of time now the problem is
that maybe you know you're sitting and
you're in the White House yeah you're in
the White House area waiting to do you
know a hit on morning television and
look you're just sitting and it's boring
and they have a spread the buzz just so
it's just like you're just looking for
something to kill the time the time is a
day somewhere so by the time he gets on
on Fox News to talk about the trade
tensions that exist he's on there with
Dana Perino who was the paid liar for
the Bush administration he's talking
about Greenland and so like you know
when you're not having to talk up the
economy the pressures a little bit off
so why not why not let loose it's sort
of like a weekend it's our history it is
infestors they like favorites China
China is paying for these tariffs but
you go backwards a little bit I'm Gary
system with the question we have our
question okay incidentally China is the
word are you saying as bi-racial before
I go back to the head of that just I
just want to make it clear yeah good
favorites China China is paying for
these tariffs by a ratio of about 4.1
that's what we expected to happen I've
enjoyed having you I have one last
question if you get asked to go to a
site survey about purchasing
Greenland can I go with you well maybe
I'll run the Central Bank look it's an
interesting story it's developing we're
looking at it we don't know years ago
Harry Truman wanted to buy Greenland
Denmark owns Greenland Denmark is an
ally real and is strategic place I'll
stay here
they got a lot of valuable minerals I
don't want to predict an outcome I'm
just saying the president who knows a
thing or two about buying real estate
wants to take a look all I'm saying is
that if you can ask all I'm saying is if
you could ask to go and do a site survey
I'd love to accompany you on the trip
and do an interview out there Larry
Kudlow thank you for joining us happy
thunder
let's check about greenhand for one
second but if we just put better so shy
nothing but there are fresh that buck is
that fra Greenland wait a second I am
worried I am worried that I am super
worried that he is due for another heart
attack soon at the beginning of this
interview is actually kind of his I
watch the beginning remember like what
was it six months ago when he when he
first guy came on after three or four
months he had a hard tack it's like he
did a series of the these type of
interviews where he was visibly like
cold sweaty yeah the heart was so wet
now White House economic adviser Larry
Kudlow welcome to Fox News Sunday Larry
thank you Thank You Dana appreciate it
so Larry there's been a mix then it
bounced back retail sales are up job
growth continues manufacturing slowing
down at what point is accumulation he's
completely any new legislative policies
or executive actions to stave off but
some are saying could be a possible
sighs well first of all I don't see
recession at all second of all the Trump
pro-growth program
which I believe has been succeeding
lower tax rates big rollback of
regulation supposedly no no this is true
I mean to the extent that there's been a
rollback of regulation that is true to a
certain extent
certainly the rate of regulation has
dropped and they have rolled back some
very key regulations that keep people
healthy the tax cuts are not working
unless your measure is are really rich
people getting richer what about the
black hole it betrays have see it is
true that the trajectory has remained
the same but that is after a huge
supposedly priming of the pump
supposedly Dominicans you have pharmacy
degrees now after being trade reform
we're gonna stay with that we believe
that's the heart of the free enterprise
we want an incentive oriented
supply-side economy providing
opportunities for everybody across the
board and as your repo men should look
we have blowing out retail sales let me
just pause there consumers first of all
they're working the employment numbers
are terrific second of all they're
working at much higher wages third of
all they're spending that's possible
interesting ly they are saving even
while they're spending that's about as
good as it gets and I notice at the end
of the week a lot of the Wall Street
firms have been marking up their
economic growth forecasts I think we're
in pretty good shape and I want to just
say you know we should not be afraid of
optimism I don't know what it is
everybody wants to talk about pessimism
okay this is I mean look I just want to
say this in all honesty I met Larry
Kudlow I don't know I did his show
probably a dozen times over a small
period of time at one point I was like
you got to pay me if you want me to come
out to New Jersey I'm just not gonna do
it anymore but he was very gracious he
was always nice to me always enjoyed me
getting into an argument uh I worry
about his health
honestly you know with that said you go
and you sign up for this administration
which is disgusting what you're doing
disgusting things to the environment to
our society at large racist they're
kidnapping children they are I mean if
he needs to drink to allow himself to
continue to work for this guy you know I
feel bad for him but it has its limits
if you know the server suppose I try a
little bit of employment optimism Sam's
here I said I was did a radio show but
now it's I said forget we're gonna do
the 80s again and it's gonna be Trump
and it's gonna be me and we're just
gonna crash and it's gonna be beautiful
data Perez if you inland afraid of
optimism is a problem I'm afraid of it
you got your podcast Matlock you got the
Patriots it's coming along everybody
chance to think about the future your
chair should we look at another sad guy
zip recruiter but role yeah economy what
is it I don't know what this somebody
sent me this
