Liz sorry what's the difference well
let's go here that the the Republicans
have a problem on some level there is
regardless of your politics the idea of
making a tactical alliance with another
fighting force to serve as your proxies
in a hot war is an important tool for
people who love to engage in Wars and
and our militaristic and so the idea
that you would betray that tactical
agreement is highly problematic for the
ability of the United States to do that
in the future so you get folks like Liz
Cheney who are out there saying they're
not they're unhappy with the situation
where Donald Trump essentially said to
Turkey after you go in there and
slaughter the Kurds however they also
have the problem that their base does
not countenance any type of criticism of
Donald Trump in any context and
certainly the base is not they don't
care they don't care about the details
of this so someone like Liz Cheney who
is a craven war monger has a little bit
of a problem and so how do you resolve
that well you acknowledge the thing that
you don't like and then you embarrass
yourself with why it's happening this is
Liz Cheney on with a Brian Kilmeade
this is a special segment I think of Fox
and Friends side and our guys have
backed out how concerned are you about
our profile overseas and for our future
allies I'm very concerned about it Brian
I think that what we're seeing happen is
have ramifications not just in the
Middle East but around the world if our
adversaries begin to sense weakness if
our adversaries begin to think that we
won't defend our allies that we won't
defend our interests that that's
provocative but I also want to say that
the the impeachment proceedings that are
going on and what the Democrats are
doing themselves to try to weaken this
President as part of this there's there
it was not an accident that the Turks
chose this moment to roll across the
border and I think the Democrats have
got to pay very careful attention to to
the damage that they're doing with the
impeachment proceedings yes it's not an
accident because Donald Trump wanted to
do this a year ago and then he had a
conversation with erawan he said go
ahead do it
they literally I mean yes I mean and it
was by the way the same thing happened a
year ago where they had a conversation
and Trump's that go ahead do it
and then people stopped it yeah Maddox
was like I'm gonna resign and by the way
for what it's worth and you know there's
structural problems across the board in
US foreign policy but on the specifics
of portraying the Kurds that is a much
more distinctly Republican and
Democratic tradition going back to
George HW Bush as an example but you've
talked about before and to be really
clear like Turkey is deploying like
definitely al Qaeda adjacent groups
their attack their shock troops using
things like suicide bombings and
slaughtering and targeting civilians and
you know just to get back to like the
human stakes of how horrifying what's
happening here right now is and Liz
Cheney like it's crocodile tears across
the board anybody who didn't encourage
some type of earlier diplomatic
arrangement between the Kurds and Assad
frankly it bears some responsibility and
the idea of talking about impeachment is
just I mean whatever it's what you'd
expect but I guess mom to note how
disgusting and disingenuous it is there
could be a roundabout case to be made
like maybe Trump is trying to distract
everyone from the impeachment
proceedings with what he's doing in
Syria no but that's not on the Democrats
for beating him
I don't I mean he tried to just because
he tried to do the same thing precisely
last year I I
this is all just deal-making with air to
wand
I mean someone pointed out a couple
weeks ago when did Erewhon made a huge
deal about the murder of Khashoggi which
a new CIA report just came out and said
that they're pretty definitive that NBS
ordered it why does their tawan never
mention anymore what are the arms deals
like it's all that kind of stuff it
might even be literally as simple as
air21 saying we're gonna take down Trump
Tower Istanbul
I'm tired of waiting
