sherrod Brown is inching towards making
an announcement I suspect about running
for president maybe he won't maybe he
will definitely value for a senator
anywhere to be in a position of people
asking you questions if you're gonna run
because he gets you a little more
attention nothing like a little bit of
earned media
here's sherrod Brown though not pulling
any punches as to Donald Trump and you
know this is this is interesting because
sherrod Brown definitely knows that if
he's going on
Chuck Todd's show to say this the Chuck
Todd is gonna be like wait what it's
just the Chuck Todd wood went after a
sherrod Brown says this is a little bit
slow and I don't know that sherrod Brown
headlines that were to go afterward do
you know I'm talking about like if you
like there was there were times in hell
follow a plan there's times in a script
right where you do your lines call for
the other person to interrupt you and so
what happens is they stop writing in the
script and they just do ellipsis dot dot
really what should happen is that the
thought should be continued and someone
should just interrupt sherrod Brown at
dot dot dot it took a moment for for you
watch this you'll see what I'm saying
folks are now being held accountable for
blackface in ways frankly that that we
didn't we didn't have that kind of that
strong of a moral code I would argue in
our politics until recently why do you
think that is well I think this country
hasn't dealt well with the issues of
race I mean we have a president who's a
racist who we have that's just that you
believe in his heart he's a racist well
I don't know what in his heart means I
know that he built his political career
knowing what he was doing on questioning
the legitimacy in the birthplace of the
president United States I
you know early and we did there been all
kinds of news reports about what he did
early in his career on housing we know I
mean we read read the new Jim Crow by
Michelle Alexander read the color of law
about housing discrimination and decades
and decades and decades of housing
discrimination and we know that the
Trump family including the now sitting
president played to that and deepened
that so these issues if this is not a
research are 'lets ville was only a
symptom and and a more public viewing
and outing if you will of the
president's views about race i mean
there's just no question about that we
know the president doesn't tell the
truth frequently now we know he lies
frequently and we know of his racial
battery racist comments and background
yeah
simple that's super simple I will also
note that we've had both those authors
both those books have been featured
interviews on the majority report
years ago useless in a sad fair I've
also a brown for that matter but good
for him good whether he's running or not
that's super important for folks like
Chuck Todd to hear politicians say this
and normalize the ability for our
politicians to call out a racist for
being racist
that's another hat tip you can give to a
OC actually of just being the first one
to just be like yeah of course what is
there to prove even pravarakhya out but
I do love and that was to say that that
was very Mr D I don't know what in his
heart means right just like I don't know
what you're talking about like okay
maybe he visualizes ponies for everybody
but I'm talking about what he does as
present in the United States and as a
slumlord also someone pointed out I I
think it might be giving him a little
too much credit but it was clever enough
to know it yeah he does sherrod Brown
does have a little bit of a Caucasian
Lula voice
