so yes I mean in the in the last segment
you basically walked us through the the
the dynamic that's happening with brexit
explained to us that brexit was not just
a moment it was basically voting to
engage in a process and that perhaps
Great Britain was not England was not
particularly cautious in triggering the
exit
I guess provision of the EU and now they
seem to be running out of time Teresa
may I feel like we've read a couple of
stories at least on this side of the
Atlantic that suggested that Teresa may
was her her her leadership was in
serious jeopardy in peril at different
times because she can't seem to make a
deal with the EU that she can sell to
her domestic audience like what is
before we talk about just likely the
actual predicament she's in what what is
it that she's giving to the EU that
heard them the the constituency she
needs domestically is unsatisfied with
it's a great question I mean it kind of
runs the gambit with things that you
know her opponents don't like about the
deal she's negotiated with EU with the
EU but the main thing that people tend
to point to that they don't like is a
thing called the Irish backstop which
basically is something that in order to
prevent a hard border forming on the
island of Ireland that separates
Northern Ireland which is in the UK and
the Republic of Ireland which is an EU
to prevent there from being a hard
border that the UK would temporarily
speaking stay closely tied to the EU
rules and regulations when it comes to
trade until they figure out some sort of
trade deal and then it won't be needed
anymore I know that all sounded really
complex but the reason that a lot of
brexit ears don't like it is because
when they leave the EU they want to go
out there and start forming trade deals
with countries like
us and others around the world and they
feel like they can't do that so long as
they're tied to EU rules because it
limits their ability to negotiate with
other countries and strike these trade
deals that they want so that's a big
reason it's the Irish backstop which
again is meant to be temporary in fact
both the EU and the UK have said they
don't want it to go into effect at all
but they need it as some sort of like
insurance policy effectively to make
sure that the Irish border doesn't
become a hard one that the Good Friday
Agreement is is maintained so that's a
big issue but um but I mean principally
the the reason that people don't like
her deal across the country really runs
the gambit and again it as we were
talking about before it kind of depends
on what people want out of friends if
for some people particularly on the
opposition Labour Party they want to
maintain a close economic relationship
with the EU even if that does mean
sticking to their rules for others they
don't want to leave the EU at all and
think that they should oppose Mays deal
and try pushing for a second referendum
to hopefully get the country to stay and
so you know her her deals opponents
don't all have loan reason for many it's
it's because they just simply want their
own version of prices so and are there
so it sounds like there are people who
who you know the remain folk they
obviously would complain about the deal
because they don't want any deal
and so complaining about the details of
the deal is the most expedient way to to
perhaps articulate that are there and
then there are others who seem to be you
know somewhat impatient as you're
expressing that they don't want to just
want to leave yeah they just want to
leave didn't want to get mired they
don't want to get mired in a sort of
like a separation as opposed to a
divorce because those things can can go
on for a long time but are there are
their constituencies who presumably have
they are ostensibly for brexit
are a worried about like they they took
that position out of maybe some measure
of expedience or as a reflection of the
people that vote for them and I should
remind people that the Brit the the the
British government is a parliamentary
system so you have a lot of different
agendas that aren't necessarily sort of
melded into a big umbrella as much as
you know people may be gathering around
like maybe some type of shelter I guess
and so they are their constituencies
that sort of aren't really as brexit E
as they appear and so the best thing for
them is to keep having an issue with the
deal I'm just trying to get a sense of
like it it feels like that every single
member of the British population has a
slightly different take on what should
happen yeah it is a bit complicated
I mean basically it really does run the
gambit I'm I mean there there are there
are some people within the population
who when they said that when they voted
to leave they just wanted to cut ties
completely and just go even if that
means with no deal there are others who
you know maybe certain aspects of being
a member of the EE you like freedom of
movement as we were discussing they want
that to end and so they they want to
kind of you know keep the Economic
Cooperation but they want to stop that
and then there are others who you know
who obviously as we said want to stay I
mean there there isn't really a
dichotomy in terms of you know it's not
just as simple as leave and remain I
mean various other kind of visions for
brexit emerge I mean I've talked to
business small to medium sized business
owners who want a customs union because
they're worried about their businesses
and their future and the uncertainty but
I've also talked to others who precisely
because of their businesses because of
regulations that are made at the EU
level which obviously UK as a Member
State had a role in making they because
they don't like those regulations they
want to leave so you know it really it
you often find that it tends to be for
very personal reasons
I don't know people were necessarily you
know I think obviously a lot of things
that were said during the referendum
seemingly erroneous things like how much
money would be saved for the National
Health Service and stuff like that
swayed a lot of people's opinions but
you find that people tend to have very
specific reasons for why they voted for
this which again I think makes coming to
a consensus on what regs it should look
like quite difficult alright so we have
about 90 seconds left here whoo what
happens with Theresa May I mean does she
at one point to say like I can't do it
by I'm taking off five early retirement
this is just not a job that I can deal
with you know what it's funny when she
calls for a general election and then
ended up losing her majority instead of
gaining a bigger one she ran on a kit on
basically a promise of being strong and
stable leadership and throughout this
process we've seen that she's been
profoundly weak yet surprisingly stable
she's kind of just um buggered on with
everything and just kind of kept pushing
and she's been known for that um people
have you know really have come to admire
that about her even if they hate
everything else battle and have changed
on Wednesday night where she sort of
played her last card and told her her
colleagues in Parliament Parliament said
look I will set a fir I will I will
leave I will I will end my prime my
Premiership early if you backed my deal
and then we can have a new prime
minister to take us through the next
phase of the negotiations which is about
the future relationship and the trade
deal and so on so she's ultimately seems
to be willing to sacrifice herself for
this deal and ultimately for her party
so she may very well end up leaving and
this is Bright's is pretty much how
she's going to be remembered if that's
the and we're just like 20 seconds left
we only have like about a week or two
left right and then it's just drop dead
EU says bye-bye see that's the thing we
really don't know we don't know when
Briggs is supposed to happen it was
supposed to happen on Friday that was
the date that was promised for two years
then because they knew it clearly they
weren't going to reach it in time the EU
offered them an extension either to
April
12th or - May 22nd depending on when
they pass her deals so I'm to be honest
with you sent by at this point we we're
probably actually gonna know it's April
12th or May because it'll probably be
decided by the end of the week but I
mean the truth of the matter is we just
don't know we will have to wait and see
but that's that's the frustrating thing
with brexit you you kind of just have to
always wait and see
well Yasmine ser on thank you so much
for explaining it to us to the extent
that it's possible to understand with
the human brain much appreciate it
