[Music]
brach from VA right after Kavanagh
leading up in the midterms the big
mobilizer was a blue wave and stopping
Trump in the Republicans do you think
that just saying Biden was against the
blue wave is a good simple bumper
sticker way of showing less inform
Democrats that say that was just a way
to beat Trump that Biden is not on your
side and working against their interests
I mean not that bumper sticker but I do
think you could make some hay of that
yes I do I definitely think the fact
that he went and did that speech
praising fred Upton in addition to all
of these just unbelievably delusional
things that Biden is saying about
Republicans can do something um and also
I think this let's play the sound I want
to be really careful in terms of how we
talk about policy on the show because
again I think voters do care about
policy and they increasingly care about
policy and if we just say they don't
care about the substance then it becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy so you know
and there's a lot of debates and nuance
within it cuz on the same time of course
a lot of people are voting on instinct
and all these other things and I also
think as an example again I think Bernie
Sanders amassing an actual movement is
far more significant than crossing over
you know dotting every I write and there
is like some argument there but at the
same time you know of course it matters
that Joe Biden is saying absolutely
nothing of substance and Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders are putting
forth extremely important plans starting
with the foundation of things like
single-payer to change your life in a
fundamentally positive way not only as
Joe Biden not doing that not only is Joe
Biden signaling that in addition to
helping keep a seat red in 2018 that he
wants to work with Republicans and when
you hear this rhetoric remember that
this is the guy who worked inside the
Obama
administration to cut a deal to savage
Medicare and Social Security and that
should worry you if you're a even very
moderate let's be Trump oriented
Democrat because that is both a
political loser
and a real-life loser if this guy gets
an office folks the fact of the matter
is why in God's name say she paying a
lower tax rate than firefighters police
officers teachers it makes no sense
everybody's gotta do their part I'm not
talking about choking the wealthy I'm
talk about every paying their fair share
the wealthy have been soaking everyone
else since at least the 70s like at
least this cycle or accelerating in the
80s or if you go back to the research
out of Princeton I think it goes back at
least maybe even to the 60s of like no
major policy battle that has ever been
lost by the wealthy in this country so
in a time of such unbelievable
inequality and all of the uncertainty
and all of the crises that have come out
of it Joe Biden is going back to 2010
stuff because don't don't ever forget
that the corollary of the tiny tax
increases I mean you're talking about
embarrassing tax increases that people
like Obama and Obama and Biden were are
there was one big argument about a a
private plane surcharge middling
nonsense that is not gonna pay for
middle for single-payer health care or
free college or an aggressive plan to
save the planet because I get you know
easy for Biden he doesn't support any of
those three things he has no serious
plan for anything but you both have the
actual human need over 50% of people in
this country cannot get together a
couple hundred dollars in an emergency
and this is talking about
paying a fair share and not soaking
everybody when people are suffering and
dying on a daily basis even in a
so-called good economy where people are
working these horrific temp jobs by the
way the same guy who has no sympathy for
Millennials
Millennials entering the worst economy
in decades
coming millenials getting their start
after college people like me totally
unemployed in 2018 2009 2008 2009 2007 a
Wall Street meltdown all of the major
precursors of which Joe Biden voted for
including repealing glass-steagall and
he supported every single trade
agreement that has gutted the industrial
base of this country and written global
rules that favor pharmaceutical oil
companies and financial firms and he's
coming with this yeah let's let's take
up the box on the margin we'll read a
little bit I mean it's like and this
will not solve the Krait you you put
this in office for four years you think
that's gonna get reelected you think
that's gonna beat back a global surge in
far-right populism and that already has
brought us Trump Modi balsan ro Orban
are you kidding me it's obscene it's
obscene and it's delusional and of
course no Joe Biden is headed to New
York he I miss okay Joe Biden plans his
first New York fundraising biz blitz as
a 2020 candidate for president the front
raiser will supposedly be hosted by
Andrew Cuomo Andrew Cuomo came into
office 2010-2011 any hard distill deeply
just a massive aftermath of the Wall
Street meltdown so many people losing
jobs and houses he cut taxes for rich
people in the state he cut services he's
been in a war with labor unions he
savaged poor people and has done
everything that any industry wants in
this state the whole time he's been here
and that has been slow-moving as hell
on headline-grabbing things like
marijuana legalization which boat Joe
Biden I believe still absolutely opposes
Joe by an ardent drug warrior ardent in
prison industrial complex expander some
of Biden's most ardent supporters are
based in New York including from CNBC
including hedge fund manager Jim Chanos
founder and president of the Kaneko's
Associates the famed short seller who
will be attending one of the events
according to the source has been a
growing guest a growing guest list
political fundraisers are sometimes
known as bundler and have been critical
components in helping candidates raise
millions of dollars behind the scenes a
Biden spokesperson declined to comment
New York is considered a hot spot for
campaign fundraising during the 2016
presidential campaign cycle donors
throughout the state combined to give
more than six hundred and seventeen
million dollars to political causes
Biden's trip comes to New York comes
after a successful swing through
Hollywood where he raised more than
seven hundred thousand dollars and an
event with a host committee that
included holo to Hollywood luminaries
such as DreamWorks co-founder Jeffrey
Katzenberg executive and producer Peter
Chernin actor Rob Reiner and Terry press
president of CBS Films Biden has been
leading the way in the overall
fundraising game he beat out all 2000
2010 contenders in their first day halls
raking in 6.3 million dollars and
finished just ahead of beta O'Rourke and
senator Bernie Sanders so Hillary
Clinton Hillary Clinton accept more
conciliatory to Republicans with a worse
record because he was in politics far
longer to do far more bad things from
school segregation to NAFTA to Iraq to
Anita Hill and you don't even get the
victory for representation and you don't
get the victory for representation
including by the way I'm gonna keep
saying this you want to talk on that
level
the first non-christian president United
States is not nothing
um
