[Music]
who would you have come on Fox News to
explain why Donald Trump should be
allowed to govern with pure criminal
impunity well it should surprise no one
that Fox News saw fit to put the
designer of the torture program the
architect of the CIA torture program
they called it enhanced interrogation we
can torture torture and a great
innovation in Orwellian discourse this
is Brian Kilmeade and James Mitchell
you've seen what's happened at the
President and you're saying it's deja vu
all over again and what respected to do
the same thing to you well what they did
to me and dr. Jason was they took things
out of context they had an anonymous
complaints they didn't allow us the
opportunity to address them they implied
and somehow magically divined motives
and intentions that weren't really there
and they took every single ambiguous
thing that happened and spun it in the
worst possible way to create this sort
of prosecutorial brief of wrongdoing and
they're doing that to the president
they've done it for three years in a row
and they're doing it hand-in-hand with
the press like they did to you look at
some of these headlines during your
during your investigation psychology
psychologists open a window of brutta
brutal
CIA interrogations the cut comes out
with this story meet the psychologists
who help the CIA torture box is this the
CIA's torture program as explained by
the psychologist who designed it oh good
luck getting a fair and balanced look
right well that the point is not to have
a fair in violence look you know this
tells you as I've said in other places
more about what's going on in their
minds than it does about the facts what
they want to do is they want to twist
the facts and misconstrue the facts so
that they can paint the worst possible
picture to grab power but one of the
things that should tell the voters is
that they think you're stupid
they think that you don't understand the
words that you read in the transcript
you know they they he did not do those
things that they were accusing him of
just as we did not do the things that
they accused okay
thanks for the help thanks for the help
James great work you know this is the
also the game first of all Fox News even
if we were to stipulate and there's
certain things you can't do this with
you can't do this with torture torture
it needs to be a black or white thing
but I'm actually I'm open to a lot of
argument and a lot of nuance and a lot
of things actually torture being one
where I'm not I think should be pretty
obvious if you had a network where a
cross from James Mitchell was either an
actual interrogator himself like a
Paxman asking him real questions and
interrupting him or someone who was on
the other side of the issue saying no
let's go back to what you did here with
waterboarding with sleep deprivation
with sexual humiliation all the other
things that happened out of this whole
program what are you talking about but
instead this is what they always do they
take examples from other press outlets
of in those cases just objective
descriptions of what this guy was
involved in and then they say like who
where's the debate anyways so why should
Donald Trump never be held accountable
for anything you did all right that is
actually a good sort of masterclass and
Fox News propaganda right there
