[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday June 12 2009 teen
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor Fred block
[Applause]
his book capitalism the future of an
illusion also on the program today a
vote to hold Attorney General Bar and
commerce secretary Ross in contempt of
Congress to be held today as Trump
claims executive privilege to hide the
details on the question of the 2020
census which now a dead man has told
some very very disturbing tales about
meanwhile White House will also
intervene in the DOJ Judiciary Committee
deal and decide what Congress gets to
see of the unredacted Muller report Roca
Hana Bernie Sanders call for Lula's
release from prison
Bernie set for a major speech this
afternoon plans to call Trump a
corporate socialist Republicans impose a
poll tax on ex-felons
that Florida voters thought they had
rien franchised and score another one
for governor cynthia nixon new york
state strengthens its rent control
protections nothing but respect for my
governor Trump claims executive oh sorry
did that and elections have consequences
wisconsin state supreme court question
excuse me so wisconsin state supreme
court hobbles the Democratic governor
and we're still in Kansas anymore the
lead architect of the Republican tax
cuts admits the cap that tax cuts don't
pay for themself and while billionaires
Arthur laughing themselves
to the bank yeah sorry hand trump ready
to okay
mining near the Grand Canyon make the
Grand Canyon grand again all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen
oh let's you know what let's show the
video that do we have that video I was
walking to work today and walking by
Barclays Center which is a big stadium
as it were glowing spaceship on by Jay Z
indeed and it's actually a very good
documentary about the fight that brought
us that and it was a classic classic
Jesus I can't yeah you know you remember
who was a dairy a Bloomberg era stuff
where they basically did this huge
giveaway to a developer and sort of
forced a whole area into blight as a way
of condemning it I think it was I can't
remember battle for Brooklyn
I think was the name of the documentary
so worth watching and actually in maybe
in the deep archives I think we have an
interview or maybe it's on this show I
can't remember
nevertheless I was walking by today and
this is the first picture I took because
I saw these cops with a chainsaw and
they were sawing a chain off of this
this post there and there was an
installation its cage that said no kids
in cages and it had a child I think a
replica of a child wrapped in a blanket
in the cage
as far as I can tell it was it is a
there are many of these being put around
by an organization called races ri-ra i
CES you can follow them on twitter i
think it's racist for texas or racist
texas good organization actually that i
think is worth your support
coincidentally i've supported them in
the past and i think you should check
check them out they they haul this and
put it away what I did not what I was
not aware of was that there was sound
initially associated with these I
believe in the cages but maybe they had
I'm not sure that the the sound had run
out or what but here is an image that
must have been taken an hour or two
before I got there when they had set
this up and here it is yeah this video
here
[Music]
[Music]
so there's hashtags no kids in cages I
mean you know we've just you know got
reports that they're moving kids to
detention centers so-called detention
centers on military bases it's just
getting worse and the more attention we
can drive to this the better
meanwhile the the House Oversight
Committee will be voting I believe at
about two o'clock today on contempt
charges against Bill Barr and Wilbur
Ross in short the issue here is how did
a question about citizenship end up in
the 2020 census and we have never had
one in the history of this country the
sencence calls for the measurement of
all peoples in the United States this is
a constitutional requirement not
citizens the citizenship question was
inserted between the DOJ and commerce
department it's actually in front of the
Supreme Court right now the argument
that the DOJ said was we needed this to
enforce the Voting Rights Act in certain
districts we needed to make sure that
there was enough monetary representation
in elected offices now the Voting Rights
Act has been in effect for over 50 years
the DOJ has never needed this
information and this case went to the
Supreme Court the Supreme Court is
deliberating on it a one week ago maybe
two weeks ago it was revealed that it
was been found on a dead Republican
operatives computer by his daughter that
he had drawn up extensive plans for this
question and actually had done models
statistical models how this plan if this
question was asked on the census how
would it impact voting patterns in Texas
how would it who would it favor they
found I'm paraphrasing but I think it's
actually a direct quote
it will help non-hispanic whites and
Republicans gain more electoral power in
Texas then this same guy drafted letters
that were used verbatim by the DOJ
to send to commerce for this request so
the Gov the House Oversight Committee is
looking for information between these
two and Donald Trump has now claimed
executive privilege why the White House
would have anything to do with this at
all is beyond me well it's not guidance
then why they would do this but their
justification for it here's Elijah
Cummings we also now have evidence that
president Trump's advisors began
discussing citizenship questions long
before the president took office after
his inauguration the president discussed
the idea with his top White House aides
Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon who in
turn pressed it with secretary Ross and
although we have limited information
about this scheme we've been blocked
from fully determining the real reason
the administration sought to add the
citizenship question we know the real
reason I mean it's all there and those
hard drives and that has been admitted
to the courts so there's a lot of things
going on here around this issue one is
the obstruction that the White House is
involved in in hiding this material the
other is whether the Supreme Court is
actually going to take the fact that
there's all this documentation that all
but proves in fact I would say proves
that the reason why the DOJ asked for
this information this question to be in
there was part of a political program
not won by
necessity this is a constitutional
requirement that they're infringing upon
and they are knowingly doing it and
there's documentation to prove it
here's a Oh see at that same hearing
think that this is a debate about
whether we should be asking who is a
citizen or not in this country the
census is a constitutionally mandated
operation that we are required to
implement every ten years it is one of
the most vital and sensitive things that
we do in our government any change to
the census any addition of a question
usually takes five years of a process to
make sure that it is vetted that every
word has been tested to make sure that
it is effective because it is one of the
most important things that we do so it's
not that I want to this is not about
whether or not I want to know who is a
citizen in the United States or not what
I want to know is why after why this
question was added why two years have
been shaved off of that five year
process I want to know why we have
skipped and every normal mandated
procedure what in testing how this
question gets added in the census I want
to know why it was why this question was
magically added after we have seen that
a political operative new and detailed
an intent to intimidate racial and
immigrant communities for a partisan
purpose saying this will hurt Democrats
and help Republicans that's what I want
to know I want to know why Wilbur Ross
why secretary Ross continued to meet
with people of disturbing political
affiliations after his own
administration warned him to stop he
came right here and I asked him did you
continue speaking with him after this he
told me no we had an email and he did he
did I want to know why people like Chris
Kobach with the documented history of
overseeing effects he has a resume of
voter suppression techniques in the
of Kansas I want to know why folks like
that have their fingerprints all over
the most sensitive census operations
that we have as a United States
government this determines who is here
this determines who has power in the
United States of America that is what we
want to know I want to know about
corruption that's what I want to know
about the racism that and the and the
very disturbing history that we're
seeing here that's what I want to know
and so we gave the opportunity to ask we
asked why are all of these things
happening why is all of this connected
why are there so many people everyone
from Steve Bannon to Kris Kobach having
their fingerprints and their political
intent all over the United States Census
why and what do we get nothing so we'll
hear about that vote today it's a very
important vote and and just the question
of it right now
the invoking of the executive privilege
there's like I say there's two major
things that are happening here one is
what's going on in the house in terms of
this there's really more than two
there's the underlying question of the
census and the implications of adding
this question there is the question as
to whether there's going to be real
consequences for the White House
withholding these documents when they
clearly have no reason to do so
whatsoever
there's no executive privilege there's
no there's no advice and consent that
the president has in regard to the
census that should be sensitive in any
way if it is not politicized and then
with all this that's going on this is
going to be if the if the Supreme Court
rules that this question can stay in I
think it's going to be the inciting
event that in the event we do see a
Democrat control the the presidency and
the Democrats controlled both houses
you're going to see massive Supreme
Court reform based on this very question
because this is it would
be unconscionable if they ignored this
evidence that it was politically
motivated had props too huh fleurs
daughter yeah Majan finding that info on
your dead dad's computer like I think
you're it since this corruption plans I
have a feeling my understanding is that
their relationship was was strained and
I have a feeling it had some stuff to do
with his work I mean he was considered
the architect of the gerrymander I mean
this guy was responsible for
disenfranchising millions of voters
millions and millions of voters and
immiseration a lot of people as a result
but with that said one of today's
sponsors is Skillshare it's quite a
pivot it's gonna say I was thinking
looking right now recommended for you on
my Skillshare page how to pivot they do
not have them that's specified but
anyone who goes to SK l dot s H slash
majority report for is going to get two
whole months of totally free access the
scale shares entire libraries super
quality online courses and tutorials
you've heard me talk about these guys a
lot there are vibrant online community
they offer courses on everything from
design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
that I say productivity everything in
between
there are scale share of courses for
everyone you're gonna have no problem
finding a course that fits what you're
looking to do what you haven't done
personal professional whether you want
to sharpen your skills on something that
you're good at or learn something you
have no idea about of course is for
entrepreneurs they have it on coding web
development nutrition languages whatever
you name it I this is getting
frustrating for me because I just have
not had time with the kids I gotta get
home I get a cook I don't have even 25
minutes to watch but every time I go to
my page they keep adding stuff that I
want to keep recommending stuff that I
want to watch and so I'm banking all
this stuff for the weekend the newest
one that they have is real productivity
create your ideal week
it's 25 minutes I'm into it I've already
gotten the list make-ahead breakfast
that will change my day lessons you need
lucid dreaming you lucidly dream your
breakfast plan then you knock it out
then you have time to study more skills
there's a Japanese cure for workout
procrastination all these sounds
incredibly fascinating that actually
would that will be literally the first
eight day minimalism challenge simplify
your life and live better I feel like
this is all well that's also the
recommended for me so it is pretty
tailored to me and the chess openings
attack the king with the pawns eonni
move I'll give it a try I tried that and
now you can get a two entire months of
free access to every single course
offered by Skillshare by going sk l dot
s h / majority report for just think
everything you can have at your
fingertips for two whole months
again that's sk l dot s h / majority
report for and we as always have put the
link in our youtube description and our
podcasts scripted description check it
out alright gonna take quick break when
we come back professor of sociology at
university of california-davis
fred block on capitalism the future of
an illusion
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
sociology at UC Davis
Fred block on his book capitalism the
future of an illusion welcome to the
program professor thank you for having
me
let's start with the the title having
been a religious studies government and
religious studies major back in the day
in my undergraduate years I can only
imagine the how compelled you must have
been to to use future of an illusion
which of course is an allusion to
Sigmund Freud's book as a sociologist
why why that he wrote that about
religion why do you use that to borrow
that for capitalism well the idea is
that when Freud titled his book that and
suggested that religion was an illusion
it was quite an outrageous heretical
thing to argue and what I was trying to
suggest is that today to suggest that
capitalism isn't a reality but is an
illusion is also completely heretical
even more heretical since people of all
political persuasions left right and
center agree on the idea that we live in
a capitalist society but what I wanted
to get at is that the way the term
capitalism is today understood indicates
is taken to mean that we have an economy
that's autonomous that has to operate
according to its own inner laws or else
we will suddenly see an end to the
prosperity that we've historically
enjoyed so that's the claim which I
believe is is an illusion that it's an
autonomous unchanging and unchangeable
system against that view I'm arguing the
what we've seen of as capitalist or
market economies have been changing
continuously that every 3040 years they
undergo dramatic changes in the boundary
between the state and the market
tremendous changes in the regulatory
apparatus and so forth so what I'm
trying to get at is that this mentality
that we can't do anything about our
current political economic arrangements
because we must obey the god of
capitalism that that's a completely
mistaken and false illusory idea
I'm divergent Airy I'm diverging a
little bit from my game plan here but as
you were saying that it also occurs to
me that on some level that's also the
way that we look at economics to a
certain extent and maybe that that it is
also sort of something that exists in a
fixed way and we it's just a question of
us getting it right as opposed to it
being a series of decisions that the
body politic makes exactly that the two
things are very closely connected that
that many of the economists have kind of
made the argument that the management of
the economy is this arcane exercise that
only the the people with PhDs can
possibly understand and that they know
exactly how to move the levers of the
economy to achieve objectives and that
ordinary people must have no say in this
matter and that that view also is is is
wrong the economists don't really
understand the economy their tools
haven't been working and the best
contemporary economists recognized the
need for very significant reforms to to
address the kind of pressing problems
that we we say
of growing inequality climate change and
and frankly an economy that's not
working very effectively despite the
president's claims to the contrary let's
and you do this in your book let's track
the the evolution of the the word
capitalism because the the idea here and
and correct me if I'm wrong is at the
end of the day is that to understand
what the word capitalism represents
today is to understand why it also
represents a an obstacle to to a chain a
political change that will help the
economy for everyone so let's give us
the history of the word capitalism
because I think there's some
misunderstanding about it well obviously
that's what the book is about right so
I've made the argument that what I call
linguistic larceny stealing words and
giving them new meanings has played a
much larger role in in politics than
people realized so the history is that
the word capitalism comes from the left
it was the way in which people in the
Socialist Movement identified what they
were against it comes from Marx I mean
he he called his master work capital in
in the aftermath socialists denounced
capitalism and so a part of what I'm
pointing out is that during the Cold War
in the 1950s and 60s particularly the
word capitalism was completely
associated with Soviet propaganda they
would say the US has a capitalist system
and it treats black people very badly
and it produces inequality and poverty
and all kinds of terrible things and
polite people centrist people
didn't use the word capitalism there was
a conscious effort to describe the
American system as the free enterprise
system and I tell the story in the book
that as a young person I went to the
first SDS march on Washington in 1965
against the Vietnam War and the
president of SDS at that point gave a
speech where he said we must name the
system that gave us the Vietnam War
that gives us racial inequality and he
made that the refrain but he never
actually said the word capitalism I
think because adult organizations that
had supported the March had told him he
couldn't use it because it was so
associated with with the far-left at
that time so the kind of critical moment
in my argument is that I say that
conservative thinkers and particularly
Irving Kristol often associated as the
kind of leader of neoconservatism
essentially recognized that stealing the
word capitalism and giving it a new
meaning would significantly strengthen
the right so he wrote a book called two
tears for capitalism and essentially he
labeled the system as as capitalism and
he said you can't change any single part
of it it's a kind of totally unified and
coherent system and so if you increase
government regulation it will have very
significant costs that will outweigh the
benefits of doing that and so that's
been the foundation on which the right
has argued that we can't have a tax
system that's fair to working and poor
people working class and poor people we
can't have better regulation of the
petroleum companies we can't make a
transition to clean energy because that
will interfere with the fundamental
nature of capitalism as a system
well and all end up terribly poor and
and and suffering this is the kind of
core argument which has been used
repeatedly over and over again to block
the opportunities for reform and change
and and even worse than that it's the
set of arguments which has been used to
facilitate to make possible a growing
amount of corporate concentration and
monopoly so that in industry after
industry we have a smaller number of
dominant firms that are able to avoid
competition dictate prices in the
notorious examples of Facebook and
Google interfere with individual privacy
produce fake news and and so forth ok so
i wanna i want to just dwell if we could
for for a moment on on that that that
reappropriation or that appropriation i
guess of the critique and how you know
just from it from a linguistic
standpoint you know what's involved in
that in that trick I mean you right
through that I think was was it Forbes
magazine used capitalism ironically in
you know as an advertising and this idea
of the caught on to sort of appropriate
this term used in the Marxist context
capital is a thing and capitalism is
really just sort of a a series of not
necessarily fully related or I should
say fully synchronized elements that are
you know a certain group of people
pursuing a certain group of people
pursuing their own specific interests by
by labeling but by adopting the term it
it it took on this notion of something
that was cohesive and planned
and sort of more scientific is that it
as opposed to something that is just
like a bunch of people who are pursuing
their own interests right so that it's
the the central claim is that the
capitalist economy is autonomous and
fully coherent that it's governed by its
own laws and when we pass our laws we
have to defer to those fundamental laws
so that that's the core claim and it's
false because it's always being
substantially more complicated than that
it's political arrangements it's the
role of the state that has historic of
government that has historically made
market economies work effectively and
and efficiently and so their fundamental
claim is trying to push government to
the side and say only less a fair only
allowing the market to regulate itself
will produce the desirable outcomes and
what I'm insisting is that one of the
things that happens when you leave the
market to itself is that business firms
become increasingly powerful and they're
able to engage in in predation that
rather than making profits by building
better mousetraps by innovating by
developing better products that they can
make money they can make profits by
ripping people off by treating employees
badly by engaging in pollution producing
greenhouse gases and and so forth so the
only thing which has protected us from
that kind of predatory behavior in the
past has been government when people
organize and mobilize and demand that
government regulate business control
these forms of predation that's what's
made the market economy work so the
story that I'm trying to tell is just
the opposite of the free-market story
what's made the u.s. such a powerful
economic nation historically is because
we were the first great democracy we
gave people a voice and they used that
voice to rein in economic power and that
the story of the of the 40 years since
Ronald Reagan is that we've gone
backwards we we essentially gave up on
expanding democracy and using people's
voice to regulate business and industry
and instead we now have these
increasingly powerful corporate entities
that are making profits at the expense
of people rather than by building better
mousetraps innovating developing better
products so in in in I mean I don't want
to phrase this as you know the the the
conservative movement got got what it
wished for and it ultimately is going to
well theoretically could lead to its
demise one can only hope but the idea is
that if I understand what you've written
is that once the capitalism became a
considered and named as a cohesive
system that was sort of fragile and
specific that then provided at least
rhetorical and conceptual firepower and
strength to prevent the government from
doing what was necessary to sort of make
capitalism as it were work for the
largest number of people in the country
that it could and so when we had an era
where we had things like the New Deal
it's Medicare and Medicaid I mean these
reforms that would happen every couple
of decades or so over you know of course
about 50 years I guess that was done
because the percent the perception of
capitalism was such that it is you there
are evolving problems with it and you
step in to fix those problems as opposed
to this is the thing that exists in
nature and all you can do is tainted by
by coming in and messing with it exactly
right so that back in the Eisenhower era
which people think of as the golden age
of the economy the marginal tax rate was
91% the very rich people you know at the
margin we're supposed to turn over that
much money to the government
we now have a marginal tax rate you know
for the rich of 36 37 % a lot of them
pay much less than that because of the
tax breaks built into the system so that
rather than cutting the tax rate in that
dramatic fashion making the economy work
more efficiently my argument is that
it's had exactly the opposite effect
that and the the causality here is the
that Irving Kristol made those arguments
in the 1970s Ronald Reagan began to
implement those free-market so-called
free market policies when he took office
in 1981 between 1981 and now the share
of all income earned by the top 1% has
more than doubled
so we've dramatically increased the
share of the economy that goes to the
top 1% the billionaires that that Bernie
Sanders talks about and and that's money
that's not available for for the rest of
us so the the logic of the argument is
exactly as you say that we need a new
era of reform and I'm very enthusiastic
about the idea of the green New Deal
precisely because it's an idea that
learns from the actual history that that
the measures of Franklin Roosevelt's New
Deal in the 1930s that made the economy
more democratic more inclusive allow
enabled the unionization of industrial
workers dramatic improvements in in
income distribution all of that was the
basis for the remarkable three decades
of prosperity that followed World War
two I'm arguing that if we have a new
movement of reform that involves
substantial increases in government
spending increases in taxation on the
rich and on the corporation's and we use
that money as in the green New Deal idea
to accelerate this transition to clean
energy but do it in a way that is
consciously creating good jobs
supporting the growth of unions putting
people to work who haven't been able to
find decent jobs we can in fact
simultaneously address the pressing
issues of climate change reduce this
increased inequality and we would have a
much more dynamic economy that actually
meets people's needs alright so what I
want to just go backwards just a little
bit and talk about this notion in it is
I mean on some level we've covered this
ground a little bit but your your third
chapter is the illusion that democracy
threatens the economy and the argument
is and to a certain extent it's it's
we've articulated it that
the economy that what they call the
great compression took place in these
years where there was a a far greater
amount of democracy involved in the
economy
insofar as we had the people's will
expressed through things like a higher
marginal tax rate through like Social
Security through you know homeownership
programs you know and broadly we have to
acknowledge the limitations particularly
racial limitations in terms of who was
involved in your expansion of democracy
into the economy but with that caveat at
least relative to where we are today
there was far more democracy insofar as
the people's well was was the you know
the was more broadly shared and it seems
to me there's also a similar you know
sort of illusion about or a choice as to
what a good economy consists of right
because we see a parallel argument in
the context of health care where people
say we've got the greatest health care
in the world
because princes from Saudi Arabia come
here to get a surgery as opposed to
saying we've got the greatest health
care in the world because everyone has
access to it or something to that effect
right I mean there's there's there's a
choice implicit that we're making as to
how we decide what a good economy is I
think we all agree here that a good
economy is one that works for the
greatest number of people as opposed to
creating the greatest number of
billionaires talk about that illusion
that greed is good in terms of the
economy and where that where that came
from and and and why that's illusory
right so I mean I think they one of
these key statistics that came out
recently from the Federal Reserve is
that forty percent of US households say
they would have great difficulty
covering an unexpected $400
bill that that came in so that that
suggests that despite all of comps
claims we have an economy where a huge
number of people are living just at the
at the margin I mean that you could have
a four hundred dollar bill you know from
a car repair or the refrigerator
breaking so that this is an indication
that there's a direct connection between
the growing number of billionaires and
the amount of income being taken by the
top one percent of households and the
impact that it has on forty percent of
the population living in conditions of
you know economic precarity so so where
did this idea that people who should
just maximize their income by any means
where did this greed is good idea come
from and again I think that a lot of it
is connected to these right-wing
thinkers and the the impact that they
had so Milton Friedman the kind of key
figure of free-market economics and in
the u.s. wrote a famous article where he
said what's this all this talk about the
social responsibility of business he
said the only social responsibility of
business is to maximize profits because
it's by following the signals of the
market that capitalism works that the
businesses know how to make money and
even when he wrote that he knew that he
was lying that in fact everybody knows
that businesses can maximize profits by
polluting by producing harmful products
by damaging their workers lifespans and
and so forth these are all
externalities let me just interject here
these are all externalities right like
I'm gonna make my profit I'm gonna
profit I'm gonna privatize the profits
socialize the costs if we're if we're to
quick with our R&D and we don't do the
proper research all right so maybe some
people will die but we're gonna smell
billions of dollars in our of our of our
drug if if we don't want to expend the
money on the proper quality of steel
we're gonna make a lot of profit and
maybe a couple of buildings will fall
whatever it is right so did Friedman's
argument was wrong from the from the
get-go it was an argument to get
regulators off the back of business
Trump repeated this rhetoric you know
during the the last election campaign
but the reality is that those
regulations are part of what makes the
economy work this gets back to the point
that I made before about predation
predation and imposing these
externalities or public Bad's like
pollution or in Boeing's case making
planes that don't stay up in the air
because they were under pressure to get
the plane to the market quicker or
whatever all of those show that it's
only when there's an effective
regulatory apparatus which says whoa you
can't make money by hurting people you
can't make money by cutting corners only
then do we have an effective market
economy so they've the the greed is good
story was never true that market
economies have always required a
counter-narrative which says greed is
dangerous greed is destructive and I say
in the book that one of the reasons that
all these years later Dickens Christmas
Carol remains such a kind of important
part of our of our culture is that
Dickens recognize this very early that
greed is extremely dangerous and
destructive and he wrote a morality
story that told about precisely that the
the the horrors of greed and that and
the need for for agreed to be offset by
a love of others a respect for others a
respect for the legal rules and and so
forth and we've we've gone so far in the
direction of glorifying greed of
celebrating these these billionaire's
whether their money was made
legitimately or like the oxycontin
fortunes you know made at the expense of
consumers and people that you know we
we've failed to recognize that markets
work when they're constrained by values
when they're constrained by rules
alright so and and I think some would
argue particularly around these parts
that there is there's there's really
only different gradations of just how
much billionaires have exploited people
you know they're not all necessarily the
Sackler family but there's just a
different flavor perhaps in some
respects or another but with that said
let's just talk about I want to just
turn to the notion of reform versus
revolution and the concept of socialism
because I think like you know people are
people I think are more savvy in the
past five or ten years it seems to me to
the idea of you can have certain
measures of socialism right I mean you
it is because you argue here that what
we need is to democratize the Econo
me and you can democratize the economy
in various amounts you can get all of
what the people want in terms of the
economy some of what the people want you
know a democratized economy
Minoo you $12 an hour a minimum wage is
probably not as democratized as $20 a
minimum wage but you can have gradations
of this and we don't have the same
concept with capitalism it seems to me
although you know it's all set up as if
the the socialistic policies you know
chip away at the existence of capitalism
as opposed to they're both ingredients
in the economy and I may be capitalism
is not even the right word in that
context but just speak to the idea of
reform versus revolution and this idea
of having certain amounts of socialism
right so essentially what I'm trying to
debunk is this that this idea that
capitalism is this existing thing and
then the reality that I'm saying is that
market economies have always been mixed
they involve a very substantial state
role both in regulating and providing
certain things like police and fire and
a whole bunch of public goods like
education and health health care for the
poor and and so forth so the the reality
is that what we've had historically for
hundreds of years now is a mixture of of
state and market provision so if you
want you can say we've always had a
mixed economy and the so in that sense
I'm arguing that the the way in which
our political rhetoric
says you know that we can either have
capitalism or you we could have Bernie
Sanders socialism is a misunderstanding
it's much more of a continuum we already
have a mixed economy we can expand the
the more socialistic the more democratic
aspects of that economy and what I'm
arguing is there's a good chance that by
expanding those more democratic aspects
of the economy we could make the economy
work more effectively one of the things
that we didn't mention kind of in the in
the story here is that one of the key
mechanisms which has made our society
less democratic are this series of
Supreme Court rulings culminating in
Citizens United which said that we can't
regulate campaign contributions because
money is the same thing as speech and
the Constitution says that we have to
allow free speech so we have to allow
the billionaires and millionaires to
make virtually unlimited campaign
contributions because otherwise we would
be interfering with their speech rights
now this is a ridiculous argument
because money and speech are two
different things but the consequence of
it has been to tilt our politics towards
the interests of the wealthy that this
this kind of increasing wealth and
income inequality is been a vicious
cycle because when they get so much
money they can plow it back into the
political process we saw this after
Trump's election the millionaires and
billionaires who had contribute to his
victory were rewarded with tax cuts that
gave them even even more money and we
know they're going to come back in the
next cycle and and donate even more to
protect their privilege so
what I'm arguing is that if we go in the
opposite direction and we say these
Supreme Court rulings are wrong we
reverse them we start to regulate the
role of money we would be making our
system more democratic because they
would move it back towards one-person
one-vote ordinary people would have a
greater voice in the political process
we would start to get regulations that
place limits on the the kind of
predatory behavior the imposing of
externalities or public beds but we
could also get better tax legislation
that even Warren Buffett talks about how
under the existing tax rules he pays
taxes at a lower rate than his secretary
because he can exclude part of his
income as carried interest that's only
taxed at 15% so so we could then use
that tax revenue to improve the public
schools to provide health care for
everyone to begin to implement the green
New Deal and I would argue that that
would invigorate our economy make it
more more dynamic and effective I think
I mean I think we're fairly well sold on
the on the policy prescription lastly
let's just end with the with this sort
of the the tactical and rhetorical you
know I think to a certain extent based
upon what your your you've you've you've
written your mean and what we're see the
suggestion is in many respects to
abandon the word capitalism in terms of
its critique and rather focus more on
this from a rhetorical and just simply a
an attempt to I guess empower people to
rather argue that instead of a critique
of capitalism it really should be just a
promotion of more democrat amok recei in
the context of our
me in our decision makings about our
economy exactly and I mean and this is
connected this is very directly
connected to the crisis of democracy
that's going around on around the world
with increasing rise of authoritarian
leaders and illiberal Democrats who were
eroding the institutional structures of
democracy part of the reason that this
has happened is that over this last 20
or 30 years of market liberalism around
the world people have been angry they've
been angry about austerity they've been
angry about deteriorating public
services that angry about stagnant real
wages and yet the dominance of these
market ideas have meant that politicians
tell them sorry we can't do anything
about it we have to have more austerity
we can't give you what you want and
that's the context in which people have
begun turning to extremist movements to
authoritarian leaders and we we saw that
with some of the support for Trump and
in the last election so the way in which
we both preserve democracy and deepen it
is by is by using democracy to address
these fundamental economic issues like
the the way that wealth and income are
distributed the decisions about what the
what the economy produces so so I agree
with you completely that what we need to
put on our banners is more democracy
deeper democracy let's trust the people
but trusting the people means giving
them more power relative to the elites
who have fantastic quantities of wealth
Fred block the book is capitalism the
future of an illusion
thank you so much for your time today
really appreciate it oh I had a good
time thank you bye
alright folks there it is
capitalism the future of an illusion
we're gonna take a break head into the
fun half of the program wherein we will
have fun tomorrow on this program we I
anticipate having a pre tape of a very
special guest briefly who will be
commenting on some public comments you
will be making this afternoon I knew
this day would come but I didn't expect
it so soon
we finally got Trump it will not be safe
Korca it will not be Donald Trump doing
a majority report everyone does it you
know you get you sometimes you're you
get an interview you don't want to
promote it too much because if you know
if it doesn't that these things happen
sometimes these people have very busy
schedules they're engaged in very busy
activities so hopefully we'll have that
for you tomorrow
oh is pay tab for you they watch eight
bends a progressive time in fact go on
to sign up for our Instagram feed as it
were somebody mocked me for like like I
said sign up for Instagram or get
instagram follow us on instagram follow
our Instagram so you can follow us on
Instagram exactly sign up for Instagram
follow us on Instagram folks what is the
name of our thing majority report dot F
M I don't know where the hell that came
from I don't know why don't you ask the
robots that you hired to scab on us yeah
I know I gotta talk to the AI that's
handling this follow us on any will make
the announcement first on Instagram
that's what we'll do yeah boom so what
the majority report has to consider is
that there's gonna be a point in the
not-too-distant future where AI is not
only running the Instagram but actually
are taking their jobs and it's a good
reason no I'm trying to it's actually
yeah it is
dang oh so basically it's a difference
yeah it's I finally discovered how to do
a drags impression it's just this lanes
been great yeah it's great hi you might
know me as Andrew yang or Greg with the
libertarian perspective that's what we
tried to get Andrew yang on the program
and he just responded like I love him
calling all years years well I was
wondering cuz he was on with Mehdi Hasan
and Mehdi was asking him about some
other stuff outside of his usual talking
points and you know like what to do
about the Middle East and I was a little
confused and he said that through the
power of visually I just like jetpack
yeah if we had a technological solution
and the Palestinians could actually live
in Jordan in a way where their living
standards would really actually be in
excess of even the average life
expectancy in someone in Lebanon in 1982
so I'm just looking at practical
solutions with VR it doesn't really
matter where they are there will be a
time when the Instagram robots will
actually be in a position to steal
anybody's spouse by 2030 so I think we
need to think seriously about that and I
don't think genetically the members of
the majority report would necessarily
like that that's the type of thing we
need to plan for it folks it's your
support that makes this show possible
you can become a member by going to join
the majority report com join the
majority report com
check it out become a member support
this program we we could use your
support also just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off yesterday was
Tuesday night Michael apparently there
was a you tube was down for the live
streaming but you see this down it
doesn't really matter because if we're
talking about on Wednesday it's not like
anybody can go back in time and watch it
live anyways it's always available as a
podcast or youtube yes we we handled it
well it's available
was that okay my my Siri is being set
off like once a show now I don't know
how to do that I don't know even how it
got turned on activity I said because I
like I'm finding like I'm going like
Sirius Lee is that true and here goes
watch I know it didn't work yeah
Brendan said serious stage fright go
ahead go okay so yes the show is now
fully uploaded on YouTube and iTunes in
patreon of course I will
jam-packed show with Bosch cartoon car
and Ben Burgess we talked about the
history of socialism the Meitner plan
which was this incredibly interesting
historical moment in Sweden and then of
course with Glenn Greenwald we went into
all of the different aspects of these
lava jato revelations and of course I
mean it you know this means a lot to me
we've been covering it I've been
covering this even at a time when you
know just wasn't getting talked about
nearly enough and now to see Bernie
Sanders call for a luau to be
immediately released means a ton so we
did a you know and then there was also
some stuff on how it connects to the
Assange and Snowden cases I will say
actually even though we stuck the topic
and I make no apologies for sticking the
topic Glenn and I did actually bicker
about something so oh really what
nothing nothing too intense but we had
we saw some a few things differently
about that case or one thing so at any
rate and then in the postgame Andrew
yang impression debut among other things
patreon.com so your book title and my
book title Jesus Christ I don't even
remember that it was well it was it was
crazy with like a 20 minute late start
yes you can find the title of my book
which will be published this fall from
zero books obviously I'll be talking
about that more soon patreon.com slash t
MBS and grab your tickets to the Chicago
show August 24th check this out
we'll go right got it yeah no no this is
something that just came across my
transom what is it according to Luke
O'Brien an Ohio federal judge this
morning
awarded
comedian sometimes commentator and we've
had him on the show back in the day it's
on serious talk radio where he was we'll
see about that 4 point 1 million dollars
in damages in his libel suit against
neo-nazi daily stormer publisher Andrew
angling who's this almost three million
dollars more than Obeidallah was seeking
yeah just just on the day that um that
Kyle asked me if we could take down the
Sam cedar tier of membership on the
program which is $1,000 a month I've
been waiting for someone I know to hit
it hit it big like this he's just it's
it's ridiculous oh sorry you know it's
more ridiculous is the new phone system
Kyle what's wrong into it phone system
the update that we need him to he did it
oh he did it buttons right there okay it
was there last night it use the less
than we didn't take calls yeah there we
go - it was - it was - jam-packed Dean
Obeidallah is never gonna give you any
[Laughter]
it was a really good Atlanta jammies on
that guy that he sued from about a year
or two ago I'm gonna do everybody seal
everybody hi well I got a clip I got a
David Pakman for the fun half that I
think may be grounds well I don't want
it occasionally litigation joking about
that I just get David really okay
David's a habitual line stepper welcome
this week on the anti Fattah we too have
on the great Ben Burgess on this week's
show we talked a little bit about his
book gives them an argument logic for
the left out now on 0 books but you know
what he's been talking about his book a
lot lately
so we tried something a little different
and in addition to that we had him kind
of referee some arguments that we've
been having lately with figures such as
stefan molyneux
a bunch of Elon Musk fanboys after I was
randomly in a video that went somewhat
viral talking about Elon Musk and we
talked about how Marx could be the
messiest ever and insult everyone
all the time and yet still be right
about everything in his arguments be
correct he was especially nasty I will
say to the Russian anarchist Mikhail
Bakunin in a letter to angles written in
1863 he said and I quote bakunin has
become a monster a huge mass of flesh
and fat and is barely capable of walking
anymore to crown it all he is sexually
perverse and jealous of the 17-year old
Polish girl who married him in Siberia
because of his martyrdom presently in
Sweden where he is hatching
quote-unquote revolution with the Finns
Matt yeah what is said about David
literary hangover the most recent public
episode is a Margaret Fuller episode
check that or if you don't know who she
is and then for patrons we have the
such--such for the joys essay by George
Orwell and we'll have more interesting
stuff coming up okay folks six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty scene
of a nap
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you
[Music]
the alpha males are just wanna degrade
the white man alpha males are back back
I take all of the giving alpha males are
back back back
almost has one and the alpha males are
back
I am a total can we bring back the
ug dinnertime song yeah are a couple of
you put them in rotation DJ den well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough of a break have Markinson and the
alpha males
Oh almost says what
[Music]
seems much more negative in fact
back
[Music]
all lives
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
alpha males are
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadist
happy birthday to me
I have a thought expander to foil the
alpha males of alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price of Class
B around here I am a total I don't
know that kind of that's amazing
Wow I love that where should we start
here let's good just go right in with
John Stewart so there has been a 9/11
Victims Compensation Fund that has been
existence
obviously for now 18 years and every
five years or so I'm not sure when the
initial one it has to be reopening is
that the long-term effects of having for
the most part been on the pile but
anywhere really below Canal Street
was was pretty toxic for an extended
period of time
I remember going down I because I had a
John Benjamin a good friend of mine
lived below canal and they had shut off
Canal Street and everything below you
could not go unless you were getting
your stuff you couldn't stay for more
than an hour or two and this was really
for an extended period of time I can't I
can't remember but I think we were on
there I think we were there the next day
probably nine twelve went down there on
our bikes you had to wear a bandana
still at that time and there was inches
as you got closer he lived I think it
was on Duane Street is you got down
around there inches on the streets of
like Ash essentially some form of ash
you couldn't get much closer than that
to where Ground Zero was but not in any
way surprising that people got ill of
course the EPA at the time said the
health is fine a lot of the guys on the
pile like if they were not required to
wear
masks didn't because it was hot there
and difficult to communicate and a
myriad of different reasons why I think
people didn't but nevertheless and
people's injuries complicate increase
over time a lot of respiratory illnesses
a lot of cancers and each year their
each each time it comes up for
reauthorization there has been
reluctance to do it and it takes
somebody coming and shaming them
publicly until Congress does it now the
amazing thing is is what we mobilized in
response to 9/11 trillions of trillions
of dollars of expense
in killing hundreds of thousands of
other people hundreds of thousands maybe
a million it depends on whose numbers
you want but I don't know that it makes
a difference half a million million 1/4
million 750,000 so it doesn't matter
whose numbers used the DoD's or NGO
numbers we killed hundreds of thousands
of people we displaced millions of
people supposedly in response to 9/11
and it's like pulling teeth to get
compensation for people who got cancer
or respiratory illness it necessitates
somebody coming in shaming them this
this is an image right here of I believe
he's a police officer NYPD who testified
that he was on his 65th round of chemo
he put off his
Moe to come in Luis Alvarez I think his
name was put off his chemo to come in
and testify Jon Stewart was there he I
think had done this five or ten years
ago or you know yeah maybe was five five
years ago he had people on his show he
would do it repeatedly but he had like
five guys on his show I think it was
five years ago and like four of them are
dead now this fund obviously would go to
families as well and here he is speaking
on behalf of some of these victims
basically as a way of shaming I mean
this is the way it works you need
someone if he wasn't there it's unlikely
that we would even be aware that this
happened and the politicians know that
and that's why it's a problem when he
comes here is a giving testimony to this
is the jittery committee I believe it is
right for this Compensation Fund
the breathing problem started almost
immediately and they were told they
weren't sick they were crazy
and then as the illnesses got worse and
things became more apparent well okay
you're sick but it's not from the pile
and then when the science became
irrefutable okay it's the pile but this
is a New York issue I don't know if we
have the money and I'm sorry if I sound
angry and undiplomatic but I'm angry and
you should be too and they're all angry
as well and they have every
justification to be that way there is
not a person here there is not an empty
chair on that stage that didn't tweet
out never forget the heroes of 9/11
never forget their bravery never forget
what they did what they gave to this
country well here they are and where are
they and it would be one thing if they
are callous indifference and rank
hypocrisy were benign but it's not your
indifference cost these men and women
their most valuable commodity time
so one thing they're running out of this
should be flipped this hearing should be
flipped these men and women should be up
on that stage and Congress should be
down here answering their questions as
to why this is so damn hard and takes so
damn long and why no matter what they
get something's always pulled back and
they got to come back so there it is
looking for reauthorization more funds
for this Compensation Fund which is
about to run out and of course always
amazing to see Mitch McConnell just lie
in a way that you know he's lying
because it becomes that much creepier
here he is asked about this compensation
fund now this is not to say that there
are there isn't a huge amount of
culpability on both sides of the aisle
I've heard some stories they're all
secondhand about a person who's running
for president not being terribly engaged
in this issue either but I don't know
that Oh forgive me if I I'm sorry I'm
just speculating I'm guessing I have no
idea your talk here is Mitch McConnell
is running out do you support
reauthorizing the fund gosh I hadn't
looked at that lately I'll have to we've
always dealt with that in the past in a
compassionate way and I assume we will
again but I haven't looked at it lately
don't piss down my back and tell me it's
raining Mitch McConnell ladies and
gentlemen Mitch McConnell so uh good for
Jon Stewart it's a good way to use your
fame
I like the image of the flip yeah
meanwhile we've mentioned yesterday that
Donald Trump has a secret deal that he
is made with the Mexican government
because it was reported that the actual
deal that he claimed to make with the
Mexican government in the wake of his
tariff threat was actually not a deal
that he had made with the Mexican
government it was a deal that the
Mexican government had already made with
the United States at least a month or
two ago but there's an add on that I
knew about there is an add on and that
is the secret deal and now people
yesterday were like what do you mean
secret deal what are you talking about
there's nothing you're making any sense
we don't believe you was the subtext of
everything they were saying now of
course nobody in the press would say
this to the president because that would
imply that this proven pathological liar
is a liar and people don't want to point
that out because that is rude in the
context of politics to say that a
pathological liar is a liar but he got
the sense that people thought that maybe
he was lying so what better to prove
that he's telling the truth
then come out and show people the
document but there's a dilemma it's
secret so how do you do it well here's
the president to show you what a prop
comic does
that's the agreement that everybody says
I don't have so no because I'm gonna let
think go through the announcement at the
right time from Mexico they want to go
through but here's the agreement is a
very simple agreement posit it is a
one-page agreement that they made the
secret part we're gonna make the secret
part one page I only want one page I've
never wanted to enhance and sharpen oh
my god they've done it I don't think
it's on this video but they have done
that I saw it on television and it
basically says jibber jabber it's all
here
it basically says something to the
effect of like if things don't work out
with the immigration floods that the
Mexican government will take other steps
possibly after the course of 45 days
that are subject to them being passed by
a legislative body it there's I have
nothing written proof and this is of
course something that they wrote but go
ahead not like it's working with me
better than you I have the papers right
here but here's the agreement that's a
very simple agreement this is one page
this is one page of a very long and very
good agreement for both Mexico and the
United States without the tariffs we
would have had nothing we had nothing
two weeks ago you know told us
absolutely I don't know where the time's
got the story but I think they got it
probably for somebody that worked here
and said oh how well they would do well
for a long time for many years people
tried to get what we got in a period of
a couple of days and they couldn't get
it that's the difference they couldn't
get it so Mexico we're getting along
with them great Marcelo and the
president and all of them were getting
along great they've started a very
strong action they're moving right now
6,000 soldiers to their southern border
who ever heard of that you think we had
that two weeks ago two weeks ago I'll
tell you what we had we had nothing and
the reason we had nothing is because
Mexico felt they didn't have to give us
anything I don't blame them but this is
actually ultimately going to be good for
Mexico - and it's good for the
relationship
of Mexico with us so here's your this is
just professional wrestling oh yeah god
I wish that Obama was like Trump oh god
did you imagine like the deal for super
wise you're more than this you know
you're on deals right here this is the
supreme leader saying no nope and he
will personally blow me at table squares
right who ever heard of that who ever
heard of that of Mexico with us so
here's your thing you know they all say
oh he doesn't I just give you my word
inside here and I would love to do it
but you will freeze action it you will
stop it you will analyze it every single
letter you'll see but in here is what is
the agreement you have my word you have
my word unn yeah
rouhani he's gonna celebrate Passover
right here that the supreme ators
supreme leader who's gonna eat pork he's
gonna do southern-style barbecue with me
then we're gonna burn it irani and flag
whoever heard of that it even heard of
that it even been less committal than
I'd be like Iran is gonna do some stuff
with regards to religion you're gonna
love it
I'm gonna tell you that soon can't wait
to tell you about the guy you simply
Hezbollah you won't whoever heard of it
it's gonna be great Hitler has
surrendered here it is gentlemen I
assure you it was not only surrendered
he's offered to pay us back on the half
of the jobs the emperor has agreed
Disneyland the Emperor will be the
Emperor of Disneyland unbelievable I
just sing it trust but I have it in my
hand it's I mean I give you my word in
here that I can't show you I just like I
know where it is here can you just
imagine this in any other context
nevermind Obama but just like I don't
know just your friend doing this to you
or just like your kid or your parent I
gotta move the boss I gotta move the
coworker offi kuba and they got what
they're gonna do with them well let me
tell you something you're gonna love it
it's gonna be unbelievable it's just a
deal that we made with khrushchev
whoever heard of it they're gonna be in
Turkey but not in Cuba it's all here
it's in writing you're gonna love it
it's God it's so crazy
who ever heard of that so crazy let's go
to the phones you come from a 661 area
code just a warning folks I got to get
out of here bye bye Julian
250 hello come from 661 area code who
says hello Rick from Bakersfield
California what's on your mind reckon
well looking at some of the discussions
about global climate change and possible
refugee issues as well as moving into
some sort of cities and hurricane season
I was wondering if there's any way you
see forward to get across to people the
seriousness of climate change without
having these catastrophic events because
I think one of the major things that has
moved a lot of people on this issue is
the closeness to these events people are
starting to know people who've lost
their home or billions in damages across
the Midwest or damages to military bases
when someone just doesn't graduated with
geology and looking at PhD but also did
work in religious studies and looked
into how do you actually get across to
people you know sort of the moral
predicament that is use of resources and
how to get across to people how serious
this crisis really is we had a guest
well was it two weeks ago
Wallace was it David Wallace wills David
Wallace wells on who has written two
pieces
well one book and a piece over the past
year he was on about six to eight months
ago
and he was on about two or three weeks
ago
two or three weeks ago he almost sounded
more encouraged but because of the
reason you just said because like things
like massive wildfires because of a
hundred year flood maybe not even a
hundred year flood maybe like the the
biggest flood in recorded history in the
Midwest of this country in terms of the
scope and size of it we don't even talk
about it but they are aware of it my
parents talked about a little time I
mean a massive massive flood that how
many hundreds of miles there's nothing
and I think sadly human beings are do
not believe anything until either a they
experience it or be they watch it on
YouTube those are the only two things
that prove things to people apparently I
saw it on YouTube it has to be real or I
experienced it was a hundred and
twenty-five year flood in that's in I
don't know I don't know exactly where it
is but how big but its massive yeah I
mean I don't know that there is a
solution to it and frankly sadly we
can't go backwards anyways do you know
what I mean to a time where we're not
getting this that level of extremes the
idea I think at this point is to make
sure that it's communicated as much as
possible what's going on like you know
we probably have really dropped the ball
in many respects on this because I would
imagine mostly people listening to us
right now aren't even aware of it well I
would submit that a lot of people really
do care about climate change but they
don't have the power to implement any
policies on a policy level which is why
it's not just a problem of awareness
it's a problem of politics yes like I'm
looking at a survey right now from Yale
University and George Mason University
that says 69% of Americans are somewhat
worried
about climate change and 29% are very
worried know and as and as power works
today I mean you know I you could you
could be at a 99 to 1% poll and if Exxon
still runs politics you know good luck
appreciate the call but also with those
flood ideas of a hundred year flood I
think that can confuse people because
they don't understand what that
sometimes means for the 100-year flood
you're not playing Russian roulette with
a hundred chamber revolvers anywhere
you're playing it with a pen shaper or
15 chamber revolver fear likelihood of
continually rolling these massive events
as higher yeah I mean I I agree with you
I mean I think there it's a combination
of both things I mean we can have a poll
that says 69 percent but I mean how many
of those people are voting based upon
climate change uh you know if we were
all people think it's important are so
limited because I only see a very clever
of Democrats who are willing to really
say that this is a massive the
Democratic Party won't even have a
debate on it and they won't even allow
people to debate on it
more importantly they won't allow people
to debate on it appreciate the call and
we I agree with you I agree with you I
mean I direct action against climate
change very important I mean really what
we need is four of those candidates to
spin off and say they're gonna have a
debate yeah what's the punishment
they're threatening
well then it's this and it was it was
devised last year
Lattin 2016 if you go and do an
unsanctioned debate in other words any
debate that is not run by the DNC and it
used to be there was no debate you know
the dance he wouldn't run any of the
debates they were all done by the League
of Women Voters or other places if you
do an unsanctioned debate you're not
allowed to go into the other debates
that's insane
now if Joe Biden was smart he would he
would do that debate and then not have
to be in any of the DNC debates
oh no and he would be the rebel I just
so much about class I care so much about
climate change let me tell you something
get over here sweetheart it's called
climate honey it's called climate honey
light I wish I could just squeeze you
until you believe me speaking of which
here's Joe Biden so offended so
offensive and so you know upset that he
had been told that he needs somebody
stronger and reproductive justice this
is a guy incidentally who championed the
Hyde Amendment for decades until until
two days ago
a woman went up to him and said we need
someone stronger reproductive justice we
asked him to protect assault survivors
says the woman between this and he said
quote nobody's spoken about it Dunmore
or changed more than I have I don't know
if he means that he's changed things on
the ground or he himself is behavior so
he's managed to both do more than
anybody else but also changed to the
right position I wish we had that video
because I'm convinced it but look at
that body language he's getting right
into their face listen here sweetheart
yeah you don't know you don't know let
me tell you something I don't think it's
gonna work for this guy
I really don't but we shall see
here is it's good to take one more call
come from a two four zero area code
who's this where he called from yeah I'm
coming out of Maryland and I had a
question about um I was watching the
congressional hearings earlier about
this question for the census about a
citizenship and I used to work for the
Department of Commerce and I am a bit
confused because I look for breasts of
myself by the way occasional listener
first-time caller I like to show I think
what you're doing is great and yeah the
question is already on there it's part
of the ACS they ask it every year and
the ACS is a continual part of the
decennial census and normally when I'm
watching these congressional hearings
you know the Democrats are especially
with this new wave in the house they're
sort of making other Republicans look
like clowns but no this is actually a
question that's on there and I don't
know if it's a certain phrasing or
anything I or if you know anything about
the exact words of the legislation but
if you could talk a little bit about
that because I that's pretty surprised
to watch that today but I'll get off
here thank you so much well hold on one
second so you're telling me that the
citizenship question has been there on
the and every year 10-year question it
yeah it's a part of the ACS they ask if
you're a citizen you know because they
need to know like if people are here on
work this is this is you know this is
the the ACS politically hold on for one
second
the ACS is the American Community Survey
it's a part of the decennial census
every year since the year 2000 of the
United States of America has switched
over from doing the tenure census by
paper and more and more it's just you
know from telecentres and you know in as
of now it's mostly done that way what is
what is the question in the ACS what is
the APA you know what is the question
that's asked in the ACS okay yeah are
you a citizen of the United States it's
literally the sensitive question so I'm
not sure I'm not sure why why they're
saying it's not on there or why it was
taken out because it's there
and so just confuse me because I I'm a
progressing myself and I you know in
fact I were I'm on the Bernie Sanders
campaign and I but this computer
well the okay so yes alright so this is
what a will Raza said the same thing he
says that the census form would use the
same wording as what is already used in
the Census Bureau's American Community
Survey right and which asks respondents
to check one of five categories the
fifth category is not a US citizen the
survey does not ask whether non-citizens
are legally in this country right right
the I don't know what it is about the
question that's what Ross says but it I
don't know what the nature of the
question that makes it different it is
different enough that the Supreme Court
is questioning you know whether it's in
addition it's different enough that the
DOJ is and maybe it's the breadth of
where this question is asked as opposed
to the ACS right I mean the ACS does not
go does not go to everyone right no in
no in fact there's no personal
information for it it's all compiled for
statistical data and which is how we
understand how to allocate federal
resources to local state and federal
programs and and so but I really hope
that this isn't like a really you know
this would be a silly a defeat you know
no no wait a second I can tell you this
I can tell you this all right and I
could dig into the question about it but
the idea the I can tell you this that
the guy who was the architect of the
gerrymandering that took place in the in
the 2020 the 2010 sweep had run the
numbers if this question was used on the
census I'm sure he was fully aware that
it was on the ACS
and his numbers showed that in Texas he
did a couple congressional districts in
Texas his numbers showed that it would
benefit as a quote non-white Hispanics
and Republicans and that is why he was
so relentless in lobbying the DOJ and
the transition team for Donald Trump to
add this question so there must be
something about the nature of the
question or who it's going to that is
that yeah both the Republicans let me
finish both the Republicans and the
Democrats feel that it's going to
inhibit the responses that's the only
thing I can tell you right and that's
the most important thing because we need
the most accurate information possible
so we don't want to inhibit any other
responses we want as much feedback as
possible and so my question is are they
going to be using it for something other
than statistical information because all
the personal information is taken out
when it's used that way so they're gonna
use that information the first
assumption of their age no the
presumption the presumption is that it's
going to scare people from answering
that they don't want a specific
household to be noted as having so I
mean it's usually questions like this
right how many people are in your
household
right others five how many are citizens
right and if your dad is here you're
legal but your dad isn't maybe you're
worried who's gonna get this information
you know what I'm not gonna answer it
and right but so that we need to explain
better that it's not a little gallery
question because we're not asking the
legal staff listen listen I mean that's
just simply not the way it works you're
you have you've worked on the census if
you have any sense of statistics and of
these things then you must know the
implications of just cut of let's just
say you need a driver's license if a
state says you need a driver's license
vote in the November election and they
make that announcement in April and the
whole thing gets all sorts of publicity
and then come September
they put a notice in the paper says up
now you don't need a driver's license to
vote you must know that the number of
voters who will ghost not go to the
polls because they don't have a driver's
license is still significant because
that's the way this stuff works the
Republicans certainly know it because
they do this all the time and so there's
statistical statistical analysis that
shows that it'll be under counted so I
don't know that the specific details I'm
telling you what the Republican
strategist who developed the question
bully appreciate the call right all
right thank you Thanks and trusting the
Trump administration to keep data
confidential I will love to see okay so
here's the difference the ACS is a
sample survey it covers only 2.6 percent
of the population so if you're asking
how many if you're asking how many are
you know the citizenship of people there
that gives you a rough estimate of how
many undocumented citizens there are in
the country it will not have the effect
because it's only 2.6 percent of the
people as opposed to theoretically 100%
of the people there's a difference
between doing polling which the ACS is
and literally counting everybody and if
you're going to literally count
everybody you're gonna have an
undercount in certain areas and that's
the difference the ACS is a poll the
census is literally a count and so a
hundred percent of people who are have
undocumented immigrants have people
maybe who are
contemplating overstaying their visa or
maybe they're just their green card it
will depress the number of people who
who get counted in the in the census
very different than the ACS and that's
the argument and and certainly the
Republicans knew this that's why they
want to include it and we know that's
why they want to include it as opposed
to the BS about the Voting Rights Act
both because of the way that they deal
with the Voting Rights Act and because
it's literally in document form we want
to make sure that the Voting Rights Act
helps the people that's what was in the
leaked emails that were so disgusting
that a daughter leaked her own recently
deceased father's gonna be a loss for
the Democrats how do you think he
labeled that folder no kidding
secret weapon latest horrible thing to
do keep black people from voting and
give us money I mean if you really don't
want your kids to be snooping you could
have just called it like porn or
something gone from a 2-0 one area code
who's this where he come from
what's up ding-dongs this is Anthony
scaramouche across from the Upper West
Side our here well it's a long time we
haven't heard from you in a long time
thank you you know I'm gonna break a
little news on your show - that guy's
alright been doing some soul-searching
enough I don't think I'm gonna be
supporting Donald Trump in 2020
what Wow yeah it pains me to say you
know I don't think I've made any uh you
know I think I was pretty clear that I
was skeptical about his campaign but you
know when he was elected I got on board
and you know we thought maybe this would
be the man of the people little guy
would get something but it's not working
out and you know can I ask what people
have been
can what can I ask what what changed
your mind
well listen I don't think I'm breaking
any news here saying that he's not the
most committed or brightest guy right
right but very low-energy that's not new
well I listen I gave him a chance
you know our our people have been
toiling under the vagaries of
neoliberalism and austerity for too long
our people were sick and tired of
watching a small minority of people take
all the benefits of our big economy and
I'm just going to come out and say it
guys stay honest 2020 I'm there wow this
is big news like don't joke with me like
this Anthony because this really would
make my day and year where did Sarah
Huckabee Sanders everybody we're gonna
drop Sarah
Sanders 2020 baby boom National
Socialism
[Laughter]
we're gonna fight for 15 like what I
mean by that is the mandatory minimum
15-year sentence for voting without the
reforms of ID and endorse what OD jobs I
would never I would never think that lo
of you we got confused because Sarah Oh
work I mean couldn't even beat a
beardless Ted Cruz do you think you
would be Donald Trump come on
you guys gotta get we're not this if you
want if you wanted to be Trump we gotta
get the right candidate well yeah now I
I'm glad you called because I've had a
question I want to ask you for a while
you know leaving aside your desired to
recruit Sarah Sanders for a national
socialist party but no I
yeah it sounds like it but you you you
started doing a podcast with your wife
whatever happened with that I thought
you were estranged because of everything
that went down my wife I just heard that
she's going to be on the Real Housewives
you know my wife whose name I definitely
know and everybody else knows and you
know we're gonna learn things about her
you'll learn about all the little things
that made me fall in love with her she
she warms up leftover fish in the
microwave and how she collects antique
ivory marital AIDS oh she likes to drink
giant glass of orange juice after she
brushes their teeth all these things you
can learn about her and you guys love it
so you can get all but your questions
about my wife from the show all right
sounds like a fascinating woman Sam does
talk about your wife a lot on and off
area Anthony it's true it's true one
time I did a podcast with my wife would
have saved our marriage that's only
no no because you guys if you don't mind
sure
I think it's been used before but I
think we can touch the ball are you
ready yeah all right make government the
herder of the flock we think it's a
little long it's a little long it sounds
a little bit less optimistic right like
Jordan Martinez Dirksen general right
I'm talking like Dave Rubin as press
secretary right I mean you can't say
nothing if you don't know nothing right
but trigger warning then yeah actually
really well give us an update as to how
the the draft campaign is going
appreciate the call that guy should
announce to do I forget you guys call
them a peasant or whatever I think
that's pretty rude it's okay you know
I'm falling straight I'm not I'm not
oh very good you know what maybe we'll
see we're of months away but I love that
idea
send us an email all right all right all
right what's that
Mike we can talk about how the Patriots
I cannot hear you
thank you I think this is an
intellectual curiosity expedition like
the sound drop and how funny and awesome
Anthony Scarab would she is but you know
it's like that I believe that that sound
drop comes from yeah they were they were
planting leave behind units in the EPA
yes uh who said fascism can't be funny
hey folks let's play this this is a
little bit of a problem there's a
lawsuit obviously that Dean Obeidallah
has just won I am contemplating some
possible litigation around this clip
that we're about to see and it's come to
my attention no this is not the clip I
just come to my attention that David
Pakman is going after some of our
listeners and as you know first set we
have a program well we're getting to
that we have a program here where we
deputize a lot of people to go out and
tattletale on other progressive talkers
and of course spend good money on people
to monitor what David Pakman is saying
and then call in and tell us what it is
David had an issue with that let's let's
hear it let's not go to that one because
we have a different one that we're
dealing with but so let's get back to
the Sam cedar show but anyways
regardless with Joe Rogan one second
so the point is is that someone called
in the other day I guess it was a Friday
and said that David Pakman had said on
Joe Rogan that was was squishy on
Medicare for all
and Pakman is upset because the caller
mischaracterized what Pakman said which
i think is is accurate insofar as the
there was a mischaracterization but so
here he is playing that call right now
that the left is to absolute
specifically on the topic i
medicare-for-all I want to hear what you
guys think of this take seems like he's
open to the type plan Liz Warren has
also been flirting with as she all steps
away from Medicare self on note you guys
think of that characterized that plan
because I mean I didn't I didn't what
would what did Backman say I think he's
open he's open to the public option
things like that he says that the less
is too absolute about wanting just
Medicare for all he thinks that there's
other plans that we can go with in
regards solving the Medicare issue I
mean III I don't I'm not even going to
play Sam's response because I didn't say
what the caller wants Sam to react to
I've not stepped away from Medicare for
all I haven't said that what I want is a
public option okay so look I know we
don't need to hear what Pakman say I
want to know why David Pakman just D
platformed me in the middle of my
comment so if there's anybody out there
who's watching this you should be
calling David Pakman and telling him
that I'm upset about being at B platform
and then call us back and tell us
exactly what yeah he calls back and let
us know what he said this is the only
way that we could figure these things
out but summarize what he said back
nicely said about what you said that he
said about what we said and they give us
a nice little thumbnail don't even go
into that but he details your sort of
ballpark in your language Mary right so
that's that's what we do this is
this has to stop and the only way for it
to stop is it to go full circle at least
two more times pass
let's go to the IMS Rando hey mom and
dad here's my report card I got all A's
it's really quite amazing it's right
here in my hand all A's they said it
couldn't be done
you know Gregory from Oklahoma I've lost
20 pounds since the beginning of this
year in January I've lost 20 pounds in
the year 2018 awesome Congrats I've
officially lost all the weight I've
gained since I started college back in
2016 this is probably the biggest
accomplishment I've achieved since I've
graduated high school well good for you
all done that's what you want to do Greg
all power to you left picks left is
Godzilla what up mr crew even though I
think we're still basically screwed I do
look in the direction of optimism when
you have collars on that say how you
help them escape their delusion don't
stop because we need more of that turn
it up to 11 Shawn Michael so JFK is a
Jewish man from the Bronx I know that
ask not ask not what your country can do
for you maybe maybe you should give a
little more the country's already done
so much and you don't even think it
maybe you go and you help a village in
the Dominican Republic get water for a
couple of years and then maybe your
country can help you pyjama boy can we
get some more of Jamie talking about
taking care of Beto when he finally
succumbs to his mediocrity that should
be a premium anta father
it sounds like patreon what do they call
it the The Voice closed voice I mean hey
we just have to wait for another video
to come out and I'll do it some more
I'm feeling really great and uh one
percent of the poll
got him exactly where I want him
completes it mmm we've learned our
mistakes from the first time and the
second time that's why we're really
excited about Beto
3.0 satyr who gets Beto Beto 5g or the
5g of campaign waiting he hits zero I'm
just gonna explode
Jay Jay cool do you know if Walter block
is the evil brother of Fred if not then
maybe they're archenemies also I heard
that lava jato is Spanish for car wash
sorry attorney Andrew I know people
should be still looking for those
t-shirts attorney Andrew I've decided to
compile compile some eric saltless wall
well quotes at least one of these is
actually real we don't need a crime bill
we need a hope bill Medicare for all
what about Medicare five all my plan on
terrorism put together a suicide squad
of our currently jailed terrorists I am
Amanda Waller in many ways I am a black
woman immigrants don't need internment
camps they need internships I'm going to
take this campaign to every old town
road and I'm going to advise a strong no
more is that an actual line I'm getting
chump out of office because I don't like
bullies and I do like bull markets one
of these is actually realized I think I
don't like bullies and I like bull
markets I'm gonna go with why not yeah
we don't need a crime bill we need a
hope bill I know I don't know I think
they're all real and I don't want to
know any different Sebby GI nominated
Katey Porter for the Speaker of the
House she would impeach join in next
rebellion XR is not just in the UK we're
a global non violent rebellion fighting
for a citizen's assembly of ordinary
people informed by experts to zero
emissions by 2025 they are serious well
informed in well-organized in the UK but
we need help here in the u.s. follow
them on YouTube for great lectures on
nonviolent direct action political
theory and get someone from XR on Mr X
are being extinction rebellion
yeah make a know that Brendan will do
that eponymous how do we subsidize
Google how do we I think we kind of do
through work is that okay I'm not sure I
know what the question is I think
they're miss frame miss phrasing it
right we don't want to subsidize Google
let's turn it to foxed and they're
freaking out about Rasheeda Talib
ubi proposal because they're concerned
that if a ubi is implemented that it
will be an excuse in a leverage to
undermine other programs that we have
that our economic stabilizers and
prevent other things like Medicare for
all and whatnot I mean no I'm sorry
that's not true
they're just freaking out and they're
confused as to why they're freaking out
they're sort of saying two things
simultaneously that are at odds with
each other her her proposal three
thousand dollars a year to individuals
making less than 50,000 per year six
thousand two families making less than
100k per year this is like basically an
expansion of the Earned Income Tax
Credit is what it comes down to which is
a Republican idea I well let's listen to
the clip first and that person who wrote
that column joins us now Jacob director
research fellow at the Heartland
Institute Justin Haskins Justin so
between if you are a individual and your
working class or poor 3,000 bucks if you
have a family six thousand bucks
what's wrong with that well what's the
reason to work if the government is
going to hand you cash posit it's three
thousand or six thousand can anybody
come up with a reason why you would
still work if you receive three thousand
dollars a year or even six thousand
dollars a year can anyone come up cuz
hold on hold on hold on can I go first
yes please go ahead more cash I was
response I was gonna say because you're
passionate about your job
all right go ahead well what's the
reason to work if the government is
going to hand you cash and and and how
is handing everybody three thousand
dollars or six thousand dollars actually
going to improve people's lives positive
people just so people are gonna stop
working
cuz they're getting all this cash but
how could it possibly improve their
lives you know what people are really
stupid
they both are gonna quit working for
something that's not in any way gonna
help them it's like that it's like the
Trump Jeff Sessions and pressures is
like $3,000 double quit my job through
$3,000 worth nothing gosh darn it I
thought I was gonna get Bosley overdue
come on bro
how rich do you have to be but you don't
realize that three thousand dollars
annually is and you're talking about
like a 10% increase on most of these
people's pay more than that but good
dollars are six thousand dollars
actually going to improve people's lives
if people just all of a sudden have
three thousand or six thousand dollars
in their pockets the price of everything
is going to go up so this isn't going to
help me that's also not true because
everyone isn't under this proposal and
frankly if you're concerned about that
then you should really be concerned
about so few people having so much
ability to pay so much more for things
that things go up going to help anyone
this is all about increasing the power
and control of government it's about
making people more dependent on
government
Rashidah to leaves a Democratic
Socialist so she's perfectly fine with
that right this is about the so to be
clear it's not gonna help people but
even though it's not gonna help people
people are gonna quit their jobs because
they're making now three thousand
dollars a year so and it will give
government control over them because
even though it has no value it has so
much no value that it gives government
coercive strings over them and then you
know what government's gonna make them
do probably take another fifteen hundred
dollars down the road
Rashidah to leaves a democratic social
so she's perfectly fine with that right
this is about destroying capitalism not
improving people's lives oh I get it
well you eat leave lives by destroying
capital yeah I was gonna say that one
does follow from the other but wait a
second if this according to him if it
raises prices on things clearly the
capitalism is still functioning well now
that's the Rashida to live moment just
like the poor person the other end she's
like god damn it I thought this story
capitalism I got a slight micro
adjustment somewhere in between Earned
Income Tax Credit and like a pilot
program for UB I would literally in the
entire pink but it didn't god
damn it and I'm not even supposed to
swear cuz I'm a Muslim wow that is just
it is amazing that that's their expert
when a guy that is like there you know
what we really should have somebody
should get into the nitty-gritty not
like you know a former wrestler who's
known for pasted from a posting for Chen
meme so that social be I don't know the
heart the Heartland guy the Heartland
Institute that's kind of like I don't
know double-a ball yeah exactly
they're there they got a lot of Industry
money a lot of Industry money here is
its local politics but it's important
right because particularly out of New
York in the wake of AOC s victory
there's been a lot of people who have
been empowered it's it feels like and
New York passing very aggressive rent
control laws for the first time in ages
New York State we may see the
decriminalization of of sex work in this
state there's a lot of changes happening
and we haven't had a dynamic as New York
goes so goes the rest of the country
largely because New York has not been
leading on these things so what happens
in New York if good things happen well
maybe what if what happens in New York
doesn't stay in New York anyways we just
don't notice it as much because it you
it's actually functioning as a a ballast
in some ways against progress but going
forward what happens in New York
hopefully will spread across the country
here is Tiffany Chabad she is running
for the Queens da as you know hopefully
there are five boroughs to New York City
and I don't know where Queens would rate
in terms of size Brooklyn would be like
the fifth largest city in the country if
it was its own City Queens is pretty
large this means it's pretty big and
here is the debate between she's
addressing the other candidate or what
is it no okay here here's here's her
argument about her why her candidacy
goes beyond where the Queens da has
usually gone as a 31 year old queer
latina from a working-class family whose
parents grew up in the Woodside housing
projects who's whose then their parents
came dirt-poor from Puerto Rico women
like me are not supposed to be on stages
like this and I'll tell you what it is
no surprise to me that a group of over
overwhelmingly older white male lawyers
said that I was not approved for this
role what I represent is a clean break
from the status quo as a public defender
I have represented at any given time 60
to 80 clients managing teams including
investigators immigration attorneys
medical professionals as well as
community-based organizations and
managing relationships with judges and
district attorneys and I'll tell you
what I started this campaign with four
women sitting at a table saying we were
gonna change the system and since then
six months later we have built a
movement we have built a coalition of
hundreds and hundreds of volunteers we
are controlling the conversation to the
point where every single person on this
stage at some point has had to change
their policy positions to meet me where
I am at we have done what what most
thought was unthinkable we have built
the strongest coalition of support from
community-based organizations like make
the road and vocal to progressive
leaders like Larry crasner who is the
Trailblazer of progressive prosecution
in this nation as well as congresswoman
Alexandra Ocasio Cortes
and we did all on a shoestring budget
that is what leadership looks like we
have built something I have built
something from nothing
there you go and that was a debate she's
so good
she can't get our branch meeting of
North Brooklyn TSA a little while ago
and you know I'm a abolitionist of the
car soil state in general I was a little
skeptical if getting behind a district
attorney who's gonna prosecute but she
really she really won me over like all
the way there you go
lastly let's play this clip there is
reportedly a agreement I think between
Hong Kong and China either in the works
or even completed for extradition to
mainland China and this is set off a
bunch of protests over there and here is
a clip apparently of of police going at
it on one of these protesters
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
they just decided to make an example out
of that guy right it's unbelievable I
mean how Universal the what happens to
the mentality of some people once they
put those riot gear clothes on maybe
it's it's before they even get it on but
no it's also some of the I mean the
directions they get right that's a big
you know like the idea just in a really
brief thumbnail right was going back to
1997 there was one two systems one
country and so that's been gradually
eroded and that's a big reason why
there's so much protesting in Hong Kong
all right folks I'm sorry we're out of
time for calls I apologize I get five
more Iams and then we've got to get out
of here phi phi 88 thanks for all you do
I listen to a lot of people on the TYT
Network but the reason I support you
financially as you explain and analyze
power in class dynamics the best I also
think the way you speak about religion
is nuanced and much more than R elite
religion equals bad like some people I
hear all of you are amazing in spite of
the Boston sports teams love left his
best love a person in San Diego how's
the Ducks are they still out there
rack'em on climate everyone should get
plugged into a sunrise movement chapter
we've seen an explosion in chapters in
all kinds of places like Louisiana and
Kentucky in the past six months and are
scaling up quickly for up and down the
ballot in 2020 the sunrise movement
folks were the people occupied Nancy
Pelosi's office they worked quite a bit
in the rollout of the green New Deal
important organization Brendon the
census data is what's used in
redistributing not the ACS that's why
it's so important indeed congressional
baseball fan great moments in history
September 30th 1938 Prime Minister
Neville Chamberlain at the airport this
morning I had another talk with German
Chancellor hare Hitler and here's the
paper which bears his name upon it as
well as mine
one year later Sept
third 1939 Britain did not declare war
on Germany
my dad had surgery today to check out
sis on his kidney and bladder he's out
of surgery now for cancer free can I get
a shofar yes you can
congratulations Carrie
[Music]
Meah hey mr. cedar and company looking
at the Congressional calendar trying to
match up dates with an article I'd read
the other day I started wondering how
much of Pelosi's attempts to solve
versus moving to impeachment hearings is
giving Schumer McConnell cover to finish
time to drafting the two-year budget
deal to get it passed and avoid another
debt ceiling fiasco in September and a
possible shutdown well I don't know but
if that's the case that's even stupider
dr. chaos MD well Mitch McConnell go
down in history as the most destructive
figure in American politics I think very
possibly but it also depends on who gets
to write the history how do we reverse
this damage do you think McConnell
hasn't done anything regarding 9/11
victims reauthorization because he's
committed to doing nothing good at all
or because Jon Stewart is a champion of
that policy he's mocked McConnell for
years
drunken Daleks hi Sam for folks who'd
like more Ben Burgess besides today's
anti Fattah we just posted the first
half of our talk with him on our show
giving the mic to the wrong person on
Soundcloud thanks well I like that show
militant apathy good job handling the
fake census caller if he wasn't a fake
sorry it's the old cop in me but I
suspect everyone's a full caramel
on love the show thank you secret J a
secret Jack siddhis right here is the
agreement they shall honor they father
especially the daughters it's very
simple it's right here it's very it's
written it's under parchment and the
final I am of the day
[Music]
folks follow us on instagram for
information about who we're gonna have
on the show tomorrow west coast comrade
fred block much better than walter block
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better yeah
take it
[Music]
I did somewhere the choices made option
rub
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
