all right so Andy I got good news
dennis is back he i back and back with a
vengeance
Andy we have talked in the past couple
of weeks ago maybe it was a month ago
maybe it was two months ago I can't I
can't keep track of time times dilating
well not good oh thank you we talked
about dennis miller announcing that he
wanted to get less political and we are
seeing we are now all blessed with the
fruits of that endeavor he has gone on
to Jimmy Fallon
now listen I want you to just be calm
okay because these two together in the
same sort of like clip could be too much
for you I don't want you to I don't want
I don't want to be responsible for
anything horrible that happens it's
always he's it's gonna be when he goes
on shows now it's always gonna be casual
Friday it's always gay and well here's
the thing
the first joke he tells is actually sort
of funny
and he clearly whoever you know somebody
wrote that joke for him and he said and
that was basically when he's like I just
need that one and then I'll wing it
myself
here it is with Jimmy Fallon how many
specials have you done in Stannis I've
done nine now and well I we just can we
just nine no I
Hitler how many years you've been in
power for oh my gosh that's one bigger
than age and Jimmy Fallon you can tell
is in a hyper obsequious mode yeah
what's that about why do you think that
is he's trying to laugh because he knows
he has know he's probably afraid - no is
gonna get political he's he doesn't know
what Dennis Miller is saying he's just
like big fan big fan it looked like he
was disconnected and just told himself
I'm gonna laugh whatever Dennis's big
fan please don't make fun of migrants
gonna kill them the border
that will make the right hand upset yeah
it's specialist well I listen you've got
the nightly gig so you've got to work
hard but I've been branching out trying
to do other things I'm working on
writing some some different kind of
things like for instance tonight on the
Hallmark Channel I have a Christmas
thing that I've written I didn't know
that yeah it's about a very touching
Hallmark Channel Christmas special about
a a blind teenager who who self
pleasures while looking directly in an
eclipse and miraculously regains his
sight it's called a was it going a
little something-something for Joey that
was the P back that was the peak let me
tell you something that's not a bad joke
I'm out and jerking off into an eclipse
do you really need any more content
what's the joke I think there's some
Christmas special with Joey right there
no you know a little something-something
for Joey I'm Rachel Maddow I'm writing a
whole box it's a yellow Christmas a teen
who jerks off until he regains his sight
well I was expecting an actual joke when
you guys said he started off well
beginning Sam did a little mislead there
you go all right but it gets better
that's amazing working on a reality show
about hoarders with what's really
impeccable taste
the great a couple things yeah are you
going back on tour in February is that
I'm gonna go out with Mark Steyn he's a
political commentator but also a funny
cat we were sitting at dinner one night
he was making me laugh so hard I said we
should go out together so late February
and early March we're gonna go out and
try a few days all right can we just
pause it here first of all this is you
know he's being jovial about it but this
is so sad he's thrown over Bill O'Reilly
for Mark Steyn who went to mark Stein I
would love anyone okay what I'm so glad
you said any people in media
he is a I think a British guy lives in
Canada but he is Canadian he's literal
it's like Madonna like he studied there
and got okay you got it you get a weird
accent and but the interesting thing
about this guy is you have no idea who
he is he fills in for Limbaugh
occasionally he recently through
arbitration through a mediated
settlement with Mark Levine's station
got four million dollars because his
show never got off the ground after a
month or two they had to pay him out
four million dollars now it was an
arbitration and that means that he had
some type of pay or play type a deal for
four million dollars and unless like
unless that contract was for 75 years
there's no way that guy was gonna
generate four million dollars it's just
an example of like of just right-wing
money going dumped in there but do we
have is this okay yeah here we have some
footage of Mark Steyn he did a music
video called booty tat it was about a
cat I am not kidding here it is
[Music]
the visuals harp I thought I saw a
pussycat a creeping up on me
[Music]
should be just this video should just be
like an Interpol I thought I saw a
pussycat
I thought I saw a pussycat I thought I
saw a pussycat a creeping up on me I did
I saw a pussycat as plain as he could be
that pussycat is very bad he sneaks up
from behind okay we're a lightweight my
god I didn't know it's gonna be good I
love you show me show me something where
he's not hilarious and singing well you
know I'll tell you something I know we
played that like like a couple of years
ago right or did we
and what's a months ago times dilated
but I gotta say like it's gotten crazier
since then it is not aged well I think
things might have been just like we were
so shocked by Trump that we watched that
thing and it was alright here's um here
is it was always terrified
well that is here he is he's got another
one and it's also has to do with another
cat he's got some type of cat obsession
this is Mark Steyn she only talks that
way to the cat his son
[Music]
our snooze in on the soap for when she
came in from work she started baby
talking and she sure didn't shirt has
mamas Pooky Wooky house a big sweetie
pie
I kinda smiled and I opened one eye
shut up break into Columbus stop with
the baby cottage I was just about to
answer when I heard us say you so fat
and lazy but you sweet as can be
that's when I knew she was and looked in
at me
[Applause]
okay we get it studies I don't know mark
Stein is literally cooked by a cat but
this guy must have had money beforehand
right he's producing nice videos like
what did I understand it is he William F
Buckley son no that's it no I can't even
believe it what category what category
would you put this entertainment in I
well the first one is creepy because
it's a kid's song but it's it's done in
a creepy way so is it meant for kids or
who's it meant for I thought I saw up
UGK I feel like it's meant for Mark
Steyn and then everyone else who wants
to look at it and go what the hell is
that it's my art and the second one is
it supposed to be self-deprecating
because he should thank the woman for
clearly working a job that allows him to
nap on the couch all day under a bunch
of newspapers yeah she cares about the
cat well pays off doesn't it so anyways
anyways did we cut before the punchline
well the the III we wanted to just give
you a sense of why he's going on the
road with as you can see this guy's a
funny cat this guy's funny just like he
said a political commentator but also
very funny doesn't Bill O'Reilly of a
right to be absolutely pissed if I'm big
you got ditched for that guy that's the
most insulting thing imaginable and it's
O'Reilly maybe a lecherous almost
certain you know
rampant drunk but he is a broadcast now
do you think he's sitting in his in Bill
O'Reilly sitting in his office right now
just the guy I've been stabbed in the
back what is it what is not a German
think is your fault Irving the cat is it
he left me how much a guy likes though
he's saying someone get me Greg Gutfeld
on the phone I got a replay yeah alright
so here's here's Miller we just took a
little diversion there political
commentator but also funny car we were
sitting at dinner one night he was
making me laugh so hard I said we should
go out together so late February and
early March we're gonna go out and try a
few dates in the Northeast Corridor I
think it's like Rochester New York and
Syracuse and although I just find out
I'm looking at the Syracuse ticket dates
and it's not sewing that well but the
other three are doing why I look at
Syracuse we're in the small town of
Syracuse and the same night they've
booked us in there
Syracuse is college basketball teams
playing Duke bouquet the day they sign
the armistice there's something you know
it's just like that it's the silliest
book Syracuse tape the game yeah no one
telling no spoilers and go see Dennis
Miller yeah wait a second wait a second
up for alerts and this one just came in
it's be good I get notification on
what's gonna happen that day for the
Priyanka Chopra Nick Jonas writing and
then tomorrow Jim we're playing against
Hogwarts and it says here that it's not
water footage it's actual airborne
because Nick got a trade I would met
Jeff Allen looked like he wasn't even
Fallon camel the old I'm getting alerts
on my phone iPhone about Quidditch joke
there's a hundred and forty four
thousand people in Syracuse is is that
what he's claiming he can't draw up more
than him in a basketball game I wonder
how big of a room well he's actually he
booked out a twenty five thousand person
stayed within this century if you could
look at the faces on everyone in this
studio like Matt and Jamie in particular
just look so confused like how is this
like actual entertainment and like what
how did any of these people should end
up with I just doing politics anymore
I'm doing really the cool cat who does
really bizarre cat videos and for some
reason people prefer to see the Duke
game it's a cautionary tale for all of
us isn't it oh you could happen to any
of us
now we also have don't we have another
clip of Dennis Miller in a different
show are we done with that one that one
wait I had some what did you do where he
goes the rocket raccoon is this plastic
oh is that coming up next and now it's
really nice to meet him okay yeah Pat
Chopra who's that I was that guy
who what are you talking about this is a
simply react that chop rod Nick Jonas
yeah must be somebody marrying one of
the Jonas Brothers
oh my yes honey some of the gift give me
some names of new people he has a
popular culture alert on Google yeah
give me some names and new people Oh
if you don't show any more from this
they do show a chunk for Dennis Miller
where he doesn't you know coming up next
year they're gonna have a cat the Apple
cufflinks oh we've been there gonna have
the Apple popular all right we have more
Fallon we have more from found I
realized that went on for longer than
that okay here we go still going on oh
yeah I'm happy to have you here in the
building in New York do you love do you
love the city during the holidays New
York beautiful beautiful I'm glad it's
not snowing yeah de Blasio not good with
snow obviously I mean sounds like the
Donner Party when it snows you know camp
out at the bottom of the mountain a
teacher can I just say huh at the
beginning you that premise I don't get
the joke bill de blasio on the first
snow I think of the of his mayor mayor
ality the because of I can't remember if
it was a function of like a lot of the
snowplow stuff had been privatized at
that point and what happens is they're
not exclusive to the city and unless
they get an order early they don't they
go off and take other gigs and so there
was some talk that supposedly he didn't
do the Upper East Side I think Ramona
Blasio's would he privatize the snow
plow no no okay the joke doesn't make
sense logically
Waku years old
winter right it's not two years rounded
no this is like five years all it's 2013
yeah that's 2000 times real which again
I think by Dennis Miller standards is
highly I brought this into uh this is
out of the aughts I think I'm doing
pretty good
he devil green yeah I'm back up I'm
refreshed and ready to go I have
references to 2010 I got I got jokes so
inside about Bill DeBlasio New Yorkers
don't get it
he saw that is like a tip of the hat to
the old political comedian that he was
yeah that's what I used to do stuff like
the Blasio snow jokes and now let me
segue into my new family-friendly I
would want a bat hold on for I didn't
like go up to Jimmy Fallon right then
and just walk across the stage and go I
will give you $500,000 if you could tell
me what he's what that reference was and
he would even though he laughed as hard
as he did like he wouldn't be able to
for a moment to even know what that was
about
they made a weird choice this year
they've gone with Bernie Sanders as
Santa Claus
all the children line up they get up
there hey hop up on his lap and then he
tells each kid what he would like from
them can we take that's amazing as a
drop please again because socialism the
flight was lovely but the plane made the
ultimate mistake it arrived early at the
gate you know it were harder to get in
to your Airport when you arrived earlier
at the gate than it is to get into the
country they think it's all the way back
out to the end of the runway they turn
off all the lights you got to sit there
you can't move I've got a weak bladder
I've got to go the bathroom so I'm
waiting you know guy goes in from Row 1
and I'm thinking I've got to get in
there but I'm in Row 4 so I've got a
look for a diversion he comes out I use
that
to take the no flight attendant
attention away I go up boom I'm in like
a shot I pulled the door great but then
I realized that he has had what I can
only assume is a like a silhouette
altering bowel movement and is the most
disgusting joke I've ever heard in my
life and then Jimmy's trying to justify
it because he said silhouette I am mad I
literally can't believe he's doing and
arrived at the gate early into a
bathroom junk humor is funnier than
anything he's joked about so far shadow
changed with it for half an hour we
start moving back to the terminal I come
out because you return to your seeing I
gotta make that face like you know for
all the people in the waffle zone don't
look at me I like having you in the
building I feel like this is like well
have you been impacted and back in a
long time you know we used to what was
Saturday Night Live on 8th right and
Letterman was here yeah it was here
remember yeah and you know when I first
saw you on Saturday Night Live I thought
well this is the guy who should do it I
mean you were absolutely great at it and
I remember at some point I was honored I
think you did an impression to me at
some point yeah I did absolutely oh do
we have a photo adapter they have it but
I organic but I tried to do an
impression of you
ah yeah but I was I was a fan this was
more yeah I was honoring bad he had to
tell him I was a fan I was on SNL in the
Gandhis last several years I've been on
YouTube channels complaining about Nancy
Pelosi being a yeah so thank you
how about Bill DeBlasio how about Bill
DeBlasio in that snowstorm right 2013 am
i right remember we're still in the top
of everyone's minds I haven't seen a
misstep like that says Muriel polka
Chino made it on fact comics john
lindsay mastered a beam came down from
the back love like you know he could
have I mean he wouldn't because he's so
far right but I mean he could have taken
some type of he could have taken an
Amazon shot at de Blasio its current
everybody would have liked it no take it
a current shot this is the great this is
the greatest thing I ever saw I saw it
last night in chunks oh so great I've
never seen there's no doubt of me if you
try oh yeah
Kaju that rocket racoon from guardians
of the galaxy Wow yeah we're on the
camera there yeah yeah the old guy into
the belt warned you in New York to do a
raccoon impression I love it I don't
understand what just happened okay
I'm supposed to know who Rocket Raccoon
is well I thought you would though I
thought that was a current reference
they know I know who it is it was a it
was a movie it's actually we're in I
think the third iteration of that movie
and kids know it and he was going to do
an impression and then said now I'm
joking yes because he would say that's
of course that is the ultimate and they
say I'm a comedian Scoobies this guy's
really tearing it apart if I watch the
cut here by by the crew yeah I'm just
not going to fly in from California in
New York
it wasn't funny so they cut this this
was they cut this out now as you know
Andy this show is not live they air it
they shoot it around five or six and
then they air it later that night they
cut after Fallon says it's show you and
then they cut to Dennis Miller just
going like what really
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
when I when I want you I always think
you seem to inhabit when you were on
Saturday Night Live doing the news and I
thought this kids was it a dream of
yours or what yeah yeah I could I've
watched every Sarah alive I was
religiously that's the only thing I ever
wanted to do I just loved it so much I
remember when it happened for me I was
writing jokes in Pittsburgh I was
working at a comedy club and a kid came
into town I won't say his name but he
bought some jokes off me and then I went
back to my apartment I'm living in this
crap 60 buck a month apartment with a
hot plate you know I'm eating ramen off
a double album cover and I'm sitting
there watching this guy on The Tonight
Show with Johnny and he tells a joke
that I've written and Johnny Carson like
falls out and I'm sitting there leading
the crappiest life imaginable I don't
know about you at that point I thought I
have to become the conduit for these
jokes even though I was reticent upfront
you know it's kind of shy about doing it
but it's sort of like living in East
Berlin and you're walking on your side
of the wall and they're shooting
snitches and on the other side of the
wall you know they're playing
racquetball everybody's getting laid now
just if you don't know the wall came
down
25 years ago not to be pedantic about it
but people definitely got laid more on
the east side of the wall
they've done studies is that right yeah
interests women had more work oh you
know that I think maybe was maybe it's
not so bleak in North Korea we should
say we have an update the a little
something-something for Joey something
for Joey
it was a made-for-tv movie about John
cappelletti a Penn State football player
who gave his Heisman award to his
brother Joey who was dying of leukemia
that was from see John first and on
Twitter we should also tell you that
movie was made in 1975 well I Jamie
found his fake
remembering the reference I'm sure Jimmy
if
remembers a movie from when he was one
amazing TV movie shown when he was one
for Dennis comes on like alright Jimmy
like here the references the Ranger I'm
sure I'm sure Jane did in 1977 yeah 1975
reference that was 40 years ago I love
the look on Jimmy Fallon's face when he
eat the almost a morning
what am i what am I trying one of my
sake laughing at now I don't even I need
my focus from my fake laugh I know it's
not it's not funny but there's got to be
a way in from why I'm cackling exactly
waiter I gonna wrap this round some time
for jelly it's that so you
it's though you yeah that was I enjoyed
that moment when Dennis was like wait
really okay mental note got to go that
direction with more got to do that more
like bass or sad and ma'am or pretending
I'm gonna do an impression that's the
new thing I'm gonna pretend that I'm
gonna do an impression
he's so delightful now that's the thing
now that he's got away from the politics
you can just see the pure joy that
Dennis has his life and he just wants to
communicate it really comes across he
was laughing with Mark Steyn at dinner
and happened you not and he said let's
go out together where we going
Rochester Ithaca Utica and Almira just
dropped out cha-cha imagine sitting at
the table together maybe singing back
and forth like a duet to I thought I Tom
this is incredible the cat material we
got a book of room and Kingston ASAP
this is gonna light up an audience at
Central Islip I just got a booking we're
gonna have to shoot down to Pennsylvania
but on i-80 in between Pittsburgh and
Philly when I got a truck stop it's huge
no sporting events for miles
hey this is the only time I eat I've
laughed while I've eaten since 1993
let's go out though to be fair I mean
just think of the poor Syracuse
undergrads that are like I can't miss
Syracuse and Duke that's gonna be an
incredible game but these guys are only
coming twice this year
yeah and Dennis Miller is the Zion
Williamson of comedy but I wouldn't just
like break this down for a moment
what a break way yeah I'd miss them I
really missed the reference Zion what
now that is a really good Duke player
okay I'm head of comedy 300 right now or
month ago there's a story in The Wall
Street Journal he wants to get away from
politics out of politics and into the
arm out of policy buy-in into East going
on tour with mark Stein like you gotta
ask yourself like does it guy not know
anybody like his no one else eating
lunch with him
Betty can clearly oh yeah I mean look at
this this this whole interview can't
even get Greg Gutfeld go on there's
always pathos with Miller because this
whole interview as big as much of a just
massive is I go through this
interview and I'm like this is so sad
this clearly type of favor called in he
gets an opportunity to be back in the
big leagues but he's go to switch to
baseball analogies his throwing arm is
just off right it isn't happening
falen clearly I can tell through his
nice guy stick he resents having a
struggle as much to pretend it's funny
and and it's just so much paint though
spin I mean Indians like yeah I want to
get out of this politics let me call my
good show business buddies up and you
end up with a favor delivered by Fallon
and its with Mark Steyn which is a
downgrade from Newsmax Bill O'Reilly I
think that somebody probably went to
found and said look Jimmy someday could
be you
you're getting probably will you give
now to get back from the Jimmy of you
think no you think Fallon I don't think
we'll be politics though just be sort of
like a general and let it be really
funny if Fallon all of a sudden just
becomes incredibly hostile I could take
yeah yeah yeah you like washing
Trump's hair and where did you start
mussing mussing everybody's hair up very
aggressively yes and angrily first
starts really had a career well I went
pulls it up pulls it out Andy
