[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday May 14 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today White
House reviews military plans against
Iran as we remember the main also on the
program today attorney general Barr
assigns a US Attorney from Connecticut
to investigate the Muller investigation
and Christian Nielsen remember her well
she attempts to whitewash her record
with reports that she happily worked for
18 months for a moral monster
and the first federal court ruling on
Trump's subpoena avoidance due today
meanwhile the 2020 race backbenchers
scrambled with Biden's entrance as
Sanders support amongst young people
drops in the first half of 2019 and the
Conservatives on the Supreme Court
signal its willingness to breezily
overthrow precedent ominous signs for
roe v wade in New Haven a mosque
targeted by arsonists and the third
largest US coal company declares
bankruptcy thanks Obama
though actually not and in California a
jury Awards two billion dollars to a
couple over roundup cancer claim all
this and more in addition to a look at
the subsists rap video responsible maybe
maybe not directly but indirectly for
thousands upon thousands of deaths in
2017 a little team-building exercise
yeah there we go
nothing like and we'll talk about this
but I as a young actor I participated in
a couple of industrials not not for a
drug company but for an insurance
company where are you uh but we can talk
about that another day
I'm usually opposed to blaming rap for
drug deaths but yeah no kidding right
all right let's start first with just I
just want to get a couple of things off
the off the table here as it were in
terms of the core
as you know I tend to be a little bit
little focus on what's going on with the
judiciary because that is the one branch
of our government that is much more
difficult to fix with an election at
least short term and the worst part well
I guess as of today of the Trump
administration is ultimately the the
Trump administration's and hand in hand
and in fact more so with Mitch McConnell
in the Senate ability to fundamentally
alter the makeup of the federal
judiciary including the Supreme Court
but also the appeals court and the
circuit court and the implications that
this is going to have for decades
decades let's start first with the
Supreme Court over the past week we've
talked we can have two weeks really more
by coincidence
anything else we had on robin marty was
it yeah and to talk about her book a
handbook for a post roh world and i
don't know if i got the title that book
correctly but it basically explains what
we're going to be looking at within a
couple of years and in the week and a
half subsequent to that we have seen two
more states passed fetal a heart bill of
fetal heart bills I guess laws that have
not gone into effect but have fully
passed both the legislature and have
been signed by the governor
and these bills essentially say abortion
is banned after approximately six weeks
after a woman becomes pregnant now most
women will who have become pregnant will
tell you that they have not found out
that they're pregnant until week five or
six or seven or after that because of
course it takes it takes a while unless
so maybe I guess if you're planning and
you're checking vigilantly you could
find out before then but four weeks is
the normal menstrual cycle and sometimes
people are a little bit late the point
is you actually don't have a fetal
heartbeat you have a maybe the
functional pulse
essentially because the the organ of the
heart is not fully developed at that
point it's not really a heartbeat but
nevertheless it is a fetus and these
laws that one that passed in Ohio over
the past week and a half one that passed
in Georgia the one in Georgia a woman is
criminally liable if she goes across
state lines to get a legal abortion
there was a story in Alabama where a
Republican lawmaker told her story of
being raped as a way of getting a rape
exception in the Alabama bill and then
she was targeted by a fellow lawmaker
who was handing out basically a fact
sheet saying that unborn children in his
words should not be punished by the
because of the sins of the father or the
parent speaking of the rapist in that
instance and to further the point as to
what we're going to be looking at
unless one of the five sitting Supreme
Court justices gets hit by a bus and
somehow that vacancy will last until the
Harris pregnant Harris
presidency or the better O'Rourke
presidency or whatever it's going to be
Sanders presidency or Warren presidency
or god help us the Biden presidency and
so that's that's the future that we're
looking at and the question has been how
will they attack roe v wade will they
simply chip away at it will they lower
the scrutiny that the court will impose
upon states laws that infringe upon the
right of a woman to choose an abortion
in other words if there is a law trap
law that is passed like the famous one
from Texas which required admitting
privileges by doctors within a certain
distance of a hospital or there are laws
that have been passed that require
abortion clinics to have like 16-foot
ceilings or something to that effect
that are clearly designed to make it
impossible to have access to an abortion
on a practical level or will they simply
overturn it well on Monday yesterday
there was a case in front of the Supreme
Court
it was involving a Franchise Tax Board
and I'm not sure the name of the case
but it was essentially a question as to
whether states have sovereign immunity
from private lawsuits in the courts of
other states can I sue the Vermont
Franchise Tax Board in a New York state
court
in 1979 the Supreme Court ruled that
there is no constitutional right for
states to avoid liability in other
courts states state courts so this is a
40 year old precedent which was
overruled yesterday by in a five to four
ruling by the Conservatives the fact
that this precedent was overruled is not
going to have much impact on our daily
lives because there's only been 14
instances in those 40 years where a
state has actually faced a trial in
another state you follow that but what
the Supreme Court does is that they use
some cases to create principles that can
be applied to other cases sometimes
they'll do it within the issue set so
they'll look at one limited case about
abortion the rule on one small thing
that will have implications for a case
down the road they begin to build a
record through their decisions they
create a series of assumptions or
predicates for later decisions Clarence
Thomas wrote Monday's decision said
there was an implied right in the
Constitution these are literalists
incidentally right there's an implied
right in the Constitution that means
states could not be held in voluntarily
before each other's courts states can
give immunity to other states that can
get into compacts with each other
he said the courts design a decision for
decades ago in this case Nevada V Hall
is contrary to our constitutional design
and the understanding of sovereign
immunity shared by the states that
ratified the Constitution stare decisis
that's the idea of respecting precedent
does not compel continued adherence to
this erroneous precedent now put aside
the quality of his ruling he argued that
the state's sovereign immunity is
historically rooted principle embedded
in the text and structure of the
Constitution although it was not
explicitly set out in the text the
document all right but put that aside
because that's just the run-of-the-mill
conservatives originalist sand
textualist BS we should only know the
Constitution is only as written it's
like a la carte right it's only as
written unless we can see something that
we can imply that's in there then you
use your common sense and then you use
your common sense all right but that's
not the issue the issue isn't the nature
of the ruling the issue is the argument
as to why they can reject and on what
grounds and this is going to be the the
new standard for this Court as long as
five people determine it's erroneous
that's it it can be overturned which for
lawyers and for judges undercuts the
fundamental point of the judiciary it's
not supposed to be a third house of
lawmakers right it's not just a majority
of people it has to be it has to be
because there's some type of legal
rationale that makes sense here is
justice Breyers dissent in franchise V
tax a Franchise Tax Board rather
and it is a warning some people suspect
in terms of what could be coming down
the pike in terms of roe v-- wade he
writes it's one thing to overrule a case
when it quote defies practical work
ability when quote related principles of
law have so far developed as to left the
old rule no more than a remnant of an
abandoned doctrine or when quote facts
have so changed or come to be seen so
differently as to have robbed the old
rule of significant application or
justification this is in the he cites
the Casey case and those are three
separate tests as to whether you can you
should or can overturn precedent when
the law simply doesn't work out the way
that we anticipated and doesn't function
when the related principles of law have
so far developed as to left the old rule
no more than a remnant of an abandoned
doctrine in other words the all of the
other doctrines around that law have
made the original law seem archaic or
nonsensical or when facts have so
changed or come to be seen so
differently in other words hey gay
people have the same rights as us as
straight people or turns out black
people are not second-class citizens or
should not be second-class citizens or
it turns out that I don't know maybe
down the road in terms of what
constitutes animal cruelty if we find
out that animals are completely you know
have a level of consciousness that we
did not understand
something like that I'm not making any
problem a shion's about that I'm just
using that as an example
he writes it's far more dangerous to
overrule a decision only because five
members of a later court come to agree
with earlier dissenters on a difficult
legal question the majority has
surrendered to the temptation to
overrule Hall even though it is a well
reasoned decision that has caused no
serious practical problems in the four
decades since we decided it
today's decision can only cause one to
wonder which cases the court will
overrule next so he is basically saying
this case is being used as a way not
just to resolve a barely existing
problem in our law as it stands now
which is whether a state can be hauled
into court in a another state's state
court but rather it's being used as a
tool to overturn the precedent of a
different case of future cases it is
being used as and may not just be roe v
wade there's gonna be a long project for
this conservative court and if Thomas
resigns this summer and my guess is
that's gonna happen my guess is he's
going to announce in June maybe even
later because I think you know Mitch
McConnell is going to it's going to it's
going to replace him with someone
younger that is the end of the project
even if Donald Trump leaves at that
point and that's the project to have a
five conservative members of the court
who are in their 40s and 50s who will be
there for decades to come
he really thirty or forty years is the
question and will fundamentally change
us society in addition to the Supreme
Court Mitch McConnell once again for
those of you who have been following
this over the years there are two ways
in which a minority in the Senate can
stop the confirmation of a federal judge
one is to filibuster and the filibuster
is now gone in terms of lower court
judges and Supreme Court so that is
actually effectively gone excuse me
there traditionally I meant to say
that's gone the other way that was a
tradition was that the home state
senators both have the ability to
withhold what is called a blue slip
which is basically like a sign-off on
federal judges who are being appointed
in States or in circuits or in regions
that the state is included in yesterday
the Senate voted 54 to 42 to confirm
Joseph Bianco the US Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit based in New York
State every Republican voted for him two
Democrats Doug Jones and joe Manchin
voted for him as well
all the other Democrats either opposed
or were not around to vote Bianco's
confirmation marks the third time in
history that the Senate has confirmed a
judicial nominee over the objections of
both of a nominees home state senators
Chuck Schumer and Kristin Gillibrand
they didn't turn in their blue slips for
Bianco and McConnell ignored that
whereas Patrick Leahy allowed that to
happen multiple
times he is Donald Trump's 38th
confirmed Circuit Court judge that's
more circuit judges than any president
in the history of the United States has
seated at this point in a first Torrent
term at this point err that one in every
six seats on the nation's circuit courts
is now filled by a trump nominee and
this is pretty stunning this complete
domination of the courts that
Republicans now have short of the the
First Circuit in DC which is you know
probably the second most powerful court
in the nation
Republicans are slowly basically taken
over the judiciary not so slowly
actually under a under Trump McConnell
has been just shoving these these
justices and judges on to the courts and
the bottom line is is that Democrats not
just need to win the presidency they
need to win the Senate and they need to
win it not just because you got to be
able to give a Democratic president the
ability to get judges passed through the
Senate but also from a structural
standpoint if they don't win it now they
have a very very hard time to win it in
the future which makes things like Beto
or Roarke running for president and
Bullock from Montana who just jumped in
running for president and Hickenlooper
from Colorado running for president if
you do not know the names Hickenlooper
or you only recognize
because it's a funny sounding name or
you vaguely recognize named Bullock it's
because they're not going to win the
presidency but in Montana and in
Colorado those two could have possibly
challenged effectively their states
senator winning those seats for
Democrats crucial crucial seats Texas is
another one
how primed is Texas to flip in terms of
the Senate race I don't know let's ask
better or roark because apparently how
close they came in Texas in 2018 is the
foundation of how he's going to win the
presidency of the United States
everyone's important everyone counts and
at the end of the day more votes than
any Democrat has ever received in the
history of the state of Texas young
voter turnout up 500% won independence
for the first time in decades and half a
million Republicans in Texas also joined
that movement so a movement comprised
not just an expanded Democratic
electorate but a movement comprised of
Democrats independents and Republicans
alike and now for the first time in at
least my adult lifetime maybe since 1976
Texas and it's 38 electoral college
votes have been unlocked they are in
contention and and we will have a seat
at the table so this is him talking you
know a pushing beto
2.0 apparently they're relaunching and
I'm sorry at one point if we're to
believe the soaring rhetoric about
helping our country but country first I
was destined to do this if you're a
candidate of destiny is it your destiny
or the country's destiny like I mean the
the unbelievable narcissism of people
who want to purport to tell us that
they're just so compelled to public
service that they have to do this
and then using the Texas miracle as the
if that if the ten if Texas was a
miracle
then how about you dig deep and run for
Senate even though it may not be the job
you want I mean honestly it really is
like I don't know how we're supposed to
take seriously a candidate and I'm not
just talking about battle Roarke I'm
also talking about Hickenlooper and I'm
talking about
Bullock and and others frankly if it's
too much of a self sacrifice for you to
run for the Senate but you think that
it's that you're compelled to help the
country by running for the president
you're full crap I mean honestly it's
pathetic it's disgusting
because a Republican Senate is in in
2020 is gonna be devastating gonna
continue to be devastating for the
country regardless of who's president it
was for the good of my high school that
I lobbied so hard to be prom king yeah
well you really gave yourself for that
in that campaign meanwhile let's just
talk about this report about let's do
the Iran stuff first there was a report
today in The New York Times that the
White House is reviewing plans military
plans against Iran at a meeting of
president Trump's top national security
aides last Thursday acting defense
secretary we don't have a defense
secretary incidentally we haven't had
one for what over a year now
when was it madness was gone this
gentleman was recently appointed I don't
know if he's been he's acting he's
acting defense secretary go back to Conn
at the Secretary of War he presented an
updated military plan that calls for
sending as many as 100
thousand troops to the Middle East
should Iran attack American forces or
accelerate work on nuclear weapons
that's a big or there isn't it
it's also pretty vague what does
accelerate work on nuclear weapons mean
that mean accelerate work on weapons
that could carry nuclear warheads does
that mean accelerate work on potential
dual use enrichment of uranium we don't
know the revisions were ordered by
hardliners led by John Bolton they do
not call for a land invasion of Iran
which would require vastly more troops
so I'm in a hundred and twenty thousand
is just what you need if you're just
going to stand by while you bomb Iran it
is unclear whether the president has
been briefed on the number of troops or
other details in the plan here is Donald
Trump being asked if he was seeking
regime change in Iran see what happens
with Iran if they do anything it would
be a very bad mistake if they do
anything I'm hearing little stories
about Iran if they do anything they will
suffer greatly we'll see what happens
with the rock the Mad King has heard
little stories about what they're doing
in Iran and of course one of those
stories was that the UAE claimed that
four ships were attacked the other day
one was Finnish two were Saudi I can't
remember what the fourth one was Emirati
Emirati the story now is is that the
Finnish boat was attacked by something
in the water and that the Saudi boats
though there has been no pictures of
damage done to these boats there were no
deaths there was no leaking of oil
we're attacked by something else that
came from somewhere else maybe a drone
UFO yeah well yes
of sorts in a certain sense but somehow
they figured out that it's Iran or
Iranian Iranian proxies which could
basically be anybody but the Saudis or
the the UAE folks I guess right I mean
theoretically it's all divided up into
two you're either on Team Saudi and UAE
or you're obviously on tame Iran
according to them so there's a lot of
vagaries and Mike Pompeo in a
last-minute meeting change
apparently he's scuttling all over the
place
head to Europe to talk to European
allies on Monday and presumably he was
looking for some support maybe we don't
know but here is the EU response to
their meeting with Mike Pompeo this is
fredericka mogherini in Brussels Mike
heard that very clearly today from from
us and not only for myself but also from
the other ministers of EU Member States
that we are living in crucial delicate
moments where the most relevant attitude
to take the most responsible attitude to
take is and we believe should be that of
maximum maximum restraint and avoiding
any escalation on a military site so in
other words not interested is what the
EU has to say meanwhile Pompeo is to
meet Putin today to ostensibly we'll be
talking about that as well
we should say that Pompeyo literally
like crashed the Brussels meeting of the
EU they weren't anticipating him they
just showed up there and presumably
maybe he has like special satellite
images because the satellite images
showed no damage to the sabotage Saudi
ships that could have been mental
sabotage emotional sabotage are the
ships that doesn't show up on silent OSH
there are some people who suggest that
the the military option that was offered
that is being reported now to Bolton in
the event of a you know non ground war
non ground invasion of Iran of a hundred
and twenty thousand troops is the
military signaling to the civilian
leadership we're going to make this very
hard for you we're gonna we're gonna
tell you you need 120 thousand troops
which is a lot of troops to do whatever
it is that you think you want to do so
good luck marshalling those forces and
good luck marshalling the public opinion
that is necessary for that there was an
interesting piece that this guy might
Micah Zenko wrote in foreign policy
that's back in 2012 you know I saw this
on Twitter where where they where he
suggests that there are different times
where the the military frames decisions
of presidents by offering solutions to
what they want that are either
discouraging or encouraging so for
instance you want to be the the the
general who the Bush administration
embraces you go and say we can do this
hundred thousand troops five or six days
we'll wrap this thing up you know the
the toughest part will be getting the
candy and flowers you know
scraped off our uniforms when they throw
it to us in Iraq or you can be general
Shinseki and say this is gonna cost
trillions of dollars and we shouldn't do
this
and then you can then get so merrily
sent out to pasture but that is basis so
deep it's a deep state yeah exactly
so that's possibly what's going on now
and I mean the one the one thing that
the Trump administration seems to keep
proving over and over again is that
they're really unqualified even in
pursuit of their own decrepit agenda and
so hopefully their incompetence will win
the day Bolton as much as he is
positioned presumably to get his way and
to convince Trump of something hopefully
won't be able to do it but we shall see
I don't think you know Brendan asked me
when we came in today do you think like
the public has an appetite for this and
my answer is no I'm not convinced that
they understand that in the White House
and I don't know that that would be a
deterrent and I don't know I mean right
now you have Marco Rubio calling for an
investigation calling on bar to have an
investigation of John Kerry's meeting
with the Iranians trying to convince
them I guess it was last year not to
allow the u.s. the u.s. is pulling out
of the Iran nuke deal to to force Iran
to pick up their enriched
of uranium again he wanted to he wanted
to convince them to hang in there and
essentially you know work with the
Europeans and Rubio wants to investigate
whether John Kerry broke the Logan Act
and I'll tell you something the it's so
perverse because there's so many
instances of people breaking the Logan
Act I mean Trump I think you know
arguably did during the campaign
certainly what Flynn did in the run-up
to to the Trump administration taking
office seems to have broken the Logan
Act Jared Kushner broke the Logan Act
others Erik Prince part of the
terrorists Prince I mean this happens
all the time
now usually it's for really horrific
things I think the Reagan administration
the people did too is with the with Iran
Andrey Kissinger right in the the Paris
peace talks yeah the Vietnamese Paris
peace talks usually when people break
the Logan Act
more often than not it is to encourage
killing and more war John Kerry was
trying to salvage a deal with Iran that
basically at the time eliminated a an
enemy of the United States I mean made
you know at least a one that create you
know could create real danger in the
world but of course Marco Rubio one of
the good Republicans
let's uh let's just take a look at this
before we go into the to the fun half
and the fun app we're gonna talk about
this there's a there's a criminal case
four or five I think defendants found
guilty in the marketing really I mean
marketing is I think under selling it of
subsys which was a a version of fentanyl
essentially that has been tied to the
deaths of tens of thousands of people
but like even the last year I think
twenty eight thousand people died of
overdose related to synthetic opioids
and it really is horrific it's it's the
perfect metaphor for the for the
pharmaceutical industry we will get to
that will also talk about big story and
in BuzzFeed about this fourteen year old
white sopran white supremacist I guess
at least I don't know what you would
call her all right you tuber you know
more more fodder for my understanding as
to why we focus on YouTube to the extent
that we do but here is uh Donald Trump
he is welcoming to the White House
Viktor Orban Viktor Orban is the
far-right wing leader of hungry you
remember the that Sepp Gorka his dad
mm-hmm was a part of the fascist crew in
Hungary I mean there's a nice tradition
in Hungary for far-right hierarchy
respectives yes exactly
hierarchy respecters and or bond has
basically staked out the most
anti-immigrant immigration and immigrant
position in Europe he
his party ran on a almost an exclusively
anti-immigrant platform the they have
passed our they have promoted a new bill
known as the Stop George Soros bill as
part of their electoral campaign that
many perceived as classically
anti-semitic it's the old school was
that conservative from POD save oh is
that right old school stuff does Donald
Trump have a problem with this do you
decide respected all over Europe
probably like me a little bit
controversial but that's okay that's
okay
and you've done a good job and you've
kept your country safe I will be
discussing NATO as you know hungry is a
proud member of NATO and whether he's
kept this country safe from as there as
there's some type of invasion of Hungary
that I'm not aware of Oh apparently
there is continue we've really gotten to
know each other a little bit and we'll
be discussing trade very much so and
lots of other subjects will be meeting
with representatives of hungry later on
with the prime minister and we'll spend
some very good time together so mr.
prime minister thank you very much for
being at the White House thank you very
much it's great honor Thanks um
moments later Trump was asked about the
reports of the of democracy itself
backsliding in hungry apparently Trump
not so worried
well people have a lot of respect for
this Prime Minister is a respected man
and I know he's a tough man but he's a
respected man and he's done the right
thing according to many people on
immigration and you look at some of the
problems that they have in Europe that
are tremendous because they've done it a
different way than the Prime Minister
there you go
tough man respect did I did it a
different way I mean they let Muslims
come there that's right big mistake big
mistake all right well we're gonna take
a break
head into the fun half of the program
Michael will join us when we get to the
fun half oh he doesn't want to hear it
folks he comes in I love it it comes in
already annoyed happy to see you guys
just feeling like a dog hmm all right
great yeah that Mundus itis it's really
tough and it's Monday site Oh Mondays I
had to get a Monday ectomy yeah cuz
you're sickness only active on Mondays
that's really weird all right we're
gonna take a quick break
just a reminder your support is what
makes this show possible you can become
a member of the show by going to join
the majority report calm when you do not
only did you support the free show not
only do you get extra content every day
but you also get that content commercial
free and you keep this show alive so
join the majority report com also just
coffee just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate used the coupon
code majority get 10% off
and Michael oh you're here so I guess
the show is happening tonight
castles it's like oh all right great oh
yes no I'm a villain again and it'll be
a great show
seven o'clock Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel patreon like it's gonna
be great you sound really up for it I'm
I'm working on it I'm gonna drink a
bunch of what does their sponsor again
look what I good IV the pump myself full
of liquid IV we all drink okay great
seven o'clock Michael Brooks show on
YouTube patreon.com slash t MBS and next
week we're gonna do the food bucket to
celebrate the 2,000 patrons are we
cooking that stuff by bucket bro
survival you get out of the bucket heat
source raw what you know what we're
gonna do is we're gonna order Chipotle
and pretend what do you watch a sprig a
I was hoping it's variable
I don't know can't you'd like beef jerky
or something like that I mean I guess
you gotta cook beef jerky point I
was expected it to be like sort of
burrito bowl type stuff maybe heat it up
into micro this good like dehydrated
like I found out how we're gonna make it
go viral on YouTube how is we take it
with the the term muck blog mukbang
sorry muck base is that the South Korean
thing that they just film me to film
them eating and talking and it goes it's
like hundreds of thousands of views I
don't necessarily know that I want that
to get hundred thousand no we do we
definitely wanted all right I'm sorry
beautiful let's let's do that and and uh
yeah see don't forget check out
patreon.com
the intifada jamie is also ill she's got
to just Tuesday itis and Matt I got my
do my illnesses over the weekend
like a good worker are inefficient I
have a feeling you're gonna have a
Wednesday up but pecked me yeah but
that's a scheduled
Wednesday ectomy I'm gonna take my cup
down literary hangover he witha we are
closing up on two hundo for patrons
we're gonna do Margaret Fuller who was
early socialist and feminist I mean she
probably would be probably with the
feminist part first but she became a
socialist in the 1848 revolutions and a
lot of people don't know about her so
we're gonna try to bring her to more and
more people as part of the Conchords
comeback yeah she but she outgrew them
Emerson was sort of like in stuck in his
individualist thing and and Fuller was
even romantically a little bit tied to
Emerson although nothing happened but
then fuller outgrew Emerson's
individualism when she was in Europe so
we're going to record that on Wednesday
actually so look forward to that so
patreon.com slash literary hangover for
those guys all right see you in the fun
half six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube breeze up their
buggy whipping like he's the boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you idiots
we're just going to get rid of you
alright but dude dude dude dude dude
dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's
win-win
oh yeah now listen to me two three four
five times eight four seven nine oh six
five oh one four five seven two
thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow third don't you see everybody's
taking their dumb juice today goodbye
dance dance dance
Rand Paul I had my first postal seat I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars yeah come here not they
accuse me you you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber silastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to are
these people Shitler with such
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
very very well done I think always all
right we're gonna take let's go to the
phones calling from a to10 area code
who's this where you come from
good afternoon Sam John from San Antonio
John from San Antonio I assume that
you've seen the latest report polling
that shows that Bernie Sanders has lost
a little bit of support amongst young
people have you seen that is there a
particular story or I mean that said I
mean every poll can can you can you can
measure it on every poll so I mean yeah
yeah I mean is there is there particular
stories I just saw anything that I just
saw a burning a morning consult poll
that shows that Bernie's support has
dropped from 45 to 33% from March to May
some of that went to Biden some of that
went to Warren maybe a little bit to
Harris Biden has picked up a bunch of it
what's your what's your sense of that
well I mean yeah I can I can see that
happening a little bit but I mean you
know one of the big controversies you
know with the Monmouth poll that came
out on Thursday in fact Bernie himself
addressed this on Al Sharpton show on
Saturday afternoon
when he was interviewing him was about
the actual numbers of people who were
pulled under 50 years old according to
exit polls from New Hampshire in 2016 it
was 50/50 and according to Monmouth a
pollster of Patrick Murray
it's basically 33 percent with 67
percent at going to 50 and older and so
you know those are incredibly large
discrepancies in terms of what they're
selling so they're there the the
estimation of who the who the electorate
will look like is very different right
now mr. Murray is basing this on what he
calls let's see what is it trying to
find it here it's you know he's saying
that it's it's based on a validated
voter rolls because you know there's
what they're saying is that did exit
polls basically favor younger voters and
there have been many articles written
about this also that say the same thing
and so you know a lot of its just
perception you know I think the younger
voters you know basically you know you
have to think what is the average age of
the voter in New Hampshire and 50 seems
like a pretty reasonable number as
opposed to about 60 right you know that
that does not seem right I have no I
mean that's what I mean that's just his
opinion I mean all right so in other
words there's a lot of noise in the
polls right now is your point
yeah sure there's there's just I mean
we'll see as time goes on I mean I
listen to a Brianna Joy gray yesterday
put out a thing with impulsion who's the
pollster for for Bernie and he
criticized also the SRS poll and which I
don't necessarily agree with and there
are some other things I didn't agree
with
him about New Hampshire polling was
actually pretty accurate there are a
couple of it we're pretty good at
university in New Hampshire poll and the
Marist Poll which actually predicted it
fairly well but anyway it's definitely
worth worth listening to and it's a good
it's a good podcast by Brianna Joy gray
so I definitely would recommend that so
you know I also enjoy the Ring of Fire
this weekend like I usually do in the
second segment with Digby you talked
about the cost of not impeaching could
be greater than the fear the cost of
impeaching here's a quote from you if
people listen and all ad read to the
first two chapters of public opinion of
the Moller report public opinion will be
severely in favor of in teaching this
guy here's my theory about this
Democrats are missing a massive
opportunity and I do think the cost of
not in teaching is growing in terms of
the most informed and most active voters
Nancy Pelosi can come out and say we're
not going to remove the president
because the Republicans are going to to
stand in our way they're going to
obstruct but we're going to impeach as
part of the job that we've been sent
here to do part of this job was sent
here to do this to do the people's
business part of the people's business
is holding lawbreakers to account we're
going to teach the president the
Republicans stop it and keep them in in
office that's on them but if we're going
to hold the president to account if the
full blown impeachment is perceived as a
censure at the very least we're going to
on the record the law breaking is
illegal and the disturbance of the
people we're here to tell you that you
can't do that we can't help but if the
Republicans decide to orchestrate a
jailbreak as it were on them the bottom
line is look at the writing on the wall
make the decision now and shift into a
focus of how we're going to do this and
maintain the political objectives we
have to holding to save to say into
account and convincing people that this
is the right thing to do and turn this
into a political positive instead of
perceiving this as a liability John did
you transcribe that whole thing
that's those my words on ring fire yeah
I mean sometimes you you repeat yourself
sometimes but I appreciate that yeah I
mean that's that's that's my sentiment I
mean I do think that there is a way for
the Democrats to frame this in a way
that can be both well I mean look
putting aside the question of should we
hold lawbreakers to account when they're
in our government which i think is
obviously yes I also think that there is
a politically successful way of doing it
and that than that I've laid it out
there you know more specifically I think
probably than I have on this program
where Nancy Pelosi should say we're
gonna do this we know that it's a futile
act but we need to hold him to account
people can perceive it as a censure
because we know that he's not going to
be removed from office
I mean lower the expectations of what an
impeachment will do so that you're not
perceived as trying to you know you're
not you're not perceived as Don Quixote
but rather you're perceived as like are
just impeaching even with the knowledge
that the Senate will not do it and it's
beyond them that they don't hold him to
account for his his law-breaking and his
abuse of office and you say but we need
to do that because we need the American
public and future presidents to know
that you can't do this and I think the
the process itself will I think be very
helpful for Democrats from as a as a
political as a political question I
think it's also going to be helpful for
the country in terms of holding powerful
people to account and I think it's going
to be damaging to Senate Republicans I
think the last thing in the world they
want is to have all
stuff aired in a way that captures the
public imagination and then be the ones
who stop it okay but you will
acknowledge it's quite a turnaround from
the you know the three debates that we
had right I mean your position and the
three debates no no my my position in
the debates was more about a fear of
impeaching prior to a 20/20 win but as
but following the release of the report
and following all the obstruction I
think there is really no choice and you
know in turn I mean but isn't that the
prediction the prediction that I made
was that did it video the well with the
phrase that I kept using was
overwhelming evidence and so I mean now
I wouldn't you know the evidence is
fairly overwhelming right just in the
report to I think it's also in their in
their in their refusal to allow for
congressional oversight I mean I think
it's I think it's like a nying of the
subpoenas I think it's the denying of
the unredacted report I think all of
that is is he's our grounds for
impeachment right I mean also like you
know you and we're also talking
about how the most likely way you
thought Trump was going to have damage
done to them was through investigations
into money laundering and none of that
is even happening right well there's
there's a subpoena out for for Deutsche
Bank and and presumably that's what
that's about and the Trump
administration is sued to stop that I
mean presumably that's what's going on
there okay well I mean I just just want
to say that you know it did I think that
you were you are pretty passionate about
your opinion in our debate and I don't
to be able to totally remember what what
the debate is but do you win
I don't know but I think I'm gonna
declare this one for you John Ronnie bit
moving nevertheless anyway we're in
agreement now John I think is what the
John I'm sorry I was frog that was Mike
all right there I also have a little bit
of a disagreement with you on the Senate
races you know yeah well why don't we
save that for tomorrow I don't want to
go 404 through GHI Thanks I gotta lick
my wounds buddy
I needed to help wrap that up pretty
passionate Sam yeah calling from a 509
area code who's this where he calling
from Oh Ronald Reagan um how are you
well you could have saved us a bunch of
times he just admit you were wrong once
in a while no way this shows gonna last
three are right I wasn't hey wasn't sure
where that was going but uh yeah real
quick going back to the beginning of set
gate
I think the studio gate I wasn't David
Pakman right David Pakman big defense
has been that he just moved and he's
going to be making changes to his studio
well he did recently make some changes
he changed some of his panels to sort of
an orangish red is uh only making it
look more like your studio and I just
think we have kind of a daenerys
targaryen situation our hands where your
strengths as like being a nice non
litigious guy is perceived as weakness
by your enemies and everyone thinks
you're a big now because you
refuse to put your foot down through the
screen there are some Ackman's most
recent I mean he's just straight I don't
see any
I'm not I'm not getting reports of any
new of any non blue colors in his in his
backdrop I I mean I so basically we're
just you're just gonna let it stand well
see ya
I mean first I come in love and if I
don't get that then I guess I guess I
gotta go with fear but you people don't
yeah no matter what I do it's just kind
of embarrassing wait this feels like
fake news Reagan I'm not seeing anything
any change to his set well it's true I
saw on the internet say alright I'll
find a screenshot yeah you better
I just wanted to yeah real quick yeah
now that I got the important stuff out
of the way so we raised a bunch of money
for a bond last year and it took me a
while but I finally got the 501 C 3 all
set up so the money is in the future
when we raise more money it'll be
tax-deductible great and we raised more
than what we needed to are sitting on
about four thousand dollars right now
and I put out a an email to the American
Immigration Lawyers Association
Washington State listserv sort of asking
for people to send me referrals of
anyone who might need assistance or help
so that's all moving forward though
there's a website it's pretty basic at
this point but it's Northwest bonplan'
org o RG Northwest and and fun org okay
and just to explain to you people this
is it is it just explain again what it
is for folks yeah so basically I was in
a position last year of having a client
to it you know really felt passionately
about but he got a bond set of $15,000
and there was just no way they were
going to be able to come up with the
money so we raised the money but when
you pay a bond like that the money goes
into sort of
like a government savings account and it
accumulates interest and then if you win
or if the client is deported and they
leave the country the money is returned
to you and I didn't want to be sitting
here with fifteen thousand dollars of
other people's money like three or four
years down the road so we set up a you
know an organization there's Articles of
Incorporation and it's it's a 501 C 3 so
so that when the money comes back it's
not coming back to me
the person the money is actually in the
name of this nonprofit and it'll just go
back to paying bonds for other people I
set up the and just so people know I I
set up the Articles of Incorporation so
that I I'm not taking any money I could
you know nonprofits do sneaky things
sometimes where it's like it's not for
profit and my salary is five hundred
thousand dollars a year I'm not taking
any money at all from the fund to pay
myself and if the fund ever folds I set
it up so the money will will be donated
to the Northwest immigrant rights
project so there's no back end windfall
for me that'd be nice but that's not how
its set up I just wanted people to know
that because I know it's a little while
taking me a minute to get it set up well
you can you can I'm sure you can find
all that information on the internet but
I can I can point people in the
direction of the arts this does look
pretty problematic I was talking about
an image right so give us the website
again yeah so it's the Northwest oh
sorry it's Northwest bond fund Oh RG all
right we'll put that answer you don't
have podcast yeah we don't have it set
up to take rolling donations if we find
another case what we're going to do is
just launch another go fund me and then
maybe have a go fund me that's not
attached to an individual so that if we
need to do anonymous donations but
before that be possible but if people
want information that's where it's at so
alright great in
thanks for making that happen that was
really you who who helped promote that
it made that all possible well good for
you for for doing it all right but let's
go return back to more critical issues
and we will put a link to the the bond
fund page in our podcast and our YouTube
description we do have an image of David
Pakman and a new set is this accurate
what is this picture well this is from
dark mare and on Twitter mmm so it looks
a little suspicious I don't know yeah I
guess this is the this is the we're
gonna air it and we'll have our forensic
experts look into it but there looks
like some orange accents on the left
side of his yeah it sure does I mean not
looks like it is orange accents unless
that now that's not clear to me that
it's actually his set but if it is it is
getting really problematic really
problematic so you set the tone you
already set the tone and then it's gonna
be real hard for you to go full hashtag
spoiler alert Daenerys season 8 episode
5 well it's my attorney you're gonna get
a lot of make it happen
he is my attorney you'll make it happen
alright appreciate the call to start
getting the paperwork ready right one
more call to five six you come from a
two five six
area code who's this where you come from
hey yeah this is Micah I'm calling from
Alabama actually Micah from Alabama
welcome to the program what's on your
mind okay so thank you it's the
difference in between a Democratic
Socialist and a social democrat
I am a supporter of Bernie Sanders aoc
you know a lot of things they've been
putting out there but whenever I started
going on the internet and kind of like
looking into it more getting real deep
into it I've been kind of hit by the
strange dichotomies where it's like oh
no no no you know that's just the first
step before we start going full
socialists and I'm like wait whoa I just
kind of confused awning what if
get your opinion about it well some
Democratic socialists want you know are
looking to do what you've talked about
abolish private property for instance
yeah or I mean I don't know how full-on
we're on the spectrum they would would
and in terms of you know how much
private property or whether it would
just be major industry but essentially
Social Democrats are are not necessarily
looking to wipe out capitalism but are
looking to increase the amount of
socialism look we we have a mixed we
have a mixed economy as it is right now
right we don't necessarily acknowledge
it in sort of the mainstream but Social
Security Medicare other program the VA I
mean we have socialism in this country
we have a mix I think well I think I
think I think Social Democrats are are
looking to increase the that balance and
where they'll and I don't think it's you
know specific and so you know it's a
matter of degree everybody's got a
different agenda but you know it was
funny I'm going to to talk about Air
America on another podcast as soon and
so I was going back and trying to find
any time I had talked about it on on the
air and I came across a video didn't
we're gonna we're gonna
I think clip this interview and play it
on a different thing but I heard an
interview I did with Chris Hayes back I
think like in 2008 or 2009 and he had
written a piece about the failure of the
Democrats this is you know in the wake
of the Obama election to do take any
type of legislative action that would
increase their power and in
the context of that that article that he
wrote called system failure I think it
was he tells the story of a of a German
Social Democrat who explained who told a
parable to explain you know what their
agenda was in terms of you know so you
the the Social Democrats may seek to
completely eliminate capitalism and have
a fully socialist state and the parable
he explained was the story of a of a I
think it was a farmer who had half a
dozen sons and upon his death he was
worried about them and so he told them
there was a pile of gold a huge treasure
of gold in the fields buried in the
fields go find it and the sons basically
dug up every part of the fields looking
for that gold they never found it
because it wasn't there but what they
ended up doing was tilling the soil so
effectively that it provided for all of
them in terms of their sustenance and
that parable is you know I think sort of
the the driving factor you you aim for a
North Star and along the way it it gets
you good things
can I just add real did you listen to
Friday's show with Bosch car some car by
any chance I did not know so I would
read his book and I think that it you
know there's a huge amount of sort of
variability but I do think like one
thing that you will see in this social
democratic Democratic Socialist
continuum is I would look up Olaf Palme
II I don't know if I'm pronouncing his
name correctly which I should at this
point but he was a former Swedish prime
minister who helped build the Swedish
social model and and I mean basically
what I would say the difference does
come down to if you're talking on the
continuum of democratic socialists for
Social Democrat
Democratic socialists don't want to
abolish private property or all private
enterprise but they do want to inject a
great deal more democracy into the
workplace so as an example Volvo was
actually a you know a union company at
one point and there was really serious
plans to UM make the sort of ownership
structure of major Swedish corporations
much more democratic in nature in terms
of elected representation and shared
sort of stakeholder value so and also
look up the modular cone collectives in
Spain that will give you a sense of what
some of the differences are it's all in
a continuum because it was a social
democratic government but they were
interested in injecting more democracy
into greater parts of the economy and
there are some distinctions there and
Sanders actually did support and
surprises like that when he was mayor of
Burlington okay yeah my main thing is
that it just seems like you know anytime
that you listen to the media you get a
lot of back-and-forth of you know Oh
Bernie Sanders want wants to turn the
United States into Cuba and then you get
a response of course not he wants to
turn it into something closer to Sweden
you know and the thing that I've been
getting I can assure you the Bernie
Sanders does not want to turn United
States into Cuba I mean the Cuba
conversation is worth having on its own
right but that's a ludicrous talking
point and you could let go of any
worries about the Cuban model here wait
no no I I understand that his goal is
not exactly you know to just get the
United States into Cuba but the thing
that does get me though is that whenever
they say oh no he wants to get in Sweden
there could be an argument where it's
like okay well you know that's actually
a social democratic state not a
democratic socialist state well I didn't
get into the semantics of this but you
also I mean there a president does not
have the ability to do any of what
you're talking about now with a Cuba
without with without you know a you know
congra
and the judiciary I mean I think like
the idea is that regardless of who we
elected as president I don't think that
there is a there's an individual in the
country who we could elect as president
who would be able to move this country
to Sweden I mean into a into a Swedish
model the point is broad principles
about what how democratic of a country
we should have who the economy should
work for right and how we define that
and what role government should have in
society these are broad principles that
you know obviously will commingle
with other principles that are contrary
to that so I think the idea of fearing
that Bernie Sanders is going to be too
radical for the country I mean if you
think it is too radical of an idea to
expand a program that serves one quarter
of the population right now to serving
essentially you know fifteen sixteenths
of the population then maybe you should
be concerned about Bernie Sanders but
beyond that I would say no you know
that's the you know the short of that I
don't think that's that's gonna be there
there's nothing that Bernie Sanders is
going to do and I would love it if it
was the case that's going to be any more
radical than what FDR did so I
appreciate the call he's not oh yeah I
would not I would not be too concerned
we allow Cuba I think Bernie should set
up our revolution as a sort of shadow
government and on day one but like sorry
not gonna do any that Supreme Court
stuff for nothing
like it's an outside paramilitary and
also I just declared us a democratic
socialist state there's literally
nothing that anybody could do it's
presidential decree I minted it on a
coid and you all can go yourself I
want to talk about this story I didn't
get much attention there is a story of
44 states that are suing
there's just a lot of civil in criminal
activity that's happening around
obviously the drug makers and you know
at this point it seems like it would be
a radical idea to not nationalize the
production of a lot of drugs and to
inhibit and to not intensely regulate
this industry the amount of criminality
the amount of market failure the amount
of collusion amongst drug makers would
make it almost a radical idea to not
dramatically increase regulation and to
produce our own generics we have a case
where 44 State Attorney General's are
suing generic drug makers over price
collusion we have the ongoing stories
about Perdue pharmaceuticals and the
sackler 's who are looking at potential
criminal liability for the way that they
marketed and produced with the knowledge
that they were basically selling a
highly addictive substance to people
under claims that it was otherwise there
are this story is just stunning one of
the other drugs that was out there that
was also a an opioid or at least a
synthetic opioid that the CDC says was
responsible for more than 28,000 deaths
in 2017 alone I mean think about this
you have 28,000 deaths
what is the algorithm how many of those
deaths correlate to just incredible
suffering and destruction of lives you
know how many people did not die and who
are addicted to these substances and
it's
destroyed their lives its destroyed
their families its destroyed their their
future and this is just it's stunning it
is the it is a case it's a criminal case
of the essentially the top executives of
a company called incest that made subsys
which is a spray version of fentanyl and
I I have a good friend who got addicted
defense no and fortunately survived but
was very lucky and there were five
guilty of five executives who were found
guilty on racketeering charges because
they bribed doctors to prescribe the
painkiller to people who didn't need it
these drugs were developed to deal with
the most acute cases of pain basically
cancer victims and what the what the
companies that produce these things did
was basically tell doctors like the guy
down the street who started to prescribe
these for you knows you're recovering
from surgery your D you've got back pain
and they're making a lot of money and
that's basically what happened it was
approved by the FDA in 2012 only for
cancer patients who had recurring pain
and they started to do off-label
marketing for this so these guys were
convicted and one of the things that
came out in the course of the case I'll
read some of this to you was
that they produced a rap video that
involved a couple of the executives
dressed as rappers they were singing it
is very professionally done they also
introduced a bottle of subsys that is
like the inhaler essentially the video
was titled great by choice
it was meant to train sales
representatives to push subsys to not
worry about the stuff as it were
basically in fact one of the executives
who was found guilty were dressed as the
spray bottle and they pled guilty to
participating in the scheme to bribe
doctors the bribes included stuff like
getting lap dances for the doctors
getting taking him out to dinner
competitions dedication $2,000 per
person dinners apparently at one point
there was panic in one executive who
shouted from his office about the
company keeping track of how much money
incest was making off of doctors who
were paid speakers they would go to
conferences and be paid by instance
without revealing that they were being
paid by in cysts and incest had a record
of how much money they were making out
of these doctors offices he was in his
office screaming we're all going to jail
and it turned out he was uh it's correct
but this is just gives you the mentality
of and really honestly like I don't know
these guys the only difference between
these guys in the pharmaceutical
industry
writ large is these guys on the cutting
edge of marketing and just a little bit
more hip in their minds we're gonna
really we're gonna we got a we got a
project baller status to our our sales
reps and here is some of that video we
have we've sped up just a little bit so
that we don't get dinged on YouTube but
here it is I love titration and it's not
a problem that is how you get off of a
substance that is physically addictive
so they're saying they good don't worry
the titration is gonna be easy
I got a lot of patients and I've got
even more of them this is where the
subsist bottle shows up
[Music]
38% of the industry at this point they
had already the subsist bottle had
already cornered go ahead beast this is
a good thing to remember when executives
say that they work like 80 hours a week
right
yeah there you go
yeah very motivational super competition
would start kicking in right there you
go
it's all happening that is so those guys
are going to go to jail and hopefully
more of them will and then hopefully
we're gonna have just the the the profit
motive is the same across the board with
these people and so you know the the
last concern that anyone should have is
that we're going to become too
socialized in the context of how we
regulate and maybe produce drugs you
don't think these guys and Martin
shkreli are just bad apples right well
you know the one of the greatest myths
is that one bad apple doesn't spoil the
whole bunch in fact it literally does
one bad apple which is why you should
not keep your your apples in a plastic
bag in your refrigerator you should
separate them and try and because they
excrete as they go bad they excrete a
gas which causes other apples to go back
so keep that in mind when bad Apple does
in fact this video was like that gas
spoil this boiled the whole bunch indeed
speaking of a bad apple years ago
Michael debated a British gentleman who
is now apparently running for a member
of parliament in in England under the
you keep party and apparently some
people have taken issue with his sense
of humor he was at one point this guy
Sargon of our card
carl of Swinton yes he was making jokes
about raping a female member of
parliament
this was well I mean the hustling making
jokes is a very broad term but he
claimed he was making jokes about about
raping a member of parliament but the
joke not necessarily terribly
sophisticated Lee constructed here is a
clip of that this is from a 2016
I thought feminism was about empowering
women arming the trolls the terrible
harassment won't someone think of the
women I know the feeling it's not the
viciousness of attacks I guess on the
internet that bothers me
positive talking apposite he is reading
a a statement from this member of
parliament just Phillips yes and here is
his he is one of those intellectual dark
web type of guys who who who you know
your your feelings don't care about the
facts or the facts don't care about your
feelings and he's very reasoned in his
arguments apparently I know the feeling
it's not the viciousness of attacks I
guess on the internet that bothers me
people talking about raping me isn't fun
but has become somewhat part of the
course
well I'll tell you what Jess I think
that's terrible and you know what I
wouldn't even rape you I wouldn't I
wouldn't even rape you not even what is
a real pain isn't ok so that's his
that's his big joke I would not even
rape you which we've heard actually you
know I think Donald Trump and volson aro
have all made various versions of theirs
but here he is subsequent to that that
caused a little bit of of controversy
and so subsequent to that I'm not sure
when was the second video it was
subsequent to that he was I don't know
where he was on the coast somewhere
doing a live stand-up into camera a
report on the apparently controversy and
he clarified his position there's been
awful lot of talk about whether I
would not even rape Jess Phillips I've
been a lot of trouble for my hardline
stance of not even raping her I suppose
with enough pressure on my cave but
let's be honest nobody's got that much
beer there you go the old I won't even
do her the favor of raping her joke
hilarious
and here he is like most right-wingers
he's on the the business on BBC yeah BBC
southwest
he's on BBC Southwest he's now running
for a Member of Parliament and it's just
completely offended that anyone would
actually like talk about that joke that
he as a grown man was willing to own a
couple of years ago but now apparently
his ambitions have changed in some way
and he doesn't want to have to own that
sentiment or even this apparently even
seemingly apologize for it
anything can be joked about that's the
point that's the reason we have jokes is
to remove the horror from a particularly
negative thing
that's why British troops survived so
well in the trenches in World War one
and - they were famous for their dark
humor to help them cope with life and
cope one second so sir gone of our card
is arguing that the reason why he was
joking about why he wouldn't even rape
this MP had to do with the horrible
situation that I guess we're all in
who's in the horrible situation that
he's making these jokes to make it
easier it was like in World War 1 when
both sides came together in no-man's
land
everything started telling rape ginger
all those who ever dead that was what
Dunkirk was like watching a nice routine
we all know about this so now he's not
only a comedian nice about the higher
expert an expert at rape jokes
he's also an academic about comedy there
we go
when British troops survived so well in
the trenches in World War one
- they were famous for their dark humor
to help them cope with life and cope
they were joking something awful was
going on around them you've conjured up
the notion of raping a woman a named
woman you created a problem for her I
said that I would not even do it this
was but it's a joke just relents that
was wrong it was a mean thing to say
there was also sideswipe presumably her
appearance in that or you know her
attractiveness your eyes what does any
of this got to do with politics that's
the point
you are standing for election she's
elected politician you bring that you
can you owe because you say these things
I mean if you just decided to engage
with Jess Phillips or any other
politician on brexit or the Health
Service or defense or the economy none
of this would have arisen you know
you're saying I highly controversial
things and then you're expressing
surprise that people take issue with it
I am expressing surprise that you will
actually lie about the way I said
something to it to rile up radically
left-wing activists to then come and
attack me in the streets of Truro and
call it a scuffle that broke out it
didn't break out we were attacked that's
it that's a totally deterministic way of
viewing it as if these left-wing
activists had no responsibility for
their own actions as if us going there
to have a dialogue and asking them to
talk is us being just as culpable as
them when they attack us okay unreal the
way that you frame these things okay I
just want to invite some comment from
other guests Molly what's your thinking
well I won't comment directly on what
your other guest said because that will
legitimize his misogyny and his racism
but my own I've done quite a study of
the rise of the far right and it's very
clear that these type of tactics of
provoking victimhood provoking violence
making attacks creating control see is a
tool that they use deliberately creating
division I represent people across the
Southwest in minority communities ethnic
minority communities who are very
fearful about rising hate crime and hate
speech and my job is to be in solidarity
with them and to resist all this kind of
behavior okay I see folks I think the
comments are disgusting
and I'd much rather talk about the
European elections than a fringe
candidate okay well that's the plan for
the rest of the program
there you go Wow you know there's a lot
of whining but I was mean to him
right everybody's mean to him
everybody's so mean it is it is is there
like some type of course where all these
right-wingers are going now were they
just basically when you find yourself in
an interview and people are actually
just holding you to account for your
positions or what you've stated you make
sure that you make this about some type
of unfair malign meant and an unfair you
know well as renewal should have been
open about his membership in the DSA
libertarian so many Baucus before we saw
the same thing with Faraj yesterday and
Shapiro and now we see this with sargon
of card it's it's all about the left
wingers they made me do it
he he lies actually earlier in that clip
he says that the the joke was made only
in the closed environment of his youtube
but he was tweeting out the link to it
he tweeted at the woman saying hey Jess
I wouldn't even rape you like what does
that mean the closed environment of his
YouTube well what they're saying is if
you would by the fact that these jokes
are like jokes and funny then like you
should know what you're going when you
go to a sargon of akkad channel but like
these tweeting is out in public forums
right yeah I mean I need you to itself
is fairly public what does that even
mean like I mean it's not you know
Howard Stern for years got in trouble
for what he was doing and he went into a
literally a closed loop where he was
just there was a subscriber base and no
one's saying that he can't say these
things if he wants to have his own
pay-per-view channel and nobody hears it
except for people who have paid for it
or even if he wants to have his own
YouTube channel and YouTube is okay with
the with a comedian who has such finesse
and expertise when it comes to rape
jokes that you know that's his right but
the idea that you can then enter into
the public discourse and be
to disown that part of what has got you
to that seat right right like I mean
that's why he's sitting there it's not
because he you know he came up with it I
just dumped myself Sargon about card I
had no shows and I just show up and I
start running for this and that's why
I'm on TV
you know Ben Shapiro shows up and it
doesn't you know I don't I don't need to
account for the fact that I called you
know any Jews who don't subscribe to my
narrow perspective on Judaism as not
real Jews you know the the idea that you
know Mike Tsarevich can go on Dave
Rubens show and Dave Rubin who
supposedly is so concerned about the
Coromant about non smearing and smear
merchants and dave rubin is gonna go
around going like i'm not responsible
for these things i mean you're all
adults you're all effing adults
you're responsible you want to move into
other segments of public discourse on
what you've said and either renounce it
and and explain where that came from and
where you are now on such a thing it's
not enough that Ben Shapiro has I've got
a page where I say the dumb things I've
said on social media was not just
question a social you know dumb things I
want to know when Ben Shapiro writes the
Jewish people has always been plagued by
bad Jews who undermine it within in
America those bad Jews largely vote
Democrat now 75% of Jews vote for
Democrats at least and so now he's
saying those bad Jews largely vote
Democrats so he's saying that the
majority of bad Jews who exist he won't
say how many of those are vote Democrats
so either there's a small number of bad
Jews according to him and they just add
to the overwhelming number of good Jews
who vote Democrat
but I would like him to basically
explain to me what is it what
constitutes a bad Jew in his mind and
where in Judaism is there anything any
doctrine that suggests that Ben Shapiro
has any authority to determine who is a
good Jew and a bad Jew I mean this is
frankly anti-semitic I mean I would like
to hear an explanation of how many Jews
does he think are bad the ones that
aren't Orthodox according to him is that
I mean has he said that I feel like
that's what he said what today order you
yeah I mean he went to the border of
that you know to the boy and Andy I
think also any Jew voted for Obama he's
also gone to the border of I mean he is
calling the majority of Jews in this
country bad certainly in the majority of
Jews that exist bad
I find that disgusting and I would like
to see him held to account look there is
a long history or certainly a history
amongst all peoples of other people who
are willing to to attempt to claim
superiority and determine who is a good
a good Muslim or a bad Muslim or a good
Jew or bad Jew I mean in Catholicism at
least there is some type of structure
ostensibly where you know supposedly the
Pope can do this we have no Pope in
Judaism the rabbi is not in charge of
people we live as Jews now under a
rabbinic Jewish tradition that started
in Jana of some 3,000 years ago mm where
are we I don't know
mm some odd years ago and the idea that
Ben Shapiro is out there dictating who
he says are good Jews and bad Jews and
this is disgusting this is the this is
you know frankly things that the son two
commandos did right
and I'm I'm offended I would like to
hear an explanation for these things not
just that it was a dumb tweet that's not
a ticket to I want I mean I want this
guy held to account to explain what he
means bad Jews that is I mean look I
want to talk about anti-semitic trope
bad Jews I don't know people like that
should be held to account
speaking of just bad people here is a
here is a Georgia Senator David Perdue
trying to justify and you know Georgia
now there is a call for boycott Georgia
is a center for production film and TV
production in the country North Carolina
has some Georgia has some The Walking
Dead and is shot down there and the
other shows the former episode of their
last season of queer uh Atlanta you know
there's a lead Atlanta has a lot of
production Turner Broadcasting down
there and this abortion bill that has
passed in Georgia which is not in effect
yet but there was a could prevent
victims of rape from getting an abortion
would effectively ban abortion for the
vast majority of women who don't find
out that they're pregnant until usually
five or six weeks at least after they
become pregnant this is a bill that
would criminalize women leaving the
state to go to a state where abortion is
legal and the way they're justifying it
now
you know for a long time they tried to
do with late term abortions and the fact
is that there's so few of those that are
in any way elected in to the extent that
they are elective they are only done so
obviously with the consent of a doctor
of a medical practitioner they now have
created this myth of infanticide of
children that have been born and parents
decide like I don't want the kid now and
we're gonna kill it
as opposed to some babies that are born
with the full knowledge that they will
not survive and come out either in
writhing pain or severely debilitated
and cannot be maintained their life
cannot be maintained and that happens
obviously very rarely it's very painful
and certain instances these children
that the the mother is given the choice
do you want it to be recorded as live
birth or not alive birth because the
baby basically is born dying with death
imminent as opposed to theoretical you
know ultimately going to die but this
has become a talking point for them
because they know they're losing this
battle it's definitely in the forefront
of our minds now she can get backfired
on those Democrats when they all said
you can have an abortion even after the
baby's born or kill the baby after
baby's born so well Angely that's what
so how's it we're positive less
incredible this is it this is it yeah
this is Fox and Friends we're Ainsley
Earhardt is basically saying Democrats
are in favor of infanticide which
incidentally is illegal
when they all said you can have an
abortion even after the baby's born or
kill the baby after baby's born so well
ain't like that's what's so ironic we're
talking about this law in Georgia
nobody's even talking about what has
just been passed in a state by the
Democrats I mean that is outrageous and
fantasizes where they have gotten to
this regime on their side has gotten so
radical that they think that's okay well
George is taking a stand sin yeah it's I
mean the the Republican Party it's just
like you know some psychopath
psychopaths complete psychopath show me
a little white baby another sacrifice
I'm second aboard a white baby till they
were the grapes Sam meanwhile speaking
of Gris
Candis Owens out at turning points USA
unclear why what led to that separation
between it's possible she might feel
that she could make more money out on
her own
and I'd have something to do with the
fact that certain chapters were
complaining about her presence air in
prominence at T P USA following her
Hitler nationalism comments that could
if it also could be that she has you
know has been to Hitler friendly
although maybe she got sick of stuff
like the what seems to be a real rash of
coincidental eruptions of white
supremacy amongst specific chapters of
turning points USA leaders of the church
leaders of the chapters and really
there's nothing else except for the
chapters I mean of course you know
Charlie Kirk goes around to say hi to
the chapters but it's all about right
it's all about the actual school's
latest is Las Vegas the University of
Nevada I think it was UNLV and you know
of course we've seen these problems I
think they were in Florida they had
problems and and actually in the
executive leadership I think initially
there was also some major white
supremacy problems yep
things like texts or whatever it is you
know their internal discord channel
essentially like a make sure
you know don't hate on Jews for no
reason there's nothing worse than hating
on the Jews for no reason when there's
so many reasons but here is Candace
Owens tapping into where the big money
lies and that is in the circle jerk that
is the IDW and with Dennis Prager this
is a it's branded by both organizations
so I'm not sure who's who show it is if
it's a Prager you show or the Candace
Owens show I think the Candace Owen show
exists under the fragrant new umbrella
yes I'm not that's not surprising and
here is Prager obviously famous for
bringing on folks like Dave Rubin saying
it's so helpful that you identify as a
liberal because it helps from a
marketing perspective and Dave Rubin was
like wait a second here undercutting my
sales pitch they're doing that for you
you're saying you're saying the quiet
part loud what's going on
and here's Candace Owens making her
pitch as to how she can effectively make
the overwhelming Lee white audience for
Prager University feel good about
themselves and their racism what's scary
to me is not that they're that they're
preaching it's lunacy but that some
people are grasping on to it some people
said to me when I got engaged my fiancee
is white I can't believe you're marrying
a white man and what I said back so then
my retort was well why don't we just put
back in Milazzo white man let me ask you
I'll bet you those who said that are all
black
that's correct that's why whites don't
give a damn if whites and blacks there's
more racism in the black community
causing one let me just uh he didn't
fully develop this point about whites
not giving a damn about whites and
blacks marrying he may not be it was
ironic that he said that after she had
mentioned anti-miscegenation laws which
of course were laws in this country for
the vast majority of this country that
were not put in place by black people
it wasn't black people during Ricans
it was around very long it was named
organizing against they organized they
were like you can't have the 17th
apparently the history department at
Prager University is woefully
understaffed and they did not give him a
heads up on they better get more
tax-deductible donation they're probably
actually is a guy with like a mail-order
diploma Prager you who has like a theory
of like the black creation of an T I
wouldn't be surprised
whites don't give a damn if whites and
blacks now there's more racism in the
black community than in the white I mean
it's it's so it's one of the truths that
because the left has as I say everyday
truth is not a left-wing value it's a
liberal value it's a conservative value
it's not a left-wing value
so since the Left dominates this course
you can't say that truth right but a
camel Harris by the way is married to a
white man you never see him that you
notice that I'm Lemon easy Don lemons
male-male love or feel they married I
would like to ask him if whites are for
all does your does your white partner or
husband or whatever it is this is he a
racist I mean the guy's a bad you he's
it Breger spends a lot of time in the
black community so he knows how embedded
what's up brothers let's discuss racism
you know the interesting thing about
this exchange is it suggests to me that
they don't understand that there is a
relevance to power dynamics in these
conversations and I don't know what it
is about that conversation that made it
so obvious to me I mean obviously you
know there's nothing profound but there
was something about that conversation
that just really I mean Dennis Prager is
probably one of the the top guys working
in the field of
making sure why people don't feel bad
about their racism or their misogyny
right I mean I think that's like his
that seems to be his that seems to be
what the university's mission statement
is race pendeks are rational right below
it's it's fascinating but she has moved
on to her new grift Candis Owens good
for her and of course Prager University
let's play this clip you know in the
past the you know I was watching that
that Ben Shapiro a clip of when he was
on BBC and aside from the sort of
incredible beauty of him refusing to
justify his positions and claiming that
someone maybe arguably to the right of
him at least in terms of like sort of
like principled conservatism old-school
classic conservatism claiming that that
guy was a radical lefty it was
interesting you know and now of course I
have never been one who is balloon the
lack of civility in our political
discourse I think that's actually a
silly thing to cry about I think that's
something you do when you don't like the
fact that people are actually making you
account for your own positions and that
is a safe refuge that's basically what
the and you know for conservatives
aggrievement is the fundamental bedrock
of their project and so you get things
like the intellectual dark web we we can
only exist in the dark web despite the
fact that we are in the exact same web
as everybody else but don't scrutinize
this web right the it's it really is
it's the yeah the the intellectual don't
scrutinize us web is what what they
really want to be in but Shapiro was
being accused of hip
ah Kersey I think because he wrote a
book by moaning the the crass nature and
the polarization of our politics because
of the because of the bad faith of
different actors in there and then the
guy you know said well your your youtube
videos are all Ben Shapiro destroys this
and destroys that and Shapiro's response
was of course the well reasoned response
of I don't title them and which you know
I understand that I don't title our
videos I only know what maybe a small
percentage of them are titled but the
real response really should be and the
honest response is this is the medium
the nature of the YouTube medium is that
you need to have sensationalistic titles
to work the algorithm to get the videos
seen now the content themselves that's a
different story
and I don't I don't think that excuse
works in terms of the content the
titling I think is much more benign
ultimately than the content and and so
and certainly I think our titles are
similar now I've never written a book
saying that we need to have decorum and
in pleasantry in political discourse I
don't I don't I don't think that is a
value we should pursue frankly I'm just
I don't I don't care I don't think that
we're you know we're not this this is
not being back but the reason why and
then frankly you know for a long time I
was very resistant to do things like
optimizer to allow you know hire people
to optimize our videos in terms of the
titling because I thought it was sort of
base the the fact is is that not only is
it that a requirement of the medium but
the medium is increasingly becoming
the way in which young people get their
politics and so if we want to influence
future generations we need to speak to
them because we are facing and I don't
want to see Bill Nye I want to see the
the this is number 13 there's a story in
BuzzFeed about a 13 year old girl who is
a I think you could describe her as alt
right
she is a red pilling right winger she
works with a collaborator we don't know
who that collaborator is it's quite
clear they are writing her scripts with
her and her YouTube name is so it's
really not so much about her per se she
she has a yes she's she IDs sometimes as
a joke as like an FBI agent I guess in
certain times I mean they you can check
out her website but there's two stories
this one and I'm reading a story about
in The Washingtonian about a 13 year old
who joined the alt-right gone onto 4chan
feeling isolated from his friends had
gone through had been punished at a
private school idea this happens quite a
bit of the private schools because the
private schools are self-conscious about
their lack of diversity either racially
or in terms of economics that has been
my my observation in terms of like a lot
of private schools in New York City I
mean I don't have a kid who goes there
but I I know people who go there and I
read about them and I think that times
they become hypersensitive to any
possible offenses and kids get in
trouble for things that like you know a
public school where there's some measure
of socio-economic diversity
they just like it's just a it's just a
problem that you have with kids and they
just deal with it in that way this 13
year old who the I guess it's a mom
wrote about then you join the alt-right
God isolated had to fall out with people
at school got on 4chan gone some reddit
subreddit though threads and became an
alt writer I don't know what the story
is with this fourteen-year-old girl but
this is where you know this is the kind
of information kids are getting she's
doing videos that are just do we have
the like the the simple video that first
one where she's just like you know
videos like that that any normal
twelve-year-old would do all part of her
channel and she started out as just sort
of like I think you know a benign
youtuber maybe I don't know if I will
put my kid on for at 12 but he was again
a twit not twitch but like stream
trivedi video games all right where do
we have that find out because I want to
show an example first of where where she
started yeah here it is okay this is her
talking about Halloween now she's using
you know fairly you know explicit
language for 12 year old although I have
feeling my daughter uses same language
when I'm not around
but she's complaining about people's you
know like costumes at school during
Halloween and but she's grown into
something much more know here she is
she's picked up like some video from
like a dr. Phil episode about a black
mom and her kid and whatnot
no let's go back into the middle we had
picked out some times I thought but yeah
right there just go pick it up there you
could hear some of this good so you have
to offer a limits itself to this oh
that's just awful that's just I'm not
surprised she saw treant a Chanel swear
finger-wagging isn't a productive means
of communication my daughter does spend
a lot of time on social media I don't
even look at her Facebook page it's too
painful positive now this is the story
of a mother whose kid is has become like
critical of black people and they're
both they're both black the mother and
the daughter but it is on dr. Phil it's
one of those sort of sensationalized the
stories but she is commenting on you
know why the why the the kid is right in
her critique of black people but it's
good speech so if Chargers post and get
her banned they weren't as bad as her
mother made them out to be if a Facebook
page is too painful for someone to show
her poll and watch her go into a
permanent coma as a parent I kept
expecting her to just outgrow it and
thinking she would change I pretty much
was like an ostrich put my head in the
sand and if it's getting worse I bet
this is what Jeffrey Dahmer's mother
thought too before he started melting
people in vats acid can't say I'm
surprised my expectations of this
woman's parenting skills weren't very
high judging by her out to lunch
demeanor how she remembers to wipe is
beyond me interested in doing this story
because I think it's a teachable moment
and not for sensationalistic shock value
because of some of the outrageous things
that she says so I don't think she's
doing them to get attention
I think she's doing because this is how
she actually feels and believes did you
agree yes I do
she says she's white right from a very
early age this might be the only
accurate assessment in the entire video
what I don't get is if they know that
she actually means what she says why do
they act so dismissively towards her my
guest says that they're too busy morally
grandstanding about it to actually have
a discussion with her about her mindset
that might just be a lack a cop
and on their part though I'd wager that
the majority of people who recognize
racism to be wrong haven't ever
formulated a proper explanation as to
why they think so I'm not saying
everyone has to have a profound
understanding of everything but if these
vultures are going out of their way to
bother this girl they should at least
articulate their reason for doing so I'm
there you go
people don't have proper understanding
about what racism is and according to
her that or why it's wrong I mean it
goes on there's other stuff she has done
videos about Muslim rape gangs and
social justice homos and the evils
wrought by George Soros she has said
stuff she's done a so-called comedy
videos I've become a devout follower of
the Prophet Mohammed suffice to say I
have having an F ton of fun of course I
get raped by my 40 year old husband
every so often I have to worship a black
cube to indirectly please an ancient
Canaanite God but at least I get to go
to San Francisco and stone the out
of some gays according to her and the
cops can't do anything about it because
California is a crypto caliphate these
are the type of videos that she's doing
she does she does some of the classic
Serna pedo videos in Hollywood she
does misanthropic videos all reminiscent
of 4chan opposed she she apparently on
her discord channel is even more hateful
and the bottom line is you know she's
getting she has 800,000 subscribers to
her channel report the channel she has a
couple hundred thousand views per video
at least she has attempted to challenge
YouTube to ban her but apparently they
are nervous about doing it this is you
know we have seen versions of this in
the past you know Jonathan Crone we had
on this program I you know I think 2012
I think it was maybe your so and he
as a kid that would that Marin and I had
talked about it at America years before
but this is of a different order and
there is a there's a whole new
technological platform for people like
this and it's very disturbing and
frankly this is you know why we do the
YouTube stuff is to get in there and to
to in some ways mitigate the messages
these kids are getting and you know I
don't know that we alone can compete and
you know the dozen or so people in this
space I don't know that they can compete
but we try I mean YouTube demonetised
sargon of akkad channel over the weekend
they should definitely you know at least
to monetize if not just disable this
channel we'll see I mean it is up to
YouTube in advertisers if they want to
be associated with this stuff that's all
I mean look the there are advertisers
who come to us that I say I don't want
because I don't want to be associated
with them there are advertisers who look
at my program and say oh I don't want to
advertise with him
that won't be associated with the you
know left-wing proposals or politics or
whatever it is it's perfectly a
legitimate in my mind I mean I don't
know I mean I I think you know these
companies can be pressured I think
that's a very good case for breaking
them up into smaller entities so that
there can be you know gab you can go on
gab instead of Twitter and let your you
know your right-wing freak flag fly as
it were but in areas that are you know
we have laws in this country that say
that you know if you're you're selling
pornography on the street you know the
magazines you can't can't put them can't
display them in such a way that people
on the street can you easily see it and
I think that's legit
who's your comrade ah I am I've been
keeping a list of books of your
interviews and I wanted to buy and read
yesterday I went to both the secondhand
bookstore and Barnes & Noble they didn't
have a single one in stock but could
order for 38 bucks each they did have
every I ran Glenn Beck and Trump memoir
from as early as the 80s in the stock
can you please ask your interviewers if
there's a direct way we can buy their
book outside of major retailers
we should put a link to the publishers
may be the best way to do it going
forward let's go to the phones I don't
have too much time for more calls but
six for six who's this where you come
from he said this is trained boys from
New York how are you train boy what's on
your minds um well I had a couple things
but I don't want to keep you too late so
I'm starting to get worried that the
Democrats are deliberately throwing the
Senate so that they don't have to do
anything and can keep on fundraising off
of them the horror of the GOP government
for the next however many years I I
don't think they have that level of
coordination and in planning frankly
that would almost be encouraging if they
if I thought they had that type of
foresight but no I don't think that's
the case I do think that Chuck Schumer
is a disaster and I think that there is
you know you need someone who's going
around to convince I mean he's the one
who's presumably talking to candidates
right and potential candidates and
saying here's what a Democratic Senate
could look like like I need to tell you
like air America I remember at one point
during our bankruptcy saying to the to
the the chief operating officer or
whatever I was at the time was like I
think I have someone who has some money
and the guy said to me well if he's
looking to make money this is not the
bet
I was like what what it what aren't you
supposed to be going out there getting
you know we're raising funds and he was
just a you know they were just like they
were morons and I don't know if you know
it's possible he thought he had a better
source of funding that would keep him in
that position and he didn't want someone
on the outside and which you know maybe
it's sort of the scenario you're talking
about some measure of it but I don't
understand why Chuck Schumer wouldn't
want certain candidates in the race
although it's conceivable to me that
like maybe a better O'Rourke scares him
a little bit coming from Texas maybe you
know I don't know maybe he would rather
have a heidi heitkamp type of person
somewhere and so I don't think there's
any question about that and so he might
he might have in his mind like I'm gonna
influence other people instead of like
concentrating on a bet oh I don't know I
really don't know but and at what point
do you have to say like in companies
become bad well it doesn't matter
because I mean the the agenda really
doesn't change I don't you know the
you're talking about the classic
question that evil are stupid and I
think it's usually the answer is a
little bit of both and but regardless
you know the agenda has to be the same
like I you know I I would love to see
Chuck Schumer out of that position in
the Senate yeah and I think you know I
think to the extent that you know
certainly the Senate the Democratic
caucus has moved to left but there's
also some major structural problems to
that that we have where you know there
is there's a couple of states that are
just very difficult to get now for
Democrats and the way the Senate is
structured is it's a problem for
Democrats and I second Kings we were
talking that Viktor Orban earlier yeah
and one thing that a lot of people don't
know about him
and I wish I could reverse the road read
this but when he first acts as Prime
Minister we see nationalizing hungry
electrical current so now whenever you
get your electricity bill it has two
numbers honest it has the number of your
code and the number we would have been
paying and the grid not be nationalized
so robot gets to but a little picture of
his face there and advertise so smart
smart and incredibly evil you know you
know not that policy you know the
unfortunate things I mean weren't doing
it but that's the right path George
George Bush I look one half of national
 and their rightful people
forgot that George Bush had a stimulus
plan in I think it was in 2004 maybe
before right before the election and he
literally you know there's a couple of
ways you can do that right you can just
cut people's taxes you can do a brief
moratorium on people's taxes they chose
not to do that they chose instead to
send everybody a check for two hundred
and forty three dollars so that everyone
would know it came from George Bush and
it was a mistake appreciate the call
train boy
choo choo right that's no that's a I
think he was pointing out that was the
Obama during the stimulus got convinced
by you know the the pointy heads around
him but he loved listening to that they
shouldn't point out the tax cut in
people's payroll taxes so what happened
was was when they kicked back in
Republicans were like he increased your
taxes because he wasn't taking credit
right for a cut that existed right very
well played
call him from an h-60 area code who's
this where he come from
hi there it's Mike from San herself Mike
what's on your mind I was wondering
about the
a recent Washington Post op-ed basically
talking about how the Maduro regime is
surviving despite US sanctions because
of drug money and i was wondering about
the efficacy of those claims the the
validity of those claims or do they have
traction are you asking are you asking
if those to the attraction is that
legitimate is that the reason why the
regime is able to purse it definitely
not the like i don't know i imagined
it's conceivable i think there's you
know there's a decent amount of
corruption i don't know how much of that
is drug money but it's definitely not
literally the only reason i mean you
can't get the amount of resistance that
they have on the streets because of a
small amount of drug cartel money and
networks like there's no doubt that from
what i've seen that yeah there's
elements of the government that are
involved in cartel trafficking I don't
think and by the way I'm sure that that
would not change with a regime change
but the people being out on the street
resisting an intervention no definitely
not appreciate the call come from for10
area code who's this where he come from
this is ruby even from Maryland rube
David from Maryland what's on your mind
I was so long time listener first-time
caller I joined last week because I
found out that Dave Rubin was going to
be at the University of Delaware
I made a short trip there yeah and I
don't know if you saw the club yet
because there is a clip of somebody
asking about you guys and he briefly
goes over Pakman but I specifically
asked him about Pakman and that's where
he said that Pakman has also lied to him
a bunch of times have you have you seen
that Club but are you at home just take
my answer off here are you Evan let's go
ahead no oh okay no I didn't I didn't
see that clip is that a new clip is that
a different clip no so if you search for
leftist asks dave rubin questions at
university of delaware you'll find it
it's six minutes i started off with some
other questions because somebody else
had asked about you and butchered your
name and the name of the show so i
started with something else oh well then
you should have asked about us because
why i did that so like I said it's six
minutes so okay I started off with
something else and then the second
question was about you guys
Daler youtube is you know this is he is
he is a dishonest actor and you know I
say this not to avoid talking to him I
will talk to anyone and I will tell him
to his face if he wants he's a dishonest
actor if he if it makes him feel more
comfortable for me not to say that to
his face I'm willing to not say to his
face you're a dishonest actor I'm
willing to just exclusively talk about
issues because I'm curious his positions
do not seem coherent to me and or he can
just have me on a show and ask me the
same type of hard-hitting questions he
asked his other guests this would be
what that shows for and I am happy to
have that platform to espouse a
different set of ideas then he will
typically have on there so I'm happy to
do it and I'm happy to have him make the
the terms public and I will there are no
terms in which I will not sit down with
him in any venue at any time at any
place if I have to bring my kids because
I don't have a babysitter I will do
are you okay I still talk to misspell
there yeah all right
what he told me and everyone else is
that if if the guests he has on are not
left enough then the problem is with the
people asking the question so Eric
Weinstein is as left is beginning he's
going to get I guess I see well I mean
that is I mean that is his play and you
know my my project here is because I
think it's very unlikely that he'll have
me on I would I would love it if he did
and but I have a dual agenda one is to
make it clear that I would love to sit
down with him under any conditions that
he wants to propose under any terms
again any place but the other one is is
that if he refuses to do that I just
simply want to make it clear to the
world that his marketing is inconsistent
with his actions and so that is that is
my agenda and you have helped further
that in some way and I appreciate it
thanks just take a look at the clip when
you get a chance thank you thank you
let's go we'll take one more call come
from a 2:06 area code who's this where
he come from
hey yes it is you alright hi my name is
Eddie I'm a California Eddie from
California what's in violent um I just
wanted to kind of speak to what you were
saying earlier about your video titles
and the way that you use them sort of
get them into the YouTube algorithm to
get them working in there because that's
actually how I found you guys I'd been
kind of watching some West Wing stuff
and your guys's videos just started
auto-playing and I got into the majority
report michael brooks show Thank You
father stuff and I think that I think
that's a that now especially
like there's a place for this kind of
content on YouTube like even though
there are these like really messed up
channels that have like so many
subscribers like that's they like now
like even Carl Carlson didn't like his
there's a Calcott demonetised
I think there's a time for people who
are smaller or pretty much anybody to
start making content along the lines
that promote this shows values I guess
I'm sorry I'm a little nervous right yes
no I mean I I mean I think you're right
and I don't know that there isn't there
hasn't always been room for it it's just
that I think that you know our material
in particular was never really built
with YouTube in mind first this show
started as a am talk radio show it then
became a podcast and it was until a
couple years ago maybe halfway through
its inception maybe a little bit less
that we even started doing live video
streaming we would we would clip some
stuff but it was all you know a second
you know second for afterthought and
it's still more of a radio show in many
respects than most YouTube shows most
YouTube shows that's why you know some
people will say like what you do you
didn't make a video on this and I said
well we talked about it but we just
didn't clip it and because most YouTube
shows are shot segment by segment so the
segment's you see on YouTube are are
created just as a segment people plan it
out they sit down with it they do it and
then to the extent that there's a full
show they sew that together we don't do
it that way we do two and a half hours
sometimes more sometimes rarely less and
then we just clip it after the fact and
we don't really know exactly where we're
gonna go what the order of the show is
going to be it just basically free flows
and you know so optimizing the videos
and getting people to understand that
we're slightly different product then
most of the other type of shows has been
a little bit of app hill climb but I
think we've hit some type of critical
mass where people sort of get it so yeah
appreciate the call Eddy
thank you thank you thanks for watching
listening doing whatever you're doing
alright we'll take one more phone call
we got a lot of people have been hanging
on for a long time let's just pick a
number five five three zero
who's this where you come from
hello hello this is oz for Mount Shasta
odds for Mount Shasta welcome to the
program yes sir thank you you know I
hear I keep hearing about democratic
socialism of Social Democrats I'd like
to hear a lot more about libertarian
socialism which is what I'm more into
and I'd like to tell you my take on how
the military and police would operate
and that kind of system and let's look
at the Second Amendment what it actually
is supposed to mean when you talk about
well-regulated militia I mean that's
supposed to be more like a Swiss style
militia a people's militia not a
offensive military of Empire and the
police and military would function in
the same way that jury duty does
basically you know I'm a veteran and I
think that uh our military I'm a veteran
in the US Marine Corps and I think that
it's just completely wasteful a lot of
the stuff you know that our military
does and we're the you know either
military is the excuse me the largest
one of the largest polluters on the
planet yep and it's completely
inefficient the things that we do that's
just one thing another thing you know
but that crazy abortion law you know
with the same the same argument that
they're making I mean wouldn't teraterm
a teratoma tumors
I guess should be left alone them
because they have you know eyeballs and
teeth and hair growing out of them right
well let me ask you that let me let me
ask you this I mean
what what is it that what why do you
identify as libertarian I don't an
anarcho-capitalist I'm not that's not
the libertarian that I'm talking about
I'm talking about west wing
libertarianism yeah I just I mean I
think I I'm curious as to what that word
means to you in that context I'm
basically individual autonomy
self-reliance self sustainability and I
mean do you perceive let me do what I
want as long as what get me do you
perceive that as you were about to say
let me do as long as what I want to do
as long as it doesn't hurt anybody else
how does that jibe with a with the with
the socialism which necessarily
basically subscribes to the idea that
we'll have a democratic process to
determine you know different things that
society will do collectively that what
well it's basically more
anti-authoritarian because when you have
too much bureaucracy I'm not anti
bureaucracy but when you had too much of
centralized power it becomes
authoritarian would you consider George
Orwell a libertarian socialist uh he's
kind of you know he's bounced around
across the map on a lot of things but uh
you know I'd have to look more into you
know he used to work for the BBC correct
right so I mean I guess what you see
yourself in what kind of linear did you
see yourself in like where is this
coming from
well I come from an agrarian background
and you're kind of stumping me I guess
yeah but I'm kind of nervous to you
calling and no no worries I mean I don't
mean too much I know
I'm I'm I let me tell you let me tell
you this
I support voluntary collectivization
especially in farming pertaining that
you know smaller and medium-sized farms
but collectivization has to be voluntary
because if you have someone forcing you
to collectivise your farm then that's a
Thor carryin yeah I mean I have I mean I
and and I think you know you can go back
and listen to some of the debates I've
had with like Adam Koch Esch or even
Walter Bobby he's a right winger I'm not
right we know I understand but there are
specific there are specific arguments
that I've made in regards to the idea of
a monopoly of force and you know I
believe like I understand I understand
the you know argument against property
rights and I I agree with it well Ruth
you I saw the enormous I saw the are uh
I saw the debate with you and cook -
about the shirt thing ya know I mean III
the the property rights are there - but
I do believe there needs to be a
monopoly of force I do believe that
there needs to be you gotta let me
finish okay maybe I'm I'm sorry good I
do believe that there needs to be
monopoly of force and there needs to be
an authority which we which we and I
just I think there needs to be a healthy
dose of democracy in terms of how we
establish that and there needs to be
checks and balances and but that we need
to subscribe to that you know and just
as I don't know what your sense is about
taxation but it seems to me the dynamic
is is basically set and if we're going
to have a society that at the very least
pursues socialistic principles of you
know democratizing the the the the the
wealth of society and the benefits of
society and the responsibilities of
society you you need to have you know
people need to be some people are gonna
need to be forced to do that to some
extent
you know not everybody's gonna want to
pay higher taxes yeah I support
nationalization of natural resources you
know at minerals and timber I'm a
forester and arborist and you know I'm
basically a lumberjack and I see how
Pacific is owned by RJ Emerson he's like
the third largest landowner in the US
and I live near you know Mount Shasta
red in California is a and and
that guy the only jobs here are a retail
and service jobs or working for him and
he he pays crap and he has all these
mansions and we have this terrible
homeless problem here and well I think
Timbers should be nationalized water
should be nationalized he boone pickens
wants to take over water you know well I
guess my sense is this water with
national what let me let me cuz I get it
I got to get going here but my sense is
this is that the there there is no
escaping the fact that at least it seems
to me at least in in in you know broad
you know in large swaths of human
history I mean I guess we've had more
collectivist and more lateral societies
as opposed to hierarchical ones but I
think you know particularly in the
context of our country I don't you know
with these money and the amount of
people that we have I think it's either
gonna be a government or it's going to
be corporations and and just wealth that
is going to have some type of monopoly
of force and I would prefer it be
government because we have a mechanism
in which to make that more democratic
and but we can talk more in the future
but right now I cannot if we do that I'd
be directing my sir director Mach 3
you're a democracy understand what's
gonna work I appreciate that but the
problem is we have 300 million people
and that's direct democracy is just not
going to happen I think we need to I
mean personally that's why I actually
you know don't consider myself a full-on
socialist insofar as that I you know
believe that we should have a mixed
economy because I think having a certain
amount of tension is important to to
check to provide checks and balances I
don't I don't think it's possible to to
to get rid of the impetus that created
capitalism and created feudalism and
that created you know sort of Empire and
whatnot I don't think we can get rid of
it totally I think we need to have we
just need to rebalance society in such a
way that you know that that impetus does
not win out alright that's it for our
calls today Paula jeez if you left
hanging apologies to build and I will
have to get Tim tomorrow I'm gonna take
a bunch of items and then get going
Rando glad you didn't get too aggressive
with the libertarian teasing with this
caller actually was an interesting call
yeah no I I mean I think it's sometimes
I don't want to get too caught up in
semantics I'm not quite sure I
understand the idea and I think it's you
know I think some of the stuff gets a
little bit too theoretical in my mind
but Kentucky Fried Chicken hey Sam I saw
a story in political yesterday about how
the Congressional Black Caucus is
floating the idea of a Biden Harris as a
dream ticket not sure that's actually
practical though wouldn't they need to
separate but equal' campaign buses and
planes because um
Biden opposed school integration oh yes
not bad it's pretty good yeah I love
Sarah Palin hey Sam my birthday was
yesterday can I get a Funk Flex bomb I'm
not sure what that means but I'll give
you one
you're always blaming the electric for
not knowing what's going on and I agree
with you but a large percentage of the
population typically doesn't know the
major stories going on at any given time
for instance people still don't know
women came out after gate to
accuse Trump and I'm sure people don't
know that the New York Times story about
Trump inheriting 413 million dollars so
what better form to run a 2020 campaign
ad against Trump and during an
impeachment hearing no I agree
depressive aggressive someone super
chatted David Pakman and asked if he
agreed with Mrs politics or does he like
the show and he said he loves your deep
dive interviews but finds the guy who
does voices occasionally very offensive
whoa back then it's coming after it
Wow first steal on the site well I would
just not necessary hey des prés of a
grove depressive aggressive could be I
don't take that at face value
nothing rave Dubin hey Sam I think the
way to get on to debate with Dave all
you have to do is get sponsored by
Liberty University Gregory from Oklahoma
hey y'all I have an announcement to make
I've started my own podcast it's on
soundcloud it's called the green chord
rebellion show I have only 1 recorded
podcast so far I plan on doing at least
4 or 5 a week I'll be talking about
politics here in Oklahoma national
international politics I'm even going to
talk about heavy metal music I've
started a patreon account I could really
use patrons since I'm currently
unemployed and I'm doing this podcast
and I want to hopefully expand it to
YouTube now when I am the show I will
not be Gregory from Oklahoma I will be
Gregory from Green Corn rebellion
congratulations
there you go find it on soundcloud folks
also i mean i don't just me personally
my worth work i think i wouldn't start
four times a week i would not start four
times a week i would do four time
shooting those do good do two good shows
a week if you're desperate to do it yeah
and i would do it on fans dot F M the
public shows on fans do some save some
patrons only content I guess okay let's
see yeah all right I'll take got five
more pajama boy egg sim I'm mostly going
for Warren to this primary with burn
in a close second she decided not to do
a fox town-hall after the success of
Bernie's Fox townhall do you think this
is a mistake I don't think it would be
bad for her to do it a square
Sam the demos running for Senate and
Georgia presented the arguments against
Georgia bill so succinctly and with the
right messaging women became the vessels
of the state of conception I think it's
ten minute thirty into the show you
should check it out Jamie so sorry for
your generation but nothing left but
fight Oh on joyed read sadder show on
Saturday ten minutes in disco Stu while
the GOP is awful it is objectively true
to say Trump is uniquely more dangerous
than any modern present his racist and
violent language has real-world material
consequence of people of color and women
progressive minimize this to their own
peril when they dismissed Biden's appeal
to tone is having no substance or when
he tried to pivot to economics in class
it's a reoccurring theme and it breeds
distrust of progressives tone is policy
when racist violence is exploding due to
Trump's rhetoric I guess I just don't
think he's the greatest messenger when
it comes to that I there frankly but
your mileage may vary I guess we'll see
as we I mean I I understand that the the
value of it I don't know that there's
data to support the notion that people
think that Biden is the the best person
to deal with that issue as much as they
just think that he appeals maybe to
trump supporters more and could win and
will necessarily be better than Trump
and I think he will be better than Trump
but that's not a very high bar Winnipeg
Craig solidarity with Michael and all
workers who call in sick when they just
don't feel like coming in and speaking
of sticking it to the man the Transit
Union and Winnipeg is doing a Lobert
labor action today they're not enforcing
the fee collection on Winnipeg buses
because they've been working without a
new contract since January tomorrow
we're doing a show on the Winnipeg
Wildcats - oh really yes I'm not gonna
be yes you've got a Canadian related
content so probably well you're gonna be
on strike yeah left this no repeats
great will you be covering it up
carrying European Parliament elections
very interesting things happen new part
in different pan National coalition's
maybe a little bit beyond the Sargon
stuff attorney attorney Andrew a
question for the crew if you could only
do one of the following what would you
choose and why job guarantee paid at the
minimum wage unemployment benefit set at
the minimum wage for forty hour work
week or presumptive unionization any
time a new company is founded its
eligible employees get a union to get
rid of the Union employees would have to
go through a certification process to
put aside the I don't know why those
three with you I would go with you yeah
I would go with unionization though I do
think unionization but it's with new
companies oh yeah I don't know these are
all little microbes like there's
something in each of those that make
some garbage yeah yeah come back with
better options medicals do you better
have that Mr crew had a friend asked me
about how to fix the issue of criminal
sentencing outside of auditing judges
sentencing and removing them from office
without pension I was looking for a good
source on reform in this area to make
sentencing more equitable legislation be
win be win ray gun is correct I've seen
the salmon collared panels found it
highly suspicious
it is validated so Regan was right what
that's true how could he do that I don't
know what he's doing it doesn't even
look that good either
no independents different whites America
doesn't like the funny impressions one
example the growing open extremism on
abortion a response Lila Rose Dave Rubin
persuader wants abortion to be illegal
even without an exception for the life
of the mother no I mean that to me is
the only set you know makes sense if
you're if you are going to be you know I
don't understand the people who say an
exception for rape you know when it
comes to abortion they it that to me
just seems like they just know that they
can't sell this to the public but it
doesn't make sense in there if they're
going to be maximalist when it comes to
a woman has no right over sovereignty or
of her own body I don't even know why
they would say rape is illegal
I mean that's the ludicrous thing about
Dave's dance around
is he still pro-choice or is well he's
he's saying that he's like waffle
getting convinced because of all this
infanticide that's going to react all
right the final I am of the day okay
[Music]
Phil would it makes sense to propose
legislation which provides a threshold
of damages to the people in the US which
would allow the government to
automatically nationalize the company ie
if the damages are larger than the
public value of the company it stands to
reason that it's the government who's
going to be responsible for the cleanup
and hence should just own the company I
guess I mean if you're talking from a
Civil Procedure but that seems
small-bore to me alright folks see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
I'm gonna get
I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
where the choice is made the option
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
