I like this idea I like the idea of
shaming people for their participation
in things I think that is a very healthy
thing to do now I know the right doesn't
like it because the right feels that
it's unconstitutional to shame people in
fact the right would have you believe
that it's unconstitutional and it's an
assault on free speech to criticize
people but as you know the Supreme Court
has essentially ruled that money is
speech and let's say I am somebody who
is a business owner in let's say a place
like El Paso and I'm making a ton of
cash off of the Latino community in El
Paso and I go out and I take out an ad
that says God bless president Trump
let's hope he can do succeed in all his
endeavors to get rid of all the brown
people or I just say that publicly well
I think you should be called out for
that and it turns out that Joaquin
Castro congressman uh what did you buy
an ad no just posted this oh you posted
on Twitter in 2019 these 44 San Antonio
donors contributed to the most allowable
by federal law - in answering the
question who's funding Trump and he put
up a bunch of names and their companies
that they represent and I think the idea
was hey all you white people maybe
they're not all white it's conceivable
that there's non-white person there
highly unlikely you're gonna go and
you're going to max out with Donald
Trump where are you getting that money
you get in from the community that has
now been torn apart by a guy who was
inspired by the rhetoric of your
policies and disposition of your
president that's what he's asking and of
course people absolutely lost it here is
Don jr. on Fox and Friends
this is his perspective on this and you
know I've seen what these things do I
see you know what's going on with the
Joaquin Castro craziness yeah let's go
ting out a list I mean that list sort of
screams like the Dayton Ohio shooters
list right when when a radical left-wing
politicians polling at about zero
percent does this were either attention
or a call to action it's pretty scary
Ohio shoot people this nonsense this is
a list of 44 people from San Antonio who
contributed the original to the past
wrote the original quote was this this
is from Joaquin Castro he tweeted this
he said sad to see so many San Antonio
as 2019 maximum donors to Donald Trump
the owner of blah blah blah the owner
blah blah the realtor etc their
contributions are fueling a campaign of
hate that labels Hispanic immigrants as
invaders so he's not necessarily saying
go and do something dangerous to these
people it's perhaps not too reasonable
people but when the fringe crazies on
both sides and we saw that in the last
week right you had fringe crazies on all
sides they see that man you're now
you're going after ordinary citizens
people who just are taking part in a
political process honestly imagine I did
that imagine I put a list of Joaquin
Castro's donors now our people show list
our people don't weaponize good point
our people don't weaponize the political
system you know the same way we don't do
the organized boycotts that the left
does I mean these kind of are you are
you out of your mind well first time
he's lying about all that second off he
doesn't realize I walk
Castro is not running for president that
Julian Castro is but more more
relevantly and I don't know I mean I
don't know frankly if this is something
that I would do if I was a congress
person just from a political standpoint
I have no problem with someone doing
this this is all public information you
can find it on a website you can look it
up and all that information is public
when you donate you know that you're
you're giving that information out but
the difference is is that as he
describes what would happen if he did it
he's doing it to weaponize it Castro is
doing it to say like look people should
stop supporting your businesses which is
very very American right like boycotts
protests that's what it's that's the
First Amendment right well it also feeds
into the point that I made a couple days
ago which is that it's hard to say that
the shooter was a fringe crazy when his
ideology aligns perfectly with that of
many pillars of the community in which
he lives
yeah I mean his his actions are French
but the things that drove him that's the
whole point the only difference between
him and them is that he took a gun and
killed people
well the ecological part doesn't fit I
mean that definitely well there is
definitely an element that does not
reflect the mainstream we didn't it far
right II like all what's what do you
talk to his manifesto is a fusion of
white nationalist terrorism and hatred
and profound environmental concerns
which well you know to me is another
thing that's really just yeah exactly
it's going there I mean we've been
saying like particularly yeah Brendon
exactly like this is another reason why
this whole like accept the science frame
as problematic
because people will accept the science
with their pre-existing you know biases
and politics something that's been going
on for a really long time actually like
some of the earlier environmentalists
were also bigger the eugenics movement
right and when you're talking about
scarce resources and you have invaders
coming that becomes a problem I mean
that's also he was anti corporate in it
yep in the same way that say it Tucker
Carlson was yeah like they just set for
some kind of vaguely social democratic
eco fashion but here comes Fox News and
they have to come back and basically
pull back a little bit because he just
compared Joaquin Castro publishing the
publicly available names of Trump donors
to a the Dayton killers list of people
he wanted to kill and here's Fox and
Friends trying to pull him back from
that I know there in my opinion it was
great to see it done just to reiterate
the hint list from the date on the guy
from Dayton was that was a kill list
the capture list was a list of donors
yeah correct but I think the fact that
we're making lists of our political
enemies and trying to create that
narrative is scary and again if someone
on our campaign did that it would be
rough yeah okay oh yeah we are gonna get
cut off we're all gonna be marched away
unbelievable well so let's hear from
Joaquin Castro who is trying to explain
to Morning Joe the difference between
daxing which is when you reveal private
information about people and providing
public information about people all he's
doing is he's drawing attention to the
fact and saying like look your your
donation you don't get like the whole
point that we've heard from the right in
their entire assault on campaign finance
has been sunlight full disclosure
that's all we need they've since voted
against that but that's it like people
know
there's no corruption because people
know now again I have some questions
about a congressman the efficacy of a
congressman doing this but here he goes
that's right when you make a political
contribution especially to a federal
candidate that's a public record and so
that graphic lists people's names and
many of them are business owners so they
actually own those companies these are
prominent donors most of them public
figures or many of them public figures
but their money is being taken and used
to fuel these hateful ads and it has put
millions of people in this country in
fear I mean he's right the all that
campaign money went and was spent on not
all of it but portion of it on 2,000
Facebook ads at least that talked about
an invasion just think of it as a giant
yelp review I mean I thought these guys
were all about the transparency this is
a super random poll here but I believe
it was Orrin Hatch when he ran for
president for like two seconds in 2000
was like we don't need campaign finance
reform I thought all my donors on my
newfangled website so you can know there
you go all right well now we know Thank
You congressman Castro not going to do
that again the only okay the only non
Fidel Castro I'll give props for for a
long time
