but you know I I want to talk about this
first because I was on the here the Bern
podcast a couple weeks ago and was
talking about the the presses the press
you know in general and but specifically
in terms of the coverage of Bernie
Sanders and we don't go through this too
much on this program because I think
there's broadly a a fairly sophisticated
if you've if you've made your way to
this program you already have a fairly
jaded perspective I think of of the
corporate news and if you've been
listening to this program
you know since its inception on air
America then you certainly you certainly
do and it's an it's warranted
we never dug up the name of that
reporter from Politico Michael who
called and I tell the story now almost
weekly it feels like of when a political
reporter called in the spring of 2015
because he was doing a story on martin
O'Malley and he the way he said it to me
Martin O'Malley wants to know how he can
he can get progressive support away from
Elizabeth Warren I was like Elizabeth
Warren she's not running he's got to
worry about Bernie Sanders and the guy
just laughed laughed laughed laughed and
left literally laughed and I'm like it
I'm being being serious let me just
double-check that NATO let me double
check but I mean and it's largely
irrelevant who didn't it who the guy
specifically was because this is the
mentality that the largely largely
hashtag not all reporters and
journalists have towards Bernie Sanders
and and more broadly toward the left but
also I think there there is a something
there's a specific quality that they
have a problem
because when I think back to the Dean
campaign Howard Dean he was perceived in
many respects as the the leftist the the
most left of that of that 2004 primary
field but I'm not quite sure that that's
an accurate assessment of his politics
he and he was governor of Vermont he was
a fairly conservative let's say
conservative but but but within the in
the context of the Democratic Party a
conservative when it came to many issues
in in Vermont but he happened to be
anti-war but the other element of the
Dean campaign was that he was one of the
first candidates to harness with what
was at that time a nascent online
presence we didn't have social media
nearly in the way I don't even think we
had the term social media per se except
for in academic circles at this point
you know myspace may have been around
but I don't think people perceived it
that way Facebook wasn't particularly
ubiquitous but there was a lot of
internet-based organizing and there was
a lot of small donors in fact that was
one of the first as far as I can tell
real big small donor campaigns that use
the Internet in fact it was probably the
first of the big that used the internet
and there was a resent by the press to
the inclusion of a lot of newbies
essentially and a lot of activists who
did not have the pedigree that they had
and by the pedigree I don't even
necessarily mean education or
aristocratic background it really is
just sort of like there was a lot of
resent towards people who were smart and
dedicated and excited oh I remember my
friend's mom had some kind of chocolate
dessert party for Howard Dean right I
mean there was a bit but beyond that I'm
talking specifically about the people
that they had to bump up against people
who were challenging their their
particular story in narrative that they
wanted to tell about politics and it was
that primarily Iraq as the fulcrum at
that point well I mean it was a rock but
it was brought it was a much broader a
pallet of things I mean that's what
brought well just the whole notion of
politics understand it with the blogs
was the first time that people in the
media had their voices questioned in any
fashion whatsoever because for years
they had the ability to go on cable
television
and they can't hear people yelling at
the TV and other people can't year
individuals yelling at the TV they had
the ability to write stuff and the only
way to rebut what a reporter would write
at that point and remember the left had
no mass media air America was the the
first the first even a vague taste of
criticism that these media reporters got
from the left that was in any way
organized and then all of a sudden YZ
blogs show up and people get really
offended hey wait a sec you're
questioning my and they're getting
embarrassed and they don't like it and
they don't like and there is still
remains although to a certain extent its
diminished without doubt this divide and
there is a resent of Boerne not just I
think because of his politics although I
think there is there is a there is a
there's probably a connection between
his politics and the sort of the nature
of the political movement around him
that that kirk's them and certainly in
2016 there was a lot of Bernie Sanders
supporters who could be obnoxious online
and who were difficult that that comes
with the territory we're all adults here
right and who didn't have some difficult
supporters well I mean Martin O'Malley
and so so anyways the the point is that
there is already this sort of low-grade
hostility and look let's be honest
you can look at the reporters and see
where you know why whose get where the
hostility comes from there's a there is
a class element to this and there is a
insider-outsider element to this
