[Music]
does it well no parts of this
individually should or would surprise
you
but it still is hysterical when it all
comes together let's check this out the
complete and total humanitarian crisis
and we don't have the infrastructure to
deal with it Kevin McCarthy who's a
minority leader said every member of
Congress should be required to go to the
southern border scuse me and see the
crisis for themselves and they should
also be required to see what's happening
in these detention centers I just want
to say one quick no I saw and apparently
by the way me saying can I say one quick
thing is now becoming a parody that's
just how I talk it's one of my tics I'm
sorry
torture facilities I understand it is a
humanitarian crisis it's horrific to
detain and you accused first of all
torture facilities who's using that
that's the other thing is that nobody
has actually you like that like if we
want to be precise and definite and and
definitive here I honestly look if
somebody called it a torture facility I
have no problem with it that I think yes
if you are you're literally torturing
children definitionally so if you want
to use that term I'm certainly not gonna
be dependent who's gonna whine about it
but people are calling them
concentration camps because that's what
they are again we'll go back to the
merriam-webster dictionary so but you're
right it's so first what she's doing is
they Kevin McCarthy tweet now Kevin
McCarthy is part of the party that's
doing this to people and this isn't a
crisis and in fact when you know I go
and look up videos by the way yeah 2015
I went so hard at Obama for border
policies at that point for people there
was there was a crisis in 2015 they were
sending people back in that context as
well this is different
but there is a long history of barbarism
and humanity in humanity at the border
this acceleration is totally generated
by the Trump administration there's no
border crisis whatsoever so this is this
is actually a proper use of the phrase
virtue signaling she wants to virtue
signal that she's not a complete so
c/o path and grotesque monster and she
has a problem with children dying in ice
custody while keeping for the people
that are making this happen
and now after making up that people are
calling it torture facilities which
almost nobody is doing we get to the
real fixation of Megan McCain's life and
I'm starting to see some parallels here
potentially between the way Donald talks
and I just wanna make one point about
that like torture facilities would be an
accurate but polemical use of language
or concentration camps is just literal
usage active use of language and Noah
and I and again rare people aren't using
torture camps but here we go this is
Megan McCain's fixation in life I saw
and apparently by the way me saying can
I say one quick thing is now becoming a
parody that's just how I talk it's one
of my tics I'm sorry
calling these places torture facilities
I understand it is a humanitarian crisis
it's horrific to detain and you like you
said people in jail get soap and people
in jail get to tooth paces excuse me
toothpaste but I know what the torture
facility looks like I've been to one but
I know listen to me excuse me when you
have a facility whose specific purpose
is to torture people that is not what's
going on yes it's inhumane but there is
a big difference between the Hanoi
Hilton and what's happening we should be
concerned about what we're calling them
then what what is happening inside us
but harder
if anybody's doing hyperbole we can't
actually talk about the matter it had
yeah exactly uh
hyperbole gives me an opportunity to
talk about my father and distract from
the fact that the administration that I
won't admit to supporting but will
protect my trust fund is killing
children so I think that's exactly I
know about torture facilities I've been
to one I go to one every day where I
have to sit at a table with that
Joy Behar
I am literally tortured right now being
with all these women who are shouting at
me when my father literally after whoa
hey he was burning them whatever what
say you was there so anyway anyways I
don't have time for this we're calling
those you think care about the dead kids
well I didn't come out of them well my
father couldn't lift me up above his
head as a child because of his torture
well so I do think hyperbole is
important but that wasn't anyway and
they were torture st. calling I had such
a problem with as a torture facility
they say this one thing what it what do
I say wait what it is it's a joke now
what is it it may not have intended to
be a torture facility but has turned out
to be torturous okay that's number one
number two this was separating these
children was used as a deterrent at the
border to keep them from coming in it
hasn't you been working it doesn't work
so he doesn't even know what he's doing
but I think don't be terribly in flux
but I think hyperbole when you're saying
this is a concentration camp this is a
torture okay we finally had Tarzan our
to the real thing which is the accurate
use of language man she is so disgusting
but I think her believe when you're
saying this is a concentration camp this
is a torture Center it's when you get
people to stop paying attention and what
is happening on a tram on ma I believe
I mean at AOC coucher Joy Behar if by
you don't know if you want to do your
yes by the way I hope that her doing
that was a way of calling you stupid
because you are stupid it's cute people
should absolutely let you know how
stupid and narcissistic you are it's
cute that she thinks the things she's
being parodied for is her catchphrase
can I say one thing when it's clearly my
father my father my father you know what
the thing was with someone like Magnum
McCain who is so totally there through
her own merit and is not a product of
being a trust-fund baby in an oligarchy
and is somebody that whatever you think
of her opinions is obviously very well
briefed well researched and intelligent
you just gotta go and find something
petty like that like a kind of basic
speech dick because there's not much
else you could make fun of her about
