so Alex let me just reset just briefly
you told us in the last segment about
these two companies that control 70% of
the dialysis business in this country
they they are pushing people into
private insurance because the Medicare
reimbursements rates is about two
hundred and fifty dollars for every
dialysis session and private insurances
can beef up to four times that amount a
thousand dollars so this a B to 90 that
is being proposed in the California
Legislature that they are spending
millions of dollars to prevent from
passing what is that a B to 90 say
specifically what it says is basically
that um that the reimbursement rate for
private insurance would be pegged to the
Medicare rate so the kind of price
gouging that you're seeing with that
thousand dollar treatment cost would be
pegged something a little bit more like
the you know the Medicare cost which is
two hundred fifty dollars as you
mentioned and and it prevents this this
arrangement where these institutions
that are funded by the dialysis
companies encourage patients to leave
their their their Medicare and get on
private insurance which kind of
facilitates this whole scheme and from
the outset so all right so let's I want
to be explicit with this because this
story is amazing these two companies
fund like what I think you could call as
a charity right it's like the American
Kidney Foundation and it sounds like you
know the American Cancer Association or
something like that and this American
Kidney Foundation seems to be basically
a pass-through where the companies get a
tax break for contributing to them and
then they subsidize private insurance so
maybe they'll pay I don't know two
hundred dollars of the insurance cost
the insurance cost may cost I don't know
twelve hundred dollars but that twelve
hundred dollars that other thousand that
the patient lays out ends up generating
thousands of dollars of profit
or the company's is that right it's more
or less yeah it's it's the American
Kidney fund will encourage it will
encourage patients who are coming up on
Medicare to leave that Medicare coverage
for private insurance and and the the
sweetener for them is for the patients
is the fund basically covers the
premiums they pay the insurance premiums
so there's no individual expenditure for
the patient that is any more significant
than what they'd be paying on Medicare
but when they come through the door with
that private insurance then the it's the
the dialysis outpatient centers that
then get to bill at that that sweetheart
rate so it's it's not something that
extorts the patient so much is it it
basically bilks the insurance companies
and and the issue with that is then you
know and the insurance companies incur
higher costs they're not just eating
that they're passing out on to every
other person who has insurance and that
you know leads to higher premiums and
and you know that other health related
cost related health issues down the line
so if I'm a patient who is covered by
Medicare on for dialysis and the
American Kidney fund comes to me and
they say you can get private insurance
cost free to cover this what why do I do
that do I do that because that private
insurance is going to cover a bunch of
other stuff well include including my my
dialysis or is it just that I am been
trained by the market to believe that
some reason private insurance is going
to get me better coverage than Medicare
it's an interesting your sales pitch
yeah I'm having not gone through I'm not
sure exactly what the what the clincher
is but I think generally speaking what
what is being told these patients is is
that they're going to get the same
treatment that they get on Medicare
right it's the same it's the same
dialysis treatment that they'd be
otherwise getting it's no it's at no
extra special cost to that and their
personal expenditure remains the same
and you know perhaps down the road you
know something will happen where it will
behoove them to have private insurance
and you know whether or not that's the
case it's it's a hard to know but it's
you know that's I think it is basically
the sales pitches
there's the downside is minimal and the
upside is unknown so you know why not
right it doesn't cost me anything I
might as well get that coverage Medicare
will still be there if something goes
south here with this so essentially the
numbers if I understand it from reading
your piece the companies donate two
hundred and fifty million dollars is it
to this to this American Kidney fund how
much of American Kidney funds are
operating expenses or their endowment
how much of that is a function of that
two hundred and fifty million dollars
that they get annually from these two
dialysis companies it's it's about
eighty percent so that yeah so the
roughly 250 million dollars that is is
contributed by these two companies as
charitable donations represents about
yeah eighty percent of the fund total
donor base and yes it's a significant
percentage Andy I mean this is and so
they they fund the the fund the fund
then buys insurance for all of these
patients and then they get reimbursed
when they go for dialysis eighty percent
of them are gonna end up going to these
private companies does the fund sort of
weed out do they focus on areas where
these two companies operate there's been
some report the New York Times has done
some reporting on this there and there's
in lawsuits alleging certain things that
that that they're you know that there
may be favorable treatment towards those
two companies it's something that I
haven't gotten into personally or
haven't looked at that closely but it is
it's definitely an element of their
their you know there have been whispers
for a long time that that would be the
case that is the case and obviously it's
um wouldn't be something that would be
impossible to believe but it's a yeah
there there have you know it's an
ongoing I think there are ongoing
investigations into into whether or not
that's the case so these two companies
they put 250 million dollars into this
fund the fund buys insurance and then it
kicks off profits of billions of dollars
annually
or these companies that it is an amazing
I'm sorry it's a scam I mean that's
that's essentially some type of kickback
scheme essentially I mean on some level
and in the end it's all the people who
buy insurance who are getting saddled
with this bill when in fact it could be
a Medicare picking up this coverage at a
much cheaper price so I understand why
they're fighting this this is a big you
right that this is a big caveat to for
single-payer because we're gonna see
like these companies will game the
system any way they can
it's absolutely correct yeah and and you
know they've gotten over the last
handful of years I've gotten used to
some some pretty remarkable profits and
and yeah you know it's it's one of these
things where there is a reason health
care so expensive in the United States
why you know far surpasses peer
countries in terms of cost and and this
is just one very small example of that
in a ways in which these procedures can
be gamed and these operations can be
gamed to extract massive profits and and
it's something that I think you know
we'll we'll start seeing on a larger
scale the more the debate over
single-payer advances in in the other
national arena well you know this is
certainly not a unique situation well
that's what that's sort of amazing to
contemplate I mean there's so much waste
in this system and by waste I just mean
this is profiteering I mean this is just
a scam that's set up so that these guys
can profit more on the same procedure
that they're they're getting lower
reimbursement rates on it has nothing to
do with the quality of the care for the
patients this is why our health care
cost so much because essentially you
have a whole network and it feels like
of providers and insurers who are just
who are just basically milking the the
taxpayer or just the the patients Alex
fascinating piece thanks so much for
coming on and talking about it
