[Music]
so getting back to us we were talking
about the yeah keep that up for a moment
we were talking about the the protests
violent protests that took place in
France I think your ongoing actually in
France they really know how to protest
they burn things and they march and they
respond and so tough stuff here is the
the best I would say four or five tweet
assessment of what's going on in in
France that I've seen and I was struck
by it because I don't know I guess I've
been sleeping on this but it was
presented by Pamela Anderson
you mean comrade Pam you haven't been on
this I have not been on this she first
posts a and she must speak French she's
Canadian and I don't know if she's from
like Quebec or not but she appears to
speak French and she post a piece from
LeMond France talking about the it's a
moment of crisis for the the yellow
vests that's what they they identify
they a lot of these protesters wear
yellow vests like the reflective vests
and so she she posts that and then she
follows it up with the following tweet I
despised violence but what is the
violence of all these people and burned
luxurious cars compared to the
structural violence of the French and
global elites she asks instead of being
hypnotized instead of being hypnotized
by the burning images we have to pose
the question where did it come from and
the answer is it came from rising
tensions between the Metropolitan elite
and rural poor
between the politics represented by
Makran and the 99% who are fed up with
inequality not only in France all over
the world the true question is whether
the disobedience can be constructive
what comes the day after can the
progressives in France and all over the
world use this energy so instead of
violence we have images of constructing
equal egalitarian societies so she has
basically better political analysis than
the entirety of essentially the global
center-left establishment that's
attempting to answer this yeah I would
say nailed it her her being able to put
it that concisely I would put myself in
that same group of people that she has
better analysis then I would as well she
I mean that was extremely astute and
concise excellent you know Axl Rose was
doing stuff like this a couple weeks ago
very woke tweets very politically woke
tweets are they date they they dating I
don't know what their
why do you say Axl Rose just and now
just another like old older so everybody
mean older what do you mean what like
90s Oh
[Music]
