let's just cleanse the palate for a
moment then I'll go to the phones here
is Elizabeth Warren she I don't know
where she spoke about this it was in
Boston but I'm not exactly sure what the
I don't speak Latin enough then
Springfield and she was I don't talking
to I'm not exactly sure what the context
was but it was in the net last couple of
days and she was being quite explicit
about what she saw in the Ford Cavanaugh
hearings
[Music]
and make a trip even more powerful
decision
[Applause]
[Applause]
women to go to Washington and fix our
broken government and that includes a
woman at the top
[Applause]
oh I didn't realize okay so that is
Elizabeth Warren making a potential
announcement of her presidency there was
also another clip that she made that I
sent right here it's in the pull that
one where she went on to talk about the
dynamic that was taking place I mean I
think you see these things you start to
read realize that she is she is gonna
run but here is here is what she had to
say specifically about the cabin I think
your Avenue who acted a lot like he
thought he was entitled to this scene
and angry that someone would want to ask
hard questions but when he's angry
what did the commentator say he shows
how tough he is he's back into battle
but I noticed that dr. Ford she's
working her way through having to relive
probably what was the worst day of her
life and then finally chuck grassley
turns to her and says do you need a
break and she says
will that work for you here it is one of
the worst days of her life as she's not
allowed to be angry she is there once
again to say what works for you with
deference with courtesy and you know I
feel like this is what's going on all
around this country it's not just women
who are not entitled to be angry girls
aren't supposed to be angry because it
makes us unattractive to powerful men
who want us to be quiet and it's not
just women everyone else who has less
power should be quiet because ultimately
what this is about is this is about
power this is about who's got it and who
doesn't plan to let go of it so I'll
tell you this today I am angry and I own
it to take back the house to take back
the Senate to put Democrats
so that came out of the same talk that
she gave in Holyoke mass right outside
of Springfield and she alluded in the
first clip to running in 2020 but I
suspect what she you know theoretically
that the the the second clip is about
the midterms but I suspect it's really
more about 2020 at this point yeah
that's a it's she's definitely running
now I know what Jamie's gonna say you
loved her
her acknowledging power wish it wasn't
so much with the Democrats at the end
there but the power is good right I mean
it was uh it really it I want I must
admit
like it hit me somewhere deep inside of
my feminism that I just liked it a lot
I'm so cynical about the Democratic
Party I'm so cynical about electoral ism
but like just I just saw her up on that
stage talking about female anger and I
was like Yas Queen yeah I mean I think I
mean she's it would be hard to get a
greater indication that she's she's
running I think that I think there's a
problem with Democrats when they act
like they're not angry it seems
disingenuous to the people that paid the
most attention to it yeah I think that's
true I hope that uh I hope she and
Bernie are coordinating yes I I would be
surprised if they're actively
coordinating but I also would be
surprised if Bernie if she has not
already indicated what she's doing and
that he's already said okay
I mean I I don't think I don't think
that he has any interest in running if
she's running and I think that he gonna
end up seeing him function in many
respects as one of her biggest
surrogates I mean I think you can
already get the sense that people are
starting to coalesce around her and it's
gonna be interesting it's gonna end up
being like Warren versus Biden are gonna
be the two big parties I think within
you know
and it's going to be interesting to see
how that plays out but I I mean I think
right there she captured what you know
anecdotally III think almost every woman
I have spoken to has said some version
of like this has been the most
disturbing couple of days that they have
had at least since the election because
in many respects like that what we saw
there were like this guy comes in yells
at the committee blatantly lies and gets
away with it she couldn't have been any
more credible it's just not possible for
her to have been any more credible she
was a memory psychologist and yet and
yet it was ultimately irrelevant not
because his testimony put holes in hers
just because he dropped down my I'm a
white guy who's who was the deal when I
was born was like I have the ability to
achieve this and doing something like
that is was never ever contemplated
something that could get in the way of
that of my destiny and that indignation
was enough for almost everybody in the
room I mean not obviously not the
Democrats but you know in terms of way
they're gonna vote but that that
indignation was almost enough and it I
think just basically reminded women who
have experienced this in some one
fashion or another their whole lives
like oh this is this is where we're at
still
