so Heather when we broke we were talking
about the complete ineptitude of the
Trump administration to even pursue what
what theoretically could be their agenda
right I mean like I I'm trying to I
don't feel any put this way I don't feel
any responsibility to be generous to
Donald Trump but as an intellectual
exercise even if I am I can't figure out
what they're trying to do I don't think
I don't think they have a clue or any
notion as to where they're supposed to
land on this it's almost as if you know
Donald Trump is saying like well
hopefully Mitch McConnell will get the
brunt of caving and Mitch McConnell
saying like I'm not gonna take the brunt
of the caving and and then they thought
they could maybe dish this off on the
military and the military said no it's
not coming out of our paycheck so it's
unclear where this ends but aside from
that after Donald Trump went up and did
not declare a national emergency just
basically I don't I don't know what he
was trying to do prove that he could
read a teleprompter Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer came out and I don't think
they were horrible
in terms of from a rhetorical standpoint
and I think it was you know those
rebuttals can be extremely painful to
watch and in some respects you know
deadly to political trajectories but
what became really clear and in some way
it was it was emphasized or I should say
highlighted because the next day
Alexandre Acacio Cortez went on a Rachel
Maddow and had a full-throated
expression of where she felt the
American public was or should be on
immigration the Democratic Party has a
problem when it comes to immigration
because you know they get up there and
they say we're for border security we
don't need a wall we just want drones
and personnel they're not like I cannot
sit here and articulate to you what the
Democratic position is on immigration I
have my idea what it should be and I can
tell you what the
the left part of the Democratic Party is
but can you you know there no I can't
and and they're terrified of this
charger that they are for open borders
that you know they did this is this is
the SM absolutely breaking out in a cold
sweat that anybody in the country will
believe that they are for open borders
it's a very effective charge on the part
of the right and then the Democrats
instead of sort of confronting this
head-on and you know instead of you know
grappling with the complexity of this
which it is a complicated issue you know
they just run for it and they had run
from it and they have done this for a
long time I mean they had for a while
this sort of trope that they called
comprehensive immigration reform this
was the thing right I mean it will going
to be we're going to take care of all
these issues we're going to legalize a
bunch of people who deserve to be
legalized we're going to up security in
this way we'll build fences we'll change
the laws there were a lot of things they
were going to do as part of that and it
was of it are you know fairly reasonable
reform you know these weren't it wasn't
necessarily a bad thing at least not in
my view most of it you know I mean I the
idea of putting even more uniformed
federal agents around is never a good
idea in my view the more there are the
more trouble there tends to that tends
to follow but nonetheless it wasn't the
worst thing in the world and of course
the Republicans just couldn't deal with
it and they ended up taking the whole
thing for political purposes because
their side is so absolutely you know
well let's say they're racist and they
they can't deal with the idea of people
who speak another language and look
different from them being sharing their
country with them even in America so you
know it's a complicated issue but at
this point the Democrats absolutely have
to come up they have got to develop a
real position on this which you know and
there are a number of ways to do it and
they are not doing it and it's not
because by the way that they have a
bunch of Representatives who are in
places that you know where that's really
a dicey issue they did elect a few
people in red districts but for the most
part this new democratic party is Ron
Brownstein II you know analysts who
writes for the Atlantic and
the LA Times in CNN very very smart guy
who tends to be looking at these things
in a rather original way as compared to
the rest of the pundit ah cracy he has
pointed out that this new Democratic
Party for the first time in many many
many decades maybe ever does not have a
more than a very tiny handful of
representatives from the deep south and
from areas that are very conservative
they don't exist anymore the Democratic
Party is an urban suburban party and
this is not the issue that this is not
these are not the kind of constituents
that they have to worry about being you
know paranoid about the influx of
immigrants that just is not their issue
they have more room now than they've
ever had to develop a decent and humane
policy that acknowledges immigration and
by the way acknowledges the fact that
people come back and forth over that
border it's part of it's been part of
America since their before there was in
America there's nothing unusual about it
this is you know we have a unique you
know relationship with Mexico that
border is unique and it's different that
is in Canada it's different than
anywhere else it is it is a unique
relationship and that has to start to be
acknowledged also we have to acknowledge
the humanitarian disaster that's
happening in Central America that's part
of our sphere of influence whether we
like it or not and the United States has
to start dealing with that too and you
know Donald Trump is exacerbating all
those problems down there by saying
we're going to withhold you know funding
for anything more until they keep their
people in like I guess he wants them to
build a wall - and Kate you know in
prison they're they're you know
desperate population inside their
countries so you know there are they I
agree with you the Democrats have need
to start reckoning with where they are
today and the new party that they are
and stop sort of living in the past I
mean I see this a lot and it's not just
on the right you see it on the left -
fighting old battles and being you know
everybody needs to do a little reset I
think and recognize that we're in a
different
situation now and start to grapple with
that on a policy as well as just a
political level yeah I I absolutely
agree and III think we are overdue for
this and to a large extent you know it's
fascinating to see someone like AOC jump
in and take advantage of that vacuum
because I'm quite convinced as many
people saw her on Rachel Maddow show
that clip went you know pretty viral
relative to who saw a Chuck Schumer
Nancy Pelosi and you know the the future
is coming fast I think yeah for some of
these folks in the Democratic Party it
can't come fast enough as far as I'm
concerned in that respect all right
we're gonna take a break when we come
back in the next hour dig me if you'll
join me we got to catch up on what's
going on with the Muller investigation
we'll be right back after this
