of course you know in the news this week
was a really disturbing really
disturbing report from the the IPCC of
the UN's climate change body and found
that we have even less time than we
thought to change the trajectory of
climate change in terms of the country
of course I'm talking in this program
too we will be talking about that
specifically a little bit later but it's
worth noting in the context of our news
because of course it adds another layer
of urgency to all of this we also had
nikki Haley resign this week it is still
unclear exactly why there are some who
speculate that she had ethical issues
there's some that speculate about Bolton
and Pompeyo pushing her out both of
those things can be true and then
there's a third element to this where
some people are contemplating the notion
that following the midterm election
Donald Trump will fire Jeff Sessions and
be looking around for a new Attorney
General some people think that's what
Lindsey Graham has been up to nikki
Haley could could get appointed as
senator from South Carolina I mean that
could be the way things progress but I
want to touch on that because I know you
have a theory about how the
investigation went down in terms of the
FBI in vetting Brett Kavanaugh and it in
your mind it provides a model for what
we may see after the election if and
when Donald Trump fires Jeff Sessions
and/or rod Rosen Stein who supposedly
traveled on a plane with Donald Trump
this week we don't know anything about
that conversation but what we give us
walk us through how you saw the way the
FBI dealt with the Cavanaugh mess is
some type of MA
for how they may behave after the after
the election if Jeff session is fired
well it occurred to me as I watched that
unfold wait you recalled as the the FBI
investigation after it had been
announced and the Senate was saying well
it's up to the White House the White
House was saying well the Senate's
making the rules and etc etc but the
rule was and and I think it actually is
is that the president has to ask the FBI
to do an investment back round check of
one of its appointees it when
information you know comes to the fore
and they want to do an extra check
happens all the time apparently there
were people on TV all over the place
saying oh yeah we do that constantly if
the judge or some other appointee to the
executive branch they turn up something
they asked the FBI to go look into it so
what we know is is that the the White
House gave a very very circumscribed
list to the FBI that they were allowed
to investigate however I don't know if
you recall this but the president was
going on TV and he did this several
times not just once and said no I want
the FBI to investigate everything they
have he used the words free rein they
need to go wherever it takes I want a
real investigation and he said this
several times so the truth is is that
had the FBI wanted to push this thing
they could have said the president you
know I've got he'd tweeted it you know
we even have it in writing he tweeted
that he wanted them to have free rein
the president is telling us this is what
he's saying he's saying it publicly he's
saying it on his Twitter feed that he
wants us to do a real investigation so
that's what we're going to do that would
have provoked a confrontation obviously
would have provided an embarrassment to
the White House the Senate would have
been up in arms it would have been crazy
but they could they see erratically
could have done that had they wanted to
involve themselves in this in a more
obvious way clearly they did not they
followed it absolutely by the book they
only talked to people they were allowed
to there were people coming turning up
at FBI offices they were phoning tip
lines there were all these people who
had information none of it was followed
up the
people they talk to were those that they
were specifically and explicitly ordered
to talk to so what that tells me is that
what's happened over the course of the
last two years is that the FBI under
Christopher Rea and you know totally
understandably they have been you know
their independence is in hell under
grave question because of the fact that
Donald Trump and all these people in the
house the freedom caucus the Rhonda
Sanchez the Martin the the Matt gets the
you know Lindsey Graham he's done it to
attacking the Department of Justice and
the FBI overwhelmingly
constantly hectoring them and as a
result they've become gun-shy they are
afraid of exerting their independence
they are thinking twice it's following
the model of the conservative movement
which went after the media for saying
that they had liberal bias and they went
it they did it for years and years and
as a result you and I both know this I'm
sure many of the people who were
listening remember you know I mean
they've been fairly good under Trump but
my god
I mean up until then up and it took this
kind of a you know and a freak from
outer space to actually break them out
of this pattern of bending over
backwards to accommodate conservatives
and even now they're going up to visit
Trump voters every five minutes to
explain what real Americans want right
so this this has a very very clear
effect when you insult an attack and
assault an institution over and over and
over again for being unfair and saying
they have they are biased they end up
subliminally and subconsciously sort of
absorbing that and they end up being
unsure and I think that's going to
happen after the the midterms if Trump
does succeed in firing Rosenstein or
whatever it is he's decided to do and
the FBI is going to be the institution
itself and the leadership are going to
be very very cautious about going any
further than they absolutely have to
with this Russia investigation I gotta
say I mean that's a scary prospect right
I mean that the
that the the constant harangue and
harassment has worked in sort of like I
guess in many respects filed down the
rough edges of the FBI if I understand
your theory correctly well the question
I am for you and we've got other stories
to talk about but let's save this for
after the break the question I have for
you is will it make a difference if the
Democrats control Congress because then
all of a sudden they are the ones who
are calling the hearings that the FBI
then has some other support at least
some support within Congress we will
talk about that and a couple other
things that took place this week in the
news not the least of which Taylor Swift
I never thought I would talk about her
on this program but we should address it
we're gonna take quick break we'll be
right back after this I'm Sam cedar
ring of fire radio
