[Music]
part of the problem with you know I
don't know how early we're gonna start
this but you know she go one of the
hosts who I like I guess to the extent
that I like any viewers I don't watch it
very much sunny what's her face and she
says you know are you for universal
health care everybody's for universal
health care that just means everybody
has you know well the point is nobody
knows what it means Delaney's says he's
for it it could mean anything I think
the Republicans are for universal care
like access for everybody mark in the
emergency room right and nevertheless
all his answers are either fine or you
know general enough nonspecific enough
to answer he was asked about impeachment
he says he needs to hear from the Muller
investigation or Muller's testimony
Muller is not going to testify for
anything that's not in the report and
the report is enough there's a lot of
other reasons to impeach Donald Trump
but he sort of like says well I get a
wait to hear that and then it's an you
know up to Congress which yes of course
it is no one on the stage thought that
you were a congress person they were
asking you as your opinion as a
presidential candidate
where you have some influence
theoretically in a platform that's I
mean you're on the view right but he
goes on to have a proposal and Meghan
McCain she just can't wrap her head
around it she got to find something to
have a problem with she's in the middle
of contract negotiations closing the
wealth gap especially when it comes to
the african-american community
reparations a part of that well Martin
Luther King championed a dividend for
all Americans I think that's where we
should start a thousand dollars a month
for every American and in reparations a
whole separate issue because the
thousand all high dividend doesn't
address the historical legacy of slavery
why should rich white people get $10,000
a month well the great thing is that
will remind them that they're still an
American but but
but in Alaska pardon but in Alaska they
have a dividend no one at this table
needs $1,000 a month but in Alaska they
have a well I don't I wouldn't veterans
on the street and yeah that's what you
can usually that's what he means how is
it remind you in America yeah doesn't
it's not just about what you do for
yourself it's what you do for other
folks in Alaska they give the dividend
everyone in Alaska from the petroleum
fund one to two thousand dollars a year
and it D politicizes it it D stigmatizes
it it's just everyone gets it and so
there's no like oh you get it I don't
write immigration now just say that the
obviously the the best thing about the
ubi is that it's a universal program and
that it does theoretically D politicize
it and of course it has support on the
left and right the problem is is that
the the support for it on the left and
the right is different and that
difference actually is part of the
reason why what he said to Dave Rubin
was so problematic now I know Dave Rubin
asked him the question he didn't offer
it and he was saying it I guess to
appeal to Dave Rubin but he said it I
don't know you know he said that
eventually he thinks it's going to get
rid of other aspects of our six hundred
billion dollar social safety net and I
know I know that people can choose to
opt out if their particular benefits are
less than a thousand dollars a month
some instances they are of course it's
going to for the same reason why the ubi
is universal and becomes politically
less politically radioactive the more
you pull people out of these programs
and leave the most vulnerable in them
who require more than a thousand dollars
a month because of their disability
because of of whatever it is that
they're that
in SSI which can involve mental health
it can involve a whole host of different
things there those programs become more
vulnerable to politics because there's
less people in there they obviously
become more expensive per capita right
of individuals unless you start to cut
back on these on the administration of
it
so that that's where the the issues with
the ubi has rolled out and it's part of
the reason why the right elements on the
right Milton Friedman was hoping for a
ubi because it would begin to dispose of
that stuff but this is not I'm not here
to criticize Andrew Yang's ubi policy
even though I guess I just did his not
Universal at UVI policy but here is here
is where he gets it in with the Megan
McCain who just can't handle any of this
I'm the son of immigrants myself I think
we need to create a path to citizenship
over the long term so you also have some
unusual and I would say unorthodox
stances as well
you came out against circumcision
correct well you know I think parents
need to educate themselves a
confirmation is you know my wife and I
obviously made a certain determination
but it should be in the hands of parents
in the hands of what that is that is
Joy's way of saying that was a dumb
question Megan but I know right now
you're sensitive so I'm not going to
make fun of you for it well they tried
to they try to yeah they tried to um you
also believe in free marriage counseling
yeah but the data shows that if you grow
up in two-parent household certain
outcomes are more likely and so from a
societal perspective it makes perfect
sense to try and keep couples together
if they want to stay together so would
that just be like a social worker for
every couple in America cause it can you
imagine being unable to sort of wrap
your head around
of free couples counseling as opposed to
mandated couples counseling yeah geez
like sitting there and going I'll
actually done some research on this and
I'm just I'm blown away how is it
possible to provide free couples
counseling
now there's one way that you could
assess this how would it be possible to
provide free counseling how is it
possible to provide free medical care I
could imagine sure the OL insurance I
like so first because you're insulting
my uncle joe lieberman with regards to
circumcision and such and now
everybody's supposed to get marriage
counseling by the federal government
that's like that's like aldous huxley or
whatever
imagine obviously like sitting there
with her team of advisers that she must
have that are around her the ones who
were talking about well you know we've
read newspapers like joy Meghan's really
on the last straw there whatever you
mean like an agent and like some like
bizarre husband that she no doubt
terrorized don't you think her husband
or her agent could say oh yeah that's
probably just mandated in the health
insurer I think her husband is more like
she's a
no sorry honey I have to lose mine for
my go back because I just loved like the
complete like sense of like confusion
that she has like free couples counts so
what would the ethnic background of this
counsellor be would they be Asian as
well I'm just gonna ask that question
mission is you know my wife and I
obviously made a certain determination
but it should be in the hands of parents
in the hands of what they try they try
to um you also believe in free marriage
counseling
yeah but the data shows that if you grow
up in two-parent household certain
outcomes are more likely and so from a
societal perspective it makes perfect
sense to try and keep couples together
if they want to stay together so would
that just be like a social worker for
every couple in America well it'd be
like a marriage counseling you know
stipend essentially where it's like if
you decide to seek marriage counseling
then they can just go and get paid by my
version of marriage counseling is
drinking Jack Daniels shooting some guns
and hanging out so what
it works no just like going to arrange
so I'm just saying like this universal a
peg for every hole is always my problem
with the left right now there is not if
every American is different every
American does things in different ways
so I would say I I don't know you also
believe in staffing away posit possibly
so she thinks that it's mandated cut
state appointed wait I don't like to set
with an Asian man who doesn't circumcise
as kid talking about my problems with my
husband alright thank you if that makes
me like a leper or Lepley per odd
this show then like so be it you
joy also her talking about her dealing
with her most intimate personal problems
with a gun is like a little yeah yeah as
long as my husband and I drink enough we
stay together hold guns as long as my
husband that I wouldn't have married
gotten married to accept Trump's win in
the election just put me in a tizzy
that's now I thought there was gonna be
like a nuclear war and such now I know
that actually things are basically fine
my touch my trust fund is not even gonna
be touched and people are really rude
and my father I might not even stay
married but now this gross Asian man
wants to come and force there to be
foreskin and marriage and joyous here
trunk you know she prepared the guns and
whiskey line oh yeah that sounded like a
wait a second what if this is not
mandatory that sounded just the stupid
in front of the mirror exactly and I
love the audience reaction to it which
was just like weird I mean if you say
that's the way that you go and have fun
but don't you have marriage problems
like a conservatives immune to having
problems in their marriage and actually
having to communicate about it you're
forgetting about the importance of Jesus
Christ oh yes right hey Sam maybe Adrien
could help to you version of marriage
counseling as drinking Jack Daniels
shootin some guns and hanging out so
like my version it works no just like
going to arrange so I'm just saying like
this universal peg
for every hole is always my problem with
the left right now there is not if every
American is different every American
does things in different ways so I would
say I I don't know you also believe in
staffing a White House psychologist we D
stigmatize mental health issues in this
country generally and so if we have a
psychology in the White House I thought
it was a good idea before the current
administration do you think that a pible
of even doing such a thing you know what
it doesn't even matter Aang is good here
he's exactly right should be DC stigma
that's right also sitcom idea Andrew
yang as a marriage counselor mandated by
the state
Andrew yang is not president Bernie
senators president and part of a
sweeping health care bill there is no
it's only mandatory and I Domino and
Meghan McCain's case Andrew yang does
the treatment they're locked in the
middle the woods with no alcohol
let the therapy commence there you go I
would love to watch that show they
forget sitcom let's make it a reality
show going to the IMS CT leftist Ct Mike
the media headlines indicate a feud
between Nancy Pelosi and AOC another
house house freshman about their vote
against the border bill Pelosi good
friend Rosa delaurio voted against law -
is this another contrived narrative by
the media or something more complicated
I I would imagine it's both on some
level III don't understand why Pelosi
would do this I mean if she doesn't have
this see the sophistication to know that
Maureen Dowd is going to try and stoke
this type of fire then you know she
hasn't learned anything in her
decades-long decades of of being a
congresswoman so I don't know I think
there's something to it but I don't know
how important it is other than it being
indicative of a larger problem that the
Democratic leadership has
