[Music]
meanwhile speaking of the presidential
elections new polling is out Biden's
lead seems to be durable for the time
being I think we will have a much better
sense within two months I still stand by
my prediction that he will be third in
the polls by the end of October two more
debates I think should be able to do it
people paying attention should be able
to do it increasingly though I will
admit this I may be wrong about the
where he is in the polls but my concerns
about it have increased when you are in
August the year-and-a-half out from the
general election and you are pitching
yourself now granted this is not Joe
Biden pitching himself this is his wife
who's a politician's wife she is not
she's enough freelancing here folks when
you are pitching yourself as the
candidate you may not like but is
probably the best you've got a problem
like when you are conceding publicly as
a pitch that many of you do not like the
policies and know that he's not good on
this stuff
you're basically won you're depressing
your own supporters by making them
wonder like wait a second what but
you're also basically just saying we
want the least energized the least
committed
the least enthusiastic base of support
we could possibly muster for this and
that's gonna carry us over the victory
over the the winning of the finish line
we want idiots that vote but but she's
not even the team but it's worse than
that she wants smart people who are
willing to suck it up and now I
understand on some level if you're
saying this is a last-ditch effort in
the general election I get it we're in
the middle of the primary and she's
having to say this but you say like
that's their base is like people who
don't really I think they're not paying
attention
maybe you have to swallow everything and
say okay I so firstly like
[Music]
I know that not all of you are committed
to my and I respect that but I want you
to think about your Kennedy his or her
electability and who's gonna win this
race
and so if you're looking at that you go
in the hole so you know a lot of times I
say oh you know pulse just be closed
don't we maybe get close don't mean
anything but if they're consistent and
they're consistently saying the same
thing I think you can't dismiss that I
mean you all deal with facts so I think
if your goal by me and my goal is to
beat Donald Trump we have to have
someone
and so if you look at the polls if you
pick Joe with his record with
independence we can't just have
Democrats who are going to win you know
we have to include everybody our party
has to be which means we have to okay
pause it wait a second this part is even
just the most reprehensible I have two
words for dr. Biden in terms of this you
can't tell your children jason chaffetz
it took him about a week and a half to
go from I can't look my daughter in the
eye after he says I grabbed the vagina I
don't know why I thought that would be
less likely to get the D monetize them I
can't I can't do my credit woman's
private area is that okay you do private
is key you know then a week later a week
later the guy comes back goes oh yeah it
turns out she was cool with that good
and you don't you as a mother or as a
and I think if you look at where Joe is
in the hole
ayah in Pennsylvania where the book from
me leaving all the other candidates so
gifts you know I you know your candidate
might be better on you I don't
healthcare and jellies but you've got
one participant a winsome with him maybe
you have to swallow
okay repeating yourself guys actually I
think they they splice through just
admit that her husband is bad on health
care yes I mean like the the the the
reality is that the polls show that at
least the top three candidates could be
Donald Trump but we also know that the
polls showed that Hillary Clinton could
beat Donald Trump and to the extent that
we can draw any parallels from 2016 to
now I said many times before there's a
perfect storm there's a lot of different
things that match that that we're really
that were within and without Hillary
Clinton's ability to control that
impacted the final outcome of that
election but the one thing that we can
say that is true and that I think
allowed it to be as close as it was was
the lack of a thou'lt enthusiasm for her
candidacy broadly speaking and to have a
candidate for whom the enthusiasm is so
low let's make it clear here like there
were obviously hardcore Hillary Clinton
supporters there are not hardcore Joe
Biden supporters like this is this is
far there is a far greater deficit if
their appeal at this point is to concede
that his policy stink even his own wife
is not a hardcore Biden supporter it
seems we have many friends who are leery
tactics and that good people Jeb's mom
energy total Jeb's mom energy like
sometimes he's incontinent sometimes he
urinates on himself while reminiscing
about running with Strom Thurmond but he
still pulls one
Father for I have sinned do you think
that he goes home to dinner and says
like sweetheart is there something you
want to tell me and she just goes oh
shut up Joe
he says sweetheart go to go to Joe three
oh three three
Oh we are straight-up making fun of
somebody going senile I just spoke to
running oh I do and I don't have a
problem with it I'm just noting it
public figure I don't care no I don't I
don't let they hold me the whole I mean
it's look if the whole argument hinges
on polling Bernie Sanders dominating
dominating Trump in the polls without
all of the potential downsides you're
identifying it seems like she was using
his winning in the polls for the primary
as evidence that he could beat Trump oh
well aren't all three Popkin aids are
blinding Trump all of them btrim no my
parents I think one that isn't beating
him straight up is Buddha judge Buddha
judge loses and then the spread gets
smaller and smaller it's like eight to
ten Bernie Biden then like four to five
Warren then like two to three errors
they have to be beating him by enough
that they could still lose otherwise
it's not interesting there you go so
let's take a look here we'll get that
Joe stuff really I think is a little bit
it's a little bit disturbing I I get I'm
it makes me more and more nervous so
depressing it's like seeing a tremendous
wreck from the very beginning I have not
been a fan of Joe Biden's but it really
is only since the just before the first
debate where I started to get that
feeling of like wait a second this may
be worse than that
people don't learn lessons well yeah I
don't know
we got blessings yeah I don't know what
that means
yeah they should explore that for a
little while lessons take up some time
function of politics not blessed all
right I mean I think that there's most I
mean I don't know those numbers for him
though are gonna be very resilient and
the disturbing pattern is is that he
gets like not dramatic but he seems to
get like these little drops after
debates and then a couple weeks later
he's bounces a rock oh the thing to keep
in mind is that we are still in an era
where vast majority of people are not
remotely paying attention to any of this
the short of ass absolutely people
understand so things like name
recognition go very far and I would say
they probably helped Bernie to a certain
extent name recognition but it helps you
know Biden the most in terms of just
like the names that people recognize and
as people pay more attention I think I
think we will we will see made some
changes I hope but we'll see
