everyday casual Friday that means Monday
is casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat gommage our day
report with sam Sita
[Laughter]
it is Friday June 28th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today from
the uber blog hullabaloo Digby will be
with us also on the program today from
the uber podcast doomed old Matt will be
here the original Matt that Pinder will
be in studio ladies and gentlemen for
the first time in ages so much so he I
had to remind him of the address I like
that he doesn't keep any bridges no
respect also on the program today
Democrats finish their second first
debate and Joe Biden sitting in a bath
tub of ice meanwhile Supreme Court
gerrymander ruling is a Republican power
consolidation that may continue for
years and years
meanwhile the same Supreme Court rules
that the obvious live the Department of
Justice told in support of a racist
census question was in fact a lie and
Nancy Pelosi's summer surrender tour
adds new dates meanwhile the Fed tees up
our next capital crisis Supreme Court
will review a Dhaka with a 2020 ruling
and Trump in Tokyo jokes with pooty-poo
over election interference House passes
a election security bill package which
will undoubtedly die in the Senate and
Matt Gaetz files charges in milkshake
gate all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen welcome
we're all a little bit a little bit
tired we two nights of debate coverage
gets a little bit tiring people stay
awake and that's it
I just noticed Matt's giant red bowl
that he's drinking yeah I was up till
4:30 a.m. last night working on some
leads so I don't know they made them
that large focusing on ideas talking
trash I'm a girl Marianne oh yeah well
that was just a side of her alone we're
gonna have a big Mary Ann debate on the
next team yes I can sense it in the
works there was a Matt got a I got a
dossier got a dossier in the majority
report secure Dropbox that we set up
it's a long process where you need to
contact us through Twitter not not
Twitter you get a contact us through
what is it protonmail
email address and signal and all
encrypted technology so that we can get
a videos that are actually available
online it'll just say shout out at the
JD 800 there you have it
alright well so obviously we're gonna
talk about the debate today with Digby
both the debates and you know we're
flying blind here we're just basically
giving you our you know our takes on on
what happened we will know within a
couple of days what the polling looks
like I don't I'm not aware of any sort
of instant polls and generally those
aren't terribly effective and I am also
not aware of any focus groups that
anybody did tulsi gabbard won both
debates it's the number one search term
in Google MSN they say well that is the
enemy and the Bilderberg Group tried
silencer but she won the debate if you
number one Google search term if you
actually do talk about Google search
terms at least after the first debate
the vast majority of them were like
audio failures and it was all if you
search none of is that chick does she
serve war the Jews you will find she won
the debate but you'll deny it because
you're hacked well we will talk about
the debates but more importantly was
what happened frankly in the the the
house and we'll talk more about this
with Digby but here is the the set up
the the House Democrats passed a four
point six billion dollar bill that was
to provide essentially humanitarian aid
for for immigrants at the border and to
increase the quality of the
the Centers to put restrictions on the
centers to put restrictions on the
administration the bill at least parts
of it were drafted by a member of the
House who has previously served as I
think in an NGO capacity writing Human
Rights bills and this was drafted it was
Raul Ruiz Ruiz of California who was a
medical doctor who trained in refugee
assistance at Harvard drafted the
humanitarian standards who had said that
merely increasing funding for medical
care shelter and other needs would not
be enough when just Department lawyer
argued in court that Customs and Border
Protection may not be required to
provide soap and toothbrushes for
children in custody in other words
monies and that's not going to do it
because of the way that these people
perceive what is okay what kind of
squalor it's okay for kids to be living
in and what kind of supervision what
kind of responsibility the United States
have when we are detaining children
right
I mean you open up a daycare center and
you take the kids in there is some
requirement that we have in terms of the
way the kids are treated and apparently
Department justice doesn't feel that we
need to do this with these children so
the bill passed it heads to the Senate
of course Mitch McConnell completely
ignores the bill rewrites another one
that doesn't involve any of those
protections that expands enforcement
money for ice and that bill passes with
significant Democratic support in the
Senate I think about probably half the
caucus maybe a little bit more because
Chuck Schumer is a garbage leader of the
down
Kratts in the Senate completely missing
in action
you remember Chuck Schumer Chuck Schumer
is ostensibly the leader of the
Democrats in the country arguably it's
Nancy Pelosi but Chuck Schumer is in the
Senate and he is the leader of the
Democrats in the Senate and you haven't
heard his word because the last big
Billy had was a bipartisan bill that he
rolled out to stop to strengthen
essentially the Do Not Call Registry I'm
not being facetious about that and so he
basically must have given a pass to
everybody in the Senate to vote on this
piece of garbage bill and when it came
back to the house the 25 members of the
get stuff done caucus the so-called
moderates apparently Nancy Pelosi felt
that she was going to cater to them
completely caved did not even negotiate
anything on the bill and passed the bill
in the house and bypassed it I mean this
it was with a majority of Republicans
she's the Speaker of the House there's
nothing going to get to the floor that
she doesn't want to get to the floor she
did so ostensibly because Mike Pence had
given her assurances private assurances
in other words worthless assurances that
the administration would abide by some
of the restrictions she had sought they
included a requirement to notify
lawmakers within 24 hours after the
death of a migrant child in government
custody and a 90-day time limit on
children spending time in temporary
intake facilities so it is trust without
verify in terms of this administration
of course why wouldn't anybody trust
this administration right I mean it is
just
bizarre and even if they do notify us
like the kids are still dead yes it's
like Natasha Lennard said in the
foreword to her new book democracy dies
in darkness it also dies in broad
daylight yep and here is a OC responding
to the the fact that this bill was about
to pass I think this is just before it
passed and it looked like it was gonna
be inevitable to pass abusing kids at
our border and Mitch McConnell
immediately smacked it down in order to
pass and rammed through a Senate bill
that has an enormous amount of funding
for military as well as no guardrails
and no accountability for facilities
that are abusing our kids so that's the
bill that's in front of us here in front
of the house however we didn't even
bother to negotiate there our house
amendments we could have negotiated it
in we could have conference we could
have tried to get amendments in to get
humanitarian provisions put in to get
consequences for facilities that abuse
kids in and instead what we're doing is
that we're immediately going to just
saying yes to what got passed out of the
Senate and these are two completely
different dynamics the Senate you have a
minority democratic party there and here
we are House of Representatives and we
are a house majority and we need to act
like it but congresswoman didn't you
vote against the House version - I did I
did and the reason that I did as well is
because I understand you had who Leon
castor right before he disagreed with
even the House version of the bill as as
do i I do not believe that we play more
money to ice my district is 50%
immigrant and I have an obligation and a
responsibility to protect them I believe
that really what we should ideally be
doing is passing a pure humanitarian
bill to get money straight to those kids
no tricks no writers no poison to get
toothpaste toothbrush soap and we need
to make sure that these kids are
protected
as well as having their resources funded
and the fact that this is even a game is
a frankly a huge huge disappointment or
if you oppose the Senate bill and you
also oppose the House bill I guess I'm
wondering what it is that you're willing
to support that could pass in either the
house or the Senate just to say like you
know I don't know if Jake Tapper I
listen I do not too dissimilar stuff as
Jake Tapper and there are times you get
distracted but she literally just said
we could pass a clean of humanitarian
bill and now he wasn't listening to her
or he just wanted to paste the interview
differently or wanted to try and
emphasize this notion that somehow she's
being unreasonable or whatnot but
continue
that you're willing to support that
could pass in either the house or the
Senate right and once again I think that
a pure humanitarian bill could pass I do
not believe that Republican voters are
interested back home in preventing kids
from getting toothbrush to ashes in
toothpaste pass just the money for these
for for these kids in addition the
president wanted to he could he could
declare an emergency right now and get
that money to those kids because right
now what he's able to do is he's able to
put billions of dollars from the
Pentagon told funds from getting
dispersed in Puerto Rico in order for
him to build an inanimate wall but he
will not lift a finger in the same
capacity in order to get toothpaste to
those kids like go ahead so I think that
what we can do a there's that provision
with the president but also what we can
do is pass a pure humanitarian bill but
you know what even if it came down to it
if it came down to brass tacks and we
had to in negotiate in an imperfect bill
with house amendments that at least is
better than the situation that we have
right now so there's a lot of people on
the left in the caucus that are really
pissed about this I mean being extremely
vocal about it and they should be
because you're holding up stuff for a
very small minority in the house and
it's almost impossible to imagine and
I'm sorry these people ran in these
districts and they may or may not know
them they obviously know them better
than than people who don't live in those
districts but it's very hard to believe
that a bill that provides more
humanitarian protections for children in
the wake of the photo of that dead girl
and her father in the wake of these
stories of these babies it's really hard
to imagine that these 25 some-odd
so-called moderates would be endangered
in their districts
if these amendments were added here's
just a couple of the quotes from some of
the leading Democrats in the house that
are not part of the leadership although
the leadership was split and largely on
generational lines as far as I can tell
Koya Clyburn Bustos all supported the
bill the so-called second tier of
leaders Hakeem Jeffries who's no you
know this guy is not that far to the
left by any stretch of the imagination
Ben ray Lujan Katherine Clark they all
voted no mark Pocan who is the chairman
of the Congressional Progressive Caucus
the co-chair I guess with jeyapaul said
of the problem-solvers caucus which is
the 23 democrats moderate democrats and
23 moderate republicans so-called
tweeted out since when did the
problem-solvers caucus become the child
abuse caucus apparently max Rose who's
from Staten Island did not appreciate
that he said that's why everybody hates
this place
I Got News for him well it's not maybe
the Wi-Fi ok yeah exactly but he hates
this place max
Pramila jeyapaul said she blames the
Senate Democrats first and foremost for
putting us in this position which is a
very very fair assessment it is
extremely difficult for the House
Democrats to vote down a bill that has
gotten almost a total majority of
Democrats in the Senate she said
jeyapaul said I'm looking for a new
pharmaceutical drug that builds spines
or develops a conscience yep recognized
as a child abuse is unacceptable Jared
Nadler voted no there's honorable
mention for an older member of the
caucus I was I was just talking
specifically the leadership but no I
yeah I mean I guess isn't he chair he's
chaired the House Judiciary but I'm
talking like not really the people who
have specific positions in leadership
you know and obviously like Clyburn and
and installer Hoyer are gonna vote with
with Pelosi I guess in this instance
although it's just sort of shocking and
certainly a decent amount of those votes
were there just to basically make it
appear like it's not as brutal of a loss
as it is but it was we will talk more
about that with Digby in the meantime
one of today's sponsors is Skillshare
anyone who goes to sk l dot sh majority
report for is going to get two whole
months of totally free access to skill
shares entire library super quality
online courses and tutorials skills
share as you know is a vibrant online
learning community
it offers courses on everything from
design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
everything in between their skill share
courses for everyone you're gonna have
no problem finding courses that are
going to be useful to you and both your
personal and
national life whether you want to
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered
they of courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop you name it I
have already picked out the classes I'm
going to be watching during the our
brief July 4th hiatus where are they
wait a second here we go
think like a chef a beginner's guide to
cooking with confidence productivity
master class create a custom system that
works I'm also gonna do the real
productivity create your your ideal week
I'm gonna go that's the way I do this
I'm gonna be doing that what do you call
a dreaming thing I can't find that lucid
dreaming but I'm doing all the
productivity once getting all the tips
it's gonna be a new Sam a week and a
half from now oh boy yep watch out and
I'm not gonna tolerate the lack of
productivity in this office
my father was reading me a report on the
Social Security actuarial table and then
we were in the Safari digit is use you
lucid dreaming oh I say it see not being
productive um that was gonna go thing
about that happening that's obviously
not gonna happen but this you can lucid
dreaming will happen they'll be
interesting you can get two entire
months free of access to every single
course offered by skill share by going
to SK l dot s h / majority report for
just think of everything you're gonna
have at your fingertips for two whole
months again that's sk l dot s h /
majority report for i put a link in this
underneath the video put a link in the
description of the podcast check it out
all right quick break when we come back
Digby
[Music]
you
that brings back a lot of memories my
college days the cure ladies and
gentlemen folks speaking of a song that
brings back a lot of memories
this one this one reminds me that it's
probably Friday there you go not a
hugely complex song now that I think
about it Beethoven
Heather Parton Digby welcome to the
program
it is Friday we have we are we are in
the the wake of the first of the first
two debates or I should say the two
first debates of the of the Democratic
primary I want to get to that in a
moment I also want to talk about these
Supreme Court rulings super important
probably more important than anything
else during the week but somewhere in
between there was not just the bill that
passed in the house but the way that it
did or I should say the past and will I
think be signed by Donald Trump but the
way that it did I just went through the
whole thing with this funding bill but I
want to get your take on it like the
this seems to me like I I don't
understand what the hell Nancy Pelosi is
doing well hey in normal circumstances I
would assume that what what had happened
and from what I've read and you know as
far as I can sort of sort through the
details of what was going on with this
that she had been negotiating with the
White House and they had been you know
kind of going back and forth on finding
some way to at least put some of these
how supplementals into the final bill
she was kind of doing a reconciliation
sort of negotiation with the White House
but when the Senate came and voted to
you know we'd like something like 83
days yeah or something yeah you know
with all these Democrats voting for the
Senate bill that didn't have these House
supplementals it kind of cut the legs
out from under her negotiation in the
house for the final bill because the it
that gave the Blue Dogs the the the
moderates who were you know chomping at
the bit apparently to I don't know why I
mean it wasn't like there was any they
weren't doing it out of some sense that
always got to get something done for
those kids it was more like I don't want
to take a chance I'm voting for
something that seems like it you know
isn't Republican enough but whatever
that dynamic was it seems as though
that's sort of cut the legs out from
under what what what she was trying to
do now maybe that's been from her office
and I'm just sort of getting that
because they're trying to you know cover
for her right but whatever happened what
it did show was that you know Pelosi
hold on the caucus on an issue like this
is tenuous and the problem is is that
the power as usual is in the hands of
these moderates who are for whatever
reason decided to flex their muscles on
this particular bill and showed that
they had the ability and this has always
been true of Blue Dogs all of you who
are listening I'm sure who've been
listening and reading this stuff for
years this is how that dynamic works is
that they threatened to go with the
Republicans and you know that is always
a problem it's just the first time we've
seen that kind of a split sort of shown
obviously in the house and it's
disturbing mainly because it's about you
know helping these kids at the border I
mean that's really what this this bill
was designed to do and the fact that
they chose this as you know kind of you
know it's actually quite typical sort of
holding the the lives and and well-being
of a bunch of vulnerable people over the
heads of the Liberals
and saying look we you want to do
nothing are you gonna do it our way
which is the way that that seems to work
if you go back to the health care bills
and
things you can see that same dynamic at
work and it was it was disturbing and I
don't know whether or not but it was the
fact that you know Pelosi just should
they were in a big rush they needed to
get this done and there was some reason
to believe they do need to push more
money to the to the border for sure but
you know this was a very disturbing kind
of portent I'm afraid of maybe what
we're going to start to see happening
again we've seen it before and we'll see
if it happens again so privileged and
Paul singled out the Senate Democrats as
far as I could clean yeah how is nobody
from Pelosi's office doing that like I
mean I like like if if that story that
she got completely undercut by the
Senate is correct how is it there's no
complaints out of her office like I mean
like there's one or two things that
happened here right I mean it's either
Chuck Schumer was the one who basically
screwed her over right because it is
very difficult to hold your caucus when
the Democrats in the Senate all abandon
you essentially and now maybe they just
want to get home for the holidays or
whatever it is I mean I honestly like
you know it's like I've got four days I
gotta go out you know I don't know I
don't know maybe it's because there's so
many of them that are running for
president that they all know I mean
honestly like that I need this time but
to go and campaign but this is really
messed up because I just don't get it
like I don't what here's what I don't
get I understand I don't agree with it
but I understand like I can wrap my head
around the idea of we need to be passing
bills we need to be showing the American
public that we're gonna fight for them
legislatively and we don't have time for
impeachment and that's why we need to do
this stuff I understand that you know I
don't agree that it's the right course
but I understand the like I think it's
it seems like a fairly logical argument
to make but they're not doing that
they're doing less than nothing well and
particularly since look this this this
bill is one of it wasn't a symbolic bill
right it's one of the few things that
was actually going to have some
immediate effect on human beings and you
know you could have made the case and
you know again this is like not wanting
to confront Trump right because the
reason that that I mean what the what
the progresses in the House wanted and
what a Pelosi was apparently negotiating
for was a set of accountability measures
to ensure that the administration
fulfilled its purpose in what this money
was being used for and that it was being
held accountable
you know we threw through you know
various methods of inspections and
various things like that I mean it
wasn't like I mean it really wasn't that
big of a deal it's the kind of his
oversight right I mean essentially it
was congressional oversight saying look
you know we got to take some action here
to ensure that this money is going to be
used properly because look what you've
been doing now if you want some
symbolism fighting for that seems to me
it would have been a really brilliant
move right gonna get up make speeches
and say yes we want to help those kids
at the border but we can't just throw
money at Donald Trump we know what he
does with it and they've not been you
know we need to get some accountability
in here make sure that those kids are
taken care of that would have been a
good argument for them holding up the
bill in my view because it fits with the
whole panoply of accountability issues
again which is with this president but
see this is where the weakness is is
that you know and I can't help but look
at this just appeared
somebody doesn't follow politics you
don't know Pelosi and her and her caucus
and the various you know factions
dueling with one another etcetera
etcetera what you see is Democrats were
afraid to go up against Donald Trump
that's what you see and and you know you
can't get there's that feeling in the
pit of my stomach that all of this
behavior on the part of the Democrats
the fear that they seem to have I mean
sure they'll get up in front of a camera
and shake their fist but when it comes
to actually doing something impeachment
or you know certain know a bill like
this
ever using the power that they have to
educate the American public about what's
going on you know they just hold back
every time and that looks like weakness
it is weakness and people can smell that
you know I mean I just think that that I
mean this is not what people sent the
Democrats to Washington to do last fall
I mean it was to stand up in situations
like this and oppose Donald Trump they
wanted to see them do that and you know
and look you know go a progressive out
there willing to go in and take the fire
too you know they would have been
standing up there saying this stuff the
moderates if they wanted to hold back
and not say anything that people would
have said okay but when it came to doing
the debate on this and to actually you
know voting and and getting up and
making taking a stand that's what people
want at least that's what how I see it I
mean I just this this constant sort of
caving in small ways and big ways on
these sorts of issues where there is a
case to be made that this administration
is being cruel it's being you know
dishonest it's being corrupt
maybe even traitorous in some ways they
just won't you know they won't really
put their muscle behind it and that's
very disappointing at least it to me
yeah and it's it's it's it's also hugely
I think politically problematic too I
mean
yeah and so III don't know what the
answer is to it I mean but it is
interesting to see at the very least to
the extent that I am encouraged by
anything it is that there are there is a
concerted effort to push back on this
within the Democratic Party which in
some respects is also a relatively new
phenomenon like this phenomena is not
new that we're witnessing here it's just
sort of shocking that they're still
doing this even with the president who
is this
this despised right that mean has this
low of favorability ratings this move by
the Democrats is not atypical what is
slightly eight
typical is that you're getting someone
like jeyapaul calling out the Senate
Democrats you're getting someone like
aoc going on and in taking the and
taking Pelosi a task that I think is is
helpful but it really does hammer home
the point that we just need a new
generation of leaders it seems to me in
the Democratic Party and to be honest
with you like I think we're we're still
a couple years away from seeing those
people emerge but if it takes someone
who's a freshman you know to to rise to
the leadership you know I am much more
inclined these days because for all of
the prowess that we attribute to Nancy
Pelosi in terms of holding her caucus
together like if you can't do it in this
situation you know all right well well
you know what do you bring in to the
table and so I don't know it
I just find it incredibly discouraging
and and and let's just before we get to
the debates just talk about these two
Supreme Court hearings I had mentioned
him last night before our debate prep
but one was the ruling on the census
question which you know is it's it's a
win to the extent that you know it you
know there's no it may be revisited in
some fashion but it it would have been
such a huge blow to the credibility of
the Supreme Court to side with the
Department of Justice's explanation as
to why they wanted this question on
immigration or I should say citizenship
in the census question when we now have
literally an entire documentary record
of how they are lying about that like
again in some respects you would almost
want the Supreme Court if they had the
capacity to find the Department of
Justice for contempt or something for
lying so obviously
- all these courts because this
information came through but that's
encouraging but let's just talk about
the the gerrymandering one because the
implications of that Merrick garland
seat now are that we have at least a
half a dozen states who can have
situations like we have in Wisconsin
where you have 54% of the votes go to
Democrats and the Republicans control
65% of the seats in the state
legislature I mean this is just so effed
up it's unbelievable well and it's so
incredibly openly partisan I mean like
this isn't even the argument for it
which just cracks me up yesterday on
Twitter they there were a lot of
Republicans people like Scott Walker you
know that we're making these excuses for
this saying oh well it's perfectly fair
because all the Democrats are in the
cities so that's you know that so they
get representation for their city and
then but there's all these other
counties out here in other places where
you know there aren't where where the
Republicans are and I'm going you know
we don't have representation for rocks
or for cows that's really not what this
is about
it was supposed to be that humans you
know actual human beings people who who
live in this country would be rep you
know represented proportionately
in our government or in our government
and you know they're just basically
saying yeah we're you know all the
cities they're just sort of get alized
into these you know these small
districts where you get one
representative and you know that's how
we do it but then we're going to
allocate all this so we're going to make
sure that there are many more people
represented by the Republican you know
the the right-wing conservative
Republicans who would be more likely to
represent people out in the rural areas
and that's really what they're saying
and it's it's so blatantly undemocratic
and so clearly partisan that you know it
kind of shocks me to be honest with you
I really I really didn't expect that
they would that they would do it and I
don't know why everybody said now
they're going for it you know they're
going to
but it really is I mean I think that
this is a signal of just how openly and
blatantly partisan this Court is really
going to get and you know going to the
census question now look you know Chief
Justice Roberts you know apparently he
you know and he was the swing vote and
he voted to send the the case back and
sort of mentioned in the in and it was
mentioned in the in the opinion now well
you know they weren't exactly honest
they didn't exactly tell us the truth so
they I mean yeah I mean yes they lied
blatantly but you know he is he his he
took that position you know most of the
legal scholars that I've read say you
know well he's trying to show that that
you know the court really isn't so so
nakedly partisan and you know it doesn't
pass the smell test because when it
comes down to something truly important
and consequential this Court is as far
right as we've ever seen and we're gonna
see more and more of this I mean that
you know that the Federalist Society
lawyers and and the Republicans in the
legal community are pushing as hard as
they can to get these cases before the
court and they're gonna and look they
don't even have to hurry because this
court majority is going to be there for
a long time it's gonna be super durable
I think Thomas is going to retire in he
may retire in the next month or two he
may announce it like literally days away
from announcing it or oh I think you
could I think he could wait retired know
three months before the election yet
Mitch McConnell just kind of stick it
the Democratic that's what they're gonna
do I think that's gonna be a way of
engaging they're gonna back put that in
their back pocket as a way of engaging a
lot of those Christian conservative
voters who came out and voted for Trump
last time cuz it's gonna be a reminder
it's gonna there there's gonna be this
sort of like they I think they look back
at the Cavanaugh hearing and say that
was helpful and they may or may not be
right about that but I think they're
thinking that was helpful and maybe the
next person we bring up there will
offend the sensibilities the questioning
by the the Dems will offend the
sensibilities enough people and will
bring more people to out to vote so I
suspect
you know he's gonna resign probably this
time next year and and and McConnell may
just wait until like you know August to
start the hearings so that this is fresh
in people's minds the let me just say
that though on the on the on the
gerrymander thing the idea like the
argument that they're making about we
should have areas represented I mean I
think there's something to that insofar
as like we have states that are
represented right that theoretically of
different regions that may have
different types of problems but the the
argument is just shown to be BS when you
have these different types of regions
the rural parts of Wisconsin let's say
are overruling what can happen in the in
the cities like you know like it cuts
both ways you could say like these
individuals are being denied Republican
you know in all these rural sections of
the the state which is I think not quite
correct but even if even if that was
that's not the way that state
legislatures work they dictate over over
the cities or you know the they land
play this way their their purview is
beyond the local geography right they
inhabit so it's just at the end of the
day it's all about numbers I mean I just
I all right amount on a national level
let's not forget I mean all these states
get two senators you know California
gets the same number of senators is
Alaska and you know we haven't you know
but you know 30 times the population I
mean it's been sane so you know this is
that there is that sort of you know on
the national level there is that kind of
you know it enhanced representation for
under you know underrepresented areas
saying so I mean not that that hasn't
needed was a house but there is this
other house and cotton in the US
Congress that sort of makes up for it I
also find it hilarious that he is
arguing that
a walker does that doesn't mean they
should have a larger share of the seats
just because they went big by big
margins in some districts well the
reason why they're winning by such big
margins in a lot of these districts is
because they've been drawn in such a way
to corral as many Democratic votes in as
specific of a location as possible
that's the that is exactly the plan with
the gerrymandering and we should say
that one of these cases that are in
front that was in front of the Supreme
Court I think it was North Carolina
those districts were drawn literally
drawn by the same guy who came up with
the plan to put the question on the on
the census that guy Hofstadter right and
so it would have made it that much more
embarrassing I think for the Supreme
Court to do it now and I guess like I
don't know I'm of two minds on that
because it would have been nice to rip
the band-aid off and to sort of stop
with this pretense that the Supreme
Court is anything other than completely
politicized and partisan and this the
this this thin veneer that basically you
know keeps any sort of dramatic reform
at bay or calls for it I think is really
yeah
I mean I think that's part of it I think
that's that that's what Roberts I think
thinking is in this but all right let's
talk about the debates we had two
debates you want to start with the first
of the first debates or the second of
the first debates or should we look
together look at the whole thing you
know that let's I mean I think you know
it's it's I mean we can do however you
want it yeah I mean let's look at a
whole thing but let's just start with
this before we get to sort of the horse
racing stuff which is sort of inevitable
when you have 20 some-odd people running
in this race and before we we talked
about you know Marion Williams and or
whatever I don't know well from a policy
perspective right like just from the you
know like how much because people like
you and I are always looking for for the
policies to be discussed for there to be
a vigorous debate about the policies I
feel like there was too many people
involved to achieve like a an
opportunity for people to learn things
but my sense is is that I'm also super
excited because I feel like every single
almost every single person on the stage
would have been to the left of at least
the major candidates in 2008 there's no
doubt about it I mean there's just no
doubt about it I mean I had exactly the
same feeling you're right you can't
really get deep in to to policy and even
then you know debate I you and I want to
see that but I'm not sure that the rest
of America wants you know deep you know
in-depth discussions of details of
policy beyond what you would find in a
normal town hall say you know I mean so
I don't know if we're not going to get
the lincoln-douglas debates let's just
put it that way
but I do think that these things and are
generally they're sort of a they give
you a sense of where the party is where
even especially with this big group in
the beginning you're sort of looking at
it I mean I found that when I was
watching the Republican debates - and in
2016 that you know you get a sense of
where the party is what their what their
general sort of you know where the the
center of gravity is at any given time
and for many years you and I watched
this we watched them tack more and more
and more to the right in fact there was
an interesting article in New York Times
this week where they had mapped it it's
called a manifesto project if anybody
hasn't had a chance to look at it and
you can map how the write went right
over the last 20 years and how the
Democrats chased them right you can it's
all it's mapped you can see it's got its
you know it's scientifically designed to
study and then in 2008 it halted the the
move to the right and it started tacking
left and of course it's since then has
has picked up speed now what is
interesting here
important to note is that when they when
they mapped out where the public was on
any number of issues and various you
know data points that they used the
Democrats are still you know they're
left in their center-left they're not
way left they're not you know so far I
mean they compared them to other parties
in Europe for instance you know the left
wing and the right wing party the right
is still way off
you know on the edge the Democrats are
still you know they're very much within
the mainstream I guess that's what I'm
saying but what made what what we can
sense and 2008 is the right period to be
looking at the 2008 until now that the
party has been tacking back rather than
chasing the Republicans and trying to
you know just sort of fudge the
differences and you know shave off a few
points on on either end or whatever and
in the old days you could see where that
the party was trying to do that that
they're not trying to do that as much as
they were and it kind of goes back to
our earlier conversation and I think
maybe the leadership of the house is
kind of still in that mode yeah and not
recognizing that center of gravity of
the party and the mainstream of America
which by the way the mainstream stayed
pretty pretty static it's not really
it's always been this certain but you
know it's just been that the right was
so dominant in their you know in their
in their rhetoric and in their
intentionally dominated the media I mean
in the intensity right I mean this has
always been a big story of American
politics as far as I can tell it is that
the right is far more engaged and it's
not you know it's you know people talk
about like there is 80% desire for gun
control but the intensity of the ad 80%
is low and the intensity of the you know
small percentage you don't want any gun
control is super high and so I mean I
just point that out only because so many
people have a mistaken perspective on
what drives politics and you know to the
extent that people like you and I in
particular are accused of preaching to
the choir here's the dirty secret it's
the choir that that moves
in this country and it just so happens
that the Republican choir is bigger it's
not that they're you know getting the
disengaged it's just that there's just
more of them who are more engaged well
and that's true and I think that there's
a chicken or the egg kind of question on
this too because they have a leadership
that you know actively seeks to you know
give them what they want whereas the
Democrats for you know the last 25 years
spent most of their energy trying to you
know separate themselves from their own
base and saying hey everybody don't pay
any attention those crazy people out
there you know people like you and me
and you know that does tend to
disillusion your your boat I mean it's
it certainly doesn't feed their
intensity if that's what you're looking
for so you know so in any case I think
you're getting back to the debate I
certainly feel that the center of
gravity and the Democratic Party is much
further shouldn't say much for your left
it is substantially left of where it was
in 2008 and it there are certain people
within the party who are running big
names with a lot of active followers you
know the Sanders and Harris and Sanders
and Warren for instance who you know
have a very strong you know they're
holding down the left end of the dial
there that you know this is you can tell
that something has has happened to the
Democratic Party now you still see all
these voices a lot of the nevertrump
errs and various other you know moderate
voices or say oh no you know this is
terrible look they're they're going to
blow it and Donald Trump's going to win
well you know I don't know about you but
I think it's time to have this contest I
really do
you know I think it's time to actually
put the ideas that the Democrats
actually believe in put them on the
table let's see what happens I mean this
is you know I there's no there is no
guarantee that tacking to the right or
being you know very overly concerned
with whether or not you appear to be too
left is going to beat Donald Trump
nobody knows what's going to beat Donald
Trump he he is an alien from outer space
in the political world and all these
people including the never Trump errs go
looking I've won a lot of races let me
tell you how to win yeah well you know
we saw what happened
in 2016 in their party I'm not listening
to them and the Democrats you know look
we are in a different we're in a
different place than we've been with
Donald Trump Donald Trump is something
unique and and and I'm not talking about
their ideology or anything I'm just
talking about him as a candidate so
Democrats you know there's nothing to go
on here other than just you know let's
just let's just go out there and tell
the people what we believe in we'll tell
them what we think about Donald Trump
will it you know put it put it all out
there on display and and and try to win
I don't think there's any other way to
do it because nobody knows you can't
strategize this and try and you know be
too tactical and you know trying to
figure out where we can pick up a couple
of votes over here and let's just you
know pick off these they can try it I
don't think it works from the age of
Donald Trump maybe it will I don't think
it's I I don't know when it has worked
welco yeah I mean like when was the last
time a Democratic nominee who was
perceived to be the the right person to
win but that was why they were nominated
one like like like you know there was
genuine enthusiasm for all his
limitations but there was genuine
enthusiasm for Barack Obama it wasn't
like this is the guy who can win in fact
if you were to sit down and and do the
the calculation on paper you would say
this is not the guy who can win you
would you would have picked Joe Biden
maybe or or John Kerry or you know I
mean Michael Dukakis I mean the III
don't know that that strategy ever works
and there's no reason and like you say
in an era of Trump I think it it's even
less workable I mean there needs to be I
think just a sense of confidence since
their banks and that that you are not
running from anything that you're not
equivocating what you're offering is
what you believe in rather than what you
think because half those people who walk
off that stage I'm thinking like the
Hickenlooper z-- or the Bennets or the
Delaney's
their argument against half of the
things that are talked about is like you
can't get that done and all right I
think any blank place but of course they
don't know that but it's also just sort
of a lame way of backing into something
it's real right and and there's no
evidence that that is effective you know
you got Claire McCaskill on MSNBC you
know telling the Democrats how to win
newsflash
she lost she lost and you know so like
this is how you run in the state really
well then why didn't you do it
you know like why did you fail and I
don't know III but I I think that I mean
I watched this thing and I'm impressed
in safaris um where the party has come
and I think that is you know largely a
function of Bernie Sanders frankly and
you know I think there's a lot of other
factors he was the one who just sort of
stepped into that role I think Elizabeth
Warren could have stepped into that role
in 2016 and I think in many respects
Sanders was waiting for her to do that
and and on some level I think he is in
some ways it is hurting his his bed
on some level because it is not as easy
to look at those you know two debates
and distinguish between him and the
other people I mean I think that if you
are more sensitive to the policies it's
you you can see it more clearly and you
know in most circumstances but for a
relatively casual observer or even not
even that casual I think it's sort of
hard to say like there's huge amounts of
daylight here I don't think I don't
think there is and I think that that
Sanders and you're right of course he
deserves tremendous credit for that you
know he was the standard bearer and
we're talking about going way back you
know not just even before 2016 and you
know just to add to it I think there are
a couple of other factors to that that
should be given a little credit one is I
think that Occupy Wall Street
what do I need there you know I mean
that was a gigantic specially on the
generational level I think if you if you
were growing up during the the mid-2000s
to the late 2000s and that's you know
you saw that that was that that was a
spontaneous movement that was global and
you know I'm not sure that they
accomplished anything too specific but
what they did was it was an awakening
you know an epiphany a collective
epiphany put in coming into the to the
lexicon into the into the national
discourse I mean there's no doubt the
Bernie Sanders was in many ways
inherited something he had always been
calling for it but he inherited that you
know and I think it's a function of
Occupy Wall Street I think it's a
function of frankly having a you know a
generational thing where you have roots
in the net roots I mean I think there's
a lot of things that conspired to this
but he just happened to be the one who
became the national figure talking about
these things at that time and and and I
think there's also sort of some some
marginal differences that you know are
more or less important to different
people in terms of like where he stands
and in terms of a critique of capitalism
but but but in terms of just basically
you know the broad strokes which is I
think how most people digest a debate
like this it's harder for him to stick
out so let's let's talk about you know
with that said and I you know there I
would have liked to have seen more talk
about free college and climate change
during these debates and sort of having
an opportunity to sort of for people to
have like laid out a bigger vision like
everything got very small very quick it
felt like in both those debates and
maybe that is the sort of the danger of
having well I mean it's part of it as
having that many people on stage at the
same time but if you had had Fox let's
say do that debate instead of MSNBC
would he just come out and like how can
you justify government and then people
would have had an opportunity to sort of
like start with these sort of broader
proclamations of well you know why
arguing you know why government's good
but there's going to be plenty more
debates so let's let's just get a sense
of what you think how the race is going
to change following these two first
debates give me your sense of what sort
of I guess the headlines are in that
respect I was a little surprised at how
at how poorly Joe Biden did in the
second debate I had expected him to be a
little bit I mean he's you know really
really surprised I did well I was I
thought that he would be I didn't think
he'd get he'd get you know nailed quite
as as hard as he did I think it was a
very bad showing for him but I'm not
sure it'll make that much difference I
don't know you know he's still the
front-runner and and we'll see but I
think you exposed on some level
something about him which is number one
is he you know he's just not he he's he
hasn't kept up let's just be kind about
it and put it that way he's just kind of
not of the moment and I think that that
it showed really you know for the first
time I think maybe the whole country
could see that Wow
you know he said he's lost a step here
and I don't mean that in the age of
sense I just mean that he has clearly
not taken the time to you know fully
assess and understand where the party is
right now what you know what the the you
know the the morals and mores are of the
Democratic Party and he see and he had
just had assumed that he was going to be
crowned here I think right because he's
an arrogant a-hole
right I mean that's what comes but it
this fits into the narrative where you
starts to see like you know the more
than anything else that bragging about
being friends with the segregationist
was just sort of like completely the
arrogance and the sort of like shocking
lack of empathy and the shocking lack of
awareness I understand why he may have
done that in
moment like even if he didn't have some
issues you know problems in terms of
race I can understand why any politician
in that era would have done that but to
look back on it in retrospect and not go
I you know to express some like
ambivalence about it too you know but to
use it you know like I can see saying
like you know thirty years ago I had to
cavort with people who today I don't
even think I could even shake their
hands like to say something like that
you know even if it was insincere even
if he didn't believe it would at least
have an awareness of like hey things in
terms of race have progressed and it's
no longer even remotely accessible you
know acceptable to celebrated it right I
was the vice president - the first black
president and let me tell you when I
started out I had to hang around with
some people and work with them that you
wouldn't even believe they were in the
Democratic Party even you know and and
this is what we had to do just to make
the slightest amount of progress and
look how far we've come with that
doesn't even exist in our party anymore
I mean it could he could have turned it
into a positive for himself and instead
you know he's proud of this and you know
this what this speaks to is this
delusion on his part and I think he
truly believes it that way if he becomes
president he can you know he can go in
and cajole Mitch McConnell and you know
whoever into doing his bidding because
you know they'll all be buddies they've
known each other for years and this is
just the worst fallacy I mean I thought
the Obama administration believed that
in the beginning and they were schooled
hardcore over the first term and they
they washed up by the second term they
understood what they were dealing with
where was Joe did he not see any of that
I mean did he just think that that was
just I mean what what happened there was
he asleep I don't get Ryan Grimm has a
great piece in the interceptor I think
his excerpted from his book or at least
based upon the research he did from his
book about about the the fiscal cliff
and how yeah Biden went around Harry
Reid Harry Reid had wanted to go over
the cliff because I know you remember
this but people may not
remember that the Bush tax cuts had to
sunset within ten years because they
were passed through at reconciliation so
this fiscal cliff basically was like if
the Democrats do nothing if they
basically went home for vacation at the
end of the year then all of the Bush tax
cuts would have been rescinded it would
have obviously given the Democrats all
the power they could come back if they
wanted to get you know gives you know re
institute middle-class tax cuts they
could have done that they could have
owned that and the the the power
position like you couldn't possibly want
ask for a better situation in terms of
like where you get because you didn't
have to do anything it was a runaway
train and you could just sit there and
say like if the Republicans don't want
to stop this train that's fine because
it's gonna stop it's just gonna stop at
the spot we want it to spot a stop and
then we're gonna leverage that you can
get what we want and and the repose I
have to go around and Joe Biden stepped
in it and I don't know if it's
ideological or just sort of like some
type of ego thing or just some type of
notion like I'm gonna own this I'm gonna
give them I mean it's like literally
like somebody comes up he goes like I
want to buy that bicycle of yours and
you say okay $80 and they go I don't
know and Joe Biden goes I'll resolve
this I'm a good guy I'm a good
negotiator you could have the bike for
$40 and they go great yeah it's called
deal-making I mean who does that remind
you of I mean it I hate to say this
because it's not really fair to Joe
Biden because he's not like Donald Trump
but I gotta say that I see way too many
parallels there is an arrogance and
there is a mindset that I think is
anachronistic now and and I think that's
the the idea is that we can we can you
know beat Donald Trump with Donald Trump
light yeah yeah well again we're say
we're talking about that idea that oh we
just need to you know
need to appeal to some of those Trump
voters you know and look there are Trump
voters you can appeal to in fact I wrote
a piece this week about the never Trump
errs and I've been really I'm not a
never Trump basher you know I never
Trump or basher I tend to sort of enjoy
some of them they know they're very you
know clever and often have a lot of
great insults for Donald Trump so you
know I'm not one to say you know hey
don't join us because of all the
horrible stuff you did before like me my
feeling is well I know but my feeling is
bring him on board we'll work with them
you know this is this is us you know
we're gonna get an ally with stallin
here and then after it's all over we'll
it will we'll go back to our to our
arrest
yeah and we'll revisit all this but in
any case that's beside the point what
what what they've been saying you know
is you know you just can't you know you
can't be all left-wing or whatever I'm
going look you you you people don't
understand there is one group that maybe
gettable for the Democrats and and
they're only get a bull on one level
which is that you know they they they
are appalled by Donald Trump's assault
on the Constitution and in political
norms they're not get a ball on policy
come on they're republican they're
gettable on that and the never Trump
errs have an argument to make to those
people that Donald Trump is you know a
soui generous right he's somebody who is
doing this in a way that nobody has done
before but many will do after him if
they're allowed to get away with it this
goes to impeachment and various
investigations oversight all that stuff
they have that argument to make that's
where the those people are and those
people are those you know suburban white
women and college-educated Republicans
who are get a bull they're not get a
bull on policy so you know you can you
can talk about all this that you know
they've got their own issues there with
the you know they love those tax cuts
they love all that crap that Trump does
but if they think he's destroying the
Constitution they maybe get a book but
that's not an argument that can't that
is going to be easily made by Democrats
that's something these never Trump
people can make and you know maybe they
could put their their talents to better
use let's say than giving Democrats
advice on what policies they should have
right to appeal to Republicans you know
and this is sort of you know this is
again you're shaving up on the edges
idea that oh you know we can just if we
just do a little bit of tweaking here
with our with this policy and let's not
go too far left because that'll offend
the Republicans you know that's not how
this is going to work I don't think I
think they're there you know that we're
just in a whole new world and you know
let it the politicians with the best
instincts will win and I'm telling you I
don't think that Joe Biden has them I
don't think they're there and I you know
there were some others who came came out
you know I think that shown in in the
debates that kind of gave themselves an
opportunity for a second look like
obviously Harris did very well last
night
she was very aggressive with with Biden
which I think sort of showed people yeah
these are all kind of beauty contests
right there's only so it's too many
people so what you want to see is sort
of a sign of character or cleverness or
some ability to sort of seize the
spotlight or whatever there it's theater
right more than politics and she was
very very good at the theater and showed
I think which is something that a lot of
people are longing to see is somebody
who is has has a the political ability
perhaps to go up against Donald Trump
and and in this kind of situation I
think that she did show that she showed
that she has a talent for it and we've
seen it before she did it in the
hearings yeah
with um with Bill Bar you know I mean so
she's good at that and that will that
will stand her in good stead going
forward I thought she was really
effective and of course you know I mean
I personally my own and I am saying this
to everybody just you know you my biases
are right out here on my sleeve I am you
know I adore Elizabeth Warren I have
something so I was you know very happy
to see her do well in the first debate
yeah I thought she did well what else so
Harris and Warren I think Bernie did
okay
I don't know that he won any new
converts I don't know that he I suspect
that it doesn't impact him much either
way but he probably gains on some level
it to the extent that Joe Biden loses
and
who else anybody else that you think is
going to be that that that that did well
that is gonna get any more attention
surprisingly I thought that kirsten
gillibrand did well I mean she's been a
cipher in this race so far but you know
last night she sort of pushed her way
into the debate and she it wasn't so
much her delivery or the theater of her
but I thought she said some things that
were that were pretty effective I don't
know if anybody heard it because you
know no one was really paying attention
sure I thought I thought she she was
pretty good and I you know I I thought
that that you know Pete Budaj he's not
you know some we're not policy that I'm
particularly attracted to at the moment
but he's a gifted you know rhetorical
speaker I mean he's really really good
and I expect that we're going to see
more of him yeah sort of scares me a
little bit yeah me too but I'm say I'm
just saying he's challenged yes I think
that's I think that is yes the the the
reality is you cannot deny this guy has
skills yeah and that's what's so scary
about him and some respect but all right
well Heather thank you so much have a
great week have a great fourth and we'll
talk to you soon
absolutely thanks Sam thanks for having
me all right folks we're gonna take a
very quick break and then in studio we
have no music but it'll be old Matt will
be joining us of course new Matt is here
so I don't know if maybe what will
happen is they'll cancel each other out
there can only be one
it's like Highlander it's like there's a
lot more than one Matt matter and
anti-matter there's a lot there I think
hmm
I'm tired folks so tired all right so
give us one minute and when we come back
that bender over here
you
one of the upsides of listening to the
show is that you could hear the
interstitials and now matt has old
excuse me new matt has gone back to his
roots which was what was the name of
your podcast when you first came
information or information error which
was taking tapes Nixon tapes maybe some
LBJ tapes and putting mood music
underneath it and I remember you coming
in for your fear for your interview
saying yeah I did this to get my friends
to listen to these tapes and I thought
well maybe we have found because of
there's two things I look you know to
replace people have gone one is like
skillset and then the other is someone
who has the same name that way I don't
have to learn the new person's name and
so when Matt when you came in and told
me about yourself I was impressed with
your skill set but I was really sold
because I was so used to saying Matt
around the office that I wasn't gonna
have to change and with us now is the
reason why I developed that habit that
is Matt bender hello Matt bender welcome
back it's great to be back it's only
taking on geez how many years we have
four years
Matis that good way you land your opener
alright that yeah wait it's just food a
20 meter in four years since I've been
gone from the show I did I I was a guest
on the show early early last year for
like a ten minute segment where I just
called it but other than that I have not
been on this show since the last day I
worked here back in October of 2015
that's nuts
you know someone tough - you think you
know what's funny is like I went to I
had a doctor's appointment yesterday
and he told me like I'm coming up close
on my colonoscopy I'm like no we just
had that because I remember sitting here
complaining with you guys about my
health insurance coverage on my
colonoscopy and I realized like wait
that was four years ago yeah yeah now
feels very recent you know I hate to
quote Mike Serna but time really
has died later if you're gonna quote
unquote them properly so Matt what have
you been doing you've been DIPP and
you've been basically creating spawns
yeah yeah I've got well when I left here
I had one kid right and now I have two
Wow I don't know if you quite know you
take ambien
right right right that's that's part of
it I guess if you're right not me now
Matt of course is straight edge is
straight edge right Wow in fact when I
came in here and someone said whoa Matt
look at that redbull you have I said
that's myself okay I don't have a
redbull and then I realized it was this
man cuz I'm the one who usually had the
energy drink in this studio we cannot
drink redbull oh I can't okay I was
about no I'm saying make slow still is
maybe you drank the red ball cuz you
were what's that no no I just literally
that's my that's what I need Fitz is
only about yeah breakfast yeah caffeine
and whatever else is in there well that
was the other thing is I wanted I was
when I wanted to replace you I wanted
someone with the same name right the
same eating habits and if we got pretty
close
he has like M&Ms for breakfast ah sounds
that sounds delicious
all right so you've had
your second child and you went on to
Cafe Media now you have your own show
right I do yeah doomed doomed all right
and I'm also a reporter at Mashable
there you go right but yet doomed pod
comm that's where you can listen to the
audio version of the podcast and then
youtube.com slash Matt bender for the
live stream version of the show and I
assume you have a patreon I have a
patreon patreon calm slash Matt bender
thank you Sam I only asked for five
dollars a month much cheaper than some
other shows Wow all right Michael
reacting neutrally to that well that was
a double shot that was a bluff was that
me and this one listen they're people
look just cause you're socialists
doesn't mean that you know you know pay
for value
[Music]
you know actually that was that reminds
me because destiny said like is Michael
Brooks is much more to the left of you
and I said I don't know if that's the
case do you think that's the case oh
yeah I'm to the left of you for sure in
what in what areas in redistribution and
dica modifying the economy and foreign
policy I'm gonna left it I don't know I
may be foreign policy but but what in
what what do you want to decon can
modify and redistribute that I would I
mean basically ultimately everything
which I don't think you want to the show
for one so you want no private property
well I want private property at an I
mean do you agree with like I don't mind
if somebody owns like their own house
right something like that I agree but I
don't want any large corporate
concentration of anything so you're for
breaking up all in all sectors I didn't
realize that breaking up all in all
sectors mean from like an antitrust no
no no no no this is another like making
them actual public Commons not antitrust
public get more specific with what it
could matter just hold on all right sure
appreciate you being here
I'm just his left wing no I'm just
curious because judge Brandeis I will
say the line between social democrat and
democratic socialism is a bit blurry
well that's what i think but i'm but but
i but i'm i am curious about as it was
the first time I thought I was like well
Jamie is a narco communist and I think
that's pretty definitive but like what
what like a narco prefix after a
communist Asian upside they convinced me
I can just be a communist now small see
time yeah alright but what so what what
would you make as an example as an
example your your interest in solving
the crisis of Silicon Valley is
antitrust and I'm more interested in
making these companies public utilities
as an example so you would make Google
and Facebook public utilities absolutely
how would you deal with like First
Amendment questions you know they would
you covered under the First Amendment
that's how I deal with it I'm less
freaked out about that thing you are
little bit more that's where I go I'm
more interested in how can things
actually be democratized and moved into
a commons than just broken up by
trust-busting methods since leaving the
show I've become a libertarian and what
was the other than the UAD commodify I
would also all natural gas and well
refineries have been on rocker for years
I would you want to make that you want
to make those comments not just like you
want bit like I think the government's
emotional attacks on yeah I would
national fires have been saying that
well not just refineries the entire
company of say Exxon or Chevron needs to
be publicly absorbed and then probably
basically disassembled because it's
incompatible with yes I think I'm I
guess man I would have done foreign
policy just relax
feel like Andrew yang over here that's
but I think that I am yeah I mean and
then if you include foreign policy I
mean he said so left of you is that the
quibble I'm to the left of you I don't
know that I'm so left of you yeah I mean
I think the I think the the the the big
difference I mean on foreign policy I
don't know
I don't I would imagine tension maybe
just just amount of energy put it yeah
yeah I will say this in this chapo
Facebook group I am in Michael has more
of the left-wing credit than you do Sam
there's no doubt about that I mean he's
definitely it's it's I think he's
definitely branded himself in that way
right curious from me
I'm a from a actual - boys - dope boys
recipes when I first found out about the
majority report I was getting kind of a
liberal vibe from you Sam and then the
more I watched it the more I realized
that most a lot of the differences that
I had perceived between you and like
Chapo were like effect I definitely
think that Sam was like okay look I
support socialism but first let me
explain why Nancy Pelosi is so clever
no I are you now Matt where are you on
this Matt bender Oh Matt um where where
have you landed because I I cite you a
lot about like the online stuff and I
know that's what you're doing with doom
but but where where are you in this well
I I'm yanking I'm holy with before
chatters and believe that I want my
$1,000 a month and let the world Burton
know I probably actually now that 1k a
month and let the world burn he would be
a lot more now that Jamie's dropped the
anarcho thing I'm probably more along I
heard her line of thinking to be honest
you know
wait nan enter it was a long road but I
acknowledged the need for some form of
central planning which means I'm not an
Ergo right I was you know to take a line
from against me I was a teenager an
artist but now I've sort of yeah
that's where I've landed same as Jamie
there I have sighted you multiple times
as recently as yesterday on this segment
I did with destiny for a you know back
in the day when Saul was about to be
born or maybe it was right after he was
born I wanted to take a you know
paternity leave that's where that was
the genesis of Matt and Michael Mondays
and I just remember you coming up to me
like every you know once in a while it's
saying like I want to get somebody on
from end right to activist or this guy
this what what what Paul um no yeah but
what was the other guy what was the name
I'm just talking the general name of
like PO pickup artists but then there's
like an acronym for him to like PUA PUA
s and I'm like what the are you
talking about
and and and I just remember saying like
dude you can do it if you want like game
gamergate what you can do it if you want
but that's not politics and then I you
know talk about like and then three
years later they're literally in the
White House but and that is to a large
extent your beat right like you on
doomed and are you not doing a public
shaming anymore you well no that's not
going right now but it's sort of the
same thing when I you know I go at
someone on the right who deserves some
shaming you know we on the show we cover
cover everything really but the the like
you said the bread and butter is you
know what the right wing is up to what
white supremacists are doing online what
the clio the gamergaters and the men's
rights activists and the the subgroup of
those guys that are big now are in cells
what they're all up to and you know the
ways they're sort of still so ingrained
in everything that's going on in our
politics I do think in certain ways some
people like Tsarevich have sort of lost
their allure and their their their power
that they once had but that's just
because that's happening to the sort of
celebrity grifters who who tried to use
this and buoy their own sort of career
and make money off of this but like the
real true believers of these sort of
groups like you know the inset like
there's been shootings literally that
have happened where people have come out
and committed acts of violence and then
they go online and you go online and you
say oh they did this because they're
part of the insel community they wanted
to attack women who they but who they
call Stacy's because they believe that
they have hurt them in their lives by
not having sex with them why what's what
why Stacy it's
this dumb the the muscly guys oh I
didn't I knew about Chad because of Chad
vigorous I don't know right Stacie's
okay guys so so they're just they're
just like basic like Barbie and Ken but
they've decided to call them chad and
stacy like what was the genesis like how
do these means i mean I guess it's like
basically asking like a comedian like
how do you come up with these ideas but
but do do people chase these memes down
to their their like original origins
right right you know a lot of the times
with these things like with gamergate
there was just one thing that happened
in like the gaming community and it just
so happened that this woman was making
independent games and her boyfriend
broke up she broke up with her boyfriend
and he wrote this horrible screed and
passed that around and in that thing
it's suggested that she had cheated on
him with five different guys in the
gaming community or whatever and that
literally created this sort of
anti-women right-wing reactionary
backlash against all these really
innocent people who did nothing wrong to
have their lives upended and harassed
the way they were and that's literally
what just kicks off these things there's
just a moment where like a bunch of
these people get together on reddit or
on 4chan and they're like let's do
something to troll and then that
inevitably brings out people who are
like yeah I'm trolling but also I
believe that that's real to me that's
what's really going on it's like the
whole racist troll thing we're like you
know I'm just you know the things I'm
saying or pepé is just racist because
it's funny but also I am actually racist
for real you know well it is interesting
to sort of like all of these things
basically come out of like the single
acts of misogyny or
racism right like right like you know
you got dumped dude grow up right don't
go and you know it's just some type of
veiled or not veiled misogyny that did
that drives something like that so is
there a sense of like where are these
movements relative to where they were
let's say three or four years ago like
my sense is is that there
is a waning on some level and I'm not I
died I only know that I have no sense of
if that's just because of my personal
myopia or no well it's definitely been
waning in certain aspects and in other
aspects it's actually actually been
growing I think you know to the the
original original like groups of people
who were in these these these different
right-wing groups they sort of viewed
Donald Trump as a disappointment in
their eyes however they're there what
they've been saying has permeated
through to the Trump true believers the
you know the moms and dads the grandpas
and grandpas the Boomers who just love
Donald Trump and think he's fantastic
and you see this with keyonnah how cute
I went from a 4chan /hn meme where a
bunch of people were just sharing this
stuff on there too literally you have
people in their sixties showing up at
Trump rallies wearing where we go when
we go all queuing on t-shirts wait where
does that one come from
what's that where we go on that is that
is literally the q9 catchphrase okay
all right it makes complete sense right
you naturally that sounds like very
naturally that sounds like a super great
right catch right very bright very dope
boys tested catchphrase right right yes
so so you know you you see this is
growing like you go to any you look at
any any Trump rally there's qa9 shirts
queueing on signs people saying where we
go when we go all you go online there's
people who really do still believe that
any moment now
Moeller is about to pop out with Trump
arms around each other saying we just
took down the deep state together and
fooled you all that's a joint press
conference John Podesta Z in handcuffs
right we stopped Chava that's all right
so we did it Hillary come out here the
other day if you could please I looked
out the is there anything great would
you like to apologize to the victims no
Dom it Pizza it's all she's part of it
she's private I just want to say like
the hardest part of this whole thing
are you and I'm but you know what if
that's where the story line went where
if Q one day just came out and said that
oh actually I just got word that
Hillary's part of this they would
believe this I know just whatever hard
as a part of all of us to lock her up
every time I had to say that it hurt me
inside but but she was so great about it
we know that money in
Ryan Grimm's book one of the one of the
tidbits you know is that uh Hillary
Clinton actually needed to be checked by
her staff to not praise Trump for firing
Komi love she really let's go out of you
like cosine all right so let me ask you
this what is your sense that give me a
sense of like how much of these
movements have been hurt by essentially
cutting off the heads like how much has
it impacted to have the D platforming of
Alex Jones
Serna vich bless his heart seems to have
not recovered from the defeat at the
hands of me right no he's always gonna
be a little bit jealous about I mean
what happened to Serna vich which I
really think really sort of deep-sixed
him was after we publicly humiliated him
and then had the opportunity to publicly
humiliate him again after he failed to
get me fired laughing now Sam exactly my
recommendation would be to people who
gonna troll to give it a couple more
days before you really start to despite
the football in those situations calm
but after he did that I don't know if
people remember this he got rat aft
somebody gave him fake documents that
showed that Chuck Schumer had done
something wrong and he went out there
with them as basically a way I think of
distracting from him taking this beating
and I should say I don't think too much
people paid attention to that dynamic
but with him it's all encompassing so I
think like for as far as he was
concerned his entire world was falling
apart of that right and this is was
going to be his lifeline and that fell
apart and then I think that really deep
sixed him right and now he's come back
at some type of like documentary
filmmaker is right he was no it is his
movies are on like Amazon Prime and
someone needs to do something about them
well it's super easy again well they
have that happen right well yeah Amazon
Prime is taking down and
Baxter documentaries so yeah so much for
the tolerant left but right right but
but he I think his Milo has fallen by
the wayside well I think with that what
you say McGinnis I mean they've got a la
liga there's been a lot of deep
platforming and I wonder has that
impacted the movement well for the
superficial people like Milo who never
really had any sort of movement behind
him it was just he went out there said
something provocative on Twitter and got
attention for it and that's what sort of
lifted him up amongst that audience
that's why when he got the platform did
hurt him so much there was nothing
really behind Milo there was no one who
actually supported Milo Annapolis it was
just haha that guy owned the libs that's
great but I think someone like Alex
Jones like undoubtably he got hurt by
being the platform but he definitely
still has his audience he definitely
still has sway with that world I mean to
me there was nothing that showcased this
how he knows how to still play the game
then when Laurel umer went on there
crying about how she got banned from
Facebook and Alex Jones had to say well
well calm down Laura when you got to do
is you got to use this in your favor
like he knew that video like Laurel
Umar's on air balling screaming and
crying like Alex Jones is telling
someone to calm down take a long-term a
little bit but what about the like the
aspect of it where the original dynamic
is I think you also see this in in
Europe a lot like I know Steve Bannon is
not a he's different than these people
but he's adjacent and he's amazing at
generating press attention but the truth
is like his actual particular
contributions to the far right in Europe
failed pretty much entirely his parties
he was most closely aligned with did
poorly but then like salvini who's
basically the most powerful politician
in Italy uh there's this clip that went
around that Axio shared that embarrass
Bannen because bannon's they're like
salvini blah blah and salvini is like in
Italian he's like yeah I don't really
know that schmuck I've met him once or
twice and everybody's laughing and it's
like yeah but salvini is literally a
neo-fascist the right and most important
politicians in Europe so
what is that line of like okay these
people are less relevant but now all of
these major parties are like in their
image right all right and like boss an
arrow and bow and bolson arrow like
Trump merges it I mean Boston RI was a
foreign minister talks about cultural
Marxist right well last week on doomed
we had Michael Edison Hayes of Southern
Poverty Law Center's hey watch on the
show and he basically was Li unfair
group he basically brought this great
piece about this character in Russia
this mysterious fascist his pseudonym is
Alexander Slav rose and he basically
created this neo-nazi forum called iron
March and they were like the legit
neo-nazis on on the internet like this
wasn't like you know storm front or the
deadly storm or we're like you know they
obviously are scary but they're just a
bunch of losers memeing online they have
no real power like iron watch are the
people who are there they were actually
the people who inspired that whole those
skull bandanas that fascist where when
they march in the streets all over the
world and that came from iron March and
then all of a sudden one day last year
iron March completely falls off the
internet it wasn't the platform no host
came out and said we took it down
because got some sort of attention and
Slav rose this guy who led this forum
completely disappears as well and the
belief there now no one knows for sure
where this guy went and what happened
but the belief there is that he actually
is the son of some sort of important
Russian diplomat who found out what was
going on and said you got to cut this
out we can't have this going on and I
mean so somebody got sent to sent to his
room right without that I think what you
see is that like you know a lot of
grounding it's a lot of just young
people who are who could be cut off like
that I mean the real problem was when
this stuff as you say when this stuff is
now in the White House is when the
grown-ups listen to these kids and say
oh that's a pretty uh that's a pretty
good idea and I see it's getting some
some attention so let's let's pick it up
and run with it as well what what has
happened to bright bar
like like we don't ever mention
Breitbart as a publication anymore and I
wonder if it's not like you know when
Bannon left their there there just seems
to be a lack of synergy now between
these movements and and Breitbart which
you know in the election had more people
are supposedly showing sharing Breitbart
articles on Facebook than they were like
the New York Times and you know it's
interesting because all of this is
Breitbart Ian Breitbart we used to run
around arguing that politics is
downstream from culture and so they go
out there they try and create the
culture yesterday I did an interview
another one that we're gonna run Sue's
downstream from an ambulance with with
Caleb Kane who was the subject of that
New York Times piece and you know for
him it was like sort of the how-to
culture like that's how he ended up
getting sort of sucked into that
alt-right world right and you know
self-help stuff you could have thrown
that from books just as easily and I
think that's really what a lot of it is
when it comes down to it like you have
the true believers the people like Slav
Rose who is the anonymous guy from
Russia and you have your you know your
your Nathan de MIGO who was the the guy
who ran all those those Patriot protests
over in the West Coast you have your
Richard Spencer's the true believers who
legitimately believe this stuff and then
you have the bulk of the audience the
bulk of that movement which I really do
believe is young men white men who fall
into this stuff on YouTube and they are
just lost they can't find a job and they
clash onto this now I'm not saying
that gives them a pass but I think you
know there's a lot of those people who
just need to be shown in the right time
so marianne williamson is good done
I need self help for the left I'm a big
Mary move I'm not even I mean I'm
slightly into being time about her
but I don't think I actually think you
can't give up the terrain of people's
interest in self-improvement to the
right well I just think that there's
probably a little bit more we can we can
put a little more meat on that bone look
at Jordan
I mean that's his horse no I agree I
mean I'm not saying though that
self-help is not a good way to enter
into that I would have just gone with
something a little bit less ethereal in
the self I'm not a fan of that whole I
agree with what you're saying I know
you're a bit more of a hippie dippie
than heavy no I mean you know whatever
she she didn't do herself many favors
but honestly like she didn't do anybody
many favors
she bought up Central America in the
context of immigration and reparation I
don't think that's going to help
actually I think it's a doesn't help
Julian Castro Marshall Plan my favorite
line from her interrupting Bernie and
she says the Buddha judge just because
you're young doesn't mean you have don't
have old ideas the reincarnated corpse
of Hillary Clinton in the body of a gay
millennial right the it's it's gonna be
just curious I guess to see where that
Breitbart where that goes if that
reinvigorated in the election because it
seems to me without sort of like cross
medium validation these things have
trouble right building up some type of
steam right I do wonder how definitely
was a part of bright Bart's fall from
grace but I do also wonder how much just
how every I feel like every election
cycle every presidential race there's
always that one new internet news outlet
that just takes off and then sort of
flutters after I mean Huffington Post
isn't maybe the greatest example but
they were huge in 2008 with Obama and
Sarah Palin and you know I would argue
they probably never were they still are
big but I never really had that well
they sold a oh well they got subsumed
she laughs you have the people left they
started cut back on the funding 2016 538
and Nathan Silver's word was gold
anything that they put out okay that's
what's gonna happen you know hashtag
unfollow Nate Silver es shout-out to
Breitbart for using a really cute
picture of me for all your loser readers
to Christ or bait to okay cries debate
the first time I've heard that term I've
never heard that one either it won't be
the left I don't know why it's taking
this long for me to hear that because I
enjoy that term so all right so uh the
entire well if you had to predict what
is going to is there a gamergate that is
like floating around out there is there
some type of like dynamic that you can
say you know of six months from now Sam
you're gonna be dealing with this stuff
right right
I think the Qun on stuff is held for way
longer than most people would have
thought it did and I don't think it's
dropping off I think it's actually just
growing I mean I like like I think the
next step is literally for just Donald
Trump to outright say something that
literally is it direct like not of the
Hat to them like it's just that close to
it but he's done that he's he's
basically not really done that they just
interpreted different things as that
like the whole literal movement is is
there a hand gesture there there's not a
binge like that's what I feel like they
need they need needs to be like a value
without this thing which is the whatever
it is right white power but there needs
to be like a you know a cue like you
well a lot of you know a lot of the for
chanters and the the internet trolls
they've been really big fans of Andrew
yang and they've been really John I'm
not even saying directly that's his
fault it's more like like anything he's
not a white supremacist where's a
mission it's listen it's it's you could
you could directly trace that big boost
in 4chan support for Andrew yang from
him going on Joe Rogan and I hope Joe
Rogan's listening so my show Rogan just
having him on that podcast grew that
whole white supremacist sect that really
is the large sect of the yanking I mean
I don't know how is it what is it better
though and I done plenty of videos on
both shows about not liking Andrew yang
and I do think he's I don't know whether
it's it's intentional or he's oblivious
when he says
he's not handling he's totally out of
his League but is it better if I'm
playing devil's advocate is it better
that you migrate some of those people
over to just sort of like techno pop
nonsense instead of white nationalism oh
yeah obviously yes like if you're gonna
meme all day for your yang bag versus
Trump but what I say it's probably I
mean that's objectively a net positive
for the world over Trump but what I said
though earlier about how you know
wanting to see the world burn and then
just get my collect two thousand dollars
that's a direct reference to a lot of
the former Trump supporters who are now
supporting Andrew yang sure that's they
wanted Trump in because they wanted to
see people get hurt and now they're
supporting Andrew yang because they feel
like nothing will change people still
get hurt but they'll get an extra
thousand dollars to blow on steam or
something like that
some twitchbucks little they know will
just go to their landlords anyway unless
they live with their parents here's
Andrew yang doing the taking of course
Dave Rubin you I've noticed that
conservatives often follow liberals on
Twitter but the reverse does not seem to
be true I can tell you that I have the
only people who block me are
conservatives and people and
conservatives block me before I even go
after that room bunch of snowflakes yeah
it's unbelievable that's why I don't
follow them except Dave Rubin he hasn't
blocked any of us props Dave thank you
for at least some limited courage and
the battlefield of ideas question I
wanted to add on you I've been I've been
thinking a lot about this lately that
the same sort of pool of disaffected
young often white downwardly mobile
millennial men is feeding into the
alt-right and kind of the DSA sphere as
well and like what does that mean for
our movement what does that mean for
trying to diversify our movement and
like I've pondered this question a lot
so I'm curious what you think
well it could go either way it really
just depends who they fall on online and
it's just it's just a fact and I don't I
I it's there's no one reason but it's a
fact that if you go on YouTube the most
politic sort of commentary and coverage
you'll come across is from right-wing
political commentators it's
like that since the very beginnings of
YouTube maybe they've just been on there
long enough that just their reach and
them being them having that that one or
two steps ahead of the left in that
sense just basically game the algorithm
to continue to push that stuff YouTube
certainly hasn't done very much until
very recently to fight that to sort of
even the playing field there but it's
just the fact that people go online and
I keep bringing up YouTube because
that's where this is mostly happening
people aren't going on Twitter and
Facebook
young people I should say aren't going
on Twitter and Facebook and being
completely swayed in one direction
because there's not that rabbit hole on
Facebook older people yes cuz on
Facebook they go on there to talk to
people that find their old classmates
they haven't seen in forever and they
stumble upon these conservative memes
like I wonder what Jeff's up to you
oh my show and it's funny because old
people are shocked when they hear these
studies because they think they're so
smart but off boomers this is
basically what studies have shown that
young people are more conscious about
fake news online oh and older people
fall for stuff immediately older people
will see breaking news from real Patriot
news dot blog spot.com dot r u-- and
they'll say oh this news about hillary
clinton is absolutely true i read it on
a patriot news dot blog spot.com now are
you it must be true i want to follow a
Django Unchained strategy enforcement I
mean the the reason I think is just
because there is a lack of understanding
of just how accessible this media is
there's a perception of like it's
someone built a website to do this right
and like there's a perception that
there's a bar to entry right that does
not exist right and this is why YouTube
is more effective for young people
because on YouTube I mean you just see
it with I see it with with my son Ezra
he's gonna be four years old he loves
shows like Ryan's toy review listen he
connects with that kid who he watches
this kid fat this kids family puts up
very personal videos of him playing with
toys play
his sisters everyday and he watches
these shows we've cut back but he
watches these shows on a regular basis
and he feels like he know he brings up
Brian like we'll go into a store and
he'll see something he wants we'll say
no and he'll say but Ryan has it and
it's because there's that personal
connection with seeing this kid in what
looks like home movies and they feel
like they know this person and that's
what you're seeing with YouTube that you
don't see anywhere else with young
people they're watching these right-wing
white supremacist neo-nazi YouTube
commentators and they're seeing them in
their basement in their bedroom talk to
them directly to their little logitech
video cam webcams and they're saying 4 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 our streams every night
saying the immigrants are doing this to
you the left wants to take this away
from you and they're saying oh I know
this guy I could trust him why would he
stray me the wrong way without realizing
that this guy's getting a nice check
from Google Adsense for gaining a giant
youtube subscriber base for saying these
things it looks like there's I mean it's
it the closest to the that medium is
talk radio I think right I mean in many
respects because the the level of the
way it's ingested the fact that it's in
the background that it almost becomes
like a soundtrack for you I mean there
are people who listen to this program
and they dip in and out and they'll
believe it on for two or three hours and
you know our voices start to like sort
of create some type of neuro implant you
know in their heads it's like a pair of
social it is a pair of social
relationship well they also the used to
be expressed the television is a cool
medium and that radio is a hot medium
and I would say that YouTube is more hot
medium than cool medium right there is
not the fourth wall like you know good
talk radio you're actually having a
conversation you're just doing all the
talking but you're having a conversation
with the audience television does not
work that way but YouTube does all right
you know it's like hey guys I think you
can literally have that conference well
because you're also getting feedback
right you know that is almost like
similar to the call function right we're
in the chat there's there is some
dynamic that goes back and forth let me
ask you this
do you let Azra do anything but watch
YouTube
we actually he has very limited TV time
very limited screen time the complete
opposite of me in fact he'll go and tell
his mother daddy's on the phone Matt get
off the phone so he knows the rules and
maybe I need to listen to them a little
bit more what's this favorite energy
drink we don't want to drink that yeah
alright yeah well let's let's go over
some some sound clips I mean I ask you
this what do you think about YouTube and
Andy platforming and like the Crowder
thing because this is obviously coming
up a lot I'm having a lot of
conversations about this Michael wants
to have the US government determine what
is legitimate to say on YouTube
determine what is considered obscene
right that's the idea essentially yes
sure so Michael wants is a really really
good frame well I mean that is I want to
democratize these companies yes I would
like to have the post US government
decide what can be on your robe I would
like I actually already I actually sort
of I'm sort of have the belief that I'm
not gonna die on this hill if it happens
it happens but like I personally don't
really care what happens to Alex Jones
like if he didn't get deep platformed
that's fine like I I don't think it's
it's a negative or a positive in terms
of it's just if he wants to be on
YouTube and YouTube wants him on the
platform then that's fine it's not the
hill I'm gonna die I'm not gonna go out
and defend Alex Jones if you get to the
platform good to he shouldn't be on
there if that's what YouTube thinks so
that's sort of how I look at it I think
there's a benefit to having them on
these platforms I think there's a
benefit to having them off of these
platforms you really get something and
you give something either way I mean
Alex Jones literally became a big joke
because of a lot of his more
over-the-top
words that sort of became mainstreamed
if that didn't happen you know back a
couple years ago Alex Jones was
literally you know the Sandy Hook Truth
her stuff that was well before Donald
Trump made him mainstream and his like
his audience ate that up and
started harassing Sandy Hook parents
would that have happened if Alex Jones
who did Sandy Hook truth or ism in 2017
2018 and people who were clipping Alex
Jones as most or
Kilis phrases and just mocking him
openly I don't know I don't think so I
don't think it would maybe there would
still be a certain segment of people but
it certainly would have hurt his sort of
cred with his own audience in terms of
the more ridiculous stuff recently just
monetize process I I got monetized on
YouTube very shortly a couple of months
ago after months of getting a getting
saying sorry we can't monetize you quite
yet I don't have a huge audience so I'm
not losing tons of money but you know if
I was a right-winger online if I was you
know anyone on the right I would come
out and say that and right-wingers from
all over the spectrum the Laurel Umar's
the Mike Serna the ben shapiro
is the day of Reubens the Jordan
Peterson's they would be out there
lifting me up talking about he just got
banned for sharing his conservative
views and tomorrow I'd wake up and have
$100,000 in my patreon and I would have
a million subscribers on my youtube and
I'd be the new right wing celebrity but
listen I got D monetized after getting
monetization and they did not tell me
why I've been D monetized after months
of being fine giving me a couple bucks
every episode I have just been D
monetized it happened like a day or two
after I had an episode where I
interviewed two members of the Boston
DSA who were spearheading the the
counter protest march to that big Boston
straight Pride Parade March you probably
heard about it went viral and by Milo
right no actually it's not my old
doesn't really anything to do with it he
was involved no they just had hired the
homecoming queen do you guys remember
base to stick man that guy on yeah right
no he was this he was this neo-nazi guy
who basically over in California and
they there's all those Patriot Prayer
marches and everything you'll remember
there was all those attacks between like
you know the the UH and Tifa and the
right-wingers over there and like Oregon
basically this guy became famous for
wearing literal like Knights armor and
bashing and Tifa people with a stick and
so they started calling him bass stick
man and he
some sort of like minor internet
right-wing celebrity and he started
creating these different subgroups that
were he that he led all over the country
and basically he could no longer
I forgot exactly what it was that he did
but a court basically said he can't
leave his state anymore so so these
other Boston white supremacist guys took
over his group and put together the
straight Pride Parade March to try to
garner some sort of support for their
movement without their former leader
based Achmed I just think it's really
interesting how can we arrange for a
massive massive flood where all of us
write the funny finger a couple more
years on bumble hope you definitely be
stoked about posad ism but I think the
funny thing my basic man though is you
know I might be the only person on the
left not on the right to have had the
Kent State gun girl on my show I
interviewed her on the show I got her on
the show before she was Kent State gun
girl which should be tomorrow back when
she was just the Kent State poopy diaper
girl she was the one who spearheaded the
turning point USA I don't know if you
remember the diaper right so she's the
one who organized that when she was
going to school there and then once
everyone memed it to oblivion and
trashed it to hell
they basically the you know charlie kirk
and the turning point USA heads
basically threw her under the bus and
said we had nothing to do with it was
all her and so she publicly left that
group and wanted this talked about
them so I was like yeah anyone is the
 by the way if you ever write a book
mean to hell what does it mean to mean
to hell and should talk to that's
just really interesting though because
when you when you scratch the surface of
like these big top lines of some
horrible person or like Alex
Jones or Gavin McGinnis and you really
start to look at like even as an example
like zero books having that been Burgess
video on Ben Shapiro and Israel
completely taken down you look at a lot
of videos actually on the history of
apartheid getting taken down or even
fact-checker videos on white supremists
lies about land reform in South Africa
and then if you brought in this out to
like Facebook you have their outsourcing
their stuff to see think tanks and
suppressing telus or so and what's funny
is that if this all starts to get shut
down and these platforms just become
risk-averse not only will it
disproportionately hurt the left all of
the right-wing people end up still
having corporate donors anyways to have
their back so we need to be a little
more strategic about this right and
there is a legitimate I think a
legitimate cause there to push these
tech companies I mean beyond just push
them there's a lot more we could do but
let's just deal with where we are right
now where we we are seeing that Google
YouTube Facebook Twitter Pinterest all
these different websites are actually
starting to to at least someone speak to
public pressure I mean you have
Pinterest outright making it not
possible to find anti-vaxxer stuff on
their website and you're probably
sitting there going huh Pinterest gives
a about that website it's for
Mormon moms but exactly that's where the
anti-vaxxer community it's the Baxters
thing they're on Pinterest this okay so
so it put me dip in Pinterest is
basically just like this image board
we're like you know middle-aged moms and
even young millennial religious moms
it's really popular with that subset to
go a wedding stuff like that you know
it's very possible to dessert that was
the dessert it's very popular with with
women and you know for them to outright
do this with anti-vaxxer stuff
completely cuts off the ability for
people on Pinterest to share this stuff
you know Facebook is going to step up in
certain ways there's a lot more they can
do they're by far the aside for maybe
YouTube probably the worst offender but
you know YouTube basically is now doing
something about the algorithm that
suggests videos and for so long
basically you would go watch any video
on YouTube and what you'd probably have
to go one or two videos in before they
started saying hey you should watch this
video that questions why building seven
fellas on 9/11 or you should maybe
question why
you believe the earth is round and not
flat you know this might sound silly but
we're now seeing that you know a lot of
these old-school conspiracy theories
that have been around for years are just
another gateway into these actually even
more dangerous in terms of everyday sort
of policy and everyday issues that
brings them into you know the far right
and you know the pressure that come from
you know these different journalists and
the public and activists really starting
to focus their coverage on these
companies especially in the wake of 2016
where you know this stuff started to
really affect a major election I think
it's it's really showing that this works
and not to let me do this and that's why
I think Bernie Sanders knows what he's
talking about when he basically says we
have to build this movement because you
could have all the policies in the world
but look none of these policies would
have stopped YouTube from suggesting
whatever video they wanted and
their algorithms well but there's a
movement now I'm not saying Bernie
Sanders behind this movement but I'm
saying the idea that these movements can
actually push to have things happen and
then look at Elizabeth Warren coming out
and saying she wants to break these
companies up I mean that doesn't happen
in a bubble I think this is all
happening because people on the ground
whether it's journalists who said hey we
should really start covering this stuff
or activists who wanted to start
focusing on hey the Internet is not just
what happens online anymore you know
we're not just not just the Internet
this is the real world now we need to
focus on this stuff we need to talk
about how it's affecting our everyday
life you know I think this stuff this
movement behind this really brought us
here Nazis are freaking everywhere
online I heard the other day about a
knitting website community that had to
kick out the Nazis like really write
whatever the let me just the the the
policies about breaking up YouTube I
mean you know and all the antitrust
stuff was in the works anticipating
Hillary Clinton actually winning that
election and there was there was a bunch
of things that you saw sort of following
the election that were indicative of
that like the open markets pulling off
from the track with Sheryl Sandberg
Treasury that would have still been a
you
struggle well no no it wouldn't have
come from the Clinton administration was
getting good I think my guess is is that
was anticipated and that was something
that they anticipated how they went to
preemptive PR movies well no the idea
was I think that there was a large
movement that was largely subterranean
that was anticipating Clinton getting
into office and was going to simply and
I think Warren was going to lead a lot
of this was going to go straight at
antitrust with such force that it would
have been the it just they would have
overwhelmed the attempt would have been
to overwhelm the Clinton administration
on this accord and to get targeted the
Treasury wouldn't have necessarily been
the the office that would have made that
much of a difference I mean it would
have been you know a function of what's
happening with like mid-level
bureaucrats at DOJ and at the FTC and
breaking up YouTube though if you
decoupled YouTube from Google even at
this late a date right should have
probably been prevented in the first
place but the search function and the
add function become decoupled you give
an opportunity for other things
shoot or whatever it is or Vimeo or
twitch if they wanted to break into that
you give them basically some measure of
parity when it comes to search when it
comes to dollars what would happen is
but all of those platforms would become
less lucrative for everybody you could
go cross platforms but being censored on
one right would not have the same
implications but it also wouldn't have
the same implications in terms of like
I'm gonna go on there to watch what what
toy
Jimmy's playing with and wait who's this
Gavin McGinnis so this is like you know
that wouldn't happen right but alright
but look let's this is a great
conversation but we got some video to go
through because we get to get out here
in about twenty minutes or so and let's
do this old-school
with old Matt sitting in as we go over
some of the videos ladouche bureau right
well let's start yeah let's start with
Shapiro and then we'll go back to the to
the the debates because this is pretty
great
now since you've left Matt we we
developed a Dropbox for encrypted
information for people to leak it to us
we don't talk about it law a lot because
of course we don't want the NSA to be
aware of this I've been ignoring Laura
Poitras emails and there's an intricate
thing that involves you got to contact
us on signal then we sent you a proton
email address and then we send you a fob
which you insert into your computer and
and then what happens is we end up
finding these youtubes of bench bureau
back on with connie Martinson on tox
books this is from when 2011 2011 i was
here then and you were here then i don't
know how we didn't find this at that
time but Benjy quest I was here then
yeah Brendan Shapiro exam is handled
with a certain degree of confidence
where are we picking this up from the
very beginning of all of its the but
yeah we'll take this right from this
topic I got there was a bureau clip of
this bench Pierrot on talking about his
book about how Hollywood is chock-full
of liberals and really what I the most
interesting thing I found about this was
that Ben Shapiro
like everybody else that came from
Breitbart was just mad that they did not
have talent enough to break into
Hollywood and I should shout out some
more news Cody Johnston who initially
included part of this in his recent Ben
Shapiro video no he wanted to just write
a lethal weapon vehicle exactly
by the way Connie ends up being very
cool she owns him before the BBC guy did
yes the true Hollywood story of how the
leftover took your TV primetime
propaganda Connie Martinson talks books
she's cool
you watch a TV show and you start
laughing but afterwards do you think
about what maybe was said or what you've
been really recommended to believe my
guest today Ben Shapiro has written
primetime propaganda the true Hollywood
story of how the left has made our
country took over your TV and it's
published by Harper I love how she
welcome welcome Ben thanks I guess what
has to think about things we have
laughed at but you seem to pinpoint the
authors of those shows as being liberal
Jews all right well not all of them I
mean Susan Harris is not Jewish they're
plenty scary marshal nor is Gary
Marshall I don't I certainly don't say
that all of them are Jewish there's a
lot of Hollywood but that's because
there a lot of Jews that have any
industry Jews happen to be very
hard-working
I don't like where this is going Wow if
you actually set aside protocols of the
Elders of Zion actually had a lot of
legenda might as well just work out on
Jews very hunger bad guy Jews happen to
be very hard-working
that they have a point of view that can
be considered comic and humorous I mean
that's true I mean there's a unique
brand of Jewish humor and that's been
true since the beginning I mean go back
to your show of shows everybody in that
writers room is in New York Jew and
that's and that's good I mean this is
good stuff right that would be
ridiculous the point and by the way one
of the points I make in the book is that
the book is that the people who write TV
are incredibly talented that they have a
political agenda but they're very
talented
well let me say I've yet to know of too
many conservatives which is where you
put yours
who are funny a humor that is
transferable to I mean I totally
disagree with that I think there there
can be conservatives who are funny
liberals may not find them funny all
right I mean okay Ann Coulter for
conservatives is funny okay for liberals
she's not funny
Bill Maher for liberals hilarious for
conservatives not funny
well that depends cuz your turn using
politics as the form of their humor but
Bill Cosby is relatively conservative
today yeah and they know even back then
it did that's that's you know the idea
that conservatism is inherently unfunny
is not true it's the conservatives have
abandoned the playing field of humor and
narrative I'll agree with you there I
think that they've totally run away yeah
so many I you gotta pull that
conservatives have abandoned the playing
field of comedy and humor like they're
so much young comedians you read it like
they're like they they were obsessed
with the classics with Pryor with Carlin
with staying up all night watching
vintage satellite but then they were
like I'm not gonna go into it though
because I'm gonna cede the battlefield
comedy the culture well I gotta say this
that's totally the upshot of a passion
in fact back when I was starting out as
a stand-up you'd hear a lot of guys and
and women who would come in and you'd be
late night at you know catch a rising
star in the basement of some place in
Cambridge
and people would say like I feel like
maybe I should just did you ever say it
to yourself Sam really I don't even want
to do this but this is a vital part of
the battlefield I would say things to
myself like I feel like I want to get a
job or I can get a consistent income and
then I was like but I can't I can't take
the tent down yeah campement I've
created on this band going AWOL from the
Battle of humor who will do gen-x Andy
Kaufman jokes that promote the leftist
agenda exactly
it was probably what I was
is not true it's the Conservatives have
abandoned the playing field of humour
and narrative I'll agree with you there
I think that they've totally run away
from the battle but that doesn't mean
that there's not the capacity within
conservative thought to be funny
received the plot for TV series and
worked with Lenny Goldberg was that a
comedy was it sitcom was it drama it's
more drama D as a dramedy I've written a
couple comedies kind of hour-long drama
DS spec script have been bought I know
because they know and there are a couple
reasons for that one is that it's hard
to sell anything in this town period you
know regardless a political viewpoint
and the other is that and especially a
breakout series right from the get-go
reitman it's hard to sell a spec script
you start as a baby writer I mean you
know the process yeah have you worked
continually with one at Goldberg since
yeah I worked with him for several
months afterward and then he got
sidetracked with unknown and with blue
bloods on CBS and pus and all in it just
under sailed on you the frame that he's
there he was working on me on these all
these failures and then he got
sidetracked because he got a job on the
series he actually got hired as a
professional writer and I was not and so
he got sidetracked
he lost sense of the he in many respects
went AWOL in the war be seated the
battlefield is that were treated to a
paid job in writing he's seen it the
narrative isn't getting a full-time job
at a prestigious chef is that like how
Merrin got sidetracked after break room
life yeah exactly
he got sidetracked you got you got sighs
I've had a lot of friends so sidetracked
by taking some type of big movie job or
something it's just real where they
lose their focus
what I didn't understand is why he
wanted to do that we couldn't watch old
clips of me on Spin City
was just about to explode and successful
and then he decided to get sidetracked
by that other show that is yeah you know
what like everything else in Hollywood
things go into development and then they
kind of get sidetracked they go sideways
for a while so what do you think the
book will help sort of opened the door
with him again and I wasn't the boy in
the book but you know he knew what was
going on with the book it was not a hit
job on Leonard Goldberg I treat him very
well in the book in fact most of the
people in the book I treat very well for
the most part I talk about how talented
and brilliant they are I talk about how
great their shows are which they are and
that's not a bad thing I just pointed
out that look I'm a legal realist yeah
and a lawyer I want Harvard Law School
and in law yeah I did there's a an idea
that was promulgated by the left in the
1960s called legal realism what it was
is the idea that your politics are going
to come out in your interpretation of
law that is the same thing that's true
in art your politics are going to come
out in your creation and interpretation
of art and that's one of the points of
the book the people who I'm talking to
are not bad people a lot of them are not
some of them are not even doing it
purposefully some of them are doing it
purposefully but it's coming out in
their work and and the one thing above
all that Hollywood does right now that
is utterly despicable is that they keep
people who are not of their political
ilk out of the business period end of
story I have them on tape admitting this
I have high-ranking members of you know
the WGA I have high-ranking members of
the caucus for producers writers and
directors
I have high-ranking members of the DGA I
have people talking about this openly
and recognizing that it occurs now posit
now I got to tell you that I I was in
show business I wrote I think probably
off the top of my head 8 to 10 scripts
that were commissioned by every single
major Network that there is some that
were and several of the cable networks
and almost the first question you would
give what they call sort of the elevator
pitch and then you would start to go
into the characters as you go in into
these meetings but before you get to any
of that was you would have to tell them
what you're voting
record was what happened to those
scripts unsightly they went silent works
AMC got very sidetracked I written a
script for them and then they just sort
of pursued the walking you know I would
love to see you write an episode of the
walking dead that I would be the first
time no I wrote exclusively comedies and
then what I would call dramedy
ramadhir's what we call comedies that
are not funny ya know what I love about
this is that he okay I didn't read this
book obviously but you know how like the
Ben Shapiro we know now is like does not
even have a modicum of like well I mean
they're talented people he's just like
right always a dick right and so my
interpretation is that this book
obviously is a plea for a job so he's
calibrating like I got to get booked and
talk with all the rubes and about
Hollywood and say they're a bunch of
unethical elitist ramming their culture
dinner throats blah blah but at the same
time you guys are all really talented
and it would be great if I get some work
in a dramedy series maybe I wouldn't
have to ride these stupid me honking
bugs I started doing when I was twelve
wait again I think he should have
written a script about being a teen
conservative prodigy and the psychosis
of that that would have been a
fascinating dark disturbing comedy I
that would have had it too hard but
again you know this is something you
know if someone like Norman Lear he
Norman Lear funded people for American
Way had he just established a three to
five million dollar endowment to
periodically hire people like Ben
Shapiro keep them from actually feeling
the resent that fuels their entire you
know new career as a conservative talker
I think we would be a much better shot
like you could have saved millions of
dollars of advocacy just by giving these
guys a job and telling them like this is
great I barely even know what this show
is but my when I first saw Andrew
Breitbart I was like why the hell that
they don't just give him talk soup right
exactly and he wouldn't be doing this
whoa I got up with Courtney Cox at the
red at the red carpet he's partly right
though like art is always gonna be a
vehicle for ideology and Hollywood
certainly has an ideology but of the
numerous groups of people who've been
kept out of Hollywood for their ideology
I'm gonna guess he's not too concerned
about the literal purges that happened
of Communists and people suspected of
being communists no that was cool she
mentions that actually later in the
interview it's a good one if you just
search primetime propaganda on YouTube
it'll come up hang with silence to riot
all right let's uh let's look at
something else
whoa just right the microphone was
actually cut I mean we can analyze it
I'm a bit let's do it let's lit this is
Mary Ann skies okay so this guy is a ubi
the the Twitter he's a ubi a guy and
here is need to go home soon yeah here
is a ping pong ball all right so he's
claiming a yang is claiming that he we
have proof now yeah his mic was shut
down this of course happens we hear this
quite a bit on this program people say
you should turn down my mic I think
Michael Tracy said that Sargon also said
we don't we know we do have the ability
to do that but we don't like what
happens when you're talking with
somebody over Skype but we were talking
to Michael Tracy on the phone I was just
you know he was Sam was just you were
literally cutting him off I was saying
shut up yeah you weren't using a button
to do not talking
we expose them to the fraud that he is
[Applause]
their perspectives
I heard you not blame the microphone
yeah that is not the mic does you lack
of assertiveness yeah you have to talk
until there are force to put your
microphone up because you're controlling
he was talking but you need to talk
through you need to talk through it I
mean look Christian Gillibrand did that
several times and said nothing she
commandeered the floor and delivered
zero value so you just gotta be bullish
all right listen folks we all know how
much the media likes Bernie Sanders and
wouldn't cut off his mic so they're
going after Andrew yang yeah that was
great though it's like if I tried he's
got no one but himself to blame because
yes if you look at the time the amount
of minutes everyone spoke even like Bill
DeBlasio and Tim Ryan each spoke for
like four and a half minutes and you
yang spoke for to Bill DeBlasio how to
get the people off his bike if there's a
sad man like if you're that far down and
like you're on TV for two hours and
can't talk for more than two and a
minutes but we're not spoke at the very
least for four and a half minutes like
come on if your fault if you have a
world-changing idea you should present
like it all right we got to get to this
stuff because I got a literally go in
seven eight minutes all right this is
let's do this
segment where Kamala Harris basically
began the beginning of the end which I
this is my assessment and and and it
could be wrong but again Joe Biden is
Joe Biden in this race because he is
perceived as being rock-solid and here
is where he's not and we've also heard
and I'm gonna now direct this at Vice
President Biden I do not believe you are
a racist and I agree with you when you
commit yourself to the importance of
finding common ground but I also believe
and it's personal and I was actually
very it was hurtful to hear you talk
about the reputations of two United
States senators who built their
reputations and career on the
segregation of race in this country and
it was not only that but you also worked
with them to oppose bus
and you know there was a little girl in
California who was part of the second
class to integrate her public schools
and she was bused to school every day
and that little girl was me so I will
tell you that on this subject
it cannot be an intellectual debate
among Democrats we have to take it
seriously we have to act swiftly as
Attorney General of California I was
very proud to put in place a requirement
that all my special agents would wear
body cameras and keep those cameras on
[Applause]
I'm gonna put posit before we get to his
response because here he is this is this
is the moment right where first of all
she helps herself in this instance
because she's basically saying like I'm
not afraid to go out you straight on
I've done it well I waited i bided my
time my BIDIN my time excuse me and and
and she goes at him and you can see you
know Biden was doing the thing like
where you do not look that's what they
tell you from a communication standpoint
but the way that she dropped that that
was me it compelled him to look which is
a little bit problematic so how do you
come back at this moment and the way
that you come back at this moment is you
well basically it's like an old improv
that you don't deny right I mean because
there's nothing she said that didn't
comport with everyone's understanding of
what happened but Biden chickens out no
he says yes and but you're a cop no he
chickens out he says no I didn't say
that
watch what he says here this is my
position across the board I did not
praise racist that is not true
number one number two if we want to have
this campaign litigated on who supports
civil rights and whether I did or not
I'm happy to do that
I was a public defender I didn't become
a prosecutor I cannot I left a good law
firm to become a public defender when in
fact when in fact when in fact my city
was in flames because of the
assassination of dr. King number one not
number two as the US now you know he is
first of all he was on number two
already I don't know if you caught that
number one was you mischaracterized me
number two I didn't become a prosecutor
and I'm willing to put my civil rights
you know so and then he comes back to
number one and then goes to number two
so here he is he's completely off track
first off he denies what everybody heard
him say right he denied what he bragged
about and that's where he lost this the
comment about the prosecutor
there's none of his people who care that
she's a prosecutor right yeah right
her people that's what impresses them of
the hyatt about us right and so do line
though yeah i mean it was a good line
but not for anybody who cares burn your
bus bill loved it exactly number two as
the us excuse me as the vice president
nine states i work with a man who in
fact we work very hard to see to it we
dealt with these issues in a major major
way the fact is that in terms of busing
the busing i never you would have been
able to go to school the same exact way
because it was a local decision made by
your city council that's fine that's one
of the things argued for that we should
not be we should be breaking down these
lines but so the bottom line here is
look everything I've done in my career
Iran because of civil rights I continue
to think we have to make fundamental
changes in civil rights and those civil
rights by the way include not just only
African Americans but the LGBT community
do you agree today
do you agree today that you were wrong
to oppose busing in America though do
you agree I did not oppose busing in
America what I opposed is busing ordered
by the Department of Education that's
what I opposed well you're not a failure
of states to into normal public schools
in America I was part of the second
class to integrate Berkeley California
public schools almost two decades after
brown v board of education because your
City Council made that decision
[Applause]
that's why we need to pass the ER a
because there are moments in history
where states fail to preserve the civil
rights of rfg porta de all right from
the very beginning when I thirty Seconds
did I want to bring other people in
there I supported by a RA from the very
beginning
I'm the guy that extended the Voting
Rights Act for 25 years I did that I
said place where we got 98 of the 98
votes in the United States Senate doing
it
I've also argued very strongly that we
in fact deal with the notion of denying
people access to the ballot box I agreed
that everybody once day in favish my
time well now that was sad what's really
bad and we're seeing this today and we
said it last night he is using states
rights as a defense
I mean he's using municipalities rights
as a defense but this is exactly exactly
what the civil rights fight was about
Barry Goldwater 64
it also low-key highlights how much
older than her he is right if he was
trying to deny her integration when she
was a kid yeah I mean I think what's
what's like the only path for him and
this must just be his egotism is to just
say frankly like this is just no values
just political advice I was totally
wrong I've done X Y & Z and I was a
Senator in the 70s from Delaware and
that was politically untenable exact
totally say that and what would be a
legit thing to say I think he could have
just said like look uh at the time I had
to do that and today I look back on it I
regret that's what I'm saying yeah
that's exactly saying you explained the
political reality the idea that you're
gonna I mean look we'll get him like
okay you weren't a brave leader you
didn't have a conscience you weren't
willing to risk your neck we already
know that what's the second step you
apologize talk about the history and
center to today the third step is that
was Jews San Francisco baby yeah but
other places maybe they didn't want it
but look I was friends with Baraka
anyways I can't I even forgot what the
original reason why he brought that
stuff up was right like he should have
said like look I wanted to get to a win
and if I hadn't done that we wouldn't
have even had the busing you wouldn't
even had the opportunity to but she did
would have been a lot I would have been
alive I just want everybody to remind
everybody the letter that the Washington
Post that he wrote to Eastland in 77
saying thank you for working with me on
busing I mean this is appalling
everyone knows what it means when
someone invoke states rights right all
right
lastly let's do that which one we play
should we play this cotton or kilmeade I
thought maybe we could round it out yes
let's round out our week with of course
some expert analysis of the 2020
Democrat debate night two they are even
using that in the in their Chiron they
won't even say democratic debate night
too unbelievable
here is Fox and friend and what is it
Silk'n diamond diamond its diamond
itself giving the analysis luxury
commodities I think on some level
diamond the Democrats don't want this
argument for the main reason is they're
the ones who gave birth to the Ku Klux
Klan it was a Republican that Abraham
Lincoln's party that up into the 1960s
that would fall push back against racism
and somehow that narrative flipped and
people are forced to somehow remember
what it means second we're gonna play
this back cuz he's just told you what
happened with the parties which they
never want they went a little too far
they were the party that fought back
against racism until the 1960s and some
things flipped so in other words I think
Kilmeade is going with the old you don't
measure a party based upon how racist
they are now but you measure about how
many years in their existence they've
been racist it's you know you can do it
a bunch of different ways good Abraham
Lincoln's party up into the 1960s that
would fall push back against racism and
somehow that narrative flipped and
people are forced to go back and
remember what senator Byrd was and even
though every road is named after him in
every hallway has a plaque with his face
on it
that's amazing should we remove those
plaques well also well that's it one
number two though that's an amazing
point because Robert Byrd was a member
of the Klan and whatever else you think
of him he apologized endlessly
throughout his career and of course he
was one of the first Senate Democrats to
endorse Obama as clearly as part of his
desire to make up for that Strom
Thurmond and Jesse Helms both became
Republicans and were ardent racists
throughout the aughts yeah so okay but
how many years Michael has it been since
the mid 60s right right that's it's been
like less than 50 years I'm about 50
years but how many years before that
where the Democrats racist dude it was
longer I Kilmeade game set match boom
all right folks well that does it for
this week Matt bender thank you so much
thank you for having me youtube.com
slash Matt bender patreon.com slash map
injure go check it out folks all right
we will see you on Monday
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
where the choice is made though the
option will get paid
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
they play
[Music]
