[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Thursday April 25th 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Edgar Villanueva vice president programs
and advocacy at the shot foundation for
public education and to author of
decolonizing wealth indigenous wisdom to
heal divides and restore balance also on
the program today
a brief excerpt of me whining about the
time I've spent with my kids on vacation
it's now day let's see we've been in
Florida now we came down Sunday and we
left way too early I don't know why I
thought the idea was to leave at 8:30 in
the morning it doesn't make sense cuz I
got to get the kids to the airport I got
to get everybody up at 6:30 we got to
leave at 6:30 why would I do that
particularly the night after Passover so
I had a seder at the house now of course
this is all speculation on my part I
mean this is the plan that I have three
to four days out but we supposedly had a
seder Saturday night then I tried to get
the bed the kids to go to bed early they
wouldn't of course justice all good
speculation and I couldn't fall asleep
so I got about two hours of sleep we
flew down to to Florida and I'm trying
to wrangle the kids
now I'm thinking we should have gone to
Disney and I didn't I thought maybe we
could just get get get by which is like
the pool and that didn't work out and
milah of course is like telling me that
this is a huge mistake all our friends
are having fun and I've got her down by
the pool hanging out with a six-year-old
and of course Saul's gone you're the
worst dad ever because you won't let me
watch another episode of some weird
Netflix show that he wouldn't wants to
watch and the kids are just yelling and
screaming at me and we've got about
another 24 hours before we get back on
the plane tomorrow and my whole thinking
was that I could just drink by the pool
and just you know sort of be numb to it
all that fell by the wayside why Florida
in the first place I don't know what I
was thinking I mean I scheduled it way
out in advance like when it was in
February like I scheduled this in like
in like January and I'm like it's
freezing I can't wait and now it's like
it's beautiful here in New York but and
I was like the first thing I was gonna
do was go to a pool I'm not gonna pool
going on a cruise and I was like if I
could find a four-day cruise I would go
on it
I've never been on a cruise but my
understanding is they take the kids and
then they're gone and then they just
show up again at dinner and that's it in
the morning they take the kids and then
because it's impossible for me to find
something they both want to do theirs
like they were Caverns that I'd we
visited in upstate New York
how caverns they both like that but
that's just an hour and then I've got
another five or six days to kill so the
idea was I'll take him on a cruise and
then there was no four-day cruises that
that left before Passover and I need to
we need to celebrate Passover there was
only a seven-day cruise and I was like I
am NOT going on a boat for seven days
I'm just not gonna do that
not the first time out so then I thought
like well what else can I do and then I
was like it was a sail on the Club Med
that one in Florida that's not even on
the on the ocean it's on a river
and I was like well Saul will like you
know looking for alligators so this
could have been the the smartest move of
my life or it could have been the
dumbest move so we don't know at least
it's interesting at least it could be
interesting we're all in one room though
mmm
the three of us sleeping in one room I'm
gonna need to recover
I'm folks I may not be coming back on
Monday I'm gonna need to recover but
hopefully I've had time to check out
some of the skills shares I want to
watch one of today's sponsors is scale
share and any when it goes to sk l dot s
h / majority report to is going to get
two whole months of totally free access
to skill shares entire library of super
quality online courses and tutorials
skill share is a vibrant online learning
community that offers courses on
everything from design to video editing
photography business technology cooking
meditation everything in between there a
scale share courses for everyone you'll
have no problem finding courses that's
going to be useful for you in both your
personal and professional life whether
you want to sharpen your skills with
something that you already love doing or
you just want to pick up something that
you never thought that you would be
looking at in your entire life scale
share has it all head to skill sk l dot
s h / majority report and you can check
out stuff i'm looking at what let's see
what have i been what watching while i'm
there i'm trying to guess i have my list
and stuff that i want to watch i've told
people about it I'm gonna probably check
out the Photoshop so what does go
Photoshop sometimes you say that and it
doesn't sound right
Photoshop I'm gonna do I know people are
gonna be like what what are you doing
but I'm gonna look at all the like the
entrepreneurial ones if there's one like
tip I can get to make the job easier and
I'm probably gonna be doing like
workflow videos too just to see if we
can you know juice things up here a
little bit
and then maybe I'll do I'll do like a
like some more cooking stuff like the
cutting like knife work it's worth while
I'm telling you you can get two entire
months of free access to every single
course by offered by skill share by
going SK l dot s H slash majority report
to just think of everything you're gonna
have at your fingertips for two whole
months
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
report to the number two and i put a
link underneath this video if you're
watching on youtube and if you are
listening it's in the podcast
description also the majority port today
is being supported in part by simple
habit simple habit is a mobile app that
provides massive and diverse library of
five-minute guided meditations and my
audience can try simple habit totally
free for an entire week when you go to
simple habit calm slash majority there
is a ton of anecdotal and data
supporting the values of meditation and
simple habit is over 2,000 guided
meditations 2,000 of them specially
designed for different parts of your day
even just about anything you might be
dealing with in life they got guided
meditations for for anxiety if you're
feeling depressed if you're having
trouble falling asleep meditations for
when you want to deal with your
procrastination or just for mindfulness
when you have something important going
on at work they have meditations
designed for parents who are sitting
with their kids just wondering what was
I thinking what was I thinking coming to
Florida they have them for all sorts of
times of the day lunch break when you
gotten home from work when you're going
to bed when you wake up before you're
booking a vacation before you're booked
in a vacation different people I needed
to clear my head and I was in the wrong
space different people try you know to
accomplish different things with
meditation simple habit is able to cater
to just about anyone regardless of your
goals and when it comes to meditation or
how much past experience you've had with
meditation the variety of guided
meditations on simple habit is what sets
it apart and it's why simple habit one
the 2018 Google Play
Award for Best well-being app it's
available iOS Android web browser all
possible ways and the majority port
audience can try it for free by going to
simple habit dot-com slash majority if
you're watching on YouTube if you're
listening to the podcast it's in the
description check out the link alright
we're gonna take a break when we come
back Edgar a Villanova is going to talk
to us about some of the problems with
philanthropy we've touched on this topic
in the past and one of the problems that
Villanova has Nueva I should say has
encountered in his years in this area is
the narrowness of perspective that
inevitably comes from people who have
the kind of money that can create a
foundation and the types of folks who
work there and there are he's got a
really interesting take on this I think
you're gonna enjoy this conversation
we're gonna take a quick break when we
come back
Edgar Villanueva we are back Sam cedar
on the majority report on the phone it
is a pleasure to welcome to the program
the chair of the board of directors of
Native Americans in philanthropy vice
president of the Shot foundation for
public education and author of
decolonizing wealth indigenous wisdom to
heal divides and restore balance edgar
villa villa nueva welcome to the program
thank you it's a pleasure to be on all
right so let's start with with with
first off I guess you know and I want to
get to sort of some of the basic
statistics of philanthropy but but what
do you perceive the purpose of
philanthropy to be because I mean
ultimately we want to talk but you know
I want to go through the premise of your
book but the the arguments about even
maintaining the the maybe not so much
the concept of philanthropy but the
mechanisms that we use to support
philanthropy in this country but what is
the purpose for
your perspective at a root fundamental
sort of purpose behind philanthropy for
me is that philanthropy is the love of
mankind which is the word literally
translated informally philanthropy is
something that exists in our communities
as a way of being in relationship you
know a way of reciprocity of ensuring
that all of us are well taken care of
and have a sense of belonging as that is
institutionalized and and in this
country we have a very unique system a
tax code that has created this sort of
industrial complex around philanthropy
the purpose of that I think is you know
kind of spans the gamut of investing in
charitable causes that improve you know
the quality of life for all of us in
many cases philanthropy has served as a
sort of laboratory to test out new ideas
and considerations that may be adopted
and taken to scale by the government so
forth and so on all right and so give us
some statistics though because I mean
you discuss in many respects
philanthropy is is failing in a myriad
of ways and some of the statistics in
terms of who gets the money and where
that money goes and how much of that
money is actually given out to you know
redistributed in some fashion is sort of
surprising it is very surprising so you
know on the surface it appears that all
of this work is is very charitable but
what happens with philanthropy is
actually most of the money is not even
going out in the community so we have a
tax system that had allows for clear
wealth to start a foundation the
resources put into that foundation are
tax-exempt in the country we have about
800 billion dollars billion with a be
sitting in the coffers of foundations so
this is a hundred billion dollars that I
was not taxed you know of course that
money would have gone into public
education and to the safety net and
that we so need so of the eight hundred
and eight hundred billion dollars the
only requirement for private foundations
is that they pay out five percent of
their their corpus over a three-year
rolling average so on average across the
country about five to seven percent only
five to seven percent of that 800
billion dollars is being actually
invested in the community so when we
look at that about five percent where is
that money going who is receiving that
money there's a major despair
discrepancy there when it comes to race
only about seven to eight percent of
those resources are going into
communities of color and so this is sort
of one of the injustice --is that I
bring up in the book because when you
think about the history that people of
color and indigenous folks have played
and helping to generate wealth and
accumulate wealth in this country that
leads to the creation of these
foundations we as communities are barely
benefiting from these charities we can
start is so very small crumbs from the
table or finding their way into
communities of color the second thing
that's really important for folks
understand so what we just described is
the five to seven percent that actually
leaves the majority of foundation
resources about ninety-five percent of
those resources are actually invested in
Wall Street and for the most part with a
values neutral
lens to how that money is invested and
so what happens there is that many of
the investments of foundations these
nonprofit foundations are actually
invested in extractive and harmful
industries that are harming communities
in the land
so like private prisons oil and so forth
I want so you're you're giving with one
hand taking away from the other to the
extent that you're doing any of the
giving I guess at that point well so
let's I mean let's talk about the the
the implication of the title I mean I
think it's there it implied right we're
decolonizing wealth but let's talk about
the structures of colonization that he
exist within well within the context of
society I guess more broadly but then
we'll narrow to the world of
philanthropy sure so you know one thing
that I lay out in this book is a primer
on colonization because it's something
that's really important for folks to
understand especially those of us who
are working to make change in
communities we have to understand how we
got to be where we are today a big part
of that is our history of colonization
which was something that we sort of
romanticize will we learn about
colonization in our history in schools
you know growing up as and as children
we think of colonizers as heroes and
there's a complete narrative around that
that is actually false colonization was
a terrible terrible atrocious thing and
it's something that actually continues
to happen around the world and and it's
still happening a little more subtly in
communities in the u.s. the mantra of
colonization is to divide and conquer to
command and control and above all
exploit and so this process of
colonization that is so closely tied to
the accumulation of wealth in our
economy was was founded on a system that
actually exploited other people and so
when we look you know at current
situations around poverty we have this
significant race wealth gap in this
country that's all related to a history
that brought us to this point and so
when we hear messages like well certain
folks will just work harder or pull you
know pull yourself up by the bootstraps
and we're agnostic to the history of
trauma that has resulted in so much
poverty in communities then you know
we're really kind of missing an
opportunity to think of ways to invest
that is a lot more respectful to that
history and it's not just a question of
trauma I mean obviously when we talk
about trauma we're talking about slavery
we're talking about genocide in some
respects but from a structural
standpoint as well right I mean the
the wealth is built lit was in many
respects was was built either on on on
land or on the you know taken from
native peoples and and I guess the
industry of taking that land was also a
generator of wealth but of course the
entire industry of cotton which really
became the economic engine of this
country was fundamentally a function of
having really really inexpensive labor
and specifically slaves and and then so
the so it's both a a structural dynamic
that has been was reinforced through the
years by government policy whether it
had to do with housing or whatnot in
terms of being building wealth and in
getting income as well as the sort of
the emotional trauma that is can be
carried generationally easily it seems
absolutely Sam you're you're exactly
right you know it is it is this this
literal you know accumulation of wealth
through stolen land and genocide and
slavery and there's dynamics the
dynamics of colonization which which
allowed such atrocities that happen it's
just so rooted to this mindset of
separation and exploiting other folks
and you know I I have to term that I
call the colonizer a virus because often
in this country we've kind of swept our
history under the carpet we don't want
to think about it you know we wanted to
you know we kind of learn about slavery
in schools but we as a country have not
truly grappled and come to terms with
our history like many other places have
begun a process and so those dynamics of
colonization which are about separating
and dividing and exploiting are it's
like a virus that still permeates in our
culture and in our institutions you see
it in our policies and systems our
public education for example reflects
the colonizer virus so does our food
I'm an agriculture you look at our
environmental policy I'm you looking for
will you be specific about I mean it
just explained to us how we see that
call it what you call the colonizer
virus and I think to some extent also it
includes your notion of a separation
worldview how do we see that in the
context of let's say education or within
our food policy yeah so when you look at
our education system for example we know
that public education is funded in a way
in a very archaic way in this country
that's based on property taxes and so
obviously richer neighborhoods where
they pay higher taxes benefit from those
resources and have better schools then
poor neighborhoods which have fewer
resources and where more children of
color tend to go and we you know there
are innovative things happening around
the country to try to address that
disparity but we haven't fundamentally
you know passed the law at the national
level or even the state level where we
actually believe that an access to a
high quality public education is a right
in this country in fully funding funded
education in a way that is equitable
across all demographics and so that that
mindset of you know that's just the way
it is it's always been this way this is
a good school this is a bad school this
is a good neighborhood this is a bad
neighborhood the mindset of separation
and division is a direct result of our
of colonization and we've gotten so
accustomed to things just being that way
and what allows the folks who have
wealth and the folks that have power to
make these changes what allows folks to
be complicit and that often is to
separate it mindset we do not interact
or have proximity often to those
communities that are poor and we don't
have a relationship with them so we
don't feel connected to them this is a
completely like Western idea of
individualism and separation that's very
counterculture to an indigenous idea of
us all being inherently connected that's
separation world and let me just you
know I mean put it put a fine point on
this I mean we can literally track the
not only just the accumulation of wealth
through the years but even as as late as
you know the the early 50s late 40s when
we see government policy in terms of
backing home mortgages I mean you can
see the ripples of that there you know
that's not that long ago 60 years ago
seventy years ago you see the ripples of
what that means in terms of
homeownership and not just personal
wealth but wealth within the context of
neighborhoods and that directly
implicates the quality of education
that's available for people there and so
you've got two different forces that are
working on on continuous a continuous
structure of of oppression in in in many
respects and and so in some ways that
separation worldview is I mean other
people might call that a practice of
white supremacy right absolutely and all
right so all right so we have these
dynamics that are going on and so talk
about the the struck the littoral
structures of colonization that you have
found in the context of philanthropy and
I guess philanthropic institutions so
you know when you follow the trail of
money in how capital is moving through
the world it's very easy to see the same
pattern of colonization those same
dynamics are at play specifically to
philanthropy the foundations that we
were talking about sitting on eight
hundred billion dollars in capital when
you take a look at how that money was
accumulated which we've kind of touched
on through a historical perspective but
when you also look at who is actually
sitting around making the decisions
around how that money is invested who
gets to allocate manages spend it and
who receives that money then you see
there's a major race problem going on
there by far the trustees of these
organizations
white men the CEO in leadership with
these foundations happen to are also
white and then when you look at who is
receiving the funds we also we touched
on that earlier you know only seven to
eight percent of organizations and
communities of color are receiving the
funds and so this is why I often refer
to the wealth that's inside of
foundations as well that was twice
stolen
you know once from a historical
perspective and and now from a
perspective of xscape in taxation right
and and going into the coffers of the
foundation yeah I mean that's that I
mean I think that is one of the key
elements at least in the in the in the
moment as it were and that this money is
supposedly you know not it well it it is
supposedly important enough to escape
taxation rather like the the where this
money is going is supposedly significant
enough and important enough that it
should not go towards should not be
democratically discharged essentially
right and it should not be to the the
general good that theoretically the
places that this is going are important
enough to be sort of outside of that
system and you write that some of the
structures you you can see the some of
the structures of of colonization in
things like the architecture of the
foundations you can see it in the in the
format's of the grant work as well as
the inclusion of people of color and and
and and how people of color within the
context of these foundations sort of
have internalized some of this the sort
of implicit and explicit messaging talk
about about that that dynamic that that
sort of almost the nuts and bolts of the
the the workings of these foundations
yeah absolutely so you know when you
think about white supremacy foundations
you know white supremacy shows up in the
culture of organizations and in
different ways and within the world of
foundations if you know you can kind of
think of it as a bubble of which almost
like magnifies that it's a lot of wealth
and power and privilege and a small
and you know I share my story in the
book as a person of color I'm made of
American I'm from the South from a very
poor family it's a really interesting
journey to find yourself within that
bubble and and then you know trying to
navigate that space it can be very
painful and you know what I talk about
in the book I think a lot of folks may
not understand about what upholds these
cultures and ideas of white supremacy
it's a two legged stool one is
old-fashioned white supremacy and
dominance and oppression that is the one
that we talk about most often where
ideas of you know white is is best or
who we think of as being smarter or more
capable happen to be white and we're fed
that through all types of messages but
on the other side of that equation often
it can happen that people of color or
people who have been oppressed by this
system can internalize that behavior in
that thinking so even though we are you
know black and brown people we can
actually leave and behave in a way that
is equally as harmful if we are not
decolonizing our thinking and in ways of
existing in the world and so the
messages that all of us whether black or
white or indigenous or other we all have
to do work to when I say decolonize I
literally mean just the shift our
thinking from a mainstream way of
thinking you know a white dominant way
of thinking to a way that is more
inclusive and equitable and a little bit
more connected with each other as human
beings you one of the things you talk
about is this to sort of the concept of
like apologies in truth and
reconciliation and the I mean I think
what you know I often forget is that
Canada you know people think of truth
and reconciliation they contemplate
South Africa but Canada had its own sort
of truth I guess truth and
reconciliation process so there is like
there is a you know there is a paradigm
for the the the USA that is not too far
afield right from Canada I mean it's
it's there for us right what's the
importance of something like that I
think it's super important you know
you're right
South Africa had a process Canada had a
decade of Truth and Reconciliation
Germany has had a process and so what
this process was was literally a decade
of you know simplifying this a little
bit but actually just listening and
telling stories so Canada made the space
for First Nations people there to tell
their stories to educate to share the
pain that they have gone through as
recent as a generation ago when you know
children were forced into boarding
schools and taken away from their
families and so you know this is so
critical and because in order to to heal
and to move forward as a nation one we
have to know that this happened young
folks in schools now are so far removed
from the history and are not taught you
know an appropriate history of what
happened in this country and then we
kind of as a community don't like to to
think about these things we want to
sweep it under the carpet and I think
what happens when we do that it begins
to fester and then out of that comes
what we're seeing happening in this
country now all types of ugliness and
divisive Ness and hatred because we just
have not come to terms with our history
in order to properly heal and move
forward you you provide seven steps of
healing that are are driven driven from
the native traditions give us a broad
overview of those steps and and and and
what how they might be implemented where
you know what they would you would hope
they would achieve sure so the steps are
kind of steps that you might think of in
a process of restorative justice or
extreme reconciliation so it really
starts with holding up a giant mirror
and taking a deep look into the mirror
either
a personal level organization or as a
nation to to look back and understand
the pain that has been caused to folks
in this country and to reopen those
wounds wounds and to grieve them and to
apologize for them and this is not just
for white people to do or for people of
color this is for all of us because we
have all been traumatized by this
history in different ways and we need to
come to terms with that and it's not
something that I think that we can opt
out of and then moving through the
process we of course would apologize
when you truly understand the history
and what has happened as recent as you
know yesterday hey really you're going
to be moved to a place to apologize for
what has happened and wanting to make
amends and this leads to other steps in
the process of listening and really
deeply connecting with people sharing
our whole selves with each other and
getting to a place where we at least
even if we don't agree with each other
we can understand and respect each other
and from there there's gonna be a
variety of things that happen that
reflect that we are on a healing journey
we're going to have better
representation in places of
decision-making and I bring this to the
context of money and philanthropy like
you know having representation there and
looking at where who's calling the shots
where resources are going and all of
that leads us to investing resources in
a different way that lead to healing and
repairing I think this is very pertinent
to the moment because we're having a
conversation once again in this country
around reparations you know the
Democratic candidates have been
discussing this and many have said that
reparations would be a part of their
their campaign promises I think I'm
really interested and excited that we're
having that conversation however I think
that we've jumped ahead and and wanting
to quickly put a bandaid on something
and to move some resources and hoping
that that will repair and kind of this
disgust reign of racism that we have
happening in this country I personally
think it's a bit premature I think
there's work to be done before we can
actually get to a place of reparation if
we don't understand the
history or know it if we don't feel bad
about it and grieve and apologize for it
I think it's gonna be hard to make the
case to move tons of money to actually
help repair the harm that's been done so
alright so and and and I think that
makes sense and I would I would imagine
like some measure of reparations agenda
would be would would hopefully come with
like it's sort of a mandatory you're
gonna need to figure out why we did this
type of element but but let's move to
that question that I had mentioned
earlier was I mean what you're outlining
here is a reformation of the way that
essentially philanthropic institutions
do their business as it were why that as
opposed to say you know what we're not
we're no longer going to favor because
of the structure of who got that money
and how they got that money and binds us
to how that money is redistributed that
it really does not rise to the level of
being tax free
I mean you know that's a crass way of
saying it but it really does not rise to
the level of being outside of our system
it is not religion it is you know where
we have a constitutional you know we
have a constitutional reason to you know
not tax it it is just something that we
supposedly think will help society at
large but in fact in many ways it's just
continuing the inequities that from our
society to you know to be fair to no
fault of their own they're just you know
this is your we've been programmed in a
certain way and rather than try and
deprogram this we can basically just not
encourage it in some way which we're
doing when we make it tax rate like why
not just say
you know what philanthropy it's nice you
can do it but if you're really
interested in doing this you can do it
with money that's been taxed mm-hmm I am
all all in favor of looking at changing
legislation are enforcing legislation
that really reasons this whole system
because I think most of it is actually
delusional I think it's ridiculous that
folks are given a tax break to put money
aside that actually does not ever have
to leave the door or to the community
that's actually invested in Wall Street
and in private industries so it just
really makes absolutely no sense
we've also painted this picture about
philanthropy and charity that is just
not real you know we know no wealthy
person in this country has ever started
a foundation or given away money and
become less rich the following year you
know we're celebrating Jeff Bezos for
example you see the headlines he was the
largest gave away more money than anyone
last year that the biggest
philanthropist however he's richer next
year as a result of that and so the
truth is folks are getting major tax
breaks for this philanthropy and you
know and I could debate whether or not I
feel okay about that I might be okay
with that if I knew that all of those
resources were actually being invested
in the community in a way that is fair
and equitable but we know that is
actually not the case and ro all of that
needs to be re-examined right I mean I
guess the question is you know is that
even possible I mean maybe right like
you could I I could see perhaps you know
over a certain amount of money if you
wanted to give more beyond your taxes at
some level that will give you a tax
break on some percentage of your wealth
if you put it into a fund where we have
a more democratic process of
distributing it but we sort of have that
system already and it's called taxes
right I mean okay I mean you know like
we could redesign the system in some
fashion but we have that system already
it's called taxes
and the only way at the end of the day
it seems to me to have a democratic
version and I'm not saying they
shouldn't be philosophy if you want to
give money to you know Lincoln Center by
all means give money to Lincoln Center
it's just that why why should you get to
decide how our tax payers how our tax
dollars are are spent and you get named
after like you know I don't I don't get
the Sam cedar day that they pick up
garbage that's not named after me you
know that seems to be the fundamental
problem right no you're you're
absolutely right and it's you know folks
are getting a tax break they're getting
to become wealthier as a result of that
and they're getting to be lifted up in
our communities as heroic charitable
humanitarians along the way and so
absolutely I think you know I think that
the system should be changed that folks
this folks just paid more taxes we
probably wouldn't need philanthropy as
we have it now and I also think there
are incremental changes that can be made
so for example there's no type of
restrictions on to what their board
looks like a family can start a
foundation Abbey and their board
governance could be just all family
members that's fine whatever causes they
care about or whatever organizations
they care about it's not unusual for
organizations that receive money from
the federal government to have
restrictions are our requirements on
what their board should look like and so
one easy thing that could be passed by
the government is that any foundation
that started that is has public charity
status should be required to have a
board that reflects the community that
is not all family members or all
corporations corporate members but it is
a diverse board that you know 51% of it
reflecting people who are you know
benefitting are served by that
organization happens all the time for
everyone else but we have escaped any
type of accountability within this in
this field because you know it's a field
that is wrought with all types of
elitism and purple
well Edgar Villanueva
the book is decolonizing wealth
indigenous wisdom to heal divides and
restore balance we will put a link at
majority dot F M thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it thank
you it's been a pleasure talking with
you
[Music]
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
kick
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made so
the option where you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
