[Music]
Reuben has locked me but Ben Shapiro
still is alive and so here he is bench
bureau well he's got two gems let's
start with the just the I don't know
which one is more egregious to be honest
with you but this is Ben Shapiro
reacting to the latest revelations about
Brett Kavanaugh that Brett Kavanaugh had
said during his hearings had he done
something - like that - that the
schoolmate Ramirez back in Yale it would
have been all over Yale and it turns out
the reporting bears out that in fact it
was all over Yale and this of course is
the accusation that Brett Kavanaugh
drunken at a drunken party whipped out
his penis and smacked Ramirez in the
face with it and bench bureau has an
interesting take on this which well
let's just here we've had a bevy of
public figures in recent years who have
had their genitalia described on
national television by people who
alleged sexual assault right store
McDaniels famously described president
Trump's genitalia Bill Clinton's
genitalia details of some posit for one
second I want to make something clear
stormy Daniels had consensual sex in her
fair with multiple encounters with
Donald Trump that is not sexual assault
what's that no I think was twice and I
know one time shame on you twice shame
on me
Bill Clinton also his relationships I
think in terms of when the genitalia was
described I believe was consensual
good work let's see maybe he has another
example
in from genitalia Bill Clinton's
genitalia details of such were talked
about nobody has yet subscribed
Cavanaugh's Janet now that's not
dispositive maybe they were generic who
knows but the bottom line is we've had
no more operating details on any of
these stories all of them apparently
happen in public places
with other witnesses available and not
one witness has been there who
corroborates any of these stories it's
unbelievable and yet the Democrats are
still saying that Cavanaugh should be
kicked off the Supreme Court based on
and what a new report from a guy who
says that he was at a party and saw a
mail grab Cavanaugh's penis which by the
way would be sexual assault and then
thrust it into the hand of a female who
says she doesn't remember the incident
it seems like you might remember that
incident just gonna put that out there
but if you're a female innocently
sitting at a party and suddenly some
dude comes and takes someone else's junk
and thrust it into your hand it feels
like that might be memorable I'm gonna
go to the woman in the room Jess does
that seem like a memorable incident to
you it seems like a memorable incident
suggests I will take just as generic
woman here because I think that that is
a fairly memorable incident I think any
normal you know what's amazing about
this so he's talking about this new
revelation this new accusation from a
guy who incidentally clerked for
Clarence Thomas but on one hand
Shapira I was saying well if the the
alleged victim doesn't remember it or
claims that she doesn't remember it I
think you would remember that yet he's
also when he talks about the lack of a
description of the penis he is not
accepting the remembrance of this woman
Ramirez who is the initial victim right
like he's discounting the third
accusation to come up we should do
ignatius hero remake of the Dave
Chappelle sketch where he was mocked I'm
curious
exactly what is 2025 years ago and
probably even more recently in terms of
like I've been in like wise and like you
know athletic centers I have been in
showers I have seen other men's
genitalia I will tell you this I cannot
describe it I wouldn't even know how to
describe
you're having what believes you
generically but let's watch just like I
mean this is just absurd but let's let's
let's just go back and watch this
without sound because it is just as
revealing I think to watch bench people
get very very animated when he is
talking that he believes that if you
have been assaulted by someone's penis
that you should be able to describe it I
mean can you imagine just for a moment
though that if Ramirez actually did say
this like what what's the next step it's
Ben Shapiro gonna call for an
examination a Brett Cavanaugh's penis to
find out if it's accurate then accurate
description whip it out like exactly
great Rock magic amy klobuchar I was
like there's really only common common
sense Minnesota answer to this that Bret
needs to take it out right here it's
humble and we can see there's a bureau
Shapiro's just don't know what the hawk
looks Larry is we've all been there is a
fairly memorable incident I think any
normal person would probably remember
that and have called by the New York
Times normal person for you to party
where someone grab somebody's junk and
thrust it in here seems like it might be
memorable there you go
oh my god don't worry Ben I'm sure
you'll get a really graphic description
image of the of the dick soon now that
is Phi U there you go now Ben Shapiro is
it's quite clear from this clip is
aspiring to be his generations Bill
O'Reilly now that Bill O'Reilly is out
to pasture Shapiro needs to fill the
void with exactly the same tank that
Bill O'Reilly had 15 years ago 100% and
can I just say just like Bill O'Reilly
and I'm not talking about you know
whatever but there's no nothing about
Ben Shapiro as personal life I'm talking
but the this is the quintessential one
block hey whatever this Republican
politician did we don't even understand
whatever and the next block is black
people's music is ruining everything
right exactly like I mean the idea you
know he liked the idea that this would
even be a topic in this like I can
understand it like back when O'Reilly
you know back in like oh you know oh you
know oh one or oh - he's like this
newfangled rap music which of course at
that point was probably twenty years old
but like this newfangled rap music it
sounds like noise but it's just sort of
like are you serious in this era of
music like where it's just sort of
there's just so many shot there's so
much more music now than there was
thirty years ago because of like digital
you know availability and I mean make a
playlist been so nineties this is it
honestly it is it's shocking and how the
only thing I could say is that it takes
I don't think they had the technology
back in the arts or in the 90s to place
the mentality of a 68 year old man into
a body this young and that's maybe why
they had to wait until now here's Ben
Shapiro basically showing off this new
medical technology that has inserted the
ideas of a 68 year old man who lived 20
years ago into the body of a I don't
know 30 40 Mon five year old man baby my
case against rap is I have the musical
case against rap and then I will get to
the cultural case so the musical case
against rap is that in in my view and
the view of my music theorist father who
who went to music school the there are
three elements music there is harmony
there's there is melody and there's
rhythm and rap only fulfills one of
these the rhythm section that there's
not a lot of melody and there's not a
lot of harmony and thus it is basically
effectively spoken rhythm and so it's
not actually a form of music it's it's a
form of rhythmic speaking and thus I and
so beyond the subjectivity of nature's
not enjoying rap all that much it's what
I've said before is it's not me
Oh God who is the black guy who's
getting paid to laugh like he said
something hilarious
it's a zoobi I believe he's a UK rapper
who famously decided he was going to
start declaring this identifying as
female to break powerlifting records do
we do I mean I'm curious about bench
Piero's father since he's brought his
father into this who's been Shapiro's
father also like believe like it was was
he raised Orthodox I wonder if his dad
what his dad's beliefs are on other
things that we should also be inserting
into the culture like maybe women
shouldn't be wearing skirts above the
knees or something like that
sir fascinating my dad is the foremost
authority on music and he says it's not
music I don't know if it ended up being
true enough but there was somebody who
had a theory that he was been Shapiro's
dad was sock puppet boosting Ben Shapiro
social media posts I believe that theory
i 100% believe that theory meanwhile
since we're in this in this neighborhood
Stephen crouch
