we were talking about representative
Matt Gaetz one of the most you know I
want to say right-wing but it really
we're talking about a conservative
movement type of person I mean you
described him as a libertarian but
there's nothing libertarian about the
way that Donald Trump functions in
office and there's certainly nothing
sort of constitutional in when you're
talking about the the abuse that that
that Congress frankly is doing that that
the Republicans have been doing to the
Constitution that Donald Trump is doing
to the Constitution whether it's
emolument clauses or reappropriation
money that has been appropriated by
Congress for other purposes I mean you
know a genuine libertarian conservative
would be a lot more concerned about
what's happening with the Constitution
but be that as it may we spoke about
Matt Gaetz and but he's not unique in
many respects for for Republican pots
was Matt Gaetz a member of the the
Florida State Assembly yes he was the
Florida House he was chairman believe of
the Taxation Committee he he was terming
out tournament it out he had a chance to
run for his daddy's Senate state Senate
seat or for Congress and he chose to go
for Congress well good for him good for
now but so tell us a little bit about
Representative Mike Hill is this the
next Matt Gaetz or is he worse he is he
is loony er he he sees black cop black
helicopters in the night he is he is the
one state representative in fact the
Republican leadership in Tallahassee
hates him he did not get one bill passed
this last year the hit he put up nine
bills one of them was for a parking lot
for a state college and he couldn't get
it passed but he made news a couple
weeks ago and national news because he
was the state representative who said
that God had told
him to resubmit his anti-abortion bill
with no limitations no restrictions or
exemptions and that that you know we
would god makes you a prophet and you
know and you know that that's a pretty
big news but we kept our report if we
kept our recorder going and in the
process he also talked about that being
gay or lesbian or transgender or that
that was a choice and that it shouldn't
be protected against discrimination and
then he went on to someone from the
audience said well the Bible says that
if you sleep with a man you should in
the New Testament you should be killed
and he said no it's it's no he didn't
say no he said and it says it in the Old
Testament - and someone said well how
about doing a bill on this and he said
that would go over really great and
everybody started laughing and giggling
about it
we got the audio on that one - Wow and
it's created a furor across the state
state the House Speaker has come out and
asked him to apologize Democrats asking
for him to resign it's just that kind of
hate speech that I think really ruffled
a lot of people it got a lot of people
upset so I mean give me a sense of it
it's got a lot of people upset but I
also imagine that it's created a certain
amount of support for him as well right
I mean this is not a guy like this does
not get elected to any position unless
in some respects there are people there
who maybe don't articulate it there are
people there who you know maybe realize
like this is not something I want to do
in public because I've got business
interests or whatnot I mean give me a
sense of and particularly the area you
live in in Florida is not the most be
careful well you tell me how did you
characterize that area it's much easier
if you do it we are no we are the very
corner of the panhandle of Florida this
is very much
Republican territory when Republican
candidate for president is worried about
his presidency or his campaign they're
gonna come here in it because they'll
get a big rally Trump I think has been
here three or four times already before
and after the election so in Mike Hills
an Air Force veteran he's
african-american
the he was elected to the house once and
ran for the Senate and failed he barely
won this last time he's up for
reelection again next year he is and and
I've you know your comments about this
may help him and and I've heard I've had
some criticism for our reporting so we
all you're doing is helping him but you
know you know as journalists my job I
can't worry about the fallout as much as
I've got a report what happened and
we've always have to speak against hate
crime but he believes within that
far-right evangelical community that you
know he's he's doing what they they like
to hear what he's saying
it just doesn't play when other people
are in the room play well yeah I mean I
I I wonder about that in terms of like
you know how much how much feedback you
get in covering those type of things to
there and whether that makes you a
persona non-grata around those areas
because I'm curious as to how much of
those sentiments are shared well I'm
actually also curious if it really is in
the Old Testament my understanding is
that it's not I'll take your word but
you know but I think it's you know it it
the how what's interesting you see what
the state leaders have said both the
governor and the leadership in the
Florida House have called him out to
apologize he did issue apologize apology
on Wednesday that was sort of I should
have you know it was it was an is
necessarily as good as it should have
been but they never are but what's gonna
be interesting to see is what does the
Florida House leadership do you know are
they gonna do like they did with Steve
King in Congress and take away his
committees or they can just say let all
the lobbyists know that he's not
protected for re-election and that they
don't have to give money to his campaign
something along there is going to
probably happen but he does have support
here how big it is yeah it's it's sort
of it's hard to tell he didn't win
overwhelmingly this last time so he is
vulnerable when it comes up for
reelection how much of Florida's change
so yeah Bron DeSantis came out against
this guy how much a get where is Florida
broadly speaking politically that
DeSantis has to be very quick on on
coming out against this guy I mean how
much give me a sense of like where
Florida stands now in the the scope of
things well I think we're as purple as
we ever were I think that De Santis is
as a governor has not been as as bad as
Rick Scott was as far as is is not
listening to others in bringing more
people under the tent De Santis has done
some great things he's done some strange
things like taking doing a Florida
cabinet meeting in Israel which was sort
of strange and but as a whole
he's not as ultra conservative or
trumpian as we were worried that he was
going to be so I think the state appears
to me to be more purple than it than it
has been I think it's it's I think you
know Trump seems to believe that he has
this state I think Biden is doing very
well the others are starting to come in
it'll it will it'll be interesting to
see but it was to me refreshing to see
so many leaders on both sides denounce
this attack on the gay community and so
I think that that you know maybe we've
moved a little bit further ahead
maybe not Northwest Florida just yet
we're always five years behind well but
we're getting there baby hope springs
eternal a good luck down there and I
appreciate you giving us an update
thanks so much thank you Sam
