we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it's Thursday October 9th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a hybrid Sam and
Michael Wednesday we were broadcasting
live from the steps from the industrial
ravaged Juanes now on the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program an interview with former North
Carolina Democratic congressman Brad
Miller on his really sort of extensive
defining work on the history of the
houses oversight of the executive branch
and its failures as accountable how do
we get to where we are today in terms of
this stunning overreach
turkish President Tayyip air Diwan has
announced that he is moving in to
northern Syria they've begun shelling
this move comes I should also add just
weeks after the United States pressured
Syrian Syrian Kurdish forces FD SDF
forces to drop their border positions
with the renewed commitment that they
would in fact be protecting them the
Pentagon won't take over Islamic state
prisons if US allied Kurdish forces
withdraw officials say there's serious
criticisms about who we're calling
whistleblowers and what started this
process they're legitimate but also
Donald Trump is in full an utter
contempt of Congress they are saying
they will not cooperate in any way shape
or form
what remotely serious thing is left to
do besides jailing and finding these
people Trump's lawyers argue that
unanimous Watergate case was wrongly
decided and former South Carolina Rep
trey Gowdy has returned to the national
scene as a member of Donald Trump's
legal team Trump told Rick Perry and
State Department officials as early as
May to talk with Giuliani about Ukraine
and half of voters support impeaching
and removing Trump those numbers keep
moving up
indigenous protestors and others have
converged on the capital of Quito taking
on the horrific Lenin Moreno
administration who ran center left and
his governed far-right he moved him in
the top military grass himself atop
military brass outside of the capital
the u.s. imposes visa
descriptions on Chinese officials over
you very you Minh rights abuses Alabama
capital elect Stephen read its first
black mayor in a two hundred year
history an unpaid bills rack up and
Trump rallies wake even as a new batch
of documents reveal the conflicts
between Philadelphia's DEA reform DEA
Larry crasner and Pennsylvania's
Attorney General all that and much much
more on today's majority report we're
gonna get to the ad in a second and then
this really important interview of Brad
Miller I'd recommend if you have time
you read his piece in The American
Prospect as well very important piece on
the executive branch and congressional
accountability Bernie Sanders is up he's
walking it should be noted that in
addition to this episode with his heart
his daughter-in-law just died of cancer
she was only 46 years old it was a
basically diagnosed and then an
incredibly fast process the this family
is going through a lot and you know I'm
you know this is one of the few people
in American politics that frankly we can
look back and and see and you know
witness him is actually a decent person
that incredibly powerful crowdsourced ad
or grass roots ad documenting the
difference between the just utterly
grotesque media coverage of Bernie
Sanders versus what he's actually doing
on the trail please everybody watch now
this guy still crushed the last quarter
in fundraising it's still a three-way
race and he's cutting back on his
schedule we're gonna play this clip and
then I'll contextualise it you expect
when you do start to travel more that
you'll be able to keep up the same type
of robust no I don't know I think not
certainly immediately look we
doing you know in some cases five or six
meetings today you have three or four
rallies and town meetings and meeting
with groups of people I don't think I'm
gonna do that but I certainly intend to
be actively campaigning I think we can
change the nature of the campaign a bit
I'll make sure that I have the strength
to do what I have to do what i mean by
change of nature well probably not doing
four rallies a day
I've done quite sure that I could be one
of us but I don't know there's anybody
who did more rallies so we have done all
over the state so we're gonna you know
probably not do three or four rallies
that they do so that's true there's no
other candidate including ones that are
significantly younger than Sanders who
have remotely the schedule that he is
kept up and keep in mind that you know
he's hasn't broke pace since campaigning
2016 then trying his utmost to elect
Hillary Clinton president then working
to kill the Republicans health care
efforts to destroy the ACA which he was
actually a leader in the fight against
then in the midterms and now assembling
this groundbreaking grassroots
unparallel presidential race in addition
to a serious legislative agenda
including more work to end the genocide
in Yemen than anyone else as well as um
an attempt to actually restore some
congressional oversight of foreign
policy which has just been decimated in
the last several decades so no one's
kept up a more thorough set a schedule
and done more than Bernie Sanders in the
game uh I think that you know this is
objectively a setback but he is
objectively still very much in the race
and the dialectic that we have to
establish is between the fact and look
this is the reason I'm not messing
around this is why I'm not you know I'm
not playing with Warren or Gabbard or or
yang or whatever this is an unparalleled
left campaign and if you profess the
care about those things whether it be on
foreign policy or the most thorough
growing domestic policy you have just I
mean it's just an unparalleled candidate
nothing's been offered like this in
modern American politics on every major
so we need to work incredibly hard and I
think that this is also where the not me
us dimension comes in as well but take
heart and I look forward to the debate
now speaking of taking heart who loves
reading ads more than Sam cedar watch
Sam read an ad to you thank you Michael
folks if you feel like you can't find
the time to read all the books on your
list guess what I'm right there with you
my list of books to read is so large I
don't have time to do it because
basically I'm reading books for this
show and even then I don't even get a
tenant I don't even get to read a
hundred percent of those well blink
astiz an app that compiles the key
takeaways from thousands of non-fiction
books everything you need to know is
condensed down to 15 minutes that you
can either read or my favorite listen to
on the app blink astiz really unique and
it works on your phone on your tablet on
your web browser wherever you're gonna
find everything from health and
self-help titles to history and business
books included in blinka sly Brer II and
I'll tell you okay so I've already said
in the past Tim Ferriss is a 4-hour
workweek right then I listen to that and
I'll listen to random business stuff but
the thing I like the best about bling
cast because there are some books like
I'll see like I want to read that one
right some of the history books those
are books that you know that you you
want to dig into for me personally other
people might just want to know the
bullet points on these history things
that's all well and good but for me it's
stuff like this yeah queued up for me
next is how to make people like you in
90 seconds or less by nicob Nicolas
booth Minh now no offense Nicolas
movement but I just don't know I would
read that book cuz like I just don't you
know it seems a little bit like
I don't know if I want to be you know on
the subway trying to figure you know
with the book there but also it's I just
don't know with all the amount of time
that I have I don't know that I'm gonna
spend that time to just try and get
people like me in 90 seconds or less but
it's gonna take me 13 minutes to listen
to this I'm I walk to work I could
listen to it twice and still have time
left over to meet three people who will
like me in 90 seconds or less that's
what I love about blankest
and with plinkus you get unlimited
access to read or listen to a massive
library of condensed non-fiction books
all the books you want one low price
right now for a limited time Blinky's
has a special offer for our listeners go
to blinkers comm slash majority try it
for free for seven days and save 25% off
your new subscription that's blinka
steai excuse me
bli and K is t.com slash majority to
start your 7 day free trial and save 25%
off 25% off bling cast com slash
majority check it out now let's take a
quick break when we come back I'll be
talking to Brad Miller former US
Representative from North Carolina's
13th congressional district serving from
2003 to 2013 he's written a piece in The
American Prospect the 40 year war
william bars long struggle against
congressional oversight be right back
I'm just picturing Sam walking just
being like in a very good day to you too
sir I listen to my new blanket how do
you happen to be okay this is Sam with
former congressman Brad Miller
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program former US
Representative for North Carolina's 13th
congressional district serving from 2003
to 2013 and writing in the fall 2019
this the
the American Prospect the forty year war
Williams bars long struggle against
congressional oversight welcome to the
program Brad thank you glad to be with
you I have to tell you that in addition
to being you know some of this being
reliving some of my youth in terms of
your piece the thing that really struck
me and and we'll get into it in more
detail but I just have to say off the
top is the office of legal counsel I did
not have a sense of how how many yeah
how powerful powerful but but how like
it's like so easy it is to corrupt it in
some ways but let's before we get there
maybe we're I'm getting ahead of myself
but you write that William bar this has
been part of and he is part of a 40-year
project to essentially strengthen the
power of the president I imagine that's
been an ongoing a battle since since day
one on some level but there's been we've
entered into a new era of it we have and
I think for for crop is you know
obviously not doctrinal it's entirely
opportunistic he I mean he doesn't think
about constitutional architecture which
is the the phrase that constitutional
scholars use for separation of powers
and checks and balances it isn't it is
entirely in his interest at the moment
so he thinks about it as much about as
much as my dog thinks about whether to
lick his own penis right yeah it serves
this immediate needs what to think about
but for bar and for others on the right
there has been a consistent plan a
consistent effort over the last 40 years
at least to create a very powerful
executive and a very weak well really
both the courts and Congress lose power
to the president under their
interpretation and their their preferred
constitute their prefer
political system there a government
system of government but especially
Congress especially Congress well I want
to I want to dig into the the various
examples over the course of these 40
years that you talk about but I am I
mean I and I and I felt sort of
mystified and I knew I knew vaguely
about Bill bar in his involvement back
in the iran-contra days but when that 16
page memo of his that he wrote saying
that that Trump wasn't was was really
incapable of being investigated or at
least a held to account because he was
president I mean since that time I've
been sort of baffled about here's a guy
who's retired who is it I mean is it
yeah where is this doctrine come from I
mean like where does is is he part of
some type of like secret Strauss Ian's
cult I mean what like like honestly like
I just like wonder like I I don't
understand that type of a belief set
yeah and I don't think they all get
together and secret and perform rituals
but there is almost a cult-like belief
in in a strong executive and and it
really the the line between the very
strong executive elected by the people
and strongman rule is really a pretty
blurry line and the the idea of
democracy that that government derives
is just powers from the consent of the
governed is really it was a radical idea
back to the end in the 18th century and
it's still a radical idea and not
everyone accepts it it's a radical idea
of the left not of the right people
should remember that you know originally
senators were not popularly elected and
and and and so on I actually neither
were presidents I mean they fully
expected the elect the electoral college
to be a deliberative body they didn't I
think it was logistically possible to
elect presidents by popular vote
cause there's no way in the wall someone
from Georgia would know anything about
someone from New York right I mean I and
some little like that makes sense to me
in terms of like a certain practicality
it's just hard for me to imagine that
there are there are and there are people
who feel like the best thing for America
it's for us to have a you know quasi
hater type of situation a man on
horseback yes but those people exist so
we got to take them at their word let's
let's go let's go back I mean you you
you sight through you know some early
history ranging from George Washington's
first term to Woodrow Wilson saying that
in forming the the the informing
function of Congress should be preferred
even to its legislative function in
other words you know things like
oversight and and whatnot and really
this turn really happened under the
Reagan administration I'm lay out for us
like you know how it was that Reagan
assembled these people but but it really
goes back I mean before this right we're
Dick Cheney sort of I guess learn this
concept under Nixon right yeah it goes
back to the Dixon administration and you
know Nick Sounion has become a term used
for extreme present claims of
presidential power and after Watergate
there were reforms important reforms the
Inspector General statute which is what
Liz led us to the Ukraine scandal and
the possibility now their very real
possibility impeachment was a post
watergate reforms so was a special
counsel law there were a lot of there
were there were several important
reforms that were designed to rein in
the imperial presidency and for bar and
for edwin meese and for others who were
part of that group of love widest
lawyers who came into the reagan
administration both in the White House
and a Department of Justice
there was a sense that the Watergate
reforms had gone far has gone way too
far and and that pop just powers the
proper powers of the presidency needed
to be reformed it need to be restored
but in fact they went much beyond that
you know edwin meese gave speeches that
suggested that the president could
disregard opinions of the supreme court
with which he disagreed that then
independent agencies
roaring intrusion on the president's
power over the executive branch
despite supreme court cases saying that
executive branch CP independent agencies
within the executive branch were
perfectly okay and that was sort of
where this began was with the Reagan
administration and they began picking
fights that they did not that went badly
for them at first all right well let's I
mean let's yeah let's talk about those
those fights because the first one was a
function of executive privilege note
yeah where did I mean this concept of
executive privilege did this come out of
case law I mean where where does this
derive because you know it over the
course of the increase in to Donald
Trump we've seen a lot of times where
the executive does not seem to be
calling for executive privilege but
those working for him cite it even
though it has not been initiated I guess
they just sort of like think they
shouldn't talk about it just give us a
little background on executive privilege
and then we can go into the the attempt
by the EPA to withhold documents from
Congress back in the early 80s it's
pretty ill-defined presidents in the
twentieth century I think Franklin
Roosevelt and Dwight Eisenhower both
said that they would instruct employees
officials of the executive branch not to
answer certain questions that went to
their communications with the president
that the confidentiality of
communications with the present
so the president could make decisions
with the best advice because the advice
was uninhibited to me that's been around
for a while it has not really been
recognized by the courts until the
Watergate cases and the Nixon
administration I guess one in particular
and it's never really really been very
well defined but but the court
acknowledged that there probably are
some communications between some
high-level officials and the president
that should be regarded as privileged
but even that is is subject to being
overridden if there is a an obvious need
for the information and they do in in in
my experience as an oversight
subcommittee chair for four years the
executive does just throw that out there
anytime they want don't want to answer a
question but but early on in the Reagan
administration there was a scandal that
came out of the EPA Environmental
Protection Agency's ahead then was an
Gorsuch Burford yes she is
Neal Gorsuch his mother mmm or was and
she was ahead of it and it was a
question about the Superfund the
legislation to clean up waste sites
particularly contaminated waste sites
and there was a question about whether
there's corruption and have that
presence being administered and the
funds were being spent and a couple
three House committees got whistleblower
information and issued subpoenas and and
the Reagan administration folks at the
White House in the DOJ told her not to
broad the information but to assert
executive privilege and then they had
litigation over that and the court said
this is not the time to raises the time
to raise this is when she is defending
the criminal charges for contempt of
Congress and she said what was it about
criminal charges and she just folded and
they lost that battle they lost it
pretty pretty resounding Lee and
Congress got all the documents the
person under Gorsuch ooh her name was
Rita Lavelle
who has headed the Superfund program
ended up being conceded up being fired
then convicted of perjury and she's sort
of an active active prison prison
sentence for support free for what she
had said to Congress and then and then
they and at the house the Judiciary
Committee opened an investigation into
how the Department of Justice had
handled their investigation and whether
they had obstructed the the form of
Justice had obstructed the house
investigation and whether high officials
and Department of Justice had committed
perjury in in fighting the investigation
so things just kind of unraveled for the
Reagan administration in their attempt
in their attempt to put congressmen in
their place at the time well I mean you
know the idea of someone lying to
Congress and going to to jail for it the
idea of Congress investigating the
Department of Justice those things seem
so far removed from where we are today
because you know what you're outlining
is like a I feel like this happened all
this stuff happened like I don't know
two years ago under under this president
right I mean we have the EPA refusing to
hand over documents it feels like every
couple of weeks we have we have I mean
we've seen people just in their
nomination hearings lie to Congress I
mean yeah but yet we have none of those
I mean well I mean maybe I'm getting
ahead of myself but these tools seem to
have gone away well I wondered about
that why is it so different now that
they can just thumb their nose at
Congress I'm just wow Congress has
oversight powers and you know this
article and American Prospect was
written before the whole Ukraine stuff
hit but every every day or new examples
of what I wrote about in The American
Prospect piece I think one important
thing that has changed in addition just
to change in the norms and how tribal
the partisanship is now and how much
negative partisanship there is because I
don't you know I don't necessarily like
my guys by heat your guys is the you
that the special counsel law enacted
after Watergate sunset at the end of the
Clinton administration the beginning of
the George W Bush administration because
the Democrats by that point hated it
because of how many investigations there
had been under Clinton and the
Republicans had always hated it it had
been what had brought the iran-contra
stuff to light and made it impossible
for the Bush administration the George
HW Bush administration to make that go
away and the old wall had a hair-trigger
requirement to report upon demand by
Congress at least a report any evidence
of possible criminal misconduct by
executive branch officials to the
District of Columbia federal court to
appoint a special prosecutor so the
special prosecutor would would
investigate the press prosecute because
of a possible conflict of interest
that's expired and then to be clear that
was the Independent Counsel law we still
have special counsels but those are
appointed by the Department of Justice
like we had with robert muller
it was called the independent counsel
all that's correct and they were
appointed by the by the court itself the
Department of Justice had to provide
them resources but they acted
independently with all powers of
department of Department of Justice and
that expired and you know in the and
Gorsuch Burford matter the Department of
Justice said we don't have to prosecute
or mean the statue says that we have to
but we don't have to the inherent power
of the President to prosecute or not but
but there was sitting out there that
independent counsel law and Congress
could have required the court to appoint
a special prosecutor and an independent
counsel to proceed or not and that's
expired and I think since then and
certainly what is happening now everyone
involved nutballs knows there's no way
in the world the Department of Justice
the bar Department of Justice is going
to bring anybody
is gonna file a complaint against
anybody for ignoring a subpoena from any
Committee of Congress except one maybe
headed about Lindsey Graham and so they
don't work they don't they aren't
worried about crime criminal prosecution
nobody's worried about going to jail and
their so they thumbed their nose at
Congress you can't send us to jail you
can't do anything to us for you and we
should say that back in I guess it was
in 88 the the or in and the I should say
prior to that but just in that area
you're talking about the Congress had
basically raised floated the idea of an
appointment of independent counsel for
possible criminal charges against Ted
Olson yeah who was they had in fact done
it and and they and the DC Court had
appointed a special a Independent
Counsel and Olson and they were just
spoiling for the fight Olson and the
others of the other writers in the
administration they were spoiling for
the chance to challenge the
constitutionality of the Independent
Counsel law because from their point of
view just every syllable the law was an
intrusion on the president's
constitutional powers and they they
moved to quash the subpoena that had
been issued to Ted Olson and to declare
the Independent Counsel law
unconstitutional it went to the Supreme
Court and they got their asses handed to
them it was a seven to one decision I
think when I think Kennedy has just been
appointed the court and he didn't
participate but it was by Rehnquist and
Rehnquist said no problem here there's a
a an inherent conflict of interest and
looking back at the the history of the
Constitutional Convention they were the
delegates and those others at the time
were did not want that strong precedent
an unchecked president and they did want
there to be
even if circumstances suggested there's
a reason for it inter inter branch of
so that Congress could appoint people
who would serve in the executive branch
was just to the to the Reagan ice to the
rightest and the administration was just
apostasy I mean they got clobbered and
the only the only one who voted with him
went with him was Scalia so okay so this
sets the table obviously the the
Democrats allowed this lauda lapse
because in the wake of the Clinton years
yeah it was a kid star thing but it's
not just that like everybody
administration at some point had a
special counsel and ran and racked up
tens or even hundreds of thousand
dollars of of attorneys fees and
defending it in defending the
investigations and a lot of them had
very badly damaged reputations and there
was a sense that it had gone too far but
they went from there to nothing right
the baby was thrown out of the bath
water because in let's talk about the
OLC here because I didn't realize that
Rehnquist
you said Barr followed Rehnquist Scalia
and Olson is the head of the OLC we do
all of them were on the head of the UH
they were all heads of the OLC at one
point that is just nuts to me I mean it
really because I guess I have had just a
you know obviously John you in the Bush
administration
with with torture memos and and that to
me was I guess was always framed by the
media at the time as sort of an
aberration that it was like you know
that it was a one-off and it and it
seems like once the Special Counsel or I
should say the Independent Counsel Law
sunsets the OLC just becomes completely
right ripe for some type of corruption
because there's no way to hold anybody
to account if the OLC and the DOJ
essentially do not see themselves as an
independent
watchdog of the president correct and
even even after an administration
changes it would be very very difficult
to bring a criminal prosecution against
someone who disobeyed the law during the
previous administration if there was a
no LC office of legal counsel opinion
saying that you were doing the right
thing that the that the statute that you
were ignoring is unconstitutional so you
should do what the president tells you
and it's a essentially
get-out-of-jail-free card it's it's it's
like a prospective pardon for conduct
that has not yet been committed and yes
see the potential for abuse there is
enormous and yes at a pitch that that
potential has been fully realized
repeatedly for the last 30 years okay
well let's talk let's talk about where
what bars role in this so after the
Reagan administration losses in all of
their attempts like what and and
specifically the the the Rehnquist
decision that you can have you know the
the Independent Counsel laws no problem
bar then sort of steps in at that point
and what does he do to sort of limit
that I mean this is really sort of the
beginning of the end on some level even
though we have to wait until after the
Clinton administration to get rid of
that law yeah well he became the first
head of the AOC the office' legal
counsel in George HW Bush administration
and less than a year after the decision
on the on the Independent Counsel law
worsened the Olson he wrote an opinion
as head of LC a memorandum that was
distributed widely through the executive
branch that said the name it was ten
common in cruised congressional
intrusions on presidential power or
something like that but it was a very
belligerent militant memos that the
Congress by statute is intruding
on presidential power and we need to be
on the Losh forward and we need to
resist it and the way to resist it isn't
about challenging challenging it in
court or by vetoing laws which could be
overridden by Congress it is by simply
ignoring it
and really all of the the language from
that memo has continued to even though
that memo was supposedly pulled back in
the Clinton administration that memo has
become kind of the the touchstone for
just about every claim of executive
power by the right-wing Simpson I mean
isn't that claim basically you and what
army pretty much yeah they can't do
nothing about it so we can do what we
want I mean it just it's it's kind of
given a higher tone it's a it sounds
more principled but you know that's
basically yet yeah they can't challenge
us we're the ones who who enforce the
laws and they can say what they want but
we're not going to enforce the law
against ourselves and once once they
pass or pass their laws they're done
with it and we decide what it means and
whether to enforce it or not so I mean
let's let's skip ahead here to to
present day once bar introduces that
that concept and that and he introduces
that concept even before the Independent
Counsel law is gone so not only has he
then established like we don't have to
listen to anybody else he what happens
ultimately after the Clinton years and
maybe I don't know I mean I'm this is
complete conjecture on my part but I
wonder if part of this push to sort of
prove to the Democrats like you don't
want this Independent Counsel law
because we're gonna abuse the heck out
of it was to get rid of it because at
that point then there's no other vehicle
I think probably that will that that may
be true but it was also just
opportunistic they were trying to do
damage as Hillary Clinton's favorite
famous phrase was a vast right-wing
conspiracy they were seized upon it
seizing upon
anything that smelled slightly wrong and
and suggesting that it was there that
there was evidence of criminal
wrongdoing and and asked for a special
counsel and a great many were appointed
but you know what the the piece of
American prospect does lay out a lot of
what the OLC opinions claimed in the
George W Bush administration what I
think it was really being pushed by
Cheney and all the other like out of the
matter yes Addison yes Addison yeah I
mean if you saw a movie Vice I think
those guys were just as sinister as they
were portrayed in the movie yeah yeah I
know I and and and when you know you get
in a little bit into the attorney
general a firing scandal I mean this all
has to do with the politicization of the
Department of Justice right but the OLC
it to me the the the corrupting of that
process I think is is the most
problematic because there's this set and
people should understand the Office of
Legal Counsel just to be clear it
basically functions as the do J's
in-house Supreme Court right I mean they
decide except for there's no you know
there's no sir you know they don't have
to grant cert cert and they don't have
to you know it's just like we have a
question on the legality of doing this
let's go down the hall and then bill
will tell us at OLC if we can do it or
not they'll write up a memo they they
get together they figure out you know
theoretically what the legal argument is
but there's no way to question it
so it really doesn't matter how flimsy
it all is and and we in fact don't know
what most opinions say because a very
small percentage were published I mean
this is a really messed up way of doing
it so let me ask you I have two
questions I mean one is in the in the
immediate term
we're obviously laws that were passed by
a Democratic Congress cannot be passed
by would not be passed by a Republican
Senate what power does the Congress have
I mean if they had the ability before to
appoint an end
and council which could then put into
legal jeopardy these various players who
might say like hey I'm not going to jail
for Donald Trump or whoever it is they
don't have that ability more what
ability do they have that you perceive
them as not using is it just inherent
contempt no I don't think so
and I promised Dave day and I'll write
another piece for American Prospect on
what I have what I think the reforms
coming out of this ought to be there
that are compal to the post watergate
reforms I think there's a Supreme Court
case and in fact a long tradition in a
recent Ninth Circuit decision that says
that courts having inherent power to
appoint a special prosecutor for
contempt of court because contempt of
court is so important to the courts
ability to exert its own power that they
can't depended upon the presence so if
they turn it over the executive branch
and the executive branch that's no we're
not going to prosecute that then the
court can appoint an independent counsel
to prosecute it for them I think that
one they ought to try that now they
ought to petition the court and say look
at this the Supreme Court decision on
contempt of court the same thing should
apply to contempt of Congress appointing
special process and independent counsel
but even if they don't do that or if
they try that and they don't win they'll
enact a statute a narrower independent
council statute for contempt of Congress
perjury before Congress false statements
to Congress obstruction of congressional
investigations conspiracy to do any of
that because it's very clear that the
executive branch cannot be made to do
that if they are willing to take the
political consequences of not doing it
and which of course the Trump
administration is doing and the Trump
administration is ignoring all
congressional subpoenas and people
weren't even in the administration there
are these two Russians who were the guys
who introduced Giuliani to Ukrainian
officials who've been subpoenaed by for
a congressional investigation they said
we're not going to give you Dawkins
we're not going to show up
get the Department of Justice to
prosecute us good luck with that right
and that you know that's got to change
because until that changes Congress has
effectively no oversight power and I
introduced legislation to do that a
decade ago and on the OLC Russ Feingold
introduced in the Senate and I
introduced a companion be the same bill
in the house that would have required
with certain narrow exceptions opinions
by the Office of Legal Counsel be
published so we could know what they're
telling what they're saying their powers
are at the very least the Congress can
do something about it and I would go
further now and I would say that an
opinion of the office of legal counsel
you cannot say that you relied upon that
in a criminal prosecution that's a
defense in a criminal prosecution and
that would greatly cut in I think to the
pieces of the OFC law the world vol C
well it and and a set of House members I
should tell you they are bit somewhat
bipartisan I can't remember who they are
but within the last two weeks has
introduced legislation very like what
Russ Feingold and I introduced a decade
ago interesting and and what of inherent
contempt I mean assuming that Congress
doesn't pass anything in the short term
can Nancy Pelosi say all right we're
doing this you know you don't Mike
Pompeo you don't give us the documents
I'm sending the sergeant-at-arms to go
out put you in the Congress the
Congressional dungeon or whatever it is
or or or we're just going to you're
gonna rack up $2,000 a day in fines and
at one point you we're gonna go to court
and you can roll the dice because maybe
in a year you're gonna oh you know I
don't know
three hundred thousand dollars or
something yeah
there's also legislation to do that I
think I'm not sure it's been introduced
but there's independent group something
like good government now I think it's
the name of its proposed it but with a
limit of $25,000
for a civil fine and that was part of
the bill that I introduced a decade ago
as well to allow civil Silla finds a
problem with inherent contempt with
executive branch officials is you're
sending out the Capitol Police and the
sort of arms to take somebody into
custody who's got protection by law
enforcement officers from the executive
branch and I really don't like the out
of a firefight an armed confrontation
between the Capitol Police and the FBI
or this or is the Secret Service there's
got to be a better way to do it than
that but it with respect to others who
aren't in the executive branch and and
and both of them by the way would be
assuming that they were taking orders
proper orders from above right
the Capitol Police it takes somebody in
custody the Secret Service not to allow
someone to be taken into custody
but with respect to others I have
suggested within the last year during
this confrontation that like the
accounting firm mizar's
use inherent contempt a bit against them
and they haven't been saying they won't
turn over stuff I mean they the non
government officials are saying yeah you
just tell us what to do and we'll do it
we have got no interesting one to jail
over this but it there are problems
there are limits to inherent contempt
obviou obviously and by the way I
thought Jerry Nadler got unfairly
criticized for not doing more about
Corey lewandowski's testimony well you
know he was just a thug thumbed his nose
and there isn't anything that's
equivalent to a bench warrant there was
no way that that Jerry could have said
to the sergeant arms okay go detain him
until his attitude has improved and then
and then we'll hear his testimony there
there really isn't a way to do that but
there there should be a way to get it at
least some potential witnesses in a way
that they have to worry about it yeah
well I hope at the very least what comes
out of that is is some type of reform
package for this that yeah
that passes in Congress well it's a
fascinating piece and would love to have
you back on when you do write that piece
for The American Prospect on the
solutions former representative Brad
Miller
the piece is the 40 year war in The
American Prospect we'll put a link to
that at majority dot F M thanks so much
again for your time
all right thanks mark welcome back to
the show folks check out that piece in
The American Prospect very good very
important we're gonna go to the fun half
last night check out Donald bars dad Oh
most definitely and I would also put in
a search right along down a bill bars
dad I would put at Donald Donald bar no
bill bar I've said right along yeah no
bars yeah Donald bar sounds like he
looks like Donald bar actually the best
line I ever
I don't usually this isn't usually my
humors own and of course now F the queer
I show because of their trash about
Bernie but somebody said that they
showed the these photos side by side and
they said bill bara looks like Steve
Bannon after a queer I makeover which is
just like exactly true they completely
nailed it I still with respect um you
know putting aside their terrible
politics I do think that national
makeover policy would be good for you
know to deal with alienation that's what
everybody needs oh I don't know that
show is all about the outsourcing of
dealing with mass atomization loneliness
in the society and it's actually really
intense and painful because basically so
many people just need a little bit of
that I've cried multiple times at that
show the outsourcing of emotional labor
to feminized folks shall we say I mean
people people who are not straight sis
men typically Oh more of that care
workers shifted onto them well it's the
next phase of TM vs men are gonna go
help people clean up their bathrooms
jumpsuits yeah so yeah Adidas tracksuit
you got to meditate let's hug each other
and we're all good man
I do tracksuit so you can do hoodies and
jean jacket
I feel like I could use that here is a
photo of president Lula
look at her now what we need to do is
get you a gaming PC yeah I think mad I'm
like ultra-wide my different directions
and they added D isolate yourself
spectrum no you don't understand how
good it is you like make a meditation
room and I'm like where's the create a
flat screen on the wall be like photo of
like neem Karoli Baba Lula meditation
cushion NASA flat-screen gaming rig then
Jamie takes them to a noise festival on
peyote indeed a much more interesting
show I think we've already explored much
deeper deputes turn everybody into
schizophrenics right we got to use all
the tools in our toolbox multiplicity of
what do they call it diversity of
tactics diversity tactics but seriously
put in a bill bar father Dalton Jeffrey
Epstein and go deep down that rabbit
hole and then look at as this just
embarrassing display between Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump goes on look up
the Clintons and Haiti and you know save
your clap emojis yeah no problem I'm not
here for it the for some of the first
demonstrators I saw at the DNC in 2016
where Haitian cops it's serious it's
monstrous stuff like they're still
pissed at the Clintons about that stuff
because guess what it hasn't gone away
well and it also goes back like there's
multiple waves of I mean there's there's
stuff that Clinton apologized about
going back to the 90s while he was doing
the current stuff so that agri policy
was actually really bad I'm sorry
okay now sweet make easy to do sweet
Mickey's gonna be president now the guy
who sings in a duck hey look up sweet
Mickey this is one more tangent but it's
fascinating to me sweet Mickey was the
President of Haiti who was basically
installed by Hillary Clinton essentially
he contested an election result he had
tight connections with the Haitian
military and he's a former
I mean extremely entertaining and like
literally like a guy who'd like seeing
naked on stage or in a diaper and he was
the pre Trump like Haiti had a Trump
like figure before Trump and yes Pross
helped him get elected
Pras from the Fugees who also procced
recently was trying to get the guy who
pulled off the this guy I toe pull who
still like a billion dollars from a
Malaysian sovereign wealth fund Pras was
writing a letter to the Justice
Department to God try to get him
pardoned or something so yeah a lot of
weird stuff going on instead of link to
Ozzy calm I see I was wondering about
that like what on earth it really is a
whether Hillary chose the president I
wonder if it's oh that's great yeah that
looks like the speech about I mean
that's an article about Haiti I believe
yeah is this a critical one if that
certainly sounds like a critical title
it's impressive go Ozzy its left doing
entry is amazing Ozzy media belly of the
beat what is it remember that festival
that Jamie went to with their website
yeah oh geez cool good for them
Hillary was the headliner watching
Hillary speak I can't tell I honestly
can't tell this is critical like
tripping balls wilder experience the
mentorship on her part which would
frankly make it more interesting yeah I
just just even like she she tweeted back
at Trump don't tempt me it's running I
was like why so he can beat you guys and
then she said do your job like no no
times if I said we don't want him to do
that job Jesus Christ people become a
member of the majority report today
that's how this show happens tech out
just coffee dot co-op support our
sponsors it is critical by the way the
odds the article but all just to put it
on the board respect the job I was it
good job Ozzie well done they weren't
like and
active totally empowered leadership
groundbreaking feminism Hillary Clinton
personally engineered a coup in Haiti
last night on the Michael Brooke show
we'd spoke with Heidi Sloane she's a
great DSA candidate running for Congress
and Texas at a fascinating conversation
with her about her farm and her vision
to end homelessness and Medicare for all
fun interview then we had a really
interesting debate with Sagar and jetty
on nationalism vers socialism and
different perceptions of China we
haven't done that sort of thing at all
on TMDs and I find most kind of online
debates to just be sort of like tedious
like sort of dueling Google searches but
this was like an actual big-picture
conversation between two worldviews that
you know at times have some weird
overlaps but actually real fundamental
differences and sagar is a good guy and
that was a really fun debate we also did
a deep dive into what's happening in
Ecuador ro Java and many other topics we
cover so many things on T and BS I can
never give you a full rundown
patreon.com slash t MDS become a patron
today we um are well on our way to our
first 3,000 patrons help us make it
happen and if you haven't yet on youtube
we're over our first 80,000 subscribers
we want to get to that hundred case soon
as possible Michael Brooks show on
YouTube get your tickets November 23rd
live show in Philly World Cafe very
excited about that
Jaime this week on the anti Fattah I'm
just gonna read you the description cuz
I wrote it and I like it sweet so wha
everyone loves Bernie Sanders and hates
Angela Nagel but when it comes to the
enforcement of borders their politics
are basically the same using the power
of historical materialism returning
guests Ross Wolfe traces the origins of
the modern day nation state explains the
limits of economic nationalism and
social democracy in one country which is
to say all social democracy and makes
the case for why nothing short of global
communist revolution is necessary in the
long run to avoid a descent into fascism
and horror
and you can read Ross's piece
nationalism borders and the state at the
Brooklyn rail or em are online also
coming up this weekend oh my god it's so
soon is the goth socialist variety hour
with the anti Fattah and pie damn
America as well as special guests Matt
Chrisman Virgil Texas Leslie Lee the
third from struggle session and the
amazing drag performer comrade Barbie
and that is Saturday at Littlefield in
New York so get your tickets they're
selling pretty well they might sell out
so get it now sweet that uh yeah
literary hangover check out I just did
an episode on Lydia Maria child she's an
early feminist and abolitionist and this
week getting into some witchcraft stuff
we're gonna go we're going to actually
talk about the biggest witch hunt in
American history hotel which a total
witch hunt in Salem 1692 what they did
in Salem I thought it was a disgrace it
was a sublimated fear of women and it
was a total disgrace total yeah so I'm
deep diving into that for in preparation
for a crucible episode also for patrons
I'll be doing it George Orwell essay
called book shell bookshop memories
which is him talking about working a
bookstore and how that makes changes
your relationship towards literature
that's very nice very lovely very of
this weather I would say as well
it's a bookish weather very bookish
weather alright folks will see in the
fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
whipping like he's boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
you know you're nervous you're a little
bit upset you riled up yeah maybe you
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's
win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven two
thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow third don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital see
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars you're scum
you're not bad use me you you
 alright gonna take a quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
of the libertarians out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber classic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to ride these people Shitler with
such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome back fun half we got some stuff
to get you folks is all of the sound
ready and stuff guys
alright let's take a call you're calling
from a 505 area code who are you where
you calling from hey Michael everybody
hey what's your name where you going
from this is sex video from New Mexico
sexy Joe alright sounds good buddy yeah
thanks I got two things for you
one is that video the you guys showed
was actually doctored I'm know if you
saw which eyelid Burnie looked a Barney
oh really red at in the face that was
color corrected can we look the size yes
I've noticed some people tweeting about
it there's the video yeah the color
looks Bernie look really red I mean do
we have proof of this because I feel
like unless we do people are gonna say
it's well it's definitely well it's
definitely true that he looks redder
than he actually looks whether or not
intentional isn't yes but like the idea
that somebody intentionally did that to
make him look like he's about to die or
whatever like that needs proof no look
roster don't trust no CNN so check what
else you got
the other thing I know you guys are on
Twitter
and I'm subscribed to their and Bernie
also is on twitch and I was thinking how
it would be useful and ironic if people
used their twitch prime memberships to
subscribe to sanders i think it's a
triangle rific idea mmm I think it's
good I was think Bernie should start
gaming on twitch the mouth of
Japan just an important point he should
he should he can't do as many events as
he has been doing more time in the
gaming room yeah come on Bernie we're at
the gaming bridge and we're playing
World of Warcraft today we'll play City
skylines some weird virgin kid just
threatened to skull off me but then told
me that he would be voting for me I
don't even try to swap me because I
already have Secret Service protection s
Christ if I have to hear another gang
thing I'm kind of harder Prasad let's
get those hots going and they do hearts
on Twitch all right Joe I don't know
it's a good idea good call real quick
just so you know though I think you
can't actually currently subscribe to
him and possibly not you guys also you
might have to take an extra step to make
yourself like an affiliate or something
so yeah and start doing I will look into
or skip tanks but skeptical I defer to
Matt on twitch go through any initiation
or a ton twitch look at what they look I
don't know I still barely understand it
and I've been on it there's some weird
exclusivity stuff with twitch that I
just don't like like you can't also
twitch on YouTube or something like that
or stream on YouTube
oh really yeah I mean I'm not that good
you're calling from a76 o arian code who
are you where you claim hey Michael is
Amy hey Amy what's going on what's on
your minds um so no I was just wondering
this is really like the first primary
that I'm following mmm it's actually
funny when I first came out of high
school I thought I was
Buchan Oh Jamie thought ooh it's playing
people house it takes a while mind your
politics Jamie did a thing called Goths
for the invasion it was God's for the
liberation of a rocks check it out
well so it's just interesting because my
parents my dad's at a Democrat my mom's
a Republican so that's why I thought
maybe I was it's a very interesting time
these days you're spike yeah and they're
still together too so
but what was I gonna say i I know my dad
is Bernie like he's interested in Bernie
but he seems to be still falling for
like the Joe Biden association with
Obama mm-hmm and it's just like it's
frustrating yeah yeah I mean it's
totally frustrating I guess I would just
you know oh yeah he doesn't he doesn't
accept that there's a media bias he was
like ranting and raving about how MSNBC
tells the truth and I was trying to tell
them like well you gotta understand that
are you so him at home a dad what do you
think of that I haven't shown him yet
yeah shoulders you know it's shown that
add that is the best piece of
advertising of anybody of the cycle so
far I would show him that I mean that
that really tells you everything
succinctly about just this disgusting
grotesque coverage relative to the
reality of what the Sanders campaign is
doing I mean as for the other stuff I
mean look I you can say hey yeah maybe
you like Joe Biden maybe he worked with
you know Obama great but both in terms
of electability and meeting the
challenges of the moment that's not Joe
I appreciate the calling me and also you
know for what it's worth I don't know
the kind of relationship you have with
your dad but I've heard anecdotally that
some people you know you have to talk to
a Boomer that is receptive to this
message and a lot of them are not but
some of them are
actually can kind of hear you like you
know what I might have a little bit more
skin in this game with things like full
student debt cancellation and like what
Bernie is actually trying to do in terms
of structural change in an unparallel
way in this race and I'm gonna have to
face the next several decades and the
difference between someone who will push
for an actual green new deal and so on
you know that there's definitionally
higher stakes that first you got to get
rid of Trump and the existential threat
that he poses and then you got to get
rid of the existential threats that led
to Trump and Trump like things and the
only person that's doing that is Bernie
Sanders and some people I think have
some receptivity that I think the one
thing we need to battle is the cynicism
that a lot of boomers had who
participated in the social movements of
the 60s and witnessed the historic
defeat of the left and it's really
narrowed their expectations in terms of
what's even possible like I know I had a
conversation with my mom about that the
other day and like I couldn't
necessarily prove to her that she was
wrong like we can't all we can do is try
could prove that campaigning for Bernie
Sanders is more productive than the one
thousandth retelling of your trip to
Woodstock but like that might prove that
the point is we have to try you know
like me and we went to Woodstock and
Hendrix was there and there wasn't even
like bodyguards it was a totally
different time man and we thought we
were changing something but now I
recognize that we need to vote for Carla
Harris whatever grow up folks we vote
for Bernie Sanders I'm bored by boomers
cynicism it's a real thing but it's
boring Amy thank you so much for the
call I appreciate it thank you Michael
oh that I love I remember one time I was
I was in Long Island I have no idea how
this happened I was with an
ex-girlfriend and this guy just started
talking to us at this cafe he just
clearly wanted strike up a conversation
and it was some Woodstock thing and he
just started going on and on about how
like yeah yeah it was a folks wagon bug
and I took it from my parents house and
we ya know we were there it was upstate
and it was just like okay
great I don't care like nobody cares
we're just trying to have a coffee shut
up and then finally and this is why
though it's like in 2010 so there's no
radical stakes I don't know what
prompted me but I'm just I know my
surroundings so I was like yeah that's
great did you vote for Obama and he's
like hey peace and love me and doesn't
mean I want my taxes to go up Stewart
defeat of the left in a nutshell right
there taxes that guy won't even vote for
President Obama screw you that's emotion
that was all sigh up rock'n'roll history
the whole long spiel about how rock and
roll was it and counter-revolutionary
off spread of commies there's I looked
at him smoke he was talking and I said
this is all coded exactly Arlo's news
today yeah tomorrow's news today yeah
exactly I would not be surprised mm
anecdote you hear from some boring
looking accountant guy about being in
the mud the 1960s you might realize this
all Giants I up to undermine genuine
time solidarity I mean that's the thing
too is like when you talk about the
historical defeat of the 60s like
there's a lot of things all of which are
legitimate but a lot of things got
conflated there's people like I was
liberated by rock-and-roll and drugs
there was we were collectively
traumatized by the assassination of
important leaders who are all over the
political map but it all meant something
whether you're talking about Malcolm X
or MLK or or the Kennedy brothers then
Rizzo then there's like what happened
frankly even earlier and I think is the
the most important part of the 60s
politically is ADA is ISM is the March
for jobs and justice and the fusing of
ending apartheid with social democracy
and then when MLK connects that at
Riverside Church with global imperialism
in Vietnam and then by the way it gets
totally gutted because that's when the
liberal establishment turns on him
entirely and so that you know that was a
major part of the 60s that was
politically destroyed and I actually see
people act
destroying that legacy on a daily basis
on the so-called left and really tragic
and stupid ways but just social
democracy like Martin Luther King was a
full-on socialist I mean yeah I mean
yeah sure he was you I think he could
definitely say it was a democratic
socialist but whatever the way you want
to frame it like it that specific
lineage that was gutted it that I think
has the most actual political relevance
is not what most like affluent boomers
are talking about when they're talking
about the sixties and by the time you
get to the 70s there is a very happy
convergence like the first you know like
boomer politicians that are like groovy
man politicians are already super into
deregulation and then you get like the
Jerry Brown's and Gary Hart's who have
some you know pretty interesting ideas
but they're quite capitalist and you
know I don't know anyways my point is
I'm sick of hearing about it
and Bernie held the flame and so you
should vote for him all you think that
acid you got was synthesized in the back
of a Volkswagen pasture schmuck yeah
exactly exactly exactly yeah I am so I
apologized that it was so hard buying a
Volvo and going into the stock market
was a very hard journey for you anyways
can we give the kids some health care
your friggin narcissistic pricks yes i
do' it was very difficult when you
realized that Jefferson Airplane records
weren't gonna bring down the Nixon White
House I know that was an extremely
traumatic event but you think we could
do something about Latin America your
narcissistic bastards yeah yeah for your
head your head side
[Laughter]
wait'll I get on the doors again ivied
you know I was funny I thought of the
whole doors controversy when I was
rereading capitalist realism recently
and I was just kind of like guys I mean
come on you know and it's you know
what's amazing is watching it happen in
real time like when they started doing
documentaries about like the rap that I
listen to is like a middle schooler in
the 90s the first step was like oh this
is kind of interesting this is getting
like very culturally accepted and it's
fun to see the behind the scenes
interviews of how the and and already
there's such a proliferation that even
that and we're still talking about
something in a much shorter period of
time it's like unless it's done
exceptionally well it's boring it's like
yes okay right
they met at this party they did this
they rigged the DJ set this way then
Rick Rubin came and uh you know it's
like we got to move a little bit we
can't just endlessly recycle I'm sure
people will say the same thing about me
some day when I'm trying to make my
grandkids watch documentary is about all
the DIY spaces I used to frequent in
Brooklyn oh I think they would say that
today about the DIY spaces in Brooklyn
I'll never get sick of it though well
that's cool that's the deaths of genuine
passion them I mean look there's
occasionally some like there's always
exceptions to the rule I have totally
like like my mom turned me on to Neil
Young I found was like you know what the
only legit a great artist and like I get
that that isn't just like boomer pablum
go oh my mom turned me on to lots of
good music too she also cheered me on to
the doors
[Laughter]
sorry I understand it was very difficult
when the beam didn't melt down the
Pentagon but some of us have been
spending decades supporting people with
rural health care so maybe you could
drive your friggin BMW Harper into the
polls and actually do a single act of
human decency for the first time since
1970 you'd vote for me yeah I mean right
this is privatizing the entire island of
Manhattan every big giant peace beam on
the Pentagon man oh no Brady radical I
was disillusioned by the timing and I
want telling with a plan like I feel
like I talked about a Sega dellux a lot
in general but just psychedelics alone
are never gonna be enough to radicalize
people or create a movement in fact I'd
say they're probably not gonna do much
of anything besides help you have fun
yeah I discovered acid in 68 I
discovered the band marquee name when
with the plan man we're doing
disillusioned it somehow Jerry Rubin
gene bring down the entire
military-industrial complex through
selling supplements we were just
disillusioned honorable exception to all
boomers who have like been fighting the
good fight for decades of course but not
all boomers not all hashtag no no
Boomers all right um it's a fun riff
though all right this is this is
fascinating I think we need to look at
the China Hong Kong and corporate
censorship thing in the United States is
a corporate censorship question so I
think with Hong Kong there is a
complexity this is the typical thing
that puts me in a position where
everybody gets annoyed there is a
serious I no doubt some of the uprising
is a democratic uprising and a concern
for maintaining liberal freedoms which I
would say if you are enjoying some of
those things in London or Brooklyn you
should respect other people's aspiration
for them even as you recognize they are
not revolutionary and so on and so forth
I agree with all those critiques I also
agree that some of the elements the Hong
Kong resistance are profoundly
reactionary and I have no doubt that
there is a you know potential US
interest in destabilization all of these
things are true we can hold them all at
the same time and we can also certainly
have a matter-of-fact solidarity with
those who are protesting for labor
rights and and and liberal rights period
that's how I see it I see all those
variables now regardless of what you
think when the NBA shuts down a general
manager for tweeting out solidarity with
the Hong Kong protesters because of
business interests in China and the
thing that we're about to see on this
world world of warcraft' platform a
hearthstone made by the world of
warcraft creator Blizzard entire Jesus
oh yeah I know I'm already ok yeah but I
know where the workers so this is um
basically a Hong Kong a heart
hearthstone player blitz Chung HS in the
middle of streaming a game puts on a
mask or take I don't know exactly how
the sequence goes but he's calling for
the liberation of Hong Kong I would
guess by the way that this is exactly
the type of person that you should have
solidarity with just to be clear agent I
don't think he's a CIA agent I think in
this case he's not a CIA agent and by
the way they I mean look I think there's
no doubt that there is a global pattern
of I think you could be I think this
might be happening in Iraq right now
there's a huge amount of organic
protests and unrest in in Iraq
and there is a US interest in shifting
the regime back from an Iranian alliance
and there's no doubt that there's an
intelligence interest there all of these
factors matter but this broader question
right now is a corporate censorship
question and anytime the NBA or a video
game platform shuts down people for
making I would really say any kind of
broad statement politically at the
behest of a nation-state or corporation
that's fundamentally dangerous so let's
watch this no it's okay guys India so
this is like a postgame interview on the
eSports channel but you can see the
hosts are I don't even want to be on the
same sound waves on them yeah so I'll
read a little bit from Boing Boing
Blizzard Entertainment best known for
publishing world of work Warcraft
suspended Pro hearthstone player a pro
hearthstone player and pulled his prize
money because he said liberate Hong Kong
Revolution of our age during a live
stream there Pro World of Warcraft
players Blizzard which has a huge
decorative market in China determined
that Chung blitz Chung and I will not
even attempt to read his last name
because I will mess it up his utterance
was a violation of a competition rule
engaging and this is the rule engaging
in any act in blizzards sole discretion
that brings you into public disrepute
offers offends a portion or group of the
public or otherwise damages blizzards
image will result in removal from brand
mastered and grandmasters and a
reductions of the players prize total to
0 US dollars in addition to other
remedies which may per be provided by
the handbook and blizzards website terms
so the real way to understand these
stories I mean ending on a
China is not through a resort I mean
look there are geopolitical questions
about China of course but this is a
long-standing tradition of corporate
censorship I'd go back in the archives
to an interview I did with Mark Eames
where he explained how in the 1970s when
Seymour Hirsch was on a roll he was
exposing the CIA he exposed the My Lai
massacre and then he wrote a piece for
The Times I believe it was about a
private law firm in Manhattan that
operated at the Nexus of corporate
espionage the intelligence services and
the skullduggery of corporate America
now at that time and maybe some things
have changed but at that time even in
the 70s even things like the CIA at the
end of the day cooperated with FOIA
requests
there was a accountability in the public
sphere even for the most undemocratic
dangerous institutions in the States
when it came to corporate governance
they shut that article down to the point
where the final draft that Hersh
published was so edited and so safe that
it made barely a ripple so the bottom
line is is that you know I mean I don't
think I'd be surprised to anybody in
this audience but the core the private
sector does not bring even those very
same liberal freedoms that they like to
rant about and that is precisely what
we're seeing with the MBA and that's
what we're seeing what Blizzard
Entertainment I don't know is there any
update on the story about this guy I
mean not be obviously solidarity he's
banned for a year that's unbelievable
and again is ridiculous on some levels
of my sound I mean this is actually how
this person makes a living which also is
another thing I just have a mean look I
I just don't buy like like no if you if
you strip somebody of their material
livelihood that's a very real thing so
we can't just like poopoo like ooh you
know just can't believe IDEO games
anymore how the guy makes his living I
mean is this people need to get much
more real about what that actually means
in today's modern economy and the
message it sends beyond just the
individual and precisely I mean this is
what I always say to libertarians the
contradictions between capitalism and
democracy are so
in examples like these like the liberal
values that they claim to espouse like I
don't know freedom of speech we don't
have them if we're living under these
private tyrannies who are allowed to
amass an unchecked amount of power
absolutely absolutely all right let's
keep going for more sound um let's go to
clip number two I just want to give you
Matt Taibbi had a piece in the rolling
stone which I agreed with a lot of I
denied disagree with a bit of it and
some that I just couldn't determine
frankly but his broader point that there
is a history of the bipartisan and
corporate and intelligence service utter
destruction of whistleblowers whether
we're talking about Thomas Drake or
Edward Snowden or Chelsea Manning people
who have come forward and revealed the
structural wrongdoing of the NSA of the
Pentagon the CIA John Couric ow as an
example whether we're talking about the
torture program whether we're talking
about killing civilians overseas whether
we're talking about a mass global spying
and surveillance program these people
have had their lives destroyed and he
also points to people you know in wall
street as well now and he has a problem
with the framing of the person who has
revealed what's going on with Trump
which is you know clearly part of a
political operation as a whistleblower
now fair fair criticism I still support
and Peacham Trump and I still support
bringing everything can against Trump
even as I entirely agree with that
criticism and I actually think that we
there needs to be a infinitely more
serious discourse on the left of how you
balance removing Trump or politically
muscling up against Trump with not
empowering the intelligence complex I'm
sorry that is actually a serious issue
the national security Democrats are not
going away and they're empowering a vast
apparatus of institutions which are
fundamentally antithetical to a
democratic way of life
and that and and you know there's a
discourse that does not take that
seriously now you could argue maybe
there's another discourse that doesn't
take Trump seriously we need to
synthesize both of these things and
Trump's announcement yesterday that the
White House is simply not going to
cooperate with an impeachment inquiry is
precisely the type of thing I understood
what Brad Miller was saying about some
of the dangers in the interview but I
don't see any other way than besides
what Sam is saying I don't know I think
it seems fine right people need to be
held in contempt of Congress people need
to be I mean all of these things have to
be acted upon simultaneously and what
the Trump White House is asserting with
bill bar is is in fact an AA and you can
check the record I don't throw this
language around it is dictatorial there
is an objectively dictatorial action
that synchronizes and you know Fox News
clips you know whatever in my opinion I
mean in a lot of senses especially in
this the sophisticated audience we know
what Fox's but this really did stand out
to me and you know it's it's regular for
Fox but check this out this is Jo Dee
Jed no G Janov own Genovia Geneva
digenova um who I believe is a former
prosecutor or certainly an attorney
check out what he's saying
sitting and by the way saying the
craziest things in a clip with Rudy
Giuliani and Laura Ingraham that's
that's quite a bit show digenova
the houses failure to provide this from
Cipollone e's letter provide co-equals
subpoena power in this case ensures that
any inquiry will be nothing more than a
one-sided effort by House Democrats to
gather information favorable to their
reviews and to selectively release it
only as they determine you warned about
this the drip drip drip of the leaks
coming out of the Democrat offices
they're conspiring with of course the
whistleblower we'll get into that in a
moment but what about this well what
you're seeing is regicide this is
regicide by another name fake
impeachment the the Democrats in the
house want to destroy the president they
don't want to preserve the Republic
there's nothing honorable about what is
happening
this is a despicable abuse of
constitutional power if they had on the
floor a vote to establish an impeachment
inquiry that would give the Republicans
subpoena power but the Democrats aren't
doing that they want to deny them
subpoena power so what do we get we get
first one anonymous informant then a
second anonymous informant I refuse to
call I have to pull a SAM here no we
don't just have that we have transcripts
showing what precisely the case is then
you can argue whether you want to take
it seriously or not but this is not
something based off of the conjecture
based off of informants these are
literal transcripts and by the way this
is what they're moving on you know if I
had my druthers I mean I I think the
report that Donald Trump was telling
people at the boy you know pushing for
border policies to shoot people in the
legs and put alligators and moats that
would be my we better impeach this guy
right now you know where it's crying
he's he's indicted you know he's
children are dying as a result of this
policy people are being kidnapped I mean
there's any number of things but this is
the move they're going off of and part
of the reason is the move they're going
off of is because it's in writing so
that's fundamentally disingenuous and
dishonest obviously that a second
anonymous informant I refuse to call
them whistleblowers these two non
entities are suicide bombers that the
Democrats have unleashed on the
democratic process they actually think
that the American people are going to
accept having people testify secretly
without anyone knowing who they are
where they work what their party
affiliation was who they conspired with
it's pretty obvious that this first
suicide bomber who sent that complaint
to the Inspector General was a paid
Democratic operative of the Democratic
Party litical suicide bomber obviously
yes we start getting maybe no I mean
look yeah she did a little clean up
there that's incitement language no
doubt I don't see how you could argue
otherwise it's obviously in my view
incitement language really evocative
imagery there
but none of this stuff matter I mean
look and here's my other point from a
political perspective yes is the maja
ends Taibbi point that this is not a
whistleblower in the sense of somebody
like Kura cow or somebody who's exposed
systemic wrongdoing in an intelligence
or military apparatus and then being
gutted as a result that these are people
that are on the side of a particular
part of a turf war and that needs to be
recognized as such fine you know if a
Democratic president did this the
Republicans would be trying to send them
to Guantanamo Bay let alone impeaching
them and that's another part here the
idea that this endless double standard
that Republicans can do absolutely
anything and then oh no no no don't do
that don't impeach look we need to walk
and chew gum at the same time huge
problems inside the intelligence
military and Democratic apparatus also
at the same time he's making I mean I
accept a little point that ie B's making
but we have no idea these these people
could absolutely be people who were
appalled and mortified by what they saw
and in this case have institutional
backing because there is division that's
fine that's politics all of these things
can be true at once in fact they are
true at once and we need to move
aggressively on this guy I'm heartened
to hear that the Democrats aren't giving
the Republicans co-equal subpoena power
even though they don't share co-equal
power over the house right good right
 crazy
yeah Republicans when they ran the house
they did the Democrats have to do
hearings and in dingy room like you
should have read about the stuff they
did to not only limit Democrats power
but to just systemically humiliate them
I mean I it's insane if any Democrat
that gives Republicans any kind of power
that they aren't explicitly given by the
rules and frankly even then like it
should be voted out of office a primary
. . or vampers this is i mean and this
is this to me look this is the
convergence between a hard left
perspective that's highly critical of
the democratic party that still
recognizes that there's political
warfare that is taking place against a
absolutely grotesque administration that
is assuring in the complete collapse yes
it was already happening if you read a
chilla bimbe the age of humanism is
ending that was during 2016 and he was
talking about the neoliberal policy set
but he was also projecting into the
future
the trumps the ball Sanaa rose and so on
and that has to be responded to all
simultaneously Bernie Sanders quite
clear about that by the way um all right
let's do one more serious thing then
we'll have a little fun we have I want
to get to sound 9 this is from euronews
this is Turkish jets beginning a couple
of hours ago the Turks have conduct have
begun conducting operations in northern
Syria against Kurdish SDF positions they
I believe they're calling this operation
spring of peace
adding to the grotesque cynicism of this
it's been reported that a couple of
weeks ago the United States actually
pressured the Kurdish forces to drop
their border positions with renewed
reassurances that they would not pull
out precipitously so as to protect
Kurdish positions now I've talked about
this a lot on my show I have a piece
called the just the annihilation of
rojava which I co-wrote with Gene Basel
on in the Jacobin and you know a lot of
these things are old arguments I think
if you have a you know III think that
both the Kurds because they actually
have had
a successful and dynamic political
experiment deserve our solidarity and
support I also a hundred percent and I
think a left president would sit with
the Kurds and say obviously this
situation isn't long-term and durable
what is the alternative
what does stakeholders need to be
brought to the table Assad even as he is
absolutely a war criminal and I think
frankly has an interest I'm not sure
what the response of the Assad
government is on one hand they are the
enemies of air to once turkey on the
other hand they've tried since the 60s
in varying degrees to remake the ethnic
makeup of this part of Syria and
DeCurtis I it so there does need to be a
negotiation there does need to be a
recalibration as part of a broader US
effort to unwind empire and unwind US
presence in the Middle East but to
support a precipitous pullout like this
whose only main upshot is the
acceleration of ethnic cleansing and the
war crimes of the Turks playing their
own regional hegemonic games and the
context of the people whose rights they
systemically violate air21 in the
beginning of his terms tried to make
overtures to the Kurds because his
political coalition was different
post-2015 he's reverting to type as an
authoritarian a classically Turkish
leader and that includes a complete
gutting of the Kurds so this has a much
to do with domestic Turkish politics as
anything else but when you pull out like
this all you were doing is aiding in
ethnic cleansing
we already saw this in 2018 and Efrain
when the Russians sold the Kurds out the
same thing happened now there's more
Kurdish forces here Afrin was more
isolated and there could be literally I
mean basically street combat they will
resist and there'll be an enormous death
toll
and again in the same way that I would
like to see a Russian presence in
Venezuela
blocking us regime change efforts there
I want in this specific historical
moment the United States do not pull out
precipitously because that is gonna
cause an infinitely greater harm an
infinitely greater harm and in addition
to the grotesque sellout of a group of
people who will face ethnic cleansing
and a fought effectively against Isis if
again if you have a left perspective
this is the only space right now
besides the HDP which are a great social
democratic Kurdish rights party guess
what all their leaders are political
prisoners in Turkey right now
and now the YPG forces the SDF are
presenting an alternative not just for
the people in their region but really
across not only the broader Middle East
but in fact globally selling it out is
disgusting it's grotesque and not in the
project of the wider winddown of US
Empire and I hope by the way just as I
would not judge the Kurds for making
alliance of convenience the United
States I hope they can make an alliance
of convenience with the Assad government
that's how politics works you you deal
with people have blood on their hands
all the time but this is something an
experiment and a people that deserve our
full support and solidarity in my view
word I was watching David Graeber talk
about it on Novara media last night and
he had a really good description of the
what they've all that they've
accomplished there which is actually
incredibly impressive I mean nobody has
held a territory like that for any kind
of time for a socialist experiment as
we're calling it since the Spanish Civil
War and it's in this day and age it's
incredibly impressive
and I have no patience for
the dum-dum anti-imperialists some of
whom are Marxist Leninist not all who
say oh well we can't make exceptions to
US imperialism just to support your
favorite Revolution when in fact if it
were a more traditional Leninist
indigenous liberation struggle like as I
understand it that's what it started as
they would probably be all about it so
no the PKK definitely has changed its
political character significantly but
that's also dead to see that's such a
dumb frame though that they're making
because we are not look if somebody said
there are no US forces in Syria
there is this autonomous region and the
Turks are going to do this and the
United States should move in to create a
humanitarian umbrella today that none
exists that has a completely different
conversation that is a completely
different mode of analysis you're
talking about
an imperial engagement from the United
States that has already existed for
several years primarily the damage has
been from airstrikes in the war against
Isis that has killed thousands of
civilians in other parts of the country
and probably in that part of the country
as well and you're talking about a
residual force and residual coordination
that already exists to prevent a
infinitely greater evil than the mere
presence of US troops so even that frame
that they're giving it is that's
thought-experiment the real reality
is that they're there now and the state
of their being there prevents ethnic
cleansing we're not talking about a
future projection we're not talking
about an extra engagement we're not
talking about a preventive war those are
very different questions and they're
much more challenging questions we're
saying that of all of the horrific
obscenities that have been perpetuated
in Syria by every single actor there
Assad Russia the United States Saudi
turkey hitter on that one good upshot is
a successful
socialist experiment that in a
historical irony has a security umbrella
from unite
States because they've been incredibly
effective fighters against this obscene
Isis cult which everybody I think agrees
is disgusting they are at least that's a
totally I mean dare yes I mean there are
cult they're fascists they're Muslim
Khmer Rouge whatever you want to say
their genocide Allah I mean in in a
proper use of that word and so you are
simply saying of all of the pieces to
dismantle of us Empire in a broader
strategic recalibration you're gonna
leave a thousand people in one of the
only parts of the world where the prayer
the presence is de-facto positive given
the relative other options I'm sorry I
look I just don't have time just as with
neo cons and just as with warmongers I
just don't have time for people's
fantasy lives when it's real like
that you know especially again when it's
people really worthy of a lot of support
no I totally agree I also just want to
mention that there are numerous
demonstrations being organized in
solidarity with our comrades in rojava
there's one happening in about 15
minutes from now actually outside the
offices of Chuck Schumer and I'm Kristen
Gillibrand I mean for what it's worth
and you know look ride the the relative
wave that Congress is like uniformly
opposed to this and they're working on a
sanctions package right now I mean
people are gonna be demonstrating
outside of Turkish embassies all over
the place as well so call your reps
demonstrate have solidarity um let's go
to Ecuador where I believe the state of
play is still that Lenin Moreno has
taken his government outside of the
capital Quito at just a brief summary
Lenin Moreno came from the this is
indigenous marchers Lenin Moreno came
from the Left Party of Rafael Correa
Rafael creo is another dynamic pink tide
leader he lifted many out of poverty in
Ecuador
resisted the United States he had a
mixed record I would say on indigenous
rights and the environment part of the
contradictions of governance serious
contradictions but Lenin Moreno has
utterly govern as a left candidate and
has governed in the extreme right and
supported the u.s. backing of extreme
far-right regimes in Brazil and
Argentina and his broader reversal of
the Democratic tide that you witnessed
and social-democratic tied into the pink
tie and you also witness that in the in
the WikiLeaks reversal so Lenin Moreno
is a very toxic leader and he's doing
the let you know the usual playbook he's
saying that this is this is a coup by
Maduro and Correa meanwhile he's trying
to go to jail Korea on what you know
many view to be non credible charges
Kray as in Belgium right now
I think this protest is amazing because
I think it can restore a left force in
Ecuador which is extremely important and
also because the centrality of
indigenous voices maybe re-centers the
indigenous sovereignty issues in Ecuador
as well so that could I think be a very
positive story let's go to number seven
this is also a positive story Stephen
Reed has become the first black mayor of
Montgomery Alabama no this is a city
with a 200 year history and you know
look obviously the next step is what
does mayor Reid do what is his policy
set you know what is he doing on housing
on health care and policing 100% but we
still take this opportunity obviously to
recognize this huge historical and vital
achievement this election has never
just my ideas it's been about all of the
hopes and dreams that we have as
individuals and collectively in this
city the beauty of what we were able to
do from Newtown to downtown
[Applause]
in a way around opportunity to improve
outcomes for everyone regardless of
their neighborhood regardless of their
zip code regardless of anything that may
divide us or may be different from one
another we have been focused from day
one about the things that make us better
the things that unite us and this is
what I see in this crowd and this is
what I see in the results of tonight is
a unified Montgomery and let the record
show that it's a really important that's
the first african-american mayor of
Montgomery Alabama uh all right let's
have a little bit more fun a lot of
people and my god is this getting to
Sam's head so there's a little bit of a
you know it's not all roses for us but
this is hilarious you know there's a lot
of people in the conservative movement
and it appears that they're not happy
about Steven Crowder's just gutless Ness
about his shall we say beta miss Stephen
this is Jesse I hear from Sam that you
want to bait him that you have cold feet
and that you are bait about marina is
this true beautiful and by the way Sam
say he is an alpha male alpha male not a
beta male and that you are afraid to
debate him Steven uh-uh-uh-uh-uh and
that your father should have stopped
allowing you to be braid on the base am
Steven don't be afraid don't be a beta
mouth
let me know how it goes that's what I
like about Reverend Peterson is he still
he's got a mentor about him so you know
he properly called Steven cuz look we
all heard the tape Stephens of mega beta
it's it's embarrassing to even mention
his name wasn't us who came up with cold
feet no
certainly not us third-party third-party
who I think if I in I mean I don't know
anything about that third party but I
think they might be the type of person
that looks for the positive in people
yes you not not like us looking to make
like snarky little comics right not us
being like yeah I saagara would like to
have debate China but I need to call my
mom
yeah bye dad jokes we mean literal jokes
about his dad right but his relationship
with his father his father managing his
father being like I don't think you want
to do that son but I like how Reverend
Peterson says tell me how it goes like
after you've stopped being an
embarrassing betta check in what well
because people still have the
expectation that Crowder's not an
incredible coward and what might
actually stand up and debate and their
message is the one that will care what
they don't know is Carter's not going to
because he's afraid and his dad won't
let him not good fits not got another
one tomorrow folks he's giving him the
benefit of the doubt the Anthony scare
Moochie one is still just Oh God look oh
yeah they seem like they're really
enjoying doing these scare butyou can we
just watch the scaramouche you goin I'm
just just just indulge me for a minute
here has everybody already seen the
scare of what you want good morning and
happy Sunday this is a message for cold
feet Crowder and I got booked by Cinco
Sanders okay so listen up Steven quit
being a and debate Sam
if you gotta ask daddy for permission it
is what it is you know cause I know Sam
if you got ask daddy for permission it
is what it is Muslim that whoever look
if that's an ad-lib scar Moochie is a
genius if that was written that is just
such perfect writing man
kudos to someone I gotta say though I
mean you know what you don't made scar
emoji so brilliant is when you listen to
the tape where he said the thing about
Bannon what was great was he wasn't rant
he was just like look I'm not Bannon I'm
not trying to suck my own like he
didn't he wasn't like ranting and raving
he just said it's Superman or fact
Lisa's guys got good delivery daddy for
permission it is what it is if you got
to ask daddy for permission it is what
it is I know Sam ain't no teenager but
you got a man up and do the right thing
don't be a hack and a coward Crowder
debates and the alpha males the alpha
males are back okay you hear my way my
wife just said men are ridiculous a man
up I thought they were splitting up no
they're back I guess he's just
irresistible
let me put up the tweet from the person
who got that so we can give him credit
it's a really good advertisement for the
mooches cameo abilities I must say oh
thank them for all of your celebrities
saying stuff needs it was Michael hable
who is responsible for the Justin Lee
Peterson man thank you for that Michael
great job it's amazing how easily
purchasable conservative voices that is
that is extremely interesting I used to
have very high dollar amounts in my head
when I thought about that stuff I had no
idea all right brothers from Brooklyn
increasingly concerned about Bernie's
health hurting him especially as new
polls come out also damn Nate Silver
Ellen and other lives for having more
deference to W than Bernie well reverse
working in back order
because look at it through a class lens
and these people are on the wrong side
of the fundamental conflict the second
thing I know we keep saying this but
like go phonebank
go do something I mean really you know
don't lie to yourself it's look even
just personally it's bad news I mean
this is somebody that I like I actually
care about the guy's well-being he's a
good person he's trying to do the right
things been trying to do the right thing
for 40 years that's an extraordinarily
rare quality in modern politics to say
the least but you know the reality is is
that he could crush it at the next
debate and be back out doing two rallies
a day and his numbers could start
shooting up and I actually think and I
hope that some people who've been you
know messing around and equivocating and
concern trolling or whatever maybe they
actually will take this moment realize
what wait a second actually this is
really serious and there really is a
unique opportunity here and if we have
any actual real commitments here we
should take it but you know there's no
use in the sort of worrying like that I
hear you I experienced it myself but
there just isn't much to it Colin from
Nebraska what was that a waste of acid
Jamie I don't know which oh oh oh no I
mean the acid definitely magnified the
energy for me so that I could just
perceive that the dark heart of
neoliberalism just shooting out at me
from Hillary Clinton's mouth oh it was
it would be very intense trip to see
Hillary Clinton on acid it was really
intense time for us to was quite intense
and really really could almost bore you
out the jury well know it was like the
peace that passeth beyond understanding
you know like one of those hollows n
bells or something that they play you to
get you the sense of like the hollowness
that the nothingness at the center of
everything it was exactly like that but
not a rich nothingness like an actual
nothingness yeah it was a deep oceans
nothing show you that nothingness can be
made of all things I mean Perez's just
could you imagine tripping I guess you
experience it listener Kylie no yeah I
just had this surge of dread like
Trump's gonna win again I just felt it
in my bones that either them actually
say that like while you're tripping that
he's did he say like Jamie now you
understand the truth this is all a PSYOP
we were working for Donald Trump's
re-election I mean that might be only
people left in the party where keith
ellison and bernie sanders everyone else
wants trump to wound that might not be
what he said but that's definitely what
I heard
and what I perceived Colorado guy
assuming the Democrats finally put their
collective foot on the necks of
Republicans and vote to impeach what are
the odds that we'll actually get to see
an impeachment trial
I imagine McConnell will either shut it
down entirely or we'll have another
Cavanaugh type situation in her hands I
think you're totally right but the point
is is to muscle it through the house and
cause some real damage and actually just
you know again they've done it they've
decided to do it so do it brutally do it
effectively also also euro Java and
Jacobin and Venezuela articles jackman
were top notch Michael much love em our
crew and thank you and shouts to bend
Burgess and Jean Basel on co-authors on
both of us pieces um oh geez I'm sorry I
nearly had a Burnie style heart attack
when he said it was Thursday my bad
I guess I said that in the beginning my
mistake I find the American outrage over
the NB a China controversy unbelievably
hypocritical you have ghouls like Chuck
Schumer saying we shouldn't ban to the
demands of oppressive government
cracking down on freedom fighters unless
the government is Israel of course well
of course I mean pointing out the double
standards and hypocrisy is about Israeli
Apartheid or I mean you're right to
bring it up but it's totally baked into
the cake I mean and and there's no and
and by the way that is look I think in
the last couple years there actually has
there definitely has been a
proliferation of you know I'm a strong
critic of over censorship canceled stuff
you know that I'm quite open about that
but historically and even till today the
one thing that you can like actually
lose your job as a tenured professor for
by having an opinion
is opposing Israeli Apartheid and I'm
not talking don't listen to the nonsense
propaganda no when talking about
Holocaust denial or anti-semitism
anything people saying that there should
not be a Jim Crow state and the West
Bank calling out the mass slaughter of
civilians in Gaza can lose you real
things the the anti-boycott bills and
state legislators the loyalty oaths I
mean of course I mean look the
relationship between Israel and the
United States in that regard is
anti-democratic China's like I want that
yeah I mean China China the China is
trying to set down as like look frankly
we're the second largest economy in the
world and we would just like half of the
courtesy that you extend to Israel
that's that's exactly right this is why
I'll never trust Barry Weiss because I
remember watching her trying to get
professors fired with a documentary
called Columbia on becoming which is
like the worst thing you could accuse
someone of at Columbia and all never
trust Barry Weiss now she's all every
time she talks about free speech I just
think about that stupid documentary ya
know there you go it's a very few it's
like the ACLU and Doug Lane there's very
few people that I think actually have a
sincere commitment on these things well
the New York ACLU doesn't like to get
involved like this and they still said
they still condemned it that's right
Third Point hi Michael thanks for
covering the protests in Ecuador I just
want to share my solidarity with all
indigenous people in my country
they've already been various casualties
reported the military's been using
excessive force and Moreno is hiding and
he's still a clown hopefully you guys
cover this more here or on t MBS I did a
much longer segment on t MVS last night
and we will clip it on the TMB s YouTube
channel I'd encourage everyone to give
it a minute see what's happening the
impact of what a massive movement of
people can it's not to be underestimated
thank you love the show left his best
Ted Cruz's buttery cow okay this is
about the CNN Sanders video yes we saw
it someone she making Angry Birds game
with the Bluebirds
against pigs and fat cats Bernie could
play it while answering questions angry
Bernie's angry Bernie's
disgraceful disgraceful disgraceful
christo.pas that bird connection quick
reminder to anyone in the Twin Cities
metro area Donald Trump will be coming
in middlee appleís on Thursday oh and
imagine is going to be ugly everybody in
Minneapolis hates Donald Trump and all
the mouth-breathers from the rural areas
who support Trump will be there yeah
Minnesota's a divided place yeah oh
let's all right let's take one or two
more calls as always a lot of people on
the line let's see you're calling from a
nine one seven area code who are you
where you coming from
hi guys how's it going this is Victor
from Queens
hey Victor was gonna not much so I had a
question regarding on in this area of
like let's say Trump gets reelected
um and then he has like the process re
mine speakerphone sorry I don't know
let's say he sorry sorry let's see he
has the prospect of like going to war
with Iran the people around him or like
egging him on to do it and that becomes
reality what probability do you think
that they would institute some sort of
mandatory draft for a session or deal I
just I can't I can't go into such a
hypothetical I'm sorry I mean I to be
honest with you I find the generally the
idea of a draft to be extremely unlikely
because a draft even if you know and
obviously you know we know George W Bush
you know rich kids always get out of
stuff but just even putting that into
play makes the outsourcing of war to
America's underclass a much different
dynamic and I and I think that there's
probably a reason why you know a draft
is like universally opposed across the
board there's also even you know from an
efficacy standpoint if you read the like
the military literature it's it's
apparently much easier to control and
organize a volunteer army a quote
volunteer army
thanks for the calming it I'd like to
see them try to draft me I don't think
you're an age range we all even to your
30s yeah I think it's like late into the
30s I could be wrong about
I think it's late into 20s but I guess
we'll see I guess we'll see like Jamie
explaining veganism to some guy I'm
gonna on a transport jet
maybe we'll get into the same unit as
tulsi gabbard let me at her all right
tulsi DeGeneres 2020 final call of the
day you're calling from a 978 area code
who are you where you calling from
Michael what's up dude Eric from Jersey
hey Eric what's going on what's on your
minds yes I wanted to respond you you
raised a really great question last week
when you were discussing like
international healthcare systems and you
were contemplating nerding out and
getting into this sort of granular
differences between some of the
countries yes and it sounded like the
question you were posing like some if I
understand this right yeah so some of
these countries are in different points
on the spectrum between state and market
in that like the question is like are
the ones that are more state less market
less involved with private insurance
having better health care outcomes and
the ones that have more of their system
involving the private sector that they
should be what you were getting at well
I was getting at that it seemed I mean
it's clear that the states that have the
most powerful government intervention
have the best outcomes and yes there's
you know I was trying to make two points
one was that if people are gonna hold
France as an example of a place that
gives like arguably the best health care
in the world and has not completely
eliminated a private insurance then you
better put on a tape the table a plan
that is arguably maybe even to the left
of what Sanders has proposed would
require way more money would offer even
more benefits and still actually be a
trench warfare against the vast majority
of the health insurance industry I guess
with the exception of like Blue Cross
Blue Shield and a couple of others
because insurance companies in France
are nonprofit or cooperatively owned so
that was one of my points and the second
point I was making was I'm curious as to
why no I think it's that it degrades
like Switzerland
does not have as good a healthcare as
Germany and Germany does not have as
good a health care as the UK or France
and it seems to me that you can
correlate that very comfortably with the
role that a private insurance is allowed
to play in the system I'd also add that
just one other quick thing you know the
United States everybody likes to think
you know like oh well we should be and
you know in some ways sure when you're
talking about wealth you can compare the
United States to you know some of these
Western European countries that take
care of this with no problem and of
course we could too
but as far as our health outcomes in
terms of class structure and race we're
much more analogous to South Africa
frankly and when you have the system in
South Africa where there is duplicate
insurance you have precisely the system
where the s there's a public health
provision but most of the money and the
resources are still going into a private
sector thing and I and I think I have no
doubt that any type of sort of
watered-down public option approach
would be extremely analogous in the
United States and I personally I think
it's worth taking political risk to
destroy private insurance as an industry
because of their political power that's
what I think yeah so like those two ways
I'd want to response number one I don't
know that Coralie like for example like
Spain a couple other countries are
typically in the top five there's an
excitement there's a bigger role for
private insurance there I think you know
one of the things that health care
policy wonks don't talk much about is
the fact that in reality health care
policy reform has very little
statistical impact on health care
outcomes in the actual determinants of
health care outcomes are things like
housing education poverty you know
income equality and you know food
security and so anybody that all the
things around tells awesome yeah so
Bernie no matter what has the best plan
for health care outcomes because he has
the best plan on all those issues so any
sort of granular differences in
different ways to sort of universalized
healthcare Palin
Harrison to what he does across the
board on sort of socially responsible
policies and I guess you know the only
sort of counter concern I have with like
alright make Medicare for all you give
health care to everybody it's a fully
funded system and you just sort of sell
the private insurance companies what
best of luck if you want to start a stay
out there and compete with something
that everybody gets that covers
everything as opposed to actually
writing into a law you know you can't
solve this product my concern is they go
and they take it to the courts and they
form a constitutional argument and they
argue about the constitutionality of
making it illegal of that product and
based on what we know the courts are
made up of and how they look and how the
right wing I'd be worried about that no
I think that that is not certainly the
most compelling argument I've heard I
still think it's something you push for
but I think that you're elderly I think
that's that's the only compelling
argument I've heard I agree with you on
that thanks for calling yeah and that's
and I love the bigger point that Eric
made about basically a systems approach
to health and of course if you're
including everything again I mean look
if you're just looking at it from the
perspective of all we're gonna be
serious about systemic inequality labor
power and redistribution there's one
candidate who's just just it's not even
the best it's just a different thing all
right final call today you're calling
from a 585 area code who are you where
you calling from 585 are you there hi
yes I am I'm sorry I'm calling I'm
calling from Rochester New York iannuzo
two points on are you going I know you
guys gotta go pretty soon but the one
thing I wanted to say is we do actually
have to pick up the slack for Bernie
phone bank buy a shirt monthly donations
because when you do a monthly donation
that means they can project into the
future what they are going to be using
those cost for such as commercials and
other kinds of like programs like to to
support him and his campaign that's
that's like they have to budget for that
ahead of time so please be a monthly
donation person the other thing I wanted
to bring
real quick is this BS about the Dallas
PD is really scary they they are totally
they totally covered up that I mean okay
long-serving me that witness mr. Brown
who came out and said he saw the cops
billy cap that kills I heard her
neighbor buy coal by accident or
whatever she still didn't he testified
and now all of a sudden he dies from a
gunshot to the to the mouth into the
chest
and he's a black man in Texas and he
went through all the trouble to testify
even though he seemed very scared and
very uncomfortable on the stand he put
himself out there and now he died in a
way where you know that it was just like
this is what happens to snitches this is
what happens to people to talk and on
top of that um now they're trying to
smear them and pretend like like it was
a drug deals on let me just say let me
just say and I did and I have to say
this on like some level I'll put it this
way and I talked about this extensively
last night we don't know what happened
we don't know why it happened and I'll
say this was a Dallas PD said happen I
absolutely 1000% do not believe I
believe and if I had to wager bunny that
he was killed for retribution that's
what I believe in think that's what
every fiber of me thinks and more
broadly and thanks for bringing this up
is a really important story when you
even the discourse of I see some people
dismissing it oh that's a conspiracy
theory what you know why why would they
want to do it well first of all they
would want to do it if they did it
theoretically for one retribution too by
the way
mr. Brown was set to testify in a civil
suit against the city as well and
killing in fact it brings up a in fact
chilling effect this is a country where
the FBI is is following monitoring
taking tips from Allah
Jones on people doing black lives matter
activism and writing terror threat
assessments that are putting you know
people focusing on policing issues in
the same category as white supremists
terrorist groups that's where we are I
wouldn't and and incidentally look let's
just think this out for a minute
this guy testifies in a case where a
police officer went into a man's home
and murdered him that's what happened
now III I could be wrong on this but I'm
very transparent I am loath to be in a
position to demand longer sentences for
anybody just to be honest but the
reality is she got 10 years we know that
this is this was any other configuration
of people that would be a life sentence
we're in Texas I would imagine the death
penalty she gets 10 years for this oh
this guy this guy let me just
finish this guy goes yes no it's fine I
just want to really spell this out and
cuz I really appreciate you bringing
this up I wish I did this before yeah
but hang on the line then we are told we
are led to believe and incidentally this
goes back to after Botham jean was
murdered supposedly found marijuana at
his house which a irrelevant be I don't
believe you again I don't believe you
now we go to ok this guy just testified
in a nationally important trial of a
police murder that was so flagrant that
she actually did get some jail time
that's how insane and racist this
society is Danny goes back to his house
calls people from Louisiana to do a weed
deal in front of his apartment they
murder him execution-style and as far as
I know and correct me if I'm wrong
anybody I don't even think the Dallas
police in their report said that they
took money from him
I mean who who kills somebody in a drug
robbery and doesn't take something this
happened within this guy is terrified
exposes himself to all sorts of of of a
threat 48 hours later is in front of his
house doing a we deal with people from
out of state he doesn't even go a couple
of miles to a parking lot somewhere
are you kidding me I'm sorry
keep swearing and we're supposed to like
we're supposed to get the message I
think this is a kind of white
supremacist terrorism that the cops are
carrying out in order to send a message
precisely so other people will be scared
to do what this guy did we think and I
agree with you also there go ahead go
ahead
oh no I want to go ahead please
well I just say also in the genre of
things we don't know much about other
than we know what we believe I know what
I believe with regards to lots of
mysterious deaths with regards to
Ferguson activists for instance I think
I believe what you believe Matt I think
this I think there's a very very dark
part of this country that a lot of
people frankly aren't prepared to
confront and so we tell ourselves
bedtime stories like I saw Beto talk
about this this guy dying
this witness dying and said it was a gun
problem well it's it's a police holding
the gun we know we have confirmed that
they have murdered black radical
activists in the past so to think that
they're not still doing it I feel like
that would be the crazy thing okay I
agree if you don't mind me saying what
if I was up all night on Twitter about
this because I just can't even it
reminds me of how when we learned that
one of one of and one of trumps things
that they do is they'll lie just alive
because you know they're lying and and I
know you know they know that you know
they're lying but it's a Power Move to
just make you feel even more helpless
because they know we're the police and
we're gonna and and we in the press will
always be on our side and even though
the story is completely ridiculous like
so ridiculous they you know the the man
was testifying on national television
and it turns out he's got a stockpile of
drugs nobody can go about it what kind
of drug dealer do you know that's gonna
be okay with testifying against a cop in
a national forum I can't think of a
single person they pick through your
entire life before they put you on the
stand because as a character witness or
even as a regular witness they know that
the process there
that the defense attorney for her is
going to dissect right it's a shocking
that it wasn't even brought a trouble
trial I agree with the call thank you we
got it but thank you so much thank you I
appreciate it thanks that's really
important thank you so much all right
folks
couple im's and then we gotta go um
Congressional baseball fan it's a nice
$18 if you have the shame if you didn't
donate it to only campaign that matters
for worker solidarity we're talking
Bernie Sanders capisce okay let me give
you the final I am of the day Michael
from ma it seems like a good time to ask
who what got air Dewan to stop talking
about the murder of Khashoggi that is a
very good question we're back tomorrow
folks
[Music]
no son
[Music]
I was I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
