[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is always a pleasure to welcome
our next guest from one of the one of
the earliest blogs I ever read back in
the day we would just sometimes he would
even have to say things you could just
say you didn't have to write anything I
think half I would say half the blogs I
read just avoided having to to even post
anything because they would just say
what Digby said and then somebody wrote
this there you go
wow that's a that's a the Digby theme
song hi Digby hi hi I love it thank you
so much I didn't we didn't do it but we
we invited people to do it who was the
do we know it was hot Cologne yeah well
there you go hot Cologne did we which
totally makes sense
all right so Heather let's let's start
with this is we are now I mean obviously
the the Yemenis stuff is hugely
important and and I want to get your
your sense of that but before we do the
the other sort of ongoing sort of horror
story is that now the United States
government is now basically warehousing
15,000 kits some of whom I mean I would
say probably the majority of whom have
come here without their parents but the
reason why we are housing them is
because ice is basically explicitly or
implicitly threatening the relatives of
these kids and are keeping them away
from coming and and claiming these
kids and bringing them back home and
waiting for some type of adjudication as
to whether they have legitimate claims
to stay in the country this is this is
just unbelievable
and now we have this story coming out of
a this is last week I think it was in
New Mexico
a seven-year-old girl from Guatemala
died a dehydration and shock about okay
so she was brought in to the Customs and
Border Protection facility at 10:00 p.m.
on December 6th she was part of a group
of 163 people who walked up to US border
agents to turn themselves in right they
seeking asylum this is the only way to
seek asylum you need to be in the
country to actually legally request
asylum so people should be very clear
about this eight hours later eight hours
later okay I mean you imagine that the
first thing the custom and Border Patrol
is going to do is assess the health of
the children and eight hours later she
began having seizures and emergency
responders arrived they measured her
body temperature at a hundred and five
almost a hundred and six degrees she had
reportedly not eaten or consumed water
for several days they took her to a
hospital in El Paso by helicopter child
when it's cardiac arrest and died 24
hours less than 24 hours later I mean
this is this is an outrage I mean this
is just Maleeva balandin I want you a
dig being and I want to get your take on
this here is Kristen Nielsen on Fox and
friends and listen to I mean this is
just stunning to me this is just
stunning and you know she is there
calling Fox and Friends because we need
to provide we need to to basically
provide flak so that this story doesn't
get out of hand and this is just it's
just what do you know about this little
girl the seven-year-old migrant girl
that was taken into a Border Patrol
custody and then died of dehydration and
exhaustion yeah it's it's
heart-wrenching is what it is and my
heart goes out to the the family at all
of all of DHS you know this is just a
very sad example of the dangers of this
journey this family chose to cross
illegally what happened here was they
were 90 about 90 miles away from where
we could process them they came in such
a large crowd that it took our Border
Patrol folks a couple times to get them
all
we gave immediate care we'll continue to
look into the situation but again I
cannot stress how dangerous this journey
is when migrants choose to come here
illegally yeah I understand she had a
hundred and five fever and you guys got
her over to a hospital in El Paso were
unable to to save her life
Madame secretary tell us a little bit
about the status of the caravan right
yeah Laer they would quickly talk about
the caravan all right look I'm just
gonna quickly dispense with the with a
couple lies that we heard there 105
degree temperature happened six hours
eight hours after she was in custody the
hundred and sixty-three people just
handed themselves in so didn't need to
be rounded up and just doesn't a
disgusting part of like my heart goes
out to the family and all of DHS yeah
it's really hard on DHS here I imagine
what do you say about this well I mean
it's obviously it's absolutely horrific
and it you know this this is an old
story about the crossing through the
dangerous parts of the desert down there
at the border which is what they are
consciously doing to these people by you
know creating all these roadblocks that
the normal crossings make is impossible
for people to cross over and ask for
asylum in the normal way
so basically they're forcing the you're
gonna this is not going to be the end of
it it's not the first time it's happened
people absolutely die of dehydration out
there in the in the desert and by the
way the Border Patrol goes out there are
you know good Samaritans who go out and
leave water and various you know sort of
protective gear for these folks and the
Border Patrol will arrest them for doing
that so I mean this is this is like it's
intentional cruelty and in this case you
know as far as I can tell from the story
and forgetting that you know just
absolutely reprehensible commentary from
Kirsten Nielsen well it's a very
dangerous charity and you know it's very
tough and we're very sorry well you know
it's ridiculous the Border Patrol
certainly has resources to give these
people water clearly this little girl
was dehydrated from wandering around in
the desert and you know it's obvious to
me that they didn't they didn't give
them water I mean if they had it's
highly unlikely she would have had 105
degree temperature hours after she'd
been she'd been you know in in Border
Patrol custody so I you know I'm sure
that this is gonna this is maybe even
uglier than we think
look you know let's step back here a
little bit and look at what's really
happening I mean a lot of people thought
that Donald Trump when he came in was
going to be you know he there may be
many things he's very ignorant he's not
saying but at least he's not a war
President least he's not somebody who's
in his you know invading countries that
didn't attack us and you know you go
well you know I guess that's an upside
but the truth of the matter is he is a
war president and he's waging war on the
border of the United States of America
he's waging a war inside our own country
dividing people into you know it's a sin
and I can't remember who said it but
they're calling it you know like a cold
Civil War and there are casualties and
their children and it's not that
different from the horrors that we're
seeing over in another war that Donald
Trump is helping to wage in Yemen and
I'm not you know trying to give you know
where we're seeing the even more
horrifying pictures of little children
starving
and being the you know the targets of
air raids over there I mean this is you
know this is something that's happening
this is a violence that's being done
right here in America on I mean this
little girl died in the United States of
America it wasn't you know someplace
else it wasn't even in her home country
we have you know we're being absolutely
totally lacking in compassion for the
conditions that are making these people
come up here better that are forcing
these people out of their own countries
to save their own lives and we're making
it more and more and more difficult for
them to live I mean this isn't a matter
of you know stealing jobs or you know
some kind of an economic issue I mean
that it really isn't there's no no
crisis it's a we can handle a
seven-year-old child I mean in this
country this is ridiculous and then the
fact that they're now housing them in
basically in camps yes and and doing
this you know their state they're doing
stains on me on these kids relatives
where they call and say you know come
out and pick up so-and-so and then they
get them to come in and then they arrest
them and deport them yep if the relative
is undocumented I mean this is really
nightmarish stuff and and you know it's
the holiday season you know you don't
want to have to have to feel this way
but you know I mean I find this just
thoroughly thoroughly depressing I mean
it's just this is just the worst and I
don't see an end to it I mean they'll
get rid of Kirsten Nielsen and put in
somebody worse that's what's rightfully
gonna help right and and you know the
and we should say that these policies
are not particularly new we have footage
of Border Patrol people dumping out
water and they've been doing this you
know this I think this footage is from
like six years ago the you know that or
you know certainly it predates the the
Trump era but it's sick
I mean it's sick the the there's this
there's this is an in your point about
you know look you're not trying to sneak
into the
with a hundred and sixty-three people
when a hundred and sixty-three people go
up and give up the ghost it's they're
not trying to sneak into the country
they're trying to they're trying to turn
themselves in
and so the it is clearly one of those
examples and this is a state of policy
like you made said of the Trump
administration forced them into the
desert and because theoretically it will
discourage people from coming but of
course the reality is that their
situations are so bleak from where
they're coming from that they will they
they will take this chance
none of the attempts none of the family
separation none of that stuff in any way
inhibited the flow of people coming
north and we should say it's not that
many
we can certainly absorb these people but
it's just I don't know it's sickening
and what I know I think I think the
point you make is really important
though I mean look it probably has
inhibited plenty of people I mean there
are probably plenty of people who are
going this isn't really you know it's
not really worth it for me to come over
the border and work for a few months
while all this wild political stuff
happening in the US okay I mean maybe
there's some Mexican workers who are
saying yeah yeah I'm not gonna I'm not
going to go through that right now these
are not those people who would do this
unless you absolutely had to anybody who
is is March you know walking on foot all
the way from Central America to come to
the border to try and they're they're
seeking their family members who are
here people that they know people from
their communities from their country and
trying to survive I mean you would never
do this who would do it unless you
absolutely had to I wish I could
understand why Americans see these
people as being such you know such Vino
greedy you know kind of I mean truncus
even by the way this week going on and
on about how they're bringing diseases I
mean they're back right I mean right you
know saying that there's people don't
want to talk about all the medical
condition
and the diseases they're bringing in I
mean that is really taking it to a new
sick level I think we all know what the
illusion there is and how you know in
the past that sort of thing has been
used it's been used many times that
there at the US border - I mean there
was I don't know if people know this
story I'll just digress for just a
second because it's kind of interesting
yeah
over the years they've always been these
crackdowns at the US you know at the
American border with Mexico and you know
back in the 50s they had operation
 which Trump on the campaign
trail extolled as you know kind of a
model for what he wanted to do in which
they rounded up everybody who looked
like they were a Mexican many of them
American by the way and just dumped him
out in the desert and had left them
there people did die in that - that was
our you know our good guy Eisenhower who
did that one but this goes way way back
and in fact there was a period in the
early part of the century where this
disease thing was really a big deal you
know this was back during the eugenics
time and you know there was a lot of
this weird sort of scientific you know
quote scientific racialized you know
science that people were using that's
coming back incidentally below it is
yeah and and they used they used to
bring you know they would have Mexicans
who cross the border every day to work
in you know in the fields or who worked
in in houses in the in the south
particularly in Texas which is where
this really happened a lot and they
insisted that they be deloused right
they would they would round them up and
basically force them to you know take
showers and then they'd spray them with
this powder and there was a big riot
that happened one of the housemaids that
they staged what was a housemaids riot
and they write it and actually ended up
ending the policy because of it it's a
really wild story you can look it up but
they used as a powder on them and you
know what that powder was it was a
powder known as cyclin b and in fact it
was america who used that that that
compound first and it was the nazis who
got the idea for it and used it for much
more in nefarious and you know more
concentrated purposes
in the concentration camps in the death
camps in in Germany and Eastern Europe
and you know that's what they used to do
so this is a there's a long history of
doing this but you know it doesn't make
it right and in fact it makes it even
more wrong I mean you know we used to
exterminate Indians in this country too
we had slavery a lot of things need to
end and this border this you know
ongoing kind of churning at our at our
Mexican border has got to stop too
because this is this kind of violence
and unnecessary cruelty and an absolute
you know lack of compassion when we
don't have to do it it's as if we kind
of are wishing that we had the same kind
of immigrant issue that they have in
Europe where they really do have an
influx of people from the Middle East at
it you know it's causing a lot of you
know social problems you know rightly or
wrongly they do exist
that's not true here wait wait you know
you go down to the southwest or here in
California where I live you know we
don't there's no problem I mean we have
it you know it's not a problem
I mean people come over from Mexico they
go back they come from Central America
they go back we absorb a lot of them a
lot of them just go and and you know
spend some time here and then they want
to go back to their families and their
home country it's not a big deal we've
been doing it for years and there's no
need for all this you know angst over it
it's it's it's a made-up problem and
it's it you know it's to keep the
right-wing honestly I honestly think
that a lot of it is just the right
needed another racial group absolutely
demonize they're picking on the
Hispanics well nobody looked him
unfashionable to be you know blatantly
racist against African American III
think that's absolutely right and we've
seen like the uptick in in Islamophobia
in this country I mean people don't
realize this but it went up during
Islamic you know anti-muslim rhetoric
and attacks went up
since the Bush administration and when
you wouldn't you would have imagined it
would have been at its peak right and
yeah I absolutely think that's what it
is you know this is there has been a
strong anti-immigrant sentiment on the
right George Bush tried to to shake it
and I think Trump realized like this is
a good group to hate on because we lost
the gays you know we don't have the gays
to rely on anymore that's what George
Bush used in 2004 and you know and will
and will but we'll talk about that in a
moment but we'll circle back around to
that because there's a you had a piece
that was interesting about about white
evangelicals and that that that's what
brought out the folks for for George
Bush was we're gonna hate on the gays
right we're gonna write have
anti-marriage equality amendments and
whatnot one thing I will say is that the
broadly the support of immigrants in
this country seems to have gone up yeah
the the depth of the anti-immigrant
fervor has deepened I think right it's
be it's like I think for people who are
anti-immigrant that issue has risen up
on their priorities in which they they
vote and they function in their life but
broadly speaking support for immigrants
has gone up in the country and you know
it and I want to use that to pivot a
little bit to what's going on with with
the the Trump investigations because
it's starting to broaden out so much now
the investigations I think we're going
to see sort of round 2 where we see like
a nexus with what's going on with Saudi
Arabia and and perhaps Israel and the
UAE and we're seeing it in terms of
money laundering and this and that and
it remains to be seen I'm highly
skeptical that we're gonna see sort of
like some new broader ethos right in our
government and in terms of
accountability for very wealthy people
but who knows but you know Trump is by
making the implicit explicit is forcing
people to sort of make some hard choices
and to look at this stuff where it was
easier in say in the past just didn't
get the same attention frankly I think I
don't know that people didn't pay
attention to it as much as it just
didn't get the same sort of media focus
it'll be interesting to see if in what
we have seen with healthcare right where
the protection of the ACA sort of made
the the imperative for a single-payer
system a bigger structural change more
more relevant more I guess evident I
wonder if the same thing is going to
happen in terms of integration I hope so
I hope so too you know I mean I feel
like like immigration what may be
happening is what happened in California
I hope that this at that exact because
was a pete sessions what was it yeah
yeah okay he Wilson sorry sorry yeah
yeah yeah remind people of this because
that I I was in California I think just
after that yeah back in the 90s Pete
Wilson and people may remember this he
was ran for governor and he ran on a
very hardcore very trumpet-style
anti-immigrant platform and there was a
you know an initiative on the ballot as
well to sort of you know deny public
schooling and deny driver's licenses and
basically make California a miserable
place to live for undocumented
immigrants now you know that's a lot of
people in this state I mean it's this is
a very heavily Hispanic evie Hispanic
state and he ran on that and he actually
won I think it was 1994 and he actually
won and the proposition that was on the
ballot also one very depressing time
we're just sitting there going oh my god
but what that did was first of all it
galvanize the Latino community the you
know American Latinos in California and
they organized and became politically
active and I think it also you know did
what is happening I think across the
country which is it made immigration a
salient issue for a whole lot of people
who really don't want to see seven year
old girls dying up there
in America they don't want to see babies
and cages I mean it's that kind of
they've taken it so far as Pete Wilson
did here in California that other people
who made just sort of go yeah you know
whatever it's terrible but you know I
care about I don't know my taxes or they
have other issues that they find more
prominence it becomes a salient issue to
them to vote on and that's what it is in
California California now that has is
completely intolerant of this immigrant
bashing stuff that I mean there's just
no room for it in California politics
they're not doing it I mean of course
there's a pocket the head of the
California State Supreme Court the Chief
Justice just quit the Republican Party
and in part it was because of Cavanaugh
but but largely it seems that it was
also in terms of like all this
anti-immigrant stuff that's right it's
just it's just not it people in this
state are just not taller it's not an
acceptable thing here and you know for a
good reason I mean we live looking you
know this was Mexico at one point so you
know I mean this is this is like you
know this is one of those things where
you see in evolution where you see
somebody take it so far it's as you
point out right I mean they go to such a
limit that people sort of wake up and go
hey wait a minute who are we and you
know I I do see a lot of that even among
people who may not be particularly
political they don't like this this
thing with kids and these poor people I
mean if you unless you have no
compassion at all just completely
lacking in empathy like Donald Trump
you're gonna look good you know I just
dunno Trump Christine Nilson I mean I
there is I III don't want to wish pain
and suffering on her but I hope that she
has a very uncomfortable rest of her
life I hope she always is like a
constant rash or something I mean I this
is someone and and I'm probably holding
back my I probably have a little bit a
little more anger than that
