[Music]
you're on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program colonists for New York
Magazine the Intelligencer Eric Levitz
on the Bernie versus Warren debate we
need Eric welcome back to the program
yeah thanks fanny all right so um let's
start well okay let's do let's even
start before let let's start like just
even with your title why do we need this
debate as opposed to which debate yeah
so I guess I mean I'm not you know a
hundred percent satisfied with my
headline but I would say that my view is
that there's been a kind of tedious
debate about like you know how how much
does was a bit Warren actually support
the healthcare policies that she goes on
live television and you know says that
she supports even though there's a
political cost to saying that she
supports the abolition of health
insurance you know but and how much does
she really mean it you know as though
the primary obstacle to passing Medicare
for all in 2021 is going to be how badly
the progressive president wants it
rather than the fact that there you know
I believe 14 votes for Bernie's bill and
the US Senate right now and if we
stipulate that Elizabeth Warren doesn't
actually support it that's thirteen and
if we say the same about Kamala Harris
that's 12 in then the larger part of my
argument is that you know I guess part
of the argument there is that if you
have a really committed president and
they're going to be able to you know
rally the people to put pressure on all
the Democratic senators and get
everybody to support you know
single-payer or every major item on the
progressive agenda in my view is that
that is really not very closely examined
that theory of change when you actually
start to consider the fact that these
senators have staggered six-year terms
that because of the composition of the
Senate a lot of them represent areas
that are more conservative and
average American voter and yeah just the
the in the fact that you know his left
has not proven that it can actually beat
even in a blue state a deep blue state
you know moderate democratic senators
they habitually when reen AMA nation
every Democrat who opposes single-payer
won their nomination who was on the
ballot last year without much trouble
you know Dianne Feinstein is still
around so all right well let's let's let
me let me let me maybe that was that was
a little bit broad too because I want to
go through these step-by-step a little
bit but let's start all right first with
the with the other premise that you have
here and that is that the American
left's bark is louder than its bite and
just explain to us what that means I
mean because you know I'm in I'm in you
know sort of not quite Ground Zero but
we're in sort of quite Ground Zero on
some level for you know the the most
vocal part of the left right I think the
Jacobin offices are are probably I don't
know five minutes from here so yeah so
and I would say that the the volume of
the bark is no small achievement so
basically the argument is that the left
has gained a lot of ideological
influence and a lot of influence in the
discourse and lot of influence over how
elites think about politics a lot of
influence on you know specifically
Twitter and then in elite sort of policy
debates and there is you know some real
power in that I attribute that to you
know on the one hand the fact that just
more center-right to center-left
economics was kind of largely formulated
in response I think to the you know
crisis of stagflation in the 1970s when
you have the problem of you know high
inflation so we need to tamp down
workers bargaining power now we have the
opposite problem that's really been
revealed since the 2008 crisis where we
have a
clear demand shortage where ordinary
workers do not have enough money we have
too much capital we have too low
inflation and just the even just regular
textbook economics would say that the
less answers are really kind of the
solution here and the problem is that
you know our political system is too
beholden to the you know interests who
benefit from this totally dysfunctional
economic arrangement so it's partially
that and it's partially you know the the
rise of left media and and the rise of
Bernie Sanders campaign in 2016 but
these things together have produced a
situation where the left side ia's are
taken really seriously and are fairly
prominent in both you know Democratic
primary debates and in mainstream
political coverage I this is a really I
think and this is an important point to
make I think for people because just to
stop and sort of make this assessment
you know I've been following politics
professionally now for 15 years and the
move to the left in this country in
terms of the the debate has been
incredibly pronounced and and I think a
part of that is a function of all the
things you just said you know including
the financial crisis the Occupy Wall
Street and and to a certain extent
Warren you know I think was you know
sort of was a you know Midwife to some
of that as well and then Bernie you know
made it explode uh but we can see the
the debates now where they are but
that's it's important to recognize I
think as you as you're suggesting here
or not even suggesting I think
explicitly saying that part of that is
because the ideas make a lot of sense
right now as opposed to there's just
been an overwhelming powerful force of
people and populism that has basically
forced people to take the knee the the
right it's a the the reason why the the
politics have moved this far left in you
know to the extent that it has
in this period of time is a function of
the ideas making a lot of sense and a
but but it's not just one of those
things yeah I think it's you know I say
in the piece that American socialism is
heavy on superstructure light on base
that yeah that basically it isn't the
case that the Democratic the people who
were working on domestic policy at the
Center for American Progress
you know the establishment Democratic
think-tank they haven't moved sharply
left because a mass movement has you
know a raid itself outside their doors
and intimidated it into endorsing
sectoral bargaining and in the study
it's that the the ideological climate
has changed and I think you know we're
in a situation right now where it's just
objectively insane that when the United
States can borrow money as cheaply as it
can
right now when deficits are having so
little impact on interest rates and
inflation and you have a giant climate
crisis looming that anyone who can read
the science understands that we need
massive government action to do
something about it you know it the
left's idea is that hey why don't we you
know put people to work and have public
work projects to invest in renewable
energy that makes a lot of sense and
when you have inequality as bad as it is
the idea of transferring wealth from the
rich to the middle class and the poor
makes a lot of sense so just the the
objective conditions are such that any
sort of self-respecting economist
kind of has to be a little bit left-wing
these days right these that that's in
contrast to oh we have 55 percent union
density in this country and the unions
have decided we're gonna do this and so
we do it right I mean that's that's
that's the exactly that would be the
counter the the counter example I guess
all right so with that said what's the
relevance of that of that insight yeah
so I think that just I think this can
just obscure what the balance of forces
actually are
in the respect that I was saying at the
beginning of the conversation that you
know if you just look on Twitter and
look on elite discourse and look at what
Democratic presidential candidates are
saying at these debates where suddenly
the centrist position in the Democratic
Party on health care is a public option
so aggressive that it would threaten the
long-term viability of private insurance
and the the middle-of-the-road climate
plan is Joe Biden's one point seven
trillion dollar you know net zero
emissions by 2050 you would think that
that you would think that we're closer
to achieving what we want to achieve
then then you are once you look at the
existence of the Senate look at the fact
that we have a 10.5% I believe if I'm
getting them corrected something in that
range union density rate that basically
you know our media discourse also is
kind of geared towards highly engaged
highly engaged Democratic voters highly
highly engaged young people especially
on Twitter
whereas our representative institutions
like Congress are geared towards an over
represent you know older more rural more
conservative elements of American
society and so there's just this
disjunction and it you know it's unclear
how far you can get on the strength of
your ideas alone and I think you know I
believe you've had David day in on
recently about ways that if we can just
get the executive in there maybe there's
there certain things that you could do
just through that but to the extent that
we need to get things through Congress
the fact that there is not a significant
mobilized mass movement or labor
movement that the left can marshal when
you know the the joe Manchin's and john
testers of the world you know say that
they are uncomfortable with single-payer
or with you know really you know giving
hell to the fossil fuel industry or what
have you that's going to be a problem
and we shouldn't let the influence that
we have in these debates and in the
discourse blind us to
to where the balance of forces really
are okay and and so let's I want to
return back to that because that really
is the is the the the nub on some level
the argument I think that well well wait
until we get there but so let's just
start with when we talk about Bernie and
Warren and that the let's just start
with that those things that they can do
unilaterally right we're we're I mean
this is there there are things that the
president could do we had day and on to
talk about the day one agenda there are
those things
there's also foreign policy you
mentioned both like give me your
perspective on where they and and you
know we're having a debate as to which
is the better candidate for those who
have you know who are on the Left who
are progressive or are left of
progressive or whatever it is in terms
of though in terms of what they can do
unilaterally and then let's talk about
the implications of what they would have
to do legislatively when we talk about
these sort of like big policies
unilaterally where where do you see
their strengths and weaknesses when you
compare them yeah you know um it's not
entirely clear to me I mean part of my
my argument is that they're they're
close enough ideologically that it's
difficult to know you know I think if
you gave either one of them absolute
power I think that you would really see
important distinctions between Sanders
relative skepticism towards market
institutions and in warrens faith in
them this distinction between left
liberalism and democratic socialism
maybe that that would come to the fore
but I think that there's ambiguity as
far as you know the argument for war in
terms of unilateral action is that she
is a you know she designed a government
agency and got it off the ground as a
lot
of bureaucratic expertise and a lot of
expertise specifically with regard to
financial regulation where there are a
lot of levers that a administration can
pull and she seems to be a pretty
effective manager so it's possible that
she would be you know maybe uniquely
effective at implementing these these
forms of law Fair on the other hand the
other point that erases that that Bernie
Sanders does seem to have and his team
seems to have a little bit of a more
ambitious understanding of how they want
to revise American foreign policy the
exact details from issue to issue if you
look at their separate answers to this
ten question questionnaire that the
Council on Foreign Relations provided to
all of the Democratic candidates the
differences between their answers are
often very fine-grained but there is
definitely a distinction on
israel-palestine Sanders is is uniquely
willing to say that he's going to
condition military aid on an end to you
know Israeli settlement expansion and on
constructive actions towards the
two-state solution whereas you know
Warren expresses concern for the
settlements but doesn't bring up
military aid and their their histories
on the issue Warren has generally been a
pretty reliable reliable vote for a pack
on most things I believe she signed a
letter that you know discouraged the
Obama administration from allowing this
UN vote condemning Israeli settlements
in the West Bank so you see a
distinction there and there's also
Sanders has cultivated to a certain
extent loose relations with progressive
forces in other countries he had this
meeting with Yanis focus of this like
progressive international you know
veritatis is not a particularly powerful
figure at this point and i don't know
exactly what the state of that that
international is but you do see that
Sanders socialist
those inclined sim2 a slightly more
internationalist perspective in certain
respects although he also when talking
about trade can get a little bit
nationalist in terms of wine to protect
American workers from competing with the
third world but anyway I think it's hard
to game out exactly how unpracticed
all this is going to would would cash
out and you know there's there's always
you know the president Bernie Sanders
gonna have a lot of stuff on his plate
if he's really focused on trying to get
his domestic agenda implemented
maybe he ends up ultimately outsourcing
more of his foreign policy of the blob
than we would want him to maybe not but
I think generally speaking there's
there's there some basis for believing
that Bernie would be better on foreign
policy and the president has a
tremendous amount of authority there
right okay and and you know again
obviously these are broad strokes and
nobody can know but you that that's why
that's why we have that's why we talk
about it it's just sort of like to put
it out there and make assessments in
this way all right so if I understand
your argument in regards to the the
chances of the policies being
implemented that they're talking about
that cannot be done through executive
action now I think one of the things
that I I took away from from what
they've done over an American prospect
with that day one agenda is that it's
quite possible that the level of
dedication to a certain policy outcome
is uh is is is highly relevant
particularly when you have this outline
where you can see that like yeah you can
you can you can cancel student debt you
can make big strides in expansion of
different health care initiatives
there's a whole litany of things and I
encourage people to go to day one agenda
and but it comes at a considerable
political cost that if one is more
dedicated to a certain outcome than
another person one might be able to risk
I don't know how we and I think people
can make their own assessments about you
know about that level of dedication but
in terms of the mechanics of it that to
me seems fairly straightforward and and
tell me if you disagree but if you but
if you don't it seems to me that the
rest of your argument or at least in
terms of getting policies implemented is
basically summed up in this analogy that
you know Bernie may be going 70 miles an
hour I mean it may have may be able to
go 70 miles an hour Warren may be able
to go 60 miles an hour and Biden can
only go 30 miles an hour but we're
talking about a 50 mile per hour speed
limit right and and and and I mean is
that like the the best way to sort of
sum up at least the mechanical
constraints you see on these two
candidates as president yet I think
that's and I think that's a fairly good
analogy I think that the the point that
you were describing to me
yeah I mean illustrates that you know it
really does matter whether it it's very
clear to me I think that that there are
real stakes to it being Warren or
Sanders versus Biden which I know some
people who are fairly progressive who I
think at least before the publication of
the day one agenda you know we're like
well they're all to the left of Joe
Manchin so what does it matter let's
just you know whoever who cares right
but but because of the level of
executive authority that is available we
saw under Obama you know how whether he
was in a mood to push the limits of his
office's power or not you know was the
difference between mass deportation and
daca so there's there's real stakes
there to me and I think that I think
that that is a debate a useful debate
that we can have is about really try and
dig into and and pressure to see like
get a better sense of what what these
two would do what they're doing a lot of
other authority my complaint was mostly
with
the focus on their disparate approaches
to stuff that they would need to get
through Congress because I do think
there there really isn't isn't much to
talk about but but on in terms of
unilateral action I think if there is a
I just don't think it's obvious that
Bernie would push harder than Warren
given I mean I his sort of odd
reluctance about saying that he would
abolish the filibuster I think he's been
more disinclined to advocate for
changing the Supreme Court and you know
so so Warren has been a little bit more
willing to kind of norm break in terms
of procedural ISM I don't know that
that's significant but I'm just saying
that it just isn't like totally
unambiguous to me that that bernie is
willing to stretch executive power more
than Warren as I believe that that's
entirely possible but it just seems like
it's obvious to me that Warren and
Bernie will use executive power for
progressive purposes more aggressively
than Joe Biden it's not as clear to me
you know with the exception mentioned
before of israel-palestine certain
aspects of foreign policy in terms of
domestic unilateral authority it's not
clear to me but I'm open to the case I
just think that not enough debate has
been focused on that okay and so you so
returning back to the I'm in fair enough
I mean I think that's the you know again
very hard to predict these things and
the all you're saying is not a slam dunk
necessarily and and so let's talk a
little bit about this this notion of you
you tackle the idea that that Warren is
somehow more friendly with the
Democratic establishment then than
Sanders I mean she probably is insofar
as she's Democrat and Sanders is not but
in terms of like sort of the you you you
bring up the the notion that she's been
talking to super-delegates and that
Sanders campaign has done the you know
Dunne is planning to do the same but
more broadly let me ask you this in if
it is the case right that 50 miles per
hour is the speed limit to use my to
really overuse my analogy isn't there
also though some value that is not
addressed in that sort of longer-term
mission like if the idea is that there
is a structural cap on the amount of
progressive change that we can get in
terms of actual policy being implemented
through a Senate where you know guys
like Chris Coons and Joe Manchin and the
guy who's running in Arizona and the you
know then God willing it's not
Hickenlooper but if it is you know these
these people are going to be standing in
the way of this stuff and they're not
gonna be they're gonna be proud about it
they're gonna go down you know fighting
against this isn't there also sort of a
the the the value in losing these fights
in a dramatic fashion and perhaps some
smaller wins that that will hat that
will pay off five ten years down the
road
um well so I see I see definitely see
value and you know the Overton Window
concept so I think it absolutely makes
sense to pressure you know both
candidates in pressure warn where she is
behind you know the Sanders curve I
think that Bernie's labor plan was you
know pretty incredible and radical and
and we've seen that after he released
that just today were unreleased a plan
that that very closely resembles it
Warren came out with the wealth tax
earlier in the cycle and Bernie came out
with even more aggressive and arguably
better designed one so I think that that
that advocating for these these big
ideas and
you know laying the groundwork for you
know a future in which we have the power
to implement them and in changing the
boundaries of the debate is all useful
so my my critique there is just like
with the frustration that you know like
I'm Medicare for all specifically you
know Warren is doing that Overton Window
working or whatever we want to argue
about how you know how long she's been
committed to this or what's in her heart
she is like going on national television
and making the case for why private
insurance is just you know a bunch of
rent tiers that we can just get rid of
and you know get all these efficiencies
for single-payer so she's doing the the
Overton Window shifting part and if
that's what's in you know reach at this
point then I think that you know it
doesn't really matter what you know she
feels in her heart and then I I don't
know about in terms of League losing
fights once in power I I don't know I
mean I think like if we have it depends
on what that means you know if I well
let me give you an example one of the
things that I think many on the left and
not even the far left I mean on the left
take issue with Barack Obama's coming
out with the 750 780 trillion dollar
stimulus was that it set the the
predicate was said incorrectly that he
should have come out with a billion
dollars and either and maybe settled on
780 so that he had the political
argument to make that I mean excuse me a
trillion that we needed two hundred and
fifty billion dollars more to get out of
this hole
right and that I mean I think frankly if
he made that argument in 2009-2010 may
have worked out differently but even if
it didn't I'm not convinced that Hillary
Clinton wouldn't be president right now
if if the argument was that the
Republicans were standing in the way of
that other quarter trillion dollars even
if
you we had no chance of getting it there
would have been understanding that what
the what what happened was insufficient
and he would have had and the Democrats
would have had that political argument
and that is the value of of losing in
some instances in terms of politics
while you're in office that it's not
even a question of the Overton Window it
is is a question of just sheer politics
putting putting the other side really
firmly in a in defining the terms and
one of the things I think that that
Bernie does that some people perceive as
a as a flaw others as a strength is
really does create a certain binary
quality to his proposals and yeah I mean
I think that you know that's a fair
point if we do posit that that Warren
would would fold from the beginning once
in power and introduce a public option
rather than medicare for all and then
and then you know begin by negotiating
with herself that would be probably you
know less favorable than if Bernie did
the opposite and so maybe you know I
mean I think that's a big gift but but I
can't at that point if we do stipulate
that me then it's possible that there
would be irrelevance to their personal
commitments to to the issue I think at
the same time you know because of the
the lack of power that we actually have
over most of these senators and the fact
that that again we don't have material
power we only have ideas there is these
these other questions that I raised in
the piece which are you know not meant
to be totally endorsed this perspective
but just they're kind of heretical
thoughts that I don't think are engaged
that they need to be at least engaged to
some extent which is you know thoughts
like is it actually possible that you
know
a candidate
president that calls herself a
capitalist will actually get be able to
get moderate Democratic senators to go
along with things that are a bit more
progressive and than what they would let
themselves sign on to if it was
presented by a you know socialist with
with less close ties to their party you
know because they feel a stronger sense
of needing to perform their independence
from this radicalism that's coming from
the White House
III don't know didn't so that in
relation to both the the capitalist and
socialist identification and in relation
to the fact that Warren you know
criticizes the Democratic establishment
less than Bernie does is a Democrat you
know you can make the argument I'm not
saying it's definitely correct but that
actually this that such a figure that is
you know more connected to the
establishment and in frames herself in a
a slightly less radical way actually in
practice could get more progressive
stuff through Congress I don't know if
that's true but it seems to me that the
connection there is as plausible as you
know the idea that that starting from
the most radical possible place will
result in the most progressive possible
legislation I mean I think I think that
III think that's a reasonable argument
to make that sometimes it's a if I don't
have to swallow
the ideological labels I can just accept
this as like it can seem more tame even
if it's the exact same policy I think
that's fair but the flip side of that is
too is that there's 14 senators who have
signed on to Medicare for all but Bernie
Sanders wins the presidency on Medicare
for all I have a feeling there's gonna
be a lot more senators who can be like
oh wait a second because
self-preservation is also now I don't
know that you're gonna get Joe Manchin I
don't know that you're gonna get you
know the these others but you're
certainly going to get a lot more of the
Democrats who are gonna say like this is
where this is the new normal
that's conceivable to I could see it
going both ways to be fair yeah I mean I
think there's gonna be a little bit of
that but that there's also going to be
you know when I mean I don't know if the
stat is right but when you know this
when the lobbies for the industries that
collectively make up one-fifth of our
economy hit the airwaves with their ad
campaigns and everybody's doctors not
everybody that you know that obviously
there's some progressive doctors but the
doctors lobbies are against even a
public option and so when people's
doctors tell them hey what's going on in
Washington they're trying to screw up
this health care system and stuff hits
the airwaves it's possible that that
you're gonna see that movement reverse
but you know you'd be impossible to know
but but but yeah I I just think that
there's gonna be a lot of challenges to
Medicare for all and if we're starting
in a place where you know 33 Democratic
senators or Democratic aligned senators
don't feel the need to support it right
now didn't feel need to support it last
year won reelection without supporting
it it's going to be tough all right and
lastly you take on the argument that
specifically one by Conor Kilpatrick and
bash Carson Cara about the implication
of Sanders winning would realign
American politics in a by creating a
sort of a a new level of class
consciousness and but and and would just
explain explain their argument and why
you don't find that convincing yeah so
their their argument is that that
basically there's severe limits on what
the Democratic Party and what the Left
can accomplish until you know
working-class people are concentrated in
one political party right now we have
this partisan polarization we're really
voters are polarized not along class
lines so much as along culture war lines
along urban versus rural and you know
liberal versus conservative on you know
these cultural immigration you know
diversity etc
to to get a party to get a political
formation coalition that's that's
capable of implementing radical economic
change we need to have class be the
dividing line in our politics and
Bernie's specific brand of politics is
more conducive to that polarization
which is reflected in the fact that
early polls suggest that his coalition
in the primary
he draws more support from non college
educated voters and also has a more
diverse coalition so I find this
unconvincing on a couple levels one you
know if it were the case that one's
support just among Democratic primary
voters the demographics of one share of
the Democratic primary vote was
indicative of one's ability to you know
reassemble the New Deal coalition and
radically change American politics then
we should all support Joe Biden because
he has the most non college educated
voters or that's the highest four he's
the highest percentage of non college
educated support within his share of the
boat and second because he related to
that there's very good reason to think
that that this isn't just a reflection
of name recognition that college
educated voters pay closer attention to
politics especially early on in
presidential cycles and so the most
famous names are getting more
non-college support because if you don't
follow politics closely and you haven't
tuned in yet to the 2020 cycle you're
more likely to recognize Joe Biden and
Bernie Sanders names than you are
Elizabeth Warren's and we've seen
evidence confirming that in recent weeks
as as Warren has become more prominent
her base of support is steadily
diversifying and some recent polls that
showed her beating Bernie with
non-college educated whites so there's
that just you know is it the case that
Bernie is attracting more support I
think that it's it's plausible that
Bernie is a better candidate with non
college educated white voters given how
well he's performed with them in Vermont
and there's there's obviously it's a
little different but there's some
overlap between secular non-college
educated white voters in Vermont and in
Wisconsin there's some similarity there
so it's possible that he would be a
better general
some candidate but I think what we're
talking about there is an ability to on
the margin get a little bit better with
this constituency that's been trending
right not realign American politics and
my argument is that the the latter is
not going to happen in one election
cycle no matter who we nominate when you
look at the fact that this this
polarization of college and on
college-educated urban and rural and
along immigration and culture lines is
not just happening in the United States
but is happening throughout Western
Europe and it seems like there's a
decent amount of evidence that this is
because non-college educated white
voters have expressed conservative
opinions and immigration pretty much
forever and as demographic change in all
these Western countries is accelerated
you know that's I think brought
immigration to the fore made it more
salient obviously there were the
failures of the Third Way Social
Democratic parties as well and I'm not
saying that that wasn't part of it but
you know you look at what happened in
Britain when the Labour Party nominated
Jeremy Corbyn Democratic Socialist ran
and the most left-wing platform that
that party born on in a generation and
they gained a historic number of seats
in the 2017 election but largely by
flipping districts of the Tories had
held forever in the richest parts of
London because you know just the
polarization right now is anti Briggs at
voters one of the left-wing party to
vote for young people who are
cosmopolitan are moving left and even
when that's you know maybe against their
class interests I mean they're
supporting Democrat that they're still
going to support a Democratic Socialist
to stick it to those those brigs of
Tears so yeah I just think there's not
much evidence that that we're gonna
immediately change the balance of
partisan politics in the u.s. and in
fact you say by projecting contempt for
one of the voting blocks that made these
gains possible and you're talking about
the the those in the context of the
British election the those wealthy areas
and and I guess presumably like the
professional class here right is that we
mean by the when you mean you you say
that their argument son Carson
Kilpatrick's argument project a little
bit of contempt for for those voters is
that right
marina yeah okay and you saying then
asserting that existing Democratic Party
can never govern they risk projecting an
air of indifference toward such reforms
and the working-class people who've
benefited from them and you say in
fairness indifference that I know
neither of these writers actually feels
so you're suggesting that the the danger
in rejecting a Democratic electorate
that includes the professional class and
it's not is not defined by class
interests is that it may in the at least
in the short run hurt the people
presumably that you're going to want to
protect yeah I think there's a line in
there piece that says that you know
without you know winning back the white
working-class for the party that can win
but never govern in the sense that
reflecting what I was saying about the
Senate frankly it is true that we need
to win more white non college voters
yeah and also you know the inability to
control state legislatures in a lot of
places but I think that just my caution
is that you know if you suggest you're
not gonna win that many Democratic
primaries if you suggest the Democratic
Party isn't even governing at a time
when in California you know they just
passed legislation to establish public
banks to give health care to
undocumented workers got employment
rights for uber drivers and you know
when for all the disappointments of the
Obama era we had a giant expansion of
public health insurance to the working
class that by some estimates has saved
twenty thousand working-class Americans
lives and would have done more if we
have taken power in more red states so
you know these things are real and you
know there's a there's a risk of you
know socialist need to combat the
impression that they care more about
this abstract ideological goal than the
concrete conditions of the people who
they claim to champion and
I think that you just need to be careful
to not you know I don't know I just
think if you want to win over the black
working class particularly those who
currently vote you can't you don't want
to understate what you know Barack Obama
did achieve even while you're making the
criticisms of the many um you know
disappointing aspects of his tenure I
you know it's it's it's a fascinating
argument I want to encourage people to
read it do you feel like that there's
anything else that we left on the table
no it's just the other thing I would say
about that last point and is just that
when you look at public opinion polls
college-educated voters it's obviously
it's also you know very crude you know
what do we mean when we say professional
middle-class is that schoolteachers or
is that strictly you know white-collar
white-shoe firm lawyers but when you
look at public opinion data
college-educated voters are often more
left on some economic issues obviously
there's sort of a you know a difference
when the the question is like really
immediate and visceral and local when
it's a question of you know whether
you're going to desegregate the the
school district that you belong to or
we're embrace owning changes that might
threaten the value of your property then
class interests really do play into it
but but federal policy questions are
abstract enough that people often let
ideology be their guide and meanwhile
you know these voters are college
educated white voters specifically right
now are across the board more
progressive on a variety of very
important issues of immigration and
racial justice and so you know I don't
think that we should not want their
votes because they are backstopping a
decent amount of progressive change in
the places where Democrats actually have
power eric levites the pieces the Bernie
versus Warren debate we need asterisk
not a 100 percent the one that you would
go away you would call it but that
doesn't matter that's the easiest way
for people to find it or they
go to majority dot F M we will put a
link to the piece really smart piece I
really appreciate your coming on and
talking to us about it yeah thanks a lot
all right folks there you have it I
think it's a it's an interesting piece I
mean it doesn't necessarily make an
affirmative case for warrant but it is
it addresses at least some of the
arguments in terms of the distinction I
obviously still feel that the that even
if we have that 50 mile per hour speed
limit the idea that the car can go
faster and people are aware of it is
important has a lot of value we used to
talk about losing well quite a bit back
in the aughts because that was really
the only option we had and it was just a
question of how big of a fight you were
gonna make and how you were going to
present that fight and how well you were
going to delineate the stark differences
but I mean I think I also agree with the
my own analogy that we're talking about
seventy miles an hour 50 miles an hour
and 30 miles an hour I talk about mine
so but there you have it tomorrow we'll
get I think we're gonna have a similar
conversation on some level with the
Virgil taxes but maybe from sort of just
they like slightly other perspective so
it'll be interesting
