hey folks Sam cedar here just a reminder
the a.m. quickie has now moved to its
own feed you can go through Spotify
stitcher iTunes Google podcasts or you
can go to I am quickie calm to sign up
for it do it now you get the headlines
in less than 5 minutes ok start this
other show
[Music]
the conference rooms of any Elise
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday October 7th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Ian Haney Lopez the Chief Justice Earl
Warren professor of public law at the
University of California Berkeley
unmerge left fusing race and class
winning elections and saving America
also on the program today there's a
second Ukrainian call whistleblower this
one with direct knowledge of that call
as if we needed it it's all there
that that indictment is sewn up as far
as I'm concerned meanwhile Trump invites
Turkey to kill millions of our Kurdish
allies in Syria federal judge orders
Trump's taxes handed over to the
Manhattan da Trump people have appealed
we'll find out soon oops Rick Perry as
the fall guy turns out Trump donors
we're running a parallel shakedown in
Ukraine meanwhile Trump will deny
immigrant visas unless they can prove
they have health insurance
Whitehouse is subpoenaed Mick Mulvaney
gets an offer he will but shouldn't
reviews 6000 injured over 100 dead as
Iraqi security forces shoot protesters
Bernie Sanders releases a campaign
finance reform plan that at at the very
least calls for no corporate donations
to that 2020 convention and socialist
tops the polls in Portugal will form a
left alliance government all this and
more on today's program welcome ladies
and gentlemen Brendan on the board today
exceptional job on the music the fade
fade in fade out whatever was I've
learned so much from a Clegg Matlack
over these few years honestly today was
exceptional well done
we've got a lot of news we're gonna do
we're gonna dedicate tomorrow's show
to that news and was hoping also to talk
about the Supreme Court we're gonna have
to probably put that on hold and maybe
talk about that in the coming days
everything's getting jammed up for me
because of the Jewish holidays and then
we have next week we have the democratic
debate and Columbus Day and then the
following week I will be going to Las
Vegas for the tort lawyer conference so
but we will endeavor to get you as much
as possible I mentioned at the beginning
at the top of the show the a.m. quickie
it's a good way of just getting a
rundown of some of these top stories
that we we don't necessarily have time
to get into but you should be aware at
least because these will be ongoing
narratives in a lot of instances the
impeachment stuff my like I said we
could a beach right now there's no doubt
in my mind that there is sufficient
evidence for I've
multiple articles of impeachment but why
stop now because they're I mean if if
this is the way he ran the relationship
with Ukraine just to get dirt on hunter
Biden and to prove this wild conspiracy
theory from 2016 what about when when
we're talking about like his him filling
bags of money like I mean dude does
anyone have any sort of sense of like oh
the reason why Donald Trump is
essentially selling out the Kurds not
essentially is selling out the Kurds and
remember how heard he was about the kids
when he remember was the kids when he
thought about like we're not gonna bomb
Iran because of the kids I realized that
there might be a kid who died does
anyone think that he is selling out the
Kurds this way because of some
ideological or geopolitical notions that
he's been harboring for a long time I
mean it's not as if there are entities
in the Republican Party who are
necessarily all excited about this he's
opening the door to full ethnics
cleansing and you have to ask yourself
why I mean Lindsey Graham he's he's
running around he's got DZ I mean he is
his hair is on fire he can't believe
this from Donald Trump who could have
imagined but he is he's even lost Brian
Kilmeade on on Fox and Friends now there
are times where people even like Brian
kill me
can be correct about things maybe not
necessarily for the same reasons as we
may have maybe sometimes for the same
reasons but but it can happen but if
anybody thinks that Donald Trump is
doing this because he thinks his base is
like when are we gonna let turkey go in
there and rouse the Kurds or if he's had
you know from his days back in I don't
know dabbling with you know foreign
policy people like some notion about the
balance of power in that region is
really fundamentally rests in Turkey's
ability to undercut any type of threat
from the Kurds I mean he's getting
something from someone or some entity or
maybe multiple ones yeah he wants to
open a Trump Tower in Istanbul I mean it
could be that it could be that
straightforward or could be some other
bank shot there were armed steals oh
yeah I mean there there I mean who knows
but an impeachment not only allows you
to impeach him for the things that we
already know about it gives you the
ability to say to anybody who's gonna
withhold documents from you that this
that that act in and of itself can be
construed as obstruction and an article
of impeachment which makes it a lot
harder for people to hold back
information and so you use this power to
dig up the other rot that exists there
in the meantime I mentioned Brian
Kilmeade can sometimes be right here he
is but it's one of those horrible
awkward situations where apparently
Steve Doocy showed up late for work and
just rushed in and did not get the
talking points of the day so he's very
confused just what a disaster I mean the
president's statement through Stephanie
Grisham is you know we defeated the the
caliphate the caliphates destroyed we
would not have done that without the
Kurds who did all of our fighting while
our guys the reason why our casualties
were so low is because Kurds did all the
fighting posit you
remember over the past couple years
where Brian kill me would always give
credit as he was talking about Donald
Trump getting rid of Isis where he would
say it was the Kurds right we all
remember that but if you've forgotten I
understand because it never happened but
here we go of our fighting while our
guys the reason why our casualties were
so low is because Kurtz did all the
fighting now we're saying okay Turks go
wipe them out
or force them out what kind of message
is that to the next ally that wants to
side with us meanwhile we're taking
Sunni prisoners and giving them to Sunni
Turkey who's been nothing but
irresponsible though technically a NATO
ally a disaster a series of events I
hope the president will rethink this I
think the president's doing exactly what
he's wants to because he has made from
the get-go very clear to release
fighters campaign promise to end and you
know the country and abandon our allies
that's a campaign promise and in the
people that got the Caliphate destroyed
I think when people find out that
somebody else is willing to take over
the fight against Isis they're gonna be
okay we're taking it well
turkeys second a fight Isis we have
given Turkey permission to do that and
to take and the quote was Turkey will
now be responsible for all Isis fighters
and tilde and wipe out the Kurds are you
kidding me again we're banning our most
loyal allies who did all our fighters
all we did is arm them and they did all
the work and now we say good luck good
luck surviving well it looks like that's
the attack the White House and the
president's gonna take we're gonna have
more reports from Washington DC what do
you think about this the fact that it
looks like we're gonna pull out and
Turkey's gonna take over email as
friends Fox News calm and abandon okay
let's talk about it
Wow they're gonna have things at the
commissary at Fox are gonna be a little
bit uncomfortable today what the hell is
going on over there well no I mean
Kilmeade it's it's pretty straight
forward
I mean he's first of all you have to
feel for Brian Kilmeade because he's
watched two Republican presidents do the
exact same to the thing to the Kurds
multiple times starting with George HW
Walker HW Bush back in 1993 where he
basically called for the Kurds
to rise up in northern Iraq and after
you know in the sort of they did wake of
in the wake of our invasion of Iraq the
you know part one based upon a series of
lies that were perpetrated by some
spokespeople and talking about Kuwaiti
babies et cetera et cetera called for
the Kurds to rise up in northern Iraq
and then when they did was like actually
I'm sorry I didn't realize what time it
was we've got to go and caused a massive
slaughter of Kurds in Iraq and now we're
doing it again with people who even
Brian Kilmeade concedes have been
fighting against Isis basically Donald
Trump's greatest victory and he has sold
them out the question is why in fact not
only does the statement not even say
that the Turks that that Turkey is going
to be fighting Isis all they're gonna do
is get a hold of the Isis prisoners that
we have captured and in that statement
that they referenced President Trump
spoke with President Tayyip erawan of
Turkey by telephone Turkey will soon be
moving forward with its long planned
operation into northern Syria the United
States Armed Forces will not support or
be involved in the operation that's very
nice of us the United States forces
having defeated the in the ISIS
territorial Caliphate will no longer be
in the immediate area but we haven't
really been there anyways so it's not
like any type of we're not pulling back
our troops that's like a we're just
basically pulling back our promise to
the Kurds we're basically just pulling
back our diplomatic powers and saying
okay fine head in the United States
government has pressed France Germany
and other European nations from which
many captured Isis fighters came to take
them back but they did not want them and
refused I'm quite convinced Donald Trump
wrote that sentence maybe he dictated it
yeah it almost reads like a tweet of his
the United States will not hold them for
what could be many years at
great cost to the United States taxpayer
turkey will now be responsible for all
Isis fighters in the area captured over
the past two years in the wake of the
defeat of the territorial Caliphate by
the United States I mean maybe this is
just the deal like it's worth it we're
going to allow for the the ethnic
cleansing that will take place they
undoubtedly tens of thousands of Kurds
who will be killed in that region maybe
more maybe a little bit less who will be
killed in that region so that we don't
have to deal with the prisoners that we
supposedly have in our custody and I
don't even know what that number is but
it's it's I want to say it's
unbelievable but it's totally believable
we'll talk more about that later in the
program I can't wait to see the pretty
face that Jimmy Dore tries to put on
this one I mean I will say this and you
know that granted Hillary Clinton would
have already had us in World War three
by this point and we would all be dead
but this is not something that Hillary
Clinton had done I mean assuming that
she wasn't overtaken by Parkinson's hey
are you trying to drink more water
liquid IV hydrates you two to three
times faster and more efficiently than
water alone with the added bonus of
vitamin C b3 b5 b6 b12 I will tell you
this right now I will cop to it Saturday
night I didn't eat very long I had a
couple more too many drinks I did not
drink any water before I went to bed
next morning the first thing I do the
liquid IV it it hydrates you faster than
water does what just a water alone
replenishes you makes you feel better I
use it when I travel quite a bit I use
it when I exercise a little bit before a
little bit after get those vitamins in
my
and everybody loves around here and also
when I'm sick had one this weekend
before the wedding I went to boom
fastest-growing well wellness brand in
the country their products are non-gmo
vegan free of gluten free of dairy free
of soy and you can find it everywhere
they have liquid IV at Costco folks it's
a great healthy alternative to
traditional sugary sports drinks it's
perfect for fueling through workouts
preventing muscle fatigue and promoting
healthy post-workout recovery and this
is what's really great about it it comes
in these small packets powdered packets
TSA friendly you can travel with them
you can have them on the plane can
happen when you land you don't have to
worry about finding I don't know the the
junk they sell at some Piggly Wiggly
somewhere I love liquid IV I know you
will too right now my listeners get 25%
off at liquid IV calm when you use my
code majority a checkout 25% off
anything you order at liquor liquid IVs
website go to liquid IV comm enter my
code promo code majority get your
savings start getting better hydration
that's liquid IV two letters IV dot-com
promo code majority don't wait start
properly hydrating today and also folks
babble will get you speaking a new
language quickly and with confidence I
feel like everybody in this office is
about to do this maybe we should have a
competition i forfeit its competition
guys I would kick in some competition I
want to start was get a head start on
all of us I want to learn Portuguese
well maybe Jamie could pick up a self to
do a different language yeah well I want
to do Spanish too but you can choose
from 14 different languages Spanish
French Italian are in there
Portuguese is one of them too if I
remember correctly Russian I'm gonna
take port yeah let's have a Spanish off
let's do it babbles teaching method
speech recognition technology has been
proven to be effective across multiple
studies and the thing about babble that
is different from a lot of these
types of apps and whatnot is that their
lessons are created by over a hundred
language experts in other words real
human beings who understand how you
learn a language and understand nuances
in words not by some type of translation
machine the lessons are engaging and
they're super convenient for the last
only 10 15 minutes you could do it I
don't know
on your way walking to the supermarket
or driving to the supermarket or walking
through the supermarket babble is
available as an app or online your
progress syncs across all your devices
well I think we're gonna do this maybe
we should do this I think we should have
a babble language language off yeah
let's definitely do Spanish because you
listen to the show babble has a very
special offer for you you go to babble
calm
select the language your choice once you
try for free and are ready to sign up
select three month option and babble
give you three additional months for
free with promo code majority at six
months for the cost of three with the
promo code majority go to babble ba BB
al.com
enter promo code majority babble speak a
new language with confidence and lastly
as you know hiring can be a slow process
and apparently there's this story about
this guy Dylan
Miska whit's you heard about him
ultras C oo needed to hire a director of
coffee for his organic coffee company he
was having trouble finding qualified
applicants hello zip recruiter zip
recruiter doesn't depend on candidates
finding you it finds them for you it's
technology identifies people with the
right experience invites them to apply
to your job so for instance let's say
I'm looking for a producer and it goes
out there I got a ton a ton of super
qualified candidates I could have hired
someone it literally in the first couple
of days I wait
a week I got a ton more and then Brendon
showed up and that's how we hired
Brendan through zip recruiter that guy
Dylan he posted his job on if recruiter
arose he said he was impressed that
exactly by how quickly a great
candidates apply that was my experience
to use if recruiters candidate rating
feature two filters applicants so it
could focus on the most relevant ones if
I had to organise the whole thing myself
it would have been a disaster
that's how Dylan found his new director
of coffee in just a few days and that's
how I found Brendan with results like
that it's no wonder four out of five
employees who post a zip recruiter to
get a quality candidate within the first
day see why zip recruiter is effective
for businesses of all sizes mine was
tiny now he's grown at huge competition
would start kicking in try zip recruiter
for free our web address zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority but zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority zip recruiter the
smartest way to hire all right we're
gonna take a quick break
Trump is already threatening Turkey
watch twenty nine minutes ago he's
threatening to thirty four minutes ago
Trump says he will obliterate Turkey's
economy if it acts quote off limits in
Syria so you could go in there and but
you gotta pretend like you're not doing
anything and the Pentagon has issued its
own statement saying it would be
destabilizing of Turkey did this and
this is one of those things where I
think I know we have to get to our
esteemed guests but there's like a
bigger problem with the sort of chain of
command and bigger democracy questions
but this is also he's so flagrant and
ridiculous that other parts of
bureaucracy are kicking in it's also a
little worrisome I read and we will get
to recall in just a second but I read a
theory as to why maddest will not be
more critical
Trump is because there's a concern in
the military that there is a lot of
Trump supporters which is really
terrifying
so in instances like this where you see
the Pentagon brass having to stand up
and perhaps push back on certain ideas
the thing that you don't see in addition
to it being problematic like he is the
commander in chief sorry America you
voted for him
the other problem is not only from the
standpoint of like I don't think I want
to set the president with the military
gets to tell the president what to do
right because he you know I don't want
them telling Bernie Sanders like hey no
we're going in sorry chief we don't want
them sorry commander in chief but but
the thing that's also happening
simultaneously here that we probably
cannot see is that it is weakening the
relationship or the command structure in
the military or has the potential to so
a happy Monday and we're going to take a
quick break when we come back Ian
hany Lopez on merge less fusing race and
class winning elections and saving
America let's hope we'll be right back
you
Sam cedar on the majority report it is a
pleasure to welcome back to the program
the Chief Justice Earl Warren professor
of public law at the University of
California Berkeley author of merge left
fusing race and class winning elections
and saving America Ian Haney Lopez
welcome back to the program thank you
I'm delighted to join you so you were on
this show I guess maybe was 2015 maybe
it was 2014 talking about your book at
the time dog-whistle politics and this
book sort of came out of of that one is
that right
very much so so dog-whistle politics was
was my effort to understand and explain
in the way in which political parties
have become polarized around racial
Jesus said that there is a strategy
adopted by the Republicans as a strategy
I want to make it very clear how the
strategy is big to trade but as the
strategy Ian I'm sorry votes in I'm
sorry can we I apologize can we call you
back we seem to have a poor connection
let's tour no problem at all thank you
okay bear with us folks we're gonna call
them right back
now keep keep it up try anything and how
about now
I think it's better I think it's a
little bit better I was just getting a
poor connection signal and we you were
cutting in and out so all right so let's
take that that again this book follows
your dog-whistle politics and tell us
tell us how that happened sure I'm sorry
you know what we're getting a poor
connection again we can't even hear you
I'm gonna try your other number if you
can hear us okay
all right folks bear with us we're gonna
try and column which is put up some
little bit of music we get a hero I'll
do this music
[Music]
okay III think there's a conspiracy of
some sort well no actually this sounds
much better so we have defeated the
conspiracy all right so let's let's try
this again the the this book came out of
dog-whistle politics
I mean maybe well tell us how and maybe
also what what it requires is just a
reminder of what you were talking about
in the context of dog-whistle politics
so the book dog-whistle politics is
about the use of coded racial appeals in
American politics seems like even though
alien federal majority doing things
silent majority American heartland all
of these on the one hand trigger racist
stereotypes and on the other hand allow
colleges to deny that they had any
intention to do that at all that was a
book in 2014 that really said this has
been happening for 50 years and then
Donald Trump effectively reads my book
of critique as somehow how to angel gets
himself elected precisely by using
dog-whistle politics so it's a moment
for me of recognizing we need to go
beyond simply analyzing what they're
doing and we really need to figure out
how to fight back against dog whistling
and I knew by then that Republicans in
order to hone these racially divisive
but superficially colorblind messages
that they used focus groups they polled
testing these communications experts so
I resolved to do the same thing I
connected up with a great communication
specialist we hired some fabulous
pollsters we ran a two year
project in the aim was to see how do we
explain to the American voter that
racism is being used as at the reading
conquer weapon and that when we come
together that's when we can all win okay
so you basically adopted I guess the the
tact the the sort of the methodology of
the write on some level to fashion a
message that both included race and
class in some respects right on the
right I mean they're not ignoring class
they're just fusing race and class in
some way that that that I guess triggers
for lack of a better word their their
voters and if you could do just well if
you're speaking on a headset just keep
it in the headset in one location great
so so I I think that's right I think
it's very important to understand that
on the right there is a consistent story
about race government and class and the
story that the right is always telling
it and I wasn't clear this is an
underlying story this is like the
skeleton of the messages they
communicate they will almost never say
it in precisely these terms but you'll
recognize it they'll say listen you know
yato not a worry about lazy people you
ought to worry about dangerous criminal
people you are worried about violent
people and underneath that is you ought
to worry about people of color and then
they segue to a second part which is to
say and you can't trust government
because government is actually coddling
these undeserving people with welfare
government is throwing open the borders
government is refusing to control these
lawless criminals and so this is the
third point gotta trust yourself to the
marketplace it's really the market
that's your salvation now if you you
know you put a backup for that in this
is a story well this is the story of
undocumented immigrants going on welfare
or getting hospital services this is the
claim that we need business
and to run the country like a business
because the market produces fair
outcomes this is a the idea that the
market produces fair outcomes is a
highly racialized story it says brown
and black people are poor because they
deserve to be poor there's something
fundamentally wrong with them and the
market recognizes that and in turn it
says anybody who works hard and is a
decent honest person the sort of
stereotype of what it means to be white
those people will succeed now of course
a lot of people don't succeed in the
marketplace and this creates a lot of a
lot of bitterness a lot of confusion a
lot of resentment and so you get this
wild phenomena where people are
struggling in the marketplace because
the jobs aren't there that the the
economy shifted the punches have gone
away but the hate government didn't heat
well sir the heat of the Affordable Care
Act the very sorts of programs they
would help them in an economy that's not
working for regular folks but they hate
it because they're stupid a story that
says those are handouts to undeserving
people of color you know it's
fascinating there's a well there's two
there's two things that strike me one is
that the relationship between in that
story between government and the free
market it and I'm not I'm not equate
abut but structurally it seems similar
to me is sort of the way that white
supremacists use Jews to explain why
black people may have achieved more than
they have in certain instances like
there's a there's an interest there
there's an interloper in this equation
and that in in in the context that
you're talking about its government and
its government is is what is tipping the
scales and why they're suffering on some
level because it is allowing the
undeserving to achieve when a
marketplace a free market would just
make sure that everything was right the
the other thing that strikes me is a
piece I read by Monica Potts in the New
York Times just yesterday I think about
Arkansas and the the title of it
keeps me at the moment but it very much
talks about this dynamic where you have
a people who could be helped by
government and they they do not even
want this help from government they they
don't they are it's in the land of self
defeat they they're suspicious of people
who want to come and do material
benefits for them because they just have
that much distrust of government broadly
speaking not that they won't deliver it
but that they will deliver it yes no I
think that's exactly right and what we
need to do is we need to back up and
take a historical perspective we need to
understand that a hundred years ago in
the age of the robber baron you know the
big industry in factories the Titans of
the economy were telling people you're
on your own
you don't need union you don't eat
government the real main provides for
himself and negotiates his own contracts
and and of course it was all yes you
know you can't stand up to the power of
money without organizing people that's
that's just the fundamental fount of
social life then you get the depression
and you see what we do with a large
swath of the society out of work losing
their homes farm values plummeting and
people turn around and say this this is
know my poverty my fact that I'm hungry
in fact that I can't take care of my
kids it's not because I'm not trying
hard it's not a it's not a matter of
individual fault this is this is the way
the economy's been structured and what
the government's doing and so for the
next 30 or 40 years we are this large
look at this long new deal in which
people come on my own you're kidding me
the forces arrayed against me are too
big I'm actually connected with
everybody else and we want to make sure
government works for us that was the
dominant ethos of the New Deal that was
a dominant ethos among right so the
really important question is what
produced the sort of ethos Potts was
reporting on in that in that essay
you're talking about in the land of
celibacy what produced is new ethos
which said I can't trust government
government's against me I really am on
my own and one of the things that she
said article is so interested if people
are moving towards this extreme social
aspirations extreme individualism
there's not helping their neighbors they
fear and distrust their neighbors they
don't they don't want anybody around
memory what what produced that shift
because it is a big shift there's
nothing natural about it
it wasn't there it's died vertically
opposed to the dominant consensus among
whites for 40 years the consensus by the
way that build the largest expansion of
the middle class in the history of the
world and that's where we come back to
the role of dog-whistle politics the
titans of industry then the new version
the Goldwater is and the Ronald Reagan
the General Electric in the heritage of
the Koch brothers they funded a story
that said we're not all in this together
because some people are violent and some
people are undeserving government it's
on the side of those that deserve people
not you dear people of color but hate
government and here just to pick up on
on on the point you're making as much as
the government is the interloper
government is the main enemy in the
narrative of the right government is the
main enemy and what happens when most
people think government's the main enemy
it makes it much easier for the few and
the wealthy to hijack government for
their own purposes so I want to I want
to pivot to to the work that you did in
terms of like finding a you know a
message that would compete with this one
but but but to what extent and this you
know it certainly comes through in that
and that sa because it's about Van Buren
County in Arkansas and to what extent
are we talking about I mean and and I
and I think it's quite clear the the
messaging that has gone on
but I wonder if there was certain
segments of the population that was more
susceptible to this message at that time
in the 80s and you know these people are
I think even more Meleager
certainly than they were in the early
80s I mean there's a whole host of
different things that have contributed
to that but one of the things that has
contributed to it and also I think and I
wonder from your perspective if it's the
case that it also set the context for
people to be more receptive to that that
that message you're on their own
individualism there are forces out there
that want to take stuff from you that
government is is you know giving them
largesse and whatnot is the the rural
urban divide that the nature of the
people who stay in a small town not
saying all of them but the nature and
the desires and the ambitions or the
perspectives of people who stay in a
small town in rural America versus those
people from that town who say like I
want to go to the city for whatever
reason that they they want to go to the
city has self sort of sorted people in
such a way that the people who remain in
those rural areas are much more
susceptible to this message because also
the people who would not be susceptible
to that message have moved out already
and so there's no competing narrative
that exists in these rural areas I think
that that's a dynamic but I also think
that we that we can mislead ourselves if
we emphasize dispositional elements or
temperamental differences though they're
very dynamic in which you have
commentators on the Left who purport to
explain you know different sorts of
brain different ways where why are
different fears or fear versus curiosity
you know okay I think that there's some
role for that but another way to think
about this is the sorts of fears and the
sorts of anti-social isolationism and
alienation
there's no dominant among Republican
voters that used to be associated with
the John Birch Society and you know five
six eight percent of the population the
most extreme the most paranoid
if you wanted to explain Birchers I'd
say okay if we're talking five or six or
eight percent of the population let's
look at psychological the factors what
we're going on with these folks but when
you want to explain half the population
and you want to explain a shift that
occurred relatively rapidly that is
mid-1960s landslide election for Lyndon
Johnson when he promises a war on
poverty 1972 landslide election for
Richard Nixon what he promises to turn
the Democratic tide and protect the
silent majority does not psychological
factors that's not complemental
differences it's a major shift in the
cultural and political story that people
are telling themselves and so what I
think that these dispositional elements
are there I want us to focus on the way
in which a story of racial conflict
government betrayal in a dependence on
market actors that is purposefully
produced with the implication that it
can be purposefully defeated okay
interesting and so and and I guess I
should just say though that I'm not
necessarily talking even necessarily
about the these predispositions as much
as I'll so I'm talking about the sort of
the the fact of the matter is if you
live in a rural area and and even it
doesn't even necessarily have to be in a
rural area I grew up in a city that I
think was extremely suspicious of
outsiders the second biggest city in New
England but extremely suspicious of
outsiders and outside elements and etc
etc and it's and I've lived in small
rural areas and that is very a very
prominent sense and I don't know that
it's psychological as much as yeah my
context of where you live in you just
not expose it right and I good the key
to me there is segregation
the physical and spatial social
segregation what we see in our research
is that the people who are most racially
fearful live in the areas in which there
are the fewest people of color when
people are socially isolated from others
it becomes much easier for them to be
fearful of these others for them to
understand and view others almost
exclusively through through racist
stereotypes it's when you get to know
people and you get to appreciate that
cultural differences linguistic
differences differences in skin color or
in religion don't make people
fundamentally scary or threatening
that's when you that's when you can
actually immunize people against
political stories that say don't worry
about the rich and powerful worry about
people who don't quite look like you
okay so let's talk about how one does
that to a certain extent and so when you
set out and I know you did this in
conjunction with some folks from demos
set out to sort of determine what kind
of narrative you can that that that cuts
through this this now predisposition
that significant portion of our our
country forty five percent maybe have in
terms of this this story they tell
themselves give us some examples of how
you you developed it I mean I know
Indiana there was a you did a poll in
Indiana what maybe let's start there
just a bullet we need to depress your
audience just a little further before we
sit there is all my audience like the
best but yes so on yes in one way we're
talking about Trump voters but when we
set out to figure out how powerful these
messages were the first thing we did was
we tested essentially the sort
racialized rhetoric the Trump uses and
what we found is if you have a message
about people from terrorist countries
who wishes harm or people from countries
who've entered illegally and don't
respect our laws the sort of things that
we understand as racist dog whistle when
we tested that message we found that
that message was convincing to the
majority of Republicans and the majority
of Democrats and the majority of African
Americans and the majority of Latinos
that is once you take the highly
racialized narrative that the right is
telling and you switch it into code so
that you're not using expressly racial
terms that story of threat um from brown
and black people is actually convincing
to a wide swath Americans the majority
Republicans damns African Americans
Latinos there's a lot of power there so
part of what we're doing is we're not
just this isn't a project justices okay
how do we win over Republican voters
this is a project that says how do we
bring over about sixty percent of the
American public who fall into a
persuadable category of both being
susceptible to racial fear but also be
committed to to positive visions of
people of color and government and just
to be clear the majority of African
Americans and the majority of Latinos
are in that persuadable middle okay and
so I guess that's depressing in the
sense that we're we're all susceptible
to these these narratives that I guess
trigger some of our fears and so what so
let's move let's make that pivot what
where did you start in terms of of
language that you are a narrative that
that that was effective with all of
these folks what we started with was the
insight that if we accused
publicans or Donald Trump of being a
racist that deepens the divide because
it strengthens the narrative that this
is white people against people color if
instead we start with the point that
racism is being used as a
divide-and-conquer weapon against all of
us
that created room for inclusion now it
was very important to make to take the
next step and not simply say they're
trying to divide us but to really
affirmatively insist we want to come
together they're trying to divide us
across race lines we want to come
together across race lines white brown
black whatever color whatever national
origin we want to come together because
when we come together that's when we can
take this compass this country back that
turned out to be the culmination of
naming division but explaining it as a
weapon of corrupt billionaires against
all of us and then affirmative ly saying
let's come together when we come
together across race lines that's how we
mate it's a country that works for all
of us that's turned out to be a very
very powerful messages it beat the dog
whistle racial fear message it was also
more powerful than standard democratic
messages that either called out the
Republicans for being racist or tried to
avoid talking about race all together I
mean in some ways wasn't that Obama's
message there's no red America there's
no blue America you know that and I
don't know who the day is in this
instance I don't know that he was was so
explicit about billionaires and this and
that but there was there was there were
times he would sort of hint at some type
of populism but wasn't that exactly the
the message it was potentially his
message I think had he baited his
message had a very different president
seeing a very different legislative
slate of legislative accomplishment
listen so Obama comes in and he says
let's all come together hope and change
but at the same time that he's doing
that he's suppressing two critical
messages
one that while we're all coming together
that the reason we need to come together
is because we're losing the class war
that there's a class war that's going on
it's been going on for fifty years and
we're losing and if we don't come
together we can't fight back and Obama
simply was not interested in making that
point and the other thing about Obama is
he said let's all come together as a way
to bury the race conversation as a way
to sidestep it to say I'm not going to
talk about it and it's one of the one of
the strange marks of the Obama years
that Obama talked about racial division
in the United States less than any
Democratic president since FDR Obama did
this sort of we're all in this together
and I was a soar as a kind of cliche
let's let's hold hands where
everything's fine we're just going to
march into a future but I'm not going to
tell you who the enemy is and I'm not
going to tell you what sorts of
divisions are being used against us it's
all going to be good that works in 2008
in the depths of recession and given the
sort of the calamity of the of the Bush
administration it worked last well in
2012 Obama's remarkable for having a
warren reelection with less support than
his initial election and it simply
failed for Hillary Clinton we want
people want a story that says we need to
come together because there's a class
war going on and they're using division
against us and we want to come together
in a way that names racism expressly as
a problem that we have to overcome
because we see that racism is tearing
this country apart
and we want it name do we want to
challenge it we don't want to hide from
it anymore and that's the those are the
two crucial differences with Obama's
message being class war and name racism
as the weapon that's being used against
all of us and cross racial solidarity as
the reynold forward not only for racial
justice but for economic fairness for
everybody of every color it seems like
the message has that the class war
message is
[Music]
non-passive voice 1 in other words we
know who we name who in in this message
whose waging this class war right the
billionaire class we have made I think
other people would say maybe capitalist
but for the ease of understanding and I
guess I would imagine you know for just
like colloquialism is billionaires well
they're greedy people but what do we say
about racism I mean how is it that the
class war has a perpetrator but racism
doesn't or is that just a strategic
racism no racism has a perpetrator
Donald Trump Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity
Rush Limbaugh all of the millionaire's
shilling for billionaires by stoking
racist hatred in our country and we
should be clear I mean it in a way that
Elizabeth Warren says FoxNews hate for
profit the hate is especially racist
hatred they are stoking racist hatred
for profit right and it's very important
to name that as what's going on there
are prominent people who are making a
mint by getting us to hate each other
and to fight each other along race lines
while we're at it we might throw Russia
and Russia's BOTS into the mix in it you
know one sense it's kind of a joke in
another sense it's deadly serious Russia
understood that if it wanted to help
Donald Trump win election in 2016 the
way to do that was to stoke racial
acrimony through social media in the
United States in fact here's how I'd put
this it's one of the most important
insights of this dog was a politic story
to recognize racism isn't something that
just floats out there in the sort of
this miasma or Dean of the culture doors
racism just a vestige of hundreds of
years of discrimination both of those
are true but those are insufficient ways
of
understanding racism racism is as
powerful and as pervasive today because
some of society's most powerful most
wealthy segments a profit for themselves
in funding it and in and that sounds
dramatic until you think well okay Koch
brothers petrochemical industry how do
they protect their interests how do they
block us from enacting in any
environmental legislation partly they do
it through the usual hire a bunch of
lobbyists partly they do it through
peddling a bunch of fake science but in
the main they do it by funding groups
like the Tea Party groups that organize
people around stories of racists fear
and resentment that you or the Mercer's
who make their fortune on Wall Street
what are they fund Breitbart and Steve
Bannon who organize in and and rile up
voters through racist stereotypes we are
living in a world now in which racism is
the main weapon of economic tightens
against the rest of us and how receptive
are those on the right to hearing
Limbaugh's name or Hannity's name or
Carlson's name because i would imagine
and that that because then they start to
where they're like wait a second it's
one thing I don't like the coax I don't
know who they are this guy Mercer
whoever even Donald Trump I think you
know we can argue that he's sometimes I
don't like him on Twitter I'm doing this
is my conservative I'm inhabiting it
conservative now but but wait a second
rush I've been listening to for twenty
years
Sean Hannity is my guy talk Carlson I
don't like how uh he's a little uppity
but he's still pretty pretty too
straight shooter I mean what happens
when you introduced them as being the
purveyors of this how how receptive our
people are are we talking about people
there's a limited
number of these people on the right who
are receptive to this message and we hit
them there so when we segment at the
American electorate we found that there
was about 23% of a national electorate
electorate were consistently progressive
about 18 percent of the National
electorate were consistently
conservative or was in reactionary is a
better term we're not going to reach
that 18 percent but that left 59 percent
who are toggling in between and those
are the people that we can reach with
this message that says they're trying to
divide us let's let's come together
together we can make this the country we
want the same message also plays really
well with the progressive base and this
is an important insight we don't have
the message separately to reach people
who are in the in this persuadable voter
segment or who are democratic base
voters likewise we don't have to message
separately to reach whites and people of
color this message of cross racial
solidarity was the most popular message
with both whites and people of color but
that's that that's the strength of this
approach it is a unifying message not
only hits substance hey we need to come
together but it's a unifying message in
the sense that it is the most popular
message with all of the important
segments of the Democratic base who well
before I get to that question I just
want to talk about that that poll in
Indiana and and the one the polling that
you did in Minnesota because both those
sort of stick out for me in terms of you
know sort of very definitional as to
this era so what we wanted to do is we
wanted to figure out how these sorts of
messages would play in very different
states and the pattern was consistent
though we serve in swing states like
Indiana there was much greater
polarization you had yet people who are
more consistently
reactionary people were more
consistently part of the progressive
base but even in a place like Indiana we
found a pattern in which a message of
cross racial solidarity worked it was
the strongest message that a message of
economic populism that tried to stay
silent about race wouldn't work with the
Democratic base but would not work as
well with persuadable and that a message
that really challenged racism but in
this sort of whites against non-whites
sense of challenging racism that was a
message that performed the most poorly
coming back to Minnesota even there were
there was research that was done by a
group faith in Minnesota that was we
were drawing on a research they did
their own independent canvassing project
and it was really stunning research they
started by showing people flyers it was
essentially copied from a Republican
flyer there was an actual distribution
and people do you agree or do you
disagree and they found very high levels
of agreement with this Republican flyer
again including that they did it with
whites in rural Minnesota and people of
color in urban Minnesota from very high
levels of agreement when they then came
back to these same folks oh I'm sorry
about that
we articularly what that what that flyer
said the flyer was the typical
dog-whistle message that says we need to
keep our community safe we need to
protect our people first my opponent
wants sanctuary cities
you know businessmen are what makes this
country great right that that's that
sort of Oh
basically the Republican themes a few of
them centered on economics and trust me
business but most of them promoting a
narrative of threatening and undeserving
people threatening undeserving people
and implicitly people of color that
message was very popular okay and when
we came there go ahead
sorry yeah so when we showed the same
people a message that said we all want
something similar but but but our
opponents are trying to divide us when
they divide us we all lose when we come
together that's when we can get the
things we need like health care and good
jobs in a sort of a beautiful Minnesota
not only was that message popular across
the board it was actually a winning
message among whites who initially
agreed with the dog-whistle racial fear
message and this is a very important
point because I think a lot of us have
to have a sense that hey if anybody
agrees with these racialized messages
against immigrants and sanctuary cities
and all of them they're just racist as
if that's one thing and explains their
whole world outlook and yes there is a
lot of susceptibility to racist
stereotypes but these same folks also
can be pulled in a racially progressive
direction if they understand how their
racial ideals are the route forward for
themselves in their favor
interesting well who do you who do you
perceive in our political world today
who is delivering or what people I
should say are delivering something if
not this message something close to this
message do you see every I think is
every Democratic candidate let's put it
this way is every Democratic candidate
similarly situated to deliver this
message are there some that are already
doing it I mean who ought there is
modeling this well and whose modeling it
portal II that's it's a really great
question so I want to distinguish this
message from something that is common
among Democratic candidates many
Democratic candidates say we need
economic populism and we need racial
justice we should do both but notice
that they're essentially separate
messages and it's not clear why we
should do both in in some ways these
messages seem to be in tension because
when Democrats say they want to do
racial justice that sounds to a lot of
people here that through the Republican
frame that says Democrats only care
about people of color this message is a
race fused class message that says we
want economic populism and that means
that we have to deal with racial evasion
because that's what's stopping us and we
want racial justice and that means we
need to deal with a multiracial we need
to build a multiracial coalition for
economic copy to them because it's these
dog-whistle politicians who are at the
root of some of the most severe violence
against communities of color that is if
you want racial justice you need a
multiracial coalition to defeat
dog-whistle politics do you want
economic populism you need a multiracial
coalition to defeat dog-whistle politics
these whatever your agenda these are
fused now from that point of view who
are the Democratic candidates say this
you got us and you got to step back and
say what is their position on economic
populism because the idea that there is
a class war that that's why we need to
come together that's central to making
sure that this new approach to unity
really works people need to understand
what's in it for them or alternately why
they can expect others to join this
coalition so if you have candidates who
I want to shy away from the idea that
the system is rigged they're gonna have
a much harder time with the statement
likewise you need candidates workable
talking about race if you have
candidates who don't have a good history
of talking about race don't get it don't
really understand it
to be perfectly frank see racial justice
is something they need to do for some
particular constituents but it's not
fair thing they're going to have a hard
time with this message you read that the
strongest candidates for this sort of
approach are candidates who understand
there's been a class war going on for 50
years we need to rewrite the rules to
help all of us and all of us really
means all of us and that means things
like racial
and repair reparations those are
essential to making us into the sort of
society which everybody has a decent
chance to thrive and now those
candidates are in the best position to
say and these two goals are linked
economic populism and a society in which
people of every color have the best
opportunity to thrive those who are in
several inseparable e-link and so who I
mean who do you see is doing that I mean
I to me the sort of the most natural
person who comes to mind when I think
about that is frankly is AOC on some
level and then you know I mean just in
terms of American politics that the but
but but maybe you have a different sense
but but no I think that that's right I
think there are they're people like a
woman rev William barber in terms of
across racial moving North Carolina and
Alice or rejuvinated poor people's
moving across the country there are
folks who sometimes they get this
exactly right sometimes they they drift
just a little bit for someone like ALC I
would say a lot of times she's really on
this this idea of intentional division
and class Warren we need to come
together but sometimes she she moves
towards that we need to denounce Trump
for being a bigot over being an
anti-semite side and yes I understand he
is a bigot yes I understand he's an
anti-semite but I also understand
labeling him that actually helps him
because what it does is it deepens his
story that visits fundamentally a racial
conflict between war and racial groups
and implicitly he represents white folks
that's sort of like you try not to think
of an elephant type of theory right like
as soon as like as soon as you you you
you name that dynamic it immediately
redounds to his story it confirms his
story it confirms the story because
again
remember the the vast majority of people
do not hear what Trump is saying as
racist when he says we need to shut the
border against people who come from
terrorist countries who mean us harm
there is a set of us who are like yo
that's racist
that's not the vast majority of
America's most vast majority of
Americans say oh yeah we need to protect
ourselves so when the left turns around
and says hey Trump you're a bigot for
saving
most people say to themselves well I
believe that am i a bigot are you
calling me a bigot and right right there
that's when progresses loose it's much
it's much more effective to stay
consistent and to say Trump's a racist
in the sense that he's a strategic
racist he's a carnival barker he's
running a con and racism says con hey I
want to be crystal clear I am NOT saying
don't call Trump a racist call him a
racist but make sure you you're clear
about what kind of racist he is right
you just say he's a crazy you're saying
make sure that the the critique is that
he's using racism as a tool and labeling
him as secondary as long as race as
racism is being centered as a tool that
is creating a class division and he's
doing this on the on the behest or in
service of those who control the economy
I think that's right so so it's like
that's exactly right make it clear that
racism is a weapon against all of us now
it's also important to make it clear
that we're not all getting hurt the same
that when racism is used as a way to win
elections you end up with government
that that specifically targets
communities of color mass incarceration
mass deportation mass surveillance
systemic neglect that's what you get
when the country elects politicians who
campaign on the basis of racist messages
so we're not getting hurt the same way
but we are all getting hurt and because
we're all getting her it does create the
possibility of a
racial movement to drive out of politics
these politicians who keep winning
by providing us you didn't mention
Bernie Sanders there what where do you
think do you think that he's not
delivering that that type of message
about racism as a as a mechanism to to
to fuel a class war I think that he
sometimes does that and some but but
more so so sometimes Bernie will say
Trump is using racism to scapegoat
people and and I think that that's
exactly right when he says that but very
often he defaults to a worldview that
says economic inequality is the
fundamental problem and then he'll say
and so you can see that when people are
suffering politicians will scapegoat and
and and and you start to see the way in
which the race part is secondary to the
story he's telling and it becomes even
more secondary when he says let's let's
let's deal with economic inequality
first that will disproportionately help
people of color because they're
disproportionately poor so my economic
populism is really racial justice right
this is the answer he gives in terms of
reparations he says well support
reparations but if we do all of the
things that I say we should do in terms
of economic populist if that's going to
help lots of people of color and again
you get this sense from Bernie's like
racism second and and the mistake is to
not recognize the economic inequality in
the United States of the sort we're
living in 2019 is directly a result of
the power of racial division and that
that racial division began to divide
folks break the New Deal coalition and
create popular support for rule by the
rich when people were doing fine it
wasn't economic calamity that led to
scapegoating to lead to people to look
around for someone to blame
it was Republican politicians in the
1960s when most rights were doing great
having come off of that the long you
deal with them when they're doing fine
to say so raise you're worried that
government is favoring these other
undeserving racism is the sword wielded
by the billionaires not the shield when
there's some type of you know response
to what you've done to us
I like the metaphor I would just say
it's both right it's both shield and
sword it becomes a really powerful
feedback loop that they use it as a
sword to divide us economic hardship
ensues people look around for someone to
blame and then they use don't blame us
you should blame those poor people
those poor brave black people it's it
becomes this feedback loop and the only
way out of it is really to say this is
being used against all of us people
power is the only response to the power
of big money
Ian Haney Lopes the book is merged left
fusing race and class winning elections
and saving America folks we will put a
link to this book on majority dot F M it
has all the obviously the the data and
the to back up but what we've been
talking about here Ian
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you is a
great conversation
all right folks
interesting stuff very interesting stuff
you know the first miscegenation laws in
the u.s. were created as a response to
Bacon's Rebellion wherein poor white
indentured servants and black slaves
rose up against the governor together
and it scared the out of the ruling
class there you go racism is a bourgeois
ideology designed to divide the working
class
there you go I was gonna say I think
this is Jamie's he doesn't say you won't
say capital it'll say billionaires but
we the same thing I mean the just a one
is a little bit less theoretical one's a
little bit more colloquial yeah sure
yeah I would only add that in addition
to elections we need to unite across
racial lines to organize for
a worker power working class power and
all the power that we need to take back
the world I wonder if they have specific
numbers on reparations in the polling
check that's an interesting fusion he's
going there because I mean that it's a
fascinating argument but then I mean
I've certainly never seen I'm talking
just on a objective level any type of
broad-based support for reparations and
any type of polling anywhere so that's a
kind of interesting fusion of sort of
emphasizing a mass message and then
talking about that policy specifically
which I always do just like to say every
time somebody brings that up marianne
williamson is the only reparations
candidate i think we should keep that on
doc you know i've cause she's still in
the race I think she I mean she hasn't
yeah I got it out I got a text message
from her team that there's a fundraiser
in Brooklyn I think this weekend oh
really
let's go how do you get all those text
messages I don't know I just put my
phone in on the internet on the grant
like you know Applebee's gift cards and
all I get is the IRS fake calls you know
I've comes after reading some socialists
on the fight for reparations and the
connection between the fight for
reparations and the fight against
capitalism can't do reparations without
coming after capitalism so there you go
folks
you could support this program by going
to join the majority report calm when
you do you support the free show that
you just listened to not only that we
give you extra content that you could
listen to going forward from this very
moment and getting back to the free show
that you listen to you get that
commercial free so join the majority
report today by going to join the
majority report com
also the a.m. quickie it's live on its
own feed go to am quickie calm to sign
up or just check your local podcast
listenings list listings as it were you
could join us in the fun half today we
have blessed
his heart I've been very difficult I've
been very hard on scatter Meucci what
this Lee friend of so but apparently he
you know I didn't I I know it looks like
it but I didn't say a word to this dude
he just stepped up and did one of those
cameos the right thing you know calling
out crowd will play that in the fun half
also we will talk more about what's
happening with Donald Trump selling out
the Kurds although he seems to have
backtracked apparently he got a phone
call from somebody I mean and I mean I
don't even know what to say we will talk
about the revelations that there is a
second whistleblower to the extent that
that's even relevant we'll talk about
the subpoena to the White House we'll
talk about Rick Perry we're gonna get
more into this stuff tomorrow on the
news but we will check check it all out
also don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority today it's
Monday tomorrow is Tuesday Michael I
hope your voice is better me too
I'll drink a lot of tea tonight tomorrow
we have Heidi Sloane who's running for
Congress DSA and Texas what is a
socialist message for Texas mean and
look like and then um could have a
little bit of a debate actually with um
sagar from rising
he's crystal balls co-host or and she's
his co-host as well and we're gonna do a
sort of socialism verse nationalism
debate on how to dress address income
inequality so all that and much more
which I'll hopefully I'll be able to
elaborate tomorrow and then grab your
tickets to the Philly live show November
23rd with Emma viglink crystal ball or
tzo ball drop Jamie this week on the
anti Fattah we had on Naja ago an
organizer from no new jails NYC to talk
about no new gels fight to
Bill de Blasio's plan to close Rikers
and replace it with all these burro
based justice hubs that are supposed to
be more humane but are actually quite
dystopian and they're fighting this
fight it's really important right now
for people to be aware of it and get
involved we also talked about prison
abolition more generally as an idea and
a framework for the work that we're
doing in the present and beyond we are
also recording a new episode with Ross
Wolfe today on borders and economic
nationalism making the case for why we
cannot solve the immigration problem
within the balance of social democracy
in one country also we have a live show
coming up this weekend Saturday October
12th at Littlefield with the anti Fattah
and pod dam America and all sorts of
really good guests oh is this weekend
heck yeah
you want to come I'm mad is not here but
literary hangover lives on online at
patreon.com slash literary hangover this
week I can't remember what he's doing
but he'll tell you tomorrow I'll tell
you tomorrow I mean that is his stuff is
evergreen it's super evergreen oh my god
and we released a new vampire castle
where we talk about the crow I'm so
sorry there you go folks
see you in the front half Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean
you know you're nervous a little bit
upset you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you
idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now so we win it's
win-win-win hell yeah now listen to me
two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8
three point nine billion
Wow third don't you see why don't you
get a real job instead of spewing with
your left one bomb everybody's taking
their dumb juice today come on Sammy
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we could double dip yes this is a
perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars
you're scum here not they accuse me
you you little eat I think you
belong thank you for saying that you're
a horrible despicable person all right
gonna take quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some ability Ria's out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to Isis and evil
with such a little bit it's a free
speech issue if you don't like me thank
you for calling in to the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
yes fact I'm with you right this moment
ladies and gentlemen the number six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
you can IMS at via the app at majority
app comm I get some good news about the
app I meant to talk about it in the
first half of the program but I did not
we're both the iOS and the Android apps
are getting refreshes so look for an
update soon and oh it's gonna all sorts
of well I don't know if it's gonna be
you know really great but the aim
quickie will be on there there's a lot
going on at Emma in the Mr Universe oh
my gosh so busy everything so expanding
so busy expanding getting bigger every
day new technologies and I think if you
have an Alexa or one of those things ask
it to play the a.m. quickie and and find
out if it's in your newsfeed I don't
know I tried to do it last night and did
to make a I don't even know what they
call it a skill or something and for all
I know I may have broken the whole
system taking it down from the inside
which I'm totally I'm certainly I would
be excited at that taking down Bezos
with your morning podcast if I would be
equally happy
if it played as a skill or just
destroyed the entire platform got a
national one of those two things would
be great and if I could do all that with
just the I don't know the half an hour
that it took me to noodle around that
stuff I had to like do like a special
Terms of Service like how much data we
taking from people and I just wanted to
put like isn't there a place I could put
zero
we're not taking any data we're probably
the only app that exists that doesn't
have one of those PK kits or whatever it
is that follow you around wherever you
are that's what all the apps are about
incidentally folks in fact I don't have
time to get into this today but I
probably will tomorrow there is a report
out from Scientific American where do I
have that I'll find oh yeah here it is
Scientific American it's not I don't
think the report was from them it was a
preprint paper on x RR xiv org by
economist Keith Chen of University of
California and they matched up anonymous
location data from 10 million
smartphones to ninety three thousand
polling places and and there's only one
hundred and ten thousand polling places
in the country voters in predominantly
black neighborhoods waited twenty nine
percent longer on average than those in
white neighborhoods to vote twenty nine
percent longer a third longer they were
also about seventy four percent more
likely to wait for more than a half an
hour now there's two things that I take
from the survey one our phones are a
little bit terrifying it's all anonymous
it doesn't have to be that's they
forgetting it and on so you can you know
but
and this data they so what happens with
an app and this is sort of a side note
because I think it's obviously the the
voter suppression is far more important
in some respects but but people should
be aware of this there are things that
they build apps and they put these like
little I don't know they're like cookies
or stuff that follow you when you browse
online but this is more it follows you
when you browse in the real world on
these apps you get a free app that's
what's going on they're even paid apps
they put it in there because there's
another source of revenue we don't do
this if I knew how to do it I probably
would if I could sell a lot of money on
it but I you know I got too many things
to do right now than to dig into this
and find out how to monetize it but the
they follow you around and they'll sell
this data to hedge funds that are you
know own like a supermarket chain and
where should we place supermarket chain
we can tell that people are bouncing
around the highest foot traffic is
around here or this is where people are
going at three o'clock in the afternoon
which we know from other data sets is
the height you know time of the grocery
shopping I don't know stuff like this
this is a good use of that information
to the extent it but we're going to have
it long lines are estimated to have
deterred between 500 and 700 thousand
people from casting their ballot in 2012
these problems led to the creation the
Presidential Commission on election
administration which issued a 2014
report that set forth a standard no
citizens should have to wait more than
30 minutes to vote but that is should
because we have no federal right to vote
in this country because when we were in
reconstruction and we were trying to
establish a federal right to vote many
of these states we placated the southern
states and probably a certain amount of
bigotry in the north as well but
particularly the southern states there
was I think two or three options on the
table as it were as to what the
Thirteenth Amendment would be and it did
end up being just like you cannot deny
I you know basically former slaves from
voting or anybody etc as opposed to an
affirmative right that cannot be in any
way infringed upon like you cannot have
any other techie it's one thing to say
you can't deny someone - the right to
vote because of their race it's another
to say you can't deny anybody the right
to vote because of their race and you
can add to AI them a right to vote for
any reason period and the exclusion of
that latter point that I just said was
why they were able to have from 9 to
1893 I think it is maybe a little bit
earlier through but in 1965 things like
poll taxes or literary - literacy tests
- vote because they wanted to exclude
black people from voting they were
willing to exclude poor white people in
many respects - from voting
very few people voted at that time
anyways and so we don't have no federal
right to vote in this country there are
prohibitions about what can prevent you
from voting but we don't have the firm
ative federal right to vote and so we
know from this data that if you are
African American you are far more likely
to have obstacles to voting and this is
just wait times at voting places I think
if they also you cross-reference this
with a a study that shows what polling
places have been closed over the course
of whenever Republican gets in charge of
the Secretary of State position you will
find the vast majority of those are in
African American neighborhoods Latino
neighborhoods poor poor neighborhoods
so this is just one tool in which the
Republican Party exerts six dominance
and I think the Democrats have not been
sufficient on this but that is because
of their allergy to power I think
they're aware that they want more black
participation and voting not less
because what Donald Trump is polling at
2% with black people and I think you
know Bush really was pushing the
envelope I think he got to maybe 10
percent but that's that story there so
in other words we're redoing our app so
let's just do the series of let's here's
Donald Trump last Thursday calling for
an investigation investigation into the
Biden's in Ukraine and China we know we
said at the time why he was doing this I
still think it stands that he was doing
this call specifically to normalize
essentially what was criminal activity
now I've seen some takes on Twitter
maybe we'll get to this when we get to
the Ron Johnson thing here so let's
let's hear this call because we have a
lot the real issue here now is the
Republican Party this party full I don't
want to call them cowards because I
think that gives them too much credit I
honestly do they're corrupt AF as the
kids would say not as sort of the kids
but and the adults tremendous power
well I would think that if they were
honest about it that sort of major
investigation into the Viking it's a
very simple answer they should
investigate devises because how does a
company that's newly formed and all
these companies that you look at and by
the way likewise China should start an
investigation into the body because what
happened to China is just about as bad
as what happened with with Ukraine so I
would say that President Solinsky if it
were me I would recommend that they
start an investigation into the visor
okay now isn't that funny isn't that
hilarious joke why do I say that's a
hilarious joke because that's what marco
rubio has told me it was a joke dude
take a joke here is brave little marco
remember how tough he was when he was
talking about his penis size with the
president do you remember that do people
remember that they got on an argument on
a debate stage about their penis size
that's not a metaphor folks i think i
blocked that out here he is now was a
highlight of the campaign i don't know
that's a real request for him just
needling the press knowing that you guys
were going to get outraged by it he's
gotten he's pretty good at getting
everybody fired up and he's been doing
that for a while and the media responded
right on right on right on task
[Music]
I don't think it's a real require dicker
unity I think he did it to get you guys
I think he did it to provoke you to ask
me and others and get outraged by it I
said I mean he plays it like a violin
and every falls right into that's not a
real request yeah you shouldn't take him
serious I don't take the president
seriously when he says stuff he was just
digging with like we why would we in any
way get upset about what the president
says I mean this is the most
disingenuous and like I said cowardly is
too
it's too kind of a word for this this is
corrupt this is this is basically I'll
take the tax cuts you take that thing
I'm gonna cover for Donald Trump me and
my less than substantial endowment
apparently says Marco Rubio before
people try and cut that and attributed
to me there it is Marco Rubio little
Marco little Marco so cute so cute
sweating under the lights media plated
like because they wanted the press to
come and ask Marco about it
meanwhile should we replay Jim Jordan on
or should we start with Stephanopoulos
let's start with Stephanopoulos Jim
Jordan the the brave wrestling coach who
ignored reports from his team that there
was a doctor of physical therapists who
was attempting and in some instances
successfully sexually molesting them
turns out there was something like what
15100 was it a hundred and fifty many
many cases Jim Jordan couldn't be
bothered but here he is on George
Stephanopoulos his program
ABC this week this was uh this Sunday I
guess I don't know why someone like that
can continually get back invited onto
even though he won a obviously a
congressional seat but here is Jim
Jordan and he's got a story to tell
about Donald Trump's basically extorting
Ukraine to a to get dirt on his opponent
so I still haven't got an answer to the
question is it appropriate for the
president to ask China to investigate
Joe Biden I think he's got you guys all
spun up and obvious I don't think he
really meant go investigate cuz I do you
think China's gonna investigate him I
don't know if China's gonna rescue my I
know there's no they're not George come
on why can't you answer yes or no do you
think it's appropriate I don't because I
don't think that's what he did I don't
think that's wise it's the one second
first of all why do we assume that China
wouldn't develop a line about anybody
why didn't why do we assume that China
at this point now that they've been
invited to do so I didn't even need an
indentation
why wouldn't we think that they I mean
certainly we would do this why would we
think that they're not sitting around
going like it's in our best interest for
Bernie Sanders to win or it's in our
best interest for Donald Trump to win or
Joe Walsh to do well in the debt and the
Republican primary or I want Amy
Klobuchar and so they just come up with
the dossier and stuff that implicates
whoever they perceive as being an
opponent to the any of those interests
to me why the the point isn't what we
think China is going to do the point is
what the President did I don't take the
president seriously George but here
let's go but it was right there on
camera I think I think senator Rubio had
it exactly right i think i think our
side says that this is exactly what i
think most americans say this is exactly
what the president was doing you would
think after like i said a few years of
following this present you would
understand sort of how this guy
communicates i think
what he's doing you're still not
answering the question if the president
is asking trying to investigate which he
did right there is that appropriate is
that an abusive president I think when
the president is and this is why it
relates to Ukraine I think when the
president is trying to make sure that
there is not corruption that if we're
going to be sending the hard-earned tax
dollars of the American people to
Ukraine to help them fight Russia to
help them get their country moving in
the direction they need to get the
security assistance they need I think he
believes that we should make sure
there's not corruption there it's not
that it's not president Trump's fault
that that Joe Biden's son was hired by a
company that mr. Volker told us this
Thursday when we had him in for the
interview the ambassador the special
envoy to Ukraine it's not president
Trump's fault that Joe Biden's son was
hired by BER yzma this company that had
a long history of corruption I think the
president when he's when he's trying to
decide how American tax dollars are
gonna be spent and what countries
they're actually gonna go to it's his
job to make sure there's not corruption
so when the vice president's son is
hired by this company that mr. Volker
told us had a long history of corruption
was was linked to the to the to the
government in Ukraine I think that's the
president doing his job so you think it
was appropriate for the president ask
Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden do you
know of any other instances where the
president has called on foreign leaders
to investigate corruption that did not
involve that one of his political rivals
George we heard from the ambassador for
hours this Thursday and the Ambassador
told us there was no quid pro quo there
was no linkage between any type of
security assistance money in any type of
investigation the ambassador was clear
we have the transcript where there is no
quit even Democrat chairman said after
reading the transcript even though
before they got the transcript they said
there's going to be a quid pro quo okay
we don't need to hear the rest of his
story I have very little doubt that he's
lying in characterizing that behind the
closed door testimony from Volcker we've
seen yesterday a Friday I read all the
the the the text messages back and forth
that's all we need but Jim Jordan and
you know kudos to him George
Stephanopoulos let him repeat his
fictional little thing over and over and
over again that's how you do it folks
that's why he goes on to say you know
like why would you go on and embarrass
yourself like oh the president's just
saying that stuff it's just like a bank
shot but let me reiterate this thing but
if that's the reason why Donald Trump
supposedly called because of burry smih
he was concerned about with hunter Biden
knows he didn't say anything about Joe
Biden what happened to what Jim Jordan
was on about with Jake Tapper just a
couple of days earlier that there was a
whole nother conspiracy involving the
2016 election so things you really think
they marry wait a minute so what did you
learn the president private lawyer had
to come I think that you came in here
and leveled a bunch of accusations and
allegations about I didn't know I just
said the facts 50,000 a month he was
paid by a foreign company yeah he was
hyper asthma but Joe Biden was trying to
get a prosecutor who was not pursuing
corruption fired it was some more
amazing there was a sixth you guys will
go through to defend what the vice
president of things in the last year and
two would be more sensitive about
throwing out wild allegation not like
I'm throwing out the facts the what the
prosecutor was not pursuing corruption
that's why the entire West wanted him
fired including anti-corruption
activists in Ukraine I don't understand
what you don't get about that well now
he goes on after that now you get with
it he goes on after that to talk about a
complete conspiracy theory involving the
Biden's but there it is I mean there's
Jim Jordan he's he's he's doing his job
he's doing a good job at it I gotta say
if I didn't have background on any of
this stuff I would believe him in both
of these clips he's getting that message
across the rest of the stuff is just
sort of a crosstalk the media still has
not figured out how to deal with people
who come on or just lying
they just haven't figured out and that's
a problem and if Dean hundred
incidentally I should just say 1500 was
the number so Jim Jordan
guess maybe Jim Jordan just never takes
anybody seriously when they say
something just say obviously when you
say go investigate something everybody
knows it's a joke come to me you're
doing it then it's come to me and say
there's a guy who's molesting people
it's obvious it's not serious
there's a lot of humor on wrestling
teams yeah you don't know about their
kids are testing bits all the time like
that early two-thousands like vise level
irony you know where you say something
offensive or just like something that's
supposed to be factual and that people
are like that's offensive or they're
like that's not true and then you're
like ha ha joke's on you I was joking
exactly I mean that's it that's what the
rides been doing for a long time folks
this is no joke let's get to this
scaramouche II think look I know I've
been critical of what's his first name
scaramouche because it's you know quite
clear that after two and a half years he
realized he was not getting back into
the White House and said well how can I
keep this this celebrity train going I
know I will now become a never Trumper
another wonderful never Trump ER and
personally I don't think he deserves the
time of day or at least I didn't say the
time about that dude because it's guerra
mochi if if he knows nothing else he
knows how to butter a guy up and I know
if he's fishing around for an interview
on the show or what I think we got
pitched him a while back but this goes a
long way through it here is Anthony's
community basically calling out steven
crowder again i can't believe it good
morning and happy Sunday this is a
message
or cold feet router pause it for one
second let's go back to the beginning I
just want to say you know for him to
also to take time during his Sunday he's
obviously going out for a Sunday Drive
you'll see in the video with his wife
and she's great the both of them were
great but I just want to say that they
really are I just want to say that's
that I appreciate that
noted just noted Sunday he did the
research good morning and happy Sunday
this is a message for cold feed Crowder
and I got booked by Cinco Sandra's okay
so listen up Steven quit being a
and debate Sam if you got to ask daddy
for permission it is what it is I know
Sam ain't no teenager but you got to man
up and do the right thing don't be a
hack and a coward Crowder debates am the
alpha males the alpha males are back
that is ridiculous okay you hear my way
my wife just said men are ridiculous
okay
man up man up and debate the guy okay
it's true it's true I don't like it I
listen got a dad it is what it is
right I listen I of course being a SOI
boy would have appreciated it be a
little bit less gendered you know not
just man up
but person up but whatever Anthony's
gonna deliver it in the way that he's
going to deliver it and so there you
have it you got to ask you gotta ask you
bad it is what it is and that is where
the ages do you have did I send you the
clip of that thing gosh darn it I
noticed this and I got to tell you oh
it's actually it's in the slack see if
you can pull that up it is an image and
I just want to say look this is not here
I'll put it right in here too oh wait
that's not it
sorry that's a different one here it is
this in regards to a crowd or I I
noticed this now you know I I don't know
if somebody sent me this or if it came
up on some type of feed or something but
pull this up apparently there is a thing
called yeah I just put it into the chat
there's a thing called I don't know what
they call this it's some type of trend
trend thing here it is yeah and it's a
gives tweet engagement stats and here's
the twit the tweet that steven crowder
did join us tonight 8 p.m. 7 p.m. FLE
lwc livestream with Pinterest
whistleblower Eric Cochran I don't know
what that means and half-asian lawyer
bill Richmond good stuff very funny
this was on October 3rd and there was a
tweet engagement stats and this I found
pretty funny the top hashtags in this
tweet
with 40% was the plurality was cold feet
Crowder and then the top words 33%
debate 20% cedar let's see if there was
any more top words oh that's it okay
sorry so um can we watch this caribou
you think again let's just watch the
scare of mooching one more time we're
having fun here folks
good morning and happy Sunday this is a
message for cold feed Crowder and I got
booked by Cinco Sandra's okay so listen
up Steven quit being a and debate
Sam if you got to ask daddy for
permission it is what it is I know Sam
ain't no teenager but you got to man up
and do the right thing don't be a hack
and a coward Crowder debate Sam the
output nails the alpha males are back oh
yeah
we're back baby we are back the alpha
males are back I know when he first got
on the mic Trump is unstable needs to be
removed from office train we're all like
this is such a cynical play by a cynical
person but now I think he's a genuine
genuine play by a genuine guy yeah it's
coming up let's go to the phone's
calling from a 978 area code who's this
where you calling from
uh hey Sam it's matt from mass going on
matt from mass what's on your mind matt
not much I just wanted to call I'll call
back see how you guys are doing I wanted
to tell Sam so I am a libertarian but
I'm a libertarian socialist you know
that that kind of that thought exists
out there that there are libertarians
and they can be saved yeah I mean yeah I
am aware I am aware of the libertarian
socialist but and so what does that mean
you you know central government is that
it um well I mean like I think common
sense about that or like a little bit
pre-emptive but basically yeah like
decentralized localized direct democracy
the
when Confederated like small states you
know like maybe towns or cities and they
kind of come together and it's just like
a a very bottom-up structure instead of
a top-down structure right and it's just
an emphasis on you know local
cooperation and freedom you know yeah
what and what's what's the point of that
what do you think you get out of that
that you that you don't get now well I
think it's um it's just like a lot of
like more equality you know what I mean
and it's just a like everyone working
together towards a common goal so so I
think like when we look at some place
like Ferguson for instance yep
the locality there now under the Obama
administration the police force was
under a a DOJ order that was taken off
when Jeff Sessions came in what do you
do about a situation like that where
actually the same dynamics that you have
on a on any other level take place there
but are actually much harder to dislodge
talking about like you know like racial
resentment between different ethnic
groups in the same community yeah I mean
you could do racial resentment you could
do corruption I mean I don't know where
a mass you live but if you live in
whitens Ville you probably know that the
level of corruption there if you're an
insider in whitens ville is higher than
it would be even on the state level
right no yeah and I and I think a lot I
mean like it's not about a direct
transitory just like right from here
like from the situation we are now -
when idealist is sort of like you know
calm yes or any sort of like extreme far
leftist Society
I mean obviously there's a lot of
progress that we have to make and I
think a lot of people is especially
socially you know I mean and the reason
I kind of called in was because I think
your guest kind of had it right where I
think a lot of
what Mike divides us is artificial and
if we can like come to get like if like
mutual cooperation is honestly the most
efficient way and the best way for
everyone and I think a lot of data backs
that up and especially like what until
you think about corruption and any sort
of like racial resentment or things like
that I think it's driven more by like a
personal sort of like a lot of those
people need justifications the way that
they think or they do and if we can
break through those that that would lead
to a better you know it's like it led a
better society for everyone so I mean I
think especially corruption and you know
societal dislike discord are mostly due
to the things that divide us and that
before we before we were transition to
some sort of like idealist or sort of
society that is those are the
conversations that we need to have right
yeah I mean I I the the the only problem
I have with what you're saying is that I
don't know what the magic elixir is
going to be to make people oh yeah
people matter I mean if I mean if and I
think this is the if the idea of full-on
socialism or you know even communism is
that you cannot allow any of the any
capitalism to exist because eventually
its will to power as such that it will
you know those embers will will will
catch fire and will eventually subsume
the the common benefit well it's not
just that though like crises economic
crises are endemic to capitalism and
they're gonna keep happening as long as
we have it well I mean I think it's
possible economic crises might be you
know part of everything but any type of
system that you have but maybe not but
nevertheless the economy but
nevertheless if the idea is that a
little bit of capitalism can be bad
um you know in the context of a society
because it can come roaring back in
terms of power I would just suggest that
capitalism does not exist floating
around that it is it is an idea that
that is born out of some people who want
to exert their will and they will do
that in any context and and that it's
pretty easy to have local communities go
sideways and if you don't provide any
type of state counterbalance to it I
mean broader you know in our instance
federal counterbalance I think there are
there are times where it's a problem
I mean slavery and now granted slavery I
know was certainly maybe not fully a
product of capitalism but certainly
capitalism was the fuel that that drove
that but there was also you know a
mentality I'm not saying that in this
day and age you have slavery but the
idea of like we're going to oppress
certain people in our in our you know
the smaller societies or our smaller you
know localities and and just like I just
have witness it living in a small rural
town man it's like Steven the people you
you see a decent amount of sort of you
know small scales corruption but it's
people helping people I mean that just
hey not so not to press you dude but
legitimate question as a libertarian
socialist how are you not calling in
about Rose Java I guess I don't I know
much about that I mean I'm not actually
not not severe but actually read about
it because it will give you some
concrete examples of what you're
interested in oh yeah and it by the way
it's totally fair to say I don't know
enough about this to comment on it I
feel like more people should say that
but I think what our caller was saying
was that libertarian socialism is not an
eye
geology that can be applied in a vacuum
and sometimes in order to move us
towards a libertarian socialist horizon
whatever you want to call it it will
involve moving through a phase of more
government and more state power like we
know that right-wing libertarians are
our enemies we know that these quote
unquote small government conservatives
are enemies I would prefer social
democracy to that certainly everyone
would on this show and that involves a
certain amount of greater state
intervention so you have to you have to
apply it in a smart way on a
case-by-case basis looking at the
conditions on the ground but another
another society that I think is a really
good example of libertarian socialism in
action are these a Bateses in Chiapas
and I actually went to go visit them in
a town called event ich where they let
Outsiders come and I learned a little
bit about their their society and their
mode of governance which is basically a
libertarian socialist society the towns
that are controlled by Zapatistas are
kind of federated together and they have
these councils usually the terms on the
council's are very short people are
selected not any standardized way they
can volunteer or people can volunteer
them and they make all the decisions in
accordance with these Assemblies of
townspeople and like you can say yeah
the people in Chiapas are culturally and
ethnically homogenous and this could
never scale up this could never work for
a big diverse place like the US and you
know that you partly have a point there
there are challenges involved there's
all kinds of Buju ideologies that divide
people from one another like racism
sexism homophobia etc etc but I really
think that we can we're gonna have to
overcome them if we ever want to win and
create some kind of better world for
ourselves appreciate the call mark
monkey TV on the I M two things who do I
have to do sexual favors to to get you
to talk about Jimmy Dore being paid to
do pro-assad propaganda
- I think scaramouche is the first one
to be 100% honest and know who he's
talking about
that's actually I get the sense about
the number two I have a feeling
oh yeah definitely he knew that it was
about Crowder um I don't know that Jimmy
door got paid to do pro-assad propaganda
I think that he stumbled on something
and got rewards from it and then just
continue to do it that's that's probably
my my guess um I think that I I just
don't think that somebody just stepped
up and sent because I you know why
wouldn't we have gotten offered to get
to do I mean to do that I think it's
just that do I think he should have
disclosed it yes but look I just don't
think I think the key thing about Jimmy
to understand is that in some areas he's
a smart guy in some other areas he's not
some areas he in many areas he doesn't
spend a lot of time thinking about what
he's talking about I think too many
areas that he's willing to opine about
where he doesn't think about and and I
think then he just follows some clicks I
think that's a fairly bebe teach a good
recent Doug Henwood interview okay key
point that pushing for impeachment is
likely to empower the neoliberal
moderate wing of the Democrats what do
you think
well conceivable I guess I'm not sure
exactly how that's the case you know
with an interesting story in The
Guardian about how impeachment has
basically destroyed Bibi Netanyahu is
plan of isolating Iran I think same with
Saudi Arabia they are now sitting down
and having negotiations because they
realize that Donald Trump is beleaguered
and cannot help them and is completely
erratic horror and I think to a certain
extent I mean is it I I'm not I haven't
I didn't hear about it I mean I don't I
I consist I have a suspicion as to what
his argument would be but I I don't know
it so I don't want to character
is it but my argument was that to a
certain extent a Donald Trump was always
going to empower the neoliberal moderate
wing of the Democrats more so than
having a neoliberal moderate wing of the
the Democrats you know largely in charge
because I think that's when the left
really grows in many respects because
people become disenchanted with whoa you
know however you want to call it
neoliberalism's failure to deliver on
what I think many people perceived is
its promise but I don't know the
arguments are yeah I mean I wouldn't I
mean I guess there's the idea that the
did you hear it the centrist Democrats I
mean I'm just going off what I know from
people okay so it's not necessarily I
just want to characterize Doug Henwood
argument if we don't know what it is but
you can Doug said it would delay the
release of information on UFOs which
concerns him oh I mean you know no
actually I do I do read a lot of Doug's
posts on Facebook and okay I I don't
want to put words in his mouth but there
is the idea that centrist Democrats just
want to run on the idea that Trump is
bad and the impeachment sort of feeds
into that narrative and also the idea
that impeachment has happened before and
didn't make presidents any less terrible
following that so impeachments happened
before and it didn't make presents any
less terrible yeah like the idea that we
need to do it in order to set an example
or with an eye to history that you can't
just have rampant corruption or law
breaking on the part of the president it
hasn't worked in practice um I guess
that's that's true to a certain extent I
mean although one could say that like I
mean if you're talking about Clinton I
mean I don't think anybody has lied
about a deposition and a deposition as
to whether they've gotten a
before they would be able to we've been
able to do that Johnson I think
it took us I think 100 some odd 150
years till we had 140 years till we had
another ranting lunatic in office but if
Gerald Ford does not pardon Nixon I
think there would have been a better
lesson learned I think if we were in a
position to have impeached Reagan and
guys like Caspar Weinberger weren't
pardoned I mean it's hard to prove a
counterfactual but just because holding
powerful people to account in the past
has not been sufficient in ending all of
their actions
nefarious actions I don't think that we
should start doing that now
the idea that it's going to empower
neoliberal candidates in the election
against Trump I mean I I don't think
that there's significant evidence that
the differential in 2018 was based upon
issue sets that people ran on I think
that what 2018 showed us that there is
no price to be paid by running on more
progressive issues but I don't think
that there's any evidence that running
on more progressive issues necessarily
helped you in those elections yeah but
also I think it is possible for centrist
Democrats to run on a platform of Trump
is bad impeach Trump and the the
impeachment story might add fuel to that
fire for them in a way that they don't
have to focus on the progressive issues
like do you know who else can run on
those platforms progressives and they
can win so maybe maybe I made a net net
yeah I mean you know like I think the
idea at the end of the day is I think
there's something to the idea that
campaigns are teachable moments in some
instances but I think particularly when
you're talking about like you know the
House and the Senate
I would trade
AOC who gets in an AOC type who gets in
based on saying that the Trump is bad
and I don't think anybody's gonna win on
just saying that but but just if I
stipulate that that's what I would trade
that over you know someone who's gonna
lose by trying to run just on on issues
and ignore the fact that Trump is bad
oh I'm looking at Doug's Facebook right
now actually there's also the fear I
think it's fair to say that the
impeachment inquiry could really fall
into the hands of the national security
Democrats and just add a lot of fuel and
a lot of attention to the idea that
national security and the security state
is the most important thing for
Democrats to be focusing on I guess
that's why we got on the Left got to own
it so that we can actually influence
that outcome rather than than the boo
and hiss on the sidelines yeah and I
think the people who have been calling
for impeachment the most and most loudly
it's isint Lee are people like Rasheeda
to live who came in on day one and I'm
gonna curse right this guy right Al
Green and you know though there is an
effort to marginalize those exact no
these European ambassador abandon ya
impeachment I do think there's a little
bit of contrarious contrarian ISM at
play what it doesn't away henwood I'm
joking I mean I'd rather both sides
rather from Brooklyn y know politican
this year um it was a whole host of
things
there was nobody like interesting there
for me on some level and just October's
just a mess I would have had to gone
directly from Vegas knowing what we know
now it's kind of a blessing is it I mean
the scheduling like now for you oh yeah
yeah yes that would be also very
difficult if it goes back to LA I might
do it but I just I didn't want to go
down to Tennessee for Politico Sam's a
coastal guy if I use the water if I go
to Tennessee if I go to Memphis I want
to go to Memphis I don't want it to be
in the context of around a lot of people
know it's Nashville but Nashville was it
national yeah it's a Nashville that's
here I mean I wouldn't want to go to
Nashville that way either
Joe from Connecticut majority reports
self label co-host Michael Brooks went
on Richard Wolffe show made a great
conversation everyone should check it
out
I know Colin from Nebraska hey crew I
posted Union materials concerning town
halls to discuss wage increases in
future contract talks but I also want to
post a question about the Union fighting
for a four-day week with a picture of
Nixon with his 1956 quote about
inevitability on the four-day workweek
good idea a bad idea should I replace
Nixon's face with Michael or Sam's face
sure go for it water boat from Kashmir
update on Kashmir there is a depth
article in caravan India about and
there's an in-depth article in caravan
India about how Indian security forces
in Kashmir repeatedly violently raped
prisoners even if they are detained for
a few days its articles from last year
these sadistic monsters now have 13,000
boys not including men just let this
sink in as this goes Kashmir ease in
Pakistan won't care about the government
please of letting diplomacy work even if
you don't care about Kashmir I assure
you even a limited nuclear exchange will
have devastating consequences for
Humanity watch the interview with Daniel
Ellsberg where he describes his work
with nuclear war planning we you could
listen to ours that we did with Daniel
Ellsberg on that very topic Kelly's dog
woof thanks a lot Sam
due to my embark test I now have to
apologize to the dogs at the park for
claiming I had wolf ancestry it's been a
part of my litters lore but regardless
of the DNA I was never treated as wolf
and I should never have attempted to
appropriate wolf culture thanks dick my
I am
the ship no gambit morning regressives I
just want to look at the facts just a
long hard evidence of the matter show
okay Julie ACK hey could you point me to
the right direction to donate or help
the GM strikers I think if you google GM
strike fund you will you will find it
latest last Prussian 2020 pence Trump
pence versus Reuben door who do you vote
for TM BS literary hanger and the anti
Fattah amazing majority report is okay -
thank you very much the very sweet space
Lennon hi I'm at high schools teacher
and union organizer organizer in Puget
Sound area in Washington I'd like to
know your opinions particularly jammies
with regard to the need to change
educational funding and policy making
for the purpose of equity with regard to
race and class Jamie do you want to
start sure I mean yeah we gotta fund
education equally for everyone where
they live in a rich place or a poor
place but also like you can only do so
much at school if kids don't have proper
nutrition if they don't have secure
housing if they have to move around a
lot and keep changing schools so we
really in addition to funding education
properly we really need these broad to
redistribute if measures like housing
guarantees and nutrition assistance that
just barely exist in this country right
now yes I would agree we need to
decouple another reason why we need the
federal government at least this moment
to decouple proper education funding
from property taxes but yes every
educator I've ever interviewed on the
show almost every single one is is every
educator says tell me what the median
income is in that district and I will
tell you the quality of the school it's
interesting book out we may have money
it was a charter supporter who ends up
conceding that
even in those schools that overperform
charters it is a function of a
self-selecting process of parents who
are deeply involved in their kids
education which means that they more
often not probably have some mechanism
that is helping them in terms of support
that may not be available to other other
parents and at the end of the day you
need to do all the things that Jamie's
talking about you you cannot have cannot
have schools taking care of societal
problems that are outside their purview
and when the kid shows up you need to
have kids who can show up prepared to
learn and free of a whole host of
burdens that would prevent them from
learning that's just the bottom line
oh and if you want to talk about race to
and the privatization of education the
statistics on charter schools are
actually really really bad especially
with regards to racial disparities in
the way that kids are punished without a
doubt all the charter schools that are
in inner cities have like these
incredibly rigid I mean some of the
parents the parents want that on some
level but it's just problematic from
from myriad of different ways
speaking of redistribution here's an
interesting graph from a New York the
New York Times this is actually a gif
that that actually has a dynamic it's
like animated and here it is this is a
the overall tax rate on the richest 400
households was only 23% the combined tax
payments equaled less than 1/4 of their
total income that's stunning
the overall rate was 70% in 1950 and 47%
in 1980 this is you can see it I mean
this is a stunning graphic it just
it's dropping and dropping and dropping
to where the total tax rate for the top
400 is actually below the people at the
30th percentile in fact it's below
everybody just play that one more time
it is amazing this is all you really
need to know about what has happened in
society I mean if there was ever one
graph it's just not yep the more money
they have the more power they have the
more money they have and that's how you
have I mean it's not the only thing that
contributes to the massive wealth
inequality but there are a couple of
things maybe more than a couple but that
is a pretty big one
pretty big one let's go to the phones
call from a tu-16 area code who's this
where you come from two one six going
once
two one six going twice two and six gone
sorry sorry 206 call from an eight one
three area code who's this where you
come from
hello hello who's this where you come
from
hello hello this is business caleb from
tampa caleb from tampa what's on your
mind Caleb hey um I was really curious
there's the first time calling I really
appreciate everything I'll do but um I
was really curious to what y'all thought
about the Democratic race here in Tampa
and around the area around Brandon
Lithia mostly everyone around here as
far as I can tell supports trunk-like
100% and they're not really paying
attention to any of this Ukraine stuff
or any of that but most of my friends
and the people that I talk to and I
socialize with we all really don't
really like our for Barney but none of
my friends I'm probably the most
political person among them and I'm
really paying attention everything
but they don't pay attention at all and
they've already made up their mind of
who they're voting for because last
election they are to voted for Bernie so
I feel like all the you know stuff on TV
and everything that they want to talk
about and push for about Bernie's
numbers being low and bye-bye and all
that I feel like all that's just
inflated of course I mean I I think it's
it's dangerous to generalize from your
own experience in that way my yeah in my
experience that type of generalizing is
rarely accurate I think like you know
the big question that I think keeps
coming up is to what extent is Bernie's
support a little bit subterranean in
other words they've been doing a
tremendous amount of organizing we see
indications right like number of donors
number of volunteers through the roof
frankly and you know and I and I I think
that can be in certain contexts that can
be misleading I went up to New Hampshire
in 2008 2007 for the Republican primary
and if you were to walk around
Manchester New Hampshire you would
assume that Ron Paul was going to win
the New Hampshire primary because
literally everywhere you went you saw
Ron Paul sign you saw Ron Paul you know
somebody a Ron Paul supporter they were
all out in droves and then it turns out
that the relationship between Ron Paul
supporters and people who vote for him
I mean who were out on the streets and
people who vote for him was basically
one-to-one
like the algorithm was for every Ron
Paul supporter you see on the street he
will get one vote and then all of a
sudden he comes in like fourth or
something you don't know you just you
just don't know and so I think all you
can do is organize do foam banking and
and
whatever way you can and then we'll see
what happens in Iowa and New Hampshire
and we'll get a really strong sense of
of whether you know that sense that
people have that maybe his support is
being undercounted in some fashion is
the case so you know we'll see I
appreciate thanks for talking come from
a five-on-five area code who's this
where you come from
okay I am so excited hi my name's Alaura
I'm from southeast Iowa Laura South
China welcome Tosh oh sorry
thank you it's sana Laura is the full
name shining um Hana Laura like Shona
Lulu Oh like shiny Lulu of course right
Shona Laura Dona Laura family
anyhow that's not like us um sigh this
whole yeah I'm a huge fan I listen
pretty much every day now for the past
mmm like a year and like three years
three years ago I had no interest no
knowledge about politics at all and now
I'm a Bernie volunteer iPhone bank every
week and I try to get out canvassing
once a week if I can and I just really
really appreciate everything I learned
from y'all and I don't know if Michaels
still there but I came to this show in
Chicago and it was really inspiring on
them how did you find how do you find
our show um so I was a single parent for
a long time and me and my daughter kind
of just started watching the primaries
in 2015 and just kind of like his
entertainment honestly um and of course
like everyone else we just you know
watch the food and rise rise and rise
and then I think I started getting more
I watch on YouTube and started getting
more Pakman video
showing up listen to him I still listen
to him but you guys became by regular
after a while it's good and yeah yeah um
so yeah one I mean here's one example of
how people don't really understand how
like you know government affects them
soon my 20s being a single parent had
all kinds of health problems mental
health problems didn't have insurance in
my thirties I suddenly qualified for
health insurance and it wasn't until I
started educating myself you know by
listening to you guys and that I learned
that it was because Iowa expanded
Medicaid is why you know in my 30s and
luckily because I ended up having much
worse health problems that you know I
really needed insurance for so wait so
that's kind of I mean this is this is I
mean cuz it the the dynamic you've just
explained I think is a huge failure of
you know I mean it was a huge failure of
the Obama administration is a huge
failure of the the nominal left at large
to sort of like educate people about
that how did you like why why do you
think it was that I mean how does that
happen that you get Medicaid and you
don't realize at first like oh this is a
function of some of a policy decision
right I mean um you know I a single
parent of a little kid in my early
twenties I just I was not prepared I was
just kind of knew that there was going
to be programs out there and just you
know my job on one side became that
single parent when my daughter was very
young was like okay I gotta get as much
help as I can you know I didn't even
have time to finish college before I had
my kid and so you know I'm so busy like
trying to make end me and basically you
know in survival mode for about a decade
I met my husband a few years ago but
yeah I mean then it you know that kind
of shows how it's in a way a luxury it's
like
we had gotten to a you know I got into a
much more stable place that you know
time to like pay attention to something
and you know and then it shows like
cackling and you guys and calculon's do
you listen to everybody you know that
just make it accessible and I just you
know started really figuring out you
know putting two and two together so
yeah can I just tell it yeah did you
have a question no no go ahead right
okay so um can I just tell funny click
funny story um so I am volunteering I'm
I have a lot of anxiety but I'm trying
to get better at talking to people so I
was just feeling especially bold at the
farmers market in my little town which I
live in kind of a bizarre little town
it's where the Guru - the Beatles
brought his I was out of maharishi's
town in Iowa I do yeah it seems like it
had that my our County Jefferson County
had the highest Bernie vote last last
time around so that was good though but
yeah I'm sorry I said TM is good then
it's helping people vote for Bernie
yeah there's actually a really strange
groups in the TM movement at the top
that are Trump fans because his daughter
does TM it's some of the really in deep
cult followers or little boys do anyways
so I feel in it
oh no sorry sorry go ahead
okay anyway so it's feeling especially
bold our little farmers market last week
and saw the tulsi table I have seen it
you know several weeks walked up and I
just said hey guys you know who are you
gonna vote for when Tulsi drops out and
the woman she says oh we're in it we
want her to win and then somebody tells
me that it's Sophie's parents that I
just asked that question - oh I don't
know why Chelsea's parents are in
Fairfield at the farmers market but
that's that's who I ask the questions
nice well I hope well
stable yeah I'll just say like don't let
that play into you you know your anxiety
that will never ever happen again I
promise you you will never ever run into
the parents of the candidate that you
are basically saying won't happen again
should abandon support especially like
Kamala Harris like her dad clearly not
backing her this is not gonna happen
understand that you have basically met
every possible anxiety you could have
regarding that you have now championed
past it yeah and it's never gonna get
awkward than that
I did also where I try to see a lot of
candidates come through here because the
people in this community really
politically active and I did go see
Tulsi the last time she was here and I
wore my Deez Nuts 2016 shirt just for
fun there you you know I remember Deez
Nuts yes yeah sounds uh sounds like
you're you're getting bolder and bolder
appreciate the call okay
grace great meeting you in Chicago I
hope we did thanks yeah thanks for your
support thanks for all you're doing for
Bernie that's good speaking of deez nutz
did you not see that thing that I say
you about the impeachment song we could
do that tomorrow we'll do that tomorrow
we'll do that tomorrow
let's play this this is very
heartwarming before we go we'll get to
Steven Moore tomorrow we'll get to
Donald Trump talking about how how he's
single-handedly saved Christianity but
before we do this is so inspirational
and so moving in many respects that I
felt like we should probably play this
just because did you know a lot of tough
news today and it's good to end on a
high note
yeah we're gonna have to go in a minute
callers we're not gonna get to any more
callers today I'm going to do Dumber
AIIMS this is
this is just sit back and watch this
preview of a very special episode of ben
shapiro sunday show there just really
isn't a lot of compromise so I just
thought if I'm gonna do this job this
way I just have to 100% not care what
anybody thinks but really not care what
the left thinks but what I have in
return is so much better because I think
that I feel gratitude and the fact that
I can represent so many people who are
voiceless in the mainstream media with
Meghan McCain there you go that is gonna
be special I I'm a I'm a watch that but
I would encourage you to watch it and
cut it up and tell us what tell us what
clips to look at watch that but I like
the fact you know it is so true you so
rarely hear any conservative voices in
the media like the president barely
barely barely does he make it on the
news
the other conservative daughter of a
Republican politician that you co-host
the view with right right
who you sit not as far as I am away from
Michael everyday right like we debt we
have no idea what the conservatives
stand for in this country we never hear
it you never hear about it there are
millions of people watching Fox News or
own or what's the other one the
WorldNetDaily or what's Sinclair braavos
pundits on CNN at actual fair amount of
MSNBC exactly all major Network shows
representation the guest lineup of Meet
the Press
what group is she talking about do we
think all those she complaining about
the Jacobin the Jacobin is like taking
up so much space and in the majority
report office it's like but she's really
glad it's gratifying that's super I
believe it's gratifying although she
doesn't always look like she sometimes
she doesn't look that gratified on that
show she seems a little bit frustrated
yeah
let's read a couple IMS and then we'll
be back tomorrow we'll do news we'll get
two more calls callers I apologize thank
you for holding on I appreciate your
indulgence
Sam's asymmetrical asymmetrical nostrils
Michael just a quick correction on your
global health care analysis last week's
what sone does not have governmental
health care quite the opposite we have a
fully private health care system and
prices keep increasing every year it's a
real catastrophe
Ono i yeah no I did I miscommunicated I
actually yeah I thought that's what's I
mean I'm assuming there is some public
expenditure in Switzerland that would
surprise me but I actually was saying
that um my understanding was that
national health systems came to
Switzerland later in the game after the
establishment of private health industry
and that's why Switzerland is not as
good as other European states love the
a.m. quickie left is best when a prank
right
Justin Trudeau's government is
challenging a human rights ruling that
would have the government pay for
discriminatory underfunding of services
to children on reserves people want
justice for indigenous communities and
the sing up swing has begun Jagr needs
personal approval numbers are trending
up quickly now is the only leader
above water pending a good performance
in the first official debate tonight I
think we'll see some major moves towards
the NDP good luck Gregory from Oklahoma
Sam you need to run for Senate so you
can primary Chuck Schumer if you run
I'll move to New York and work as a paid
staffer for your campaign I'm not even
kidding I'll work every day for your
campaign please run well I
I appreciate it you will you'll be alpha
this way until you be the one of the
first hires I have I'm not gonna I'm not
gonna say that you're gonna be the first
hire but I will say that you may be one
of the possibly we'll see leave sage
following the advice of a previous
caller I started phone banking for
Bernie Sanders I can confirm that
nothing feels better than converting a
Kamala Harris supporter from California
to a voter for the only progressive
candidate who matters if you have time I
definitely encourage you to volunteer as
well can I get a shofar you Canidae
beep X
the interview today makes it more clear
why the Joe Rogan interviews with Cornel
West and Bernie went so well Emma yes
good point
last week you reported on someone who
claimed you can't tax wealth because
most wealth isn't liquid this was a what
was it was it was it simple sweet yeah
the easiest debunking of that stupid
argument is that we do it all the time
in the US it's called property tax
that's true
we also tax cars I mean sales tax on
stuff is necessarily not liquid right I
mean you've just bought something prop
property tax indeed you don't sell your
house every time and we make an
assessment home or land has and if you
don't like it if you don't they take
away your non-liquid house away same
solution you can pay the tax on your own
non liquid health the state takes it
away problem solve Congressional
baseball phantom hello Sam I'm wondering
if the forthcoming a joke explanation
glossary is going to have a section that
details the meaning behind certain IMR
names asking for a friend
always anyways happy new year and play
ball look if you have any question in
regarding that all you gotta do is send
an email to majority reporters at
gmail.com right in the subject means and
if there's some I don't know what all
the I armor is about but but put the
name in there and then we're gonna put
it back out to the community and that's
how it's gonna answer although it's
going to be on its own email under no no
no the email I just will automatically
forward it to that
this is news to me
oh good stone zebra 666 hey Sam what's
your favorite bagel in New York City
will you have Sarah Silverman on the
show please uh it's possible to Sarah
come on
soon it's possible she's in town my
favorite bagel is now a place like on
12th Street in Brooklyn 12th Street and
7th Ave whole bagel hole I think it is
they go home it's a good bagel ah they
boil it like they like the old school
bagels there's like baking stuff the
shape of pickles is there an older bado
article on USA Today that describes
Bettles first-person fictional story
that he wrote as a teenager about mowing
children down with his car he describes
it as an act of love and pure ecstasy he
contemplates and celebrates how they
would sound cry what please tell Jamie
to lock the basement door oh my weird
all right three more of those the
Crisler Paco
can I get a shofar for shinning the for
finishing the Twin Cities Marathon
yesterday wearing a nice tan with a
launch shirt have you done a segment
about crowder I'm posting filtered
YouTube's search results to make it look
like conservatives are being censored if
not please do look
thank you
the crisps Lopakhin congratulations
colorado guy first michael sounds super
sultry today second if you want someone
to volunteer their time for you cast
their vote for you then what you have to
do is convince allah you demonstrate
that you give a damn about them that you
know what you're fighting for the
biggest reason dems lost in 2016 isn't
because Trump is that slick of the
Russians were that effective it's
because the majority of country is
desperate for a political ally Newt
didn't have in Hillary that's why Bernie
will win in 2020
blocked by Dave Rubin Sam you talked a
bit about last week about working on
Spin City just wondering if you have any
other stories about working with Michael
J Fox no Philadelphia girlfriend have
any of that he was very nice though he's
a nice guy have any of the Republicans
who said that Trump was just joking
about to having a China investigate
Biden explained how China would know
he's joking
the Chinese very atomic very very
advanced in see Ted Cruz buttery cow
sounds like Jim Crow era hasn't quite
ended champagne communist oh yo just
saying hi hello and the final I am of
the day talking about reparations we
need to talk about how no package will
be complete without a 25 to 50 year
structural disenfranchisement of the
white vote I'll be even generous allow
white people to run for office but we
need to end white suffrage to really let
this nation heal see you tomorrow in
that state
to get to where I want
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I just seen where the choice is made
oh the option where you tell get
Desmond
brakes
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
