but here is so Joe Biden he's still
divided zeldor son well yeah and Joe
Biden still Joe Biden and he can't help
but smile when he's accused of of
protecting a dysfunctional business and
he just can't help himself but lie and
condescend in the exact same moment here
is Joe Biden as Elizabeth Warren is
talking about the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau david dan who has
spent spent months months and months and
months back in the day reporting on on
the financial crisis quoted a guy who
wrote a literally wrote a book about the
financial crisis saying that joe biden
was not a player at all involved in the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau he
showed up for the signing and that was
it but listen to the guy not just lie
about his role in it but condescend to
Warren about it simultaneously that
that's impressive stuff folks cuz you
got to be you you got a you get you're
getting high on your own supply that's
really what that's going on there I
agreed with the great job she did and I
went on the floor and got you votes
I got votes for that bill I convinced
people to vote for it so let's get those
things strong closet Sarah Warren that
is not accurate according to all of the
journalists who covered it and the
people have literally written about it
but whatever I got you yeah you're not
talking to me that's Elizabeth Warren
why are you so mad
good very American that may she refers
me I agreed with the great job she did
and I went on the floor and got you
votes
I got votes for that bill I convinced
people to vote for it so let's get those
things straight - she knows she knows
he's full of it right here and she's mad
about it and she's trying to contain you
watch this I am deeply grateful to
President Obama who fought so hard to
make sure that agency was passed into
law and I am deeply grateful to every
single person who fought for it and who
helped pass it into law but I can't
understand it held that job you job
thank you but underst
well in addition to mansplaining he's
gonna Pat her on the head now yep yep
and say I have to say they there was a
lot communicated in that thank you
so petulant right no person who fought
for it and who helped pass it into law
but understand did it hell that job you
job thank you Christ
people told me go for something little
go for something small go for something
that the big corporations will be able
to accept I said let's go for an agency
that will make structural change in our
economy and then Obama said I will fight
for that and he sometimes had to fight
against people in his own administration
willing to make mayor boo tonight a
structural change Bernie's like I'm 99%
of the people in barest on behalf of
other people in this room right now
and go for his tie he's like whoa boy
Joe I understand your virility is Robert
Lee leaving your body and your brain job
your job gotta calm down did a hell of
job your job huh can you guys play that
next time I skip working and she and
look and she knows she knows what role
he played there and as I think like I
mean that was it sort of a very telling
moment I think about her as a candidate
and as just an operator like she she
could have said yes and I thank you Joe
and then moved on but she knew he was
lying I would be very surprised if he
wasn't one of the obstacles frankly to
what she was doing based upon who his
constituency is so there's a mixed
report on this from Ryan grim which is
interesting Biden did nothing absolutely
did not help now for whatever reason
Biden's top Biden's he cannot mean
Kaufman a Kaufman but Jared Bernstein
specifically backed her extremely
strongly so Biden had the most
progressive people around him in the
White House with regards to the economic
policy which I guess is a credit to him
because at the end of the day he did
staff with them but it was them not him
yep
the idea that he was out there getting
votes on the floor do not the case I
wouldn't be surprised if Jared Bernstein
was was helping in terms of the
development of of it but from the
political aspect she was very clear she
could have said yes thank you Joe but
she paid a very strong point of like I
think everybody who is involved I mean
she's not gonna say this obviously
because there's no you know cuz it would
benefit Sanders and she's not gonna want
to attack Obama but I believe the real
story is not only I mean not only Joe
not help when Bob AMA was finally
convinced to do this he wasn't
necessarily a yes you know she was
rightfully pissed that he wasn't going
to appoint her and there's a meeting
where Sanders is campaigning for her to
get the head of the
the congressional you and Obama looks at
Sanders apparently and he goes see those
the problem progressives you always
think the glass is half-empty you get in
the agency but you're upset she's not
gonna get the head of it at birdie
looked at he's like Jesus Christ you're
a prick okay or any supports women Biden
did not help but his economic team did
which is in trade people like Kaufman
and Bernstein are interesting relative
to to Biden's record
[Music]
