[Music]
there's been a bit of a meltdown on the
right wing right now
meltdown may its meltdown may and I I
like to think that I play a little part
of it you know I think there are
sometimes moments probably where I
certainly dedicate too much time to this
but then again you know I've been doing
this now for 15 years and have been and
becoming you know more and more clear
with where I have influence and where I
do not have influence and not so great
with necessarily purport exerting a
proportionate amount of effort based
upon what I know will be the return in
these things but with that said I do
think it is important for one to be able
to assess one's skills without without
ego maybe they're not always where you
want them to be but if God made your
your hand into a hammer then you should
be banging nails if it's a saw you can't
feel bad that it's not a hammer and you
got to saw things there's no romance to
being proportionate about everything
right well there's no romance that but
it's also like you know sometimes you
have to look yourself in the mirror and
say like you know look I'm not going to
I'm not noam chomsky I'm not going to
I'm not Howard Zinn I'm like but I'm
pretty good at driving some people crazy
on Twitter and you know what you do look
like Noam Chomsky when he was your age
well that may be enough but the point is
is that you know my skill set is what it
is and so sometimes I feel like well if
not me then whom you know back in the
day I used to get into some pretty
good Twitter fights with the Breitbart
and I always felt like I got under his
skin quite a bit and I thought that was
healthy for me to do I think it was
healthy for the world I'm not going to
take responsibility for his heart giving
out on a walk but and and like I say you
know I don't Wow no I don't say I don't
wish it on people
I do wish he'll on some people but and
it's not a function of like you know
Andrew Breitbart might have been a very
nice dad in a very nice husband very
nice friend to people and I don't blame
them mourning his loss but I only knew
him through his public work which I
thought was extremely detrimental in
fact I would say we're still feeling a
lot of that detrimental impact things
like the destruction of a corn for
instance and and other things but and so
you know to the extent that I can be a a
cog in a wheel that in any way inhibits
another wheel I'm happy to do that
and so with all that said let's talk
about steven crowder who as you know and
i have said this before
i have not ever released any evidence of
this I am quite confident about the
evidence that I have
I believe it's sitting in Matt's
computer New York is a what is known as
a one-party state and in one-party
states you are allowed to record a
conversation as long as one of the
parties on the line is aware of it I
mention this because originally when I
accepted the invitation to go to
politican I had conversations with
people associated with that event
wherein I was supposed to
have a debate with steven crowder and
then at one point i was told and this is
a quote he got cold feet and then there
was other information that was provided
to me that I thought was pretty funny
about like who was management is but
that's not important but steven crowder
is has what like a millions of followers
on YouTube might be a couple I mean he
has a massive show he has a beautiful
studio he makes I would imagine a
considerable amount of money 3.8 million
subscrib yes I mean that's pretty
stunning that is pretty stuff so bad
The Young Turks have a business model I
think they have two million subscribers
right or maybe they have five I don't
know somewhere around there but
nevertheless they have a huge enterprise
he has four or five guys in a room and
so he's doing quite well for himself
and much of his appeal to his audience I
imagine if we looked at the demographics
the audience they'd be quite young young
enough that they never occurred to them
say like hey how come when you're going
out to always to debate politics you're
always doing it with freshman's in
college as opposed to like adults who
might have had more time to think about
these things his audience doesn't seem
to care and so I wanted to debate
crowder and he wouldn't do it and much
of his of his shtick is basically what
you would see if you were in junior high
I think maybe even like its sixth or
seventh grade middle school and he
doesn't unabashedly and I do mean Bosch
idli
on it on his thing it's you know what
was it Che Guevara's a and this and
that socialism is for
here's the thing when we do Ken Kenny
Ken when Mike and I do Mike and I do
that that that that parody show we talk
like that because it we're we're
parroting and we're being ironic I mean
I some people could say like well you
still shouldn't say that cuz it's a you
know whatever I am and I think there's
there's an argument to that but what if
there's no irony in what he's doing he
is literally calling people gay and
and making these jokes with the premise
is that it's you know like gross and
funny or stupid or what I don't know
unchristian think it's almost like an
unchristian I get like it's almost like
I I feel like at one point in my life I
understood the concept is joke maybe I'm
just too old or maybe the times have
changed or something like this but like
no Sam some people are gay and that's
funny I watch this and I I can't it's
hard for me to wrap my brain around a
grown man doing this stuff on a daily
basis like you got to come in he got to
do it and so this this compilation came
out from a tweet thread from that guy
does explainers on Vox I don't I can't
remembers me Carlos Mazda Cosmo Zaza and
apparently which I didn't know Crowder
rides
Carlos Mazda in the same way that we
ride like you know Crowder or like dave
rubin or these guys except for i don't
go like i don't know what that well i
don't make fun of the fact that dave
rubin is gay you know it just doesn't
even occur to me Crowder i don't make
fun of the fact that he is i don't know
oh i don't know i don't you know i'm all
white I mean I'm
white you know I I don't know and but
Kyle's Mazda basically details in this
Twitter thread that and he doesn't blame
a Crowder good for him
because crowd is just doing what Crowder
does but Crowder has challenged Mazda to
a debate but the premise of it is he's
so gay he's gonna lose the debate or
something to that effect
and apparently when they go after maza
it's not just debate steven crowder like
my understanding is that people
sometimes do too dave rubin with with my
name right
they doxed him and give him death
threats on his cell phone and it's it's
creepy it's creepy but here is the
compilation of steven crowder and so he
blames youtube basically for not for not
policing this in some way but here's
steven crowder a compilation and it is
almost impossible to understand how a
grown man can do i could act like this a
grown grown grown human being but here
he is before we get to the video with
our favorite favorite and listen right
it's ridiculous it's bonkers you're
being given a free pass as a crappy
writer because you're gay Federline is a
little queer graph there now the graph
is queerness violence Phil okay so the
little query could eat his chips all
nonchalantly it's code for Ray mr. queer
eating chess on the box this is what mr.
gay Vox wants to do mister let's be
queer from Vox what were you holding gay
latino from Fox
movement fast motion is gay now we're
here with the short-haired angry lesbian
on skype - gay guys sitting there eating
banana we got the symbolism area truth
is hiding in a closet
two weeks later probably along to his
next Pride Parade out but this guy on
the gay semi Latino of all right deal
with this spray tomorrow okay he's a
sachets across without eight like just
stop gang Friday is wrong now he
could be a your honor but how
many lispy angry sprites and Fox you by
the way the gay Mexican gay gay latino
v-neck gay Mexican Mexican gay guy used
to work Mexican gay latino there at the
Advanta gay latino friend Bakke token
box gay atheist sprite with surprisingly
surprisingly flaccid chests considering
else any hideous is very bizarre to me
homonym yes but it was an addendum to
fat so weird like what that is a very he
gets very worked up about that stuff now
what else he he's got he's got socialism
for and then what is his producers
name his producers name is Jared or as
they call him not gay Jared not gay
Jerry they seem to be very very
concerned about gay people I mean and
also Crowder likes to dress up in in
drag like once a month to do a
anti-trans video yeah you know it's it's
like how Alex Jones smokes weed once a
year just to make sure that it's still
bad what is this this is a bit of
Crowder's comedy chops this is him doing
a Bernie Sanders impression I'd say
Bernie Sanders impression because people
might not know otherwise okay
replacement sons of he's doing
literally just guilty over covered well
I mean it's a good Gilbert Godfried it's
a little bit weird it's the only Jew I
could do so what
it is conservatives doing comedy there
you go he's so bad at this even for like
the standards of the current culture
wars he's like 10 years behind yeah
that's true but it is
I think his he is he's he's geared his
show to 14 year old boys 13 year old
boys yeah YouTube itself has actually uh
let's see if I can find this here they
actually said we're gonna look gonna
look into it thanks for bringing this to
our attention
Carlos so I mean who knows what they'll
air follow-up is going to be but I mean
you know this is I I I don't know I mean
I I don't know how you deal with stuff
like this
just ignore it well it's it's tough
because I mean YouTube has anti
harassment and anti-homophobia like
policies right I honestly I don't know
what there is to do about this I really
don't know IIIi mean I just don't
side from breaking up YouTube like I
don't know how you you deal with this
other than you fight it out on YouTube
do you know what I mean like I just
don't know how you deal with this type
of thing if if if Bill O'Reilly can go
on and call dr. tiller you know a baby
killer until tiller is assassinated
yeah but Fox News doesn't carry YouTube
might YouTube might but I just don't
know what I mean I think all that
YouTube can do really is GD monetize
yeah that would hurt him and you simply
say this guy's been involved in stuff
that is toxic and here's the bottom line
the construction of that argument is
based specifically on Crowder's content
right it's not like it I'm not I'm not
advocating broadly speaking that YouTube
should do any have any policy that can
be applied fairly there's no such thing
it's got to be if you do stuff that ends
up like directly leading in some fashion
or another
to inspiring people to go after somebody
based upon things that are not
advertiser friendly um then you get
demonetized I think it's a highly
problematic I think we need to we do we
should not have a YouTube that is as
large and as powerful as this is we just
simply should not and there are myriad
of ways in which you make it less
powerful very similar to how you would
in some ways deep platform Crowder now
you know that deep platform you just
can't make any money off it
and maybe you don't allow links either
in the descriptions for his videos you
want to put the videos out you can do it
I don't I don't know I'm not I'm not
recommending this I actually think that
like there's just nothing that you
should be doing about this level I don't
think it reaches a level I think you
know being childishly homophobic like
this we should be able to to push back
on it in some respects and that's easy
for me to say I'm not getting you know
doxed and you know my phone I mean I've
I've been through similar type things
but it's a problem but ultimately what
we need to do is cut off different
revenue streams for YouTube so that it's
just not profitable for them to
put up anybody and there's other sites
for that and maybe if they're on
different platforms it's a lot harder to
sort of do this type of stuff but
there's a certain inevitability as we
democratize media or we have you know
basically democratized media that this
is gonna happen yeah I mean it's not a
short term solution but like thinking
back to the idea of nationalizing these
large platforms I don't think it would
work under our current system but if we
had truly democratic control over the
state and over these giant new things I
I have to believe that they might be
somewhat better at regulating I mean
assuming the best charging people vote
against homophobia or whatever right but
I think we would have the same problem
wouldn't we I mean I mean could you
really feel it could you really have a
you know you'd have the exact same
problem you just can't have one thing
that is like this it's just too
problematic I mean that's this basically
what it comes down to or or I don't I
don't know
