[Music]
here is this is a poppy Harlow she is a
CNN host and she is interviewing Jamie
Raskin and the idea I mean this is just
sort of stunning the idea that you could
actually in any way compare the
Republicans investigations during the
Obama administration to any
investigation that Democrats would be
doing now I will remind you that not
only did the Republicans vote over 50
times to repeal the ACA and never ever
once they controlled the government did
not do that right let me talk about
empty promises there were how many
committees that investigated Benghazi
7-8 when they got into power and had
complete authority over the government
you know what they did about Benghazi
nothing because there was nothing there
listen to this so let me read you some
of the pushback that is not just from
the president who just 52 seconds ago
tweeted in all caps presidential
harassment it also comes from some
Democrats who point to this
David Axelrod for example former senior
advisor to President Obama makes the
point about your committees wide-ranging
document requests by writing maybe I'm
missing something but the hazard of an
omnibus document demanded by the House
Judiciary vs2 Street serial ones is that
however legitimate the areas of inquiry
the wide-ranging nature of it too easily
plays into the witch-hunt meme are you
concerned about that are you concerned
about playing right into Republicans who
can say this is a fishing expedition
look for two years the GOP has
controlled the house and done no
oversight at all so we're catching up
for lost time
most of these are requests that's not
totally accurate congressman and and my
goodness are you are you tell me about
are you investigations do you have
I would like congressman the question I
have is whether you're concerned at all
that this closet for one second let's
just remind you what the question is the
question is even Democrats are saying
this and the only person she's citing is
one paid Democratic former consultant
who is a CNN contributor now David
Axelrod and I don't even know how long
he lasted in the in the White House
right he was in the White House for like
two or three years as a senior adviser
to the president in terms of politics
yeah I will I will remind you that
within the White House the record for
the Democrats while he was advising the
president not very good not very good in
fact hard to imagine how you could
calculate a worse one at all that this
can be viewed as a fishing expedition
that's all well obviously that's what
they're gonna say but the people who
spent more than two years on the
Benghazi investigation or Hillary
Clinton's emails are make very bizarre
champions for the idea that we've gone
too far when all we've done is send out
document requests and the vast majority
of documents have already been turned
over to other prosecutors and other
investigations already yeah you know
what might be a clue that this is not a
fishing expedition would be literally
the dozens of indictments that have
already been proven like the fact very
successful - that right that it's a
fishing expedition the Chiefs getting
fish his chief his top lawyer and his
campaign manager going to jail that
might give a hint that maybe I mean it's
a fishing expedition to the extent that
you're going fishing but it also seems
to be that you're like going fishing in
a like like literally like an aquatic
factory farming B yeah going fish
farming
