Donald Trump is whining a lot and
impeachment is not something apparently
that he wanted some of us thought you
know maybe this would be a great
opportunity for him he'll see it as an
opportunity to mobilize his base but you
know auxins razor a petty egomaniac is
not happy about getting impeached Trump
tweeted this today I believe so so
someday if a Democrat becomes president
and a Republican wins the house even by
a tiny margin they can reach the
president without due process or
fairness or any legal rights I don't
know what he means
our Republicans must remember that what
they are witnessing here lynching but we
will win obviously usually offensive to
have this unbelievably racist and racial
arsonist president throwing that term
around when he finally gets into some
heat for his criminal conduct and here's
congresswoman Karen bass explaining just
in fact how offensive it is whenever his
back is against the wall a racial bomb
is what we know of him to throw you
think this is racist I mean I think it's
consistent why would you use the term
lynching why would you say that what do
you think well I think because he throws
out race because he knows it's red meat
and he has done that consistently that's
it
and it's amazing like I the fact that
CNN keeps having to restate the obvious
when what this congresswoman is saying
is available to any sentient human being
to understand is it's CNN
well he's appropriating it in a racist
way then let's go to of course
Lindsey Graham Lindsey Graham's got no
problem with this her national media
when is
about Trump who cares about the process
long as you get it so yeah this is a
lynching and every sense this is own
American I've never seen a situation in
my lifetime as a warrior or something
lynching in every sense in every sense
as a very historically aware for a
 southern senator to say that
South Carolina so disgusting yeah he
knows he knows exactly what is doing it
so yeah this is a lynching and every
sense this is on American I've never
seen a situation in my lifetime as a
lawyer where somebody's accused of a
major misconduct who cannot confront the
accuser call witnesses honor they have
and have the discussion in the light of
day so the public can judge it
discontinues in the house is a complete
sham and I'll do everything I can to
make sure it doesn't sky halt impeach
President Clinton for sex
I like the Republican suggestion that
lynchings and witch hunts are unamerican
yeah King on witch hunts what do they
have to do with America unbelievable it
really is just so disgusting well that's
the whole thing about the the Republican
mindset it's a hundred percent
projection it's a hundred percent
persecution complex and it's a hundred
percent accusing other people of doing
to them what they have done and want to
do to others as a great mind once said
look what you made me do a great minds
whose pretty uh pretty much vote and D
crossed the board pretty much other like
there's some cookies miss to Taylor
Swift oh yeah you're calling for me
