[Music]
the 20/20 we're now basically we're now
basically all in we're at the same point
in in the election cycle where we were
in 2016 with Joe Biden who's the last I
think big contender that people
anticipate to jump into the race we're
at the same stage where we were in 2016
when Joe Biden was floating the idea
that he was going to jump into the race
and show Elizabeth Warren and pick
Elizabeth Warren as the VP Brendan we
put that up the Joe Biden's done this
before where he basically says he
announces to everyone
hey I'm totally aware of my weakness as
a presidential candidate I know I'm weak
on certain politics and I'm were a week
in terms of on gender issues and in 2016
he knew that his weakness was I think
specifically his relationship with the
banks right and on gender issues and so
he floated the idea of Elizabeth Warren
as his VP contemplating that he might
jump into the race at one point they had
meetings I don't know if you remember
all that you don't remember that I don't
remember the meetings I remember the
floating there was no there was actually
I've always thought of them as sort of
fairly developed political enemies right
that was the idea I remember the
meetings they were very productive from
my point of view yeah so we see we see
Joe Biden do this with Stacey Abrams
give me your sense of what's going on
here with that but whether that he's
playing the hamlet act again or well or
how are you know what what he's what his
game plan what his game plan is you know
obviously we don't know but for what
I've read they're considering these you
know out-of-left-field ideas which is
very strange for a guy who's pulling at
the top right now maybe their
presumption is that well we you know
just by looking at the numbers we're
best positioned you know to be the
nominee to win this thing but we think
as as you know
I think that's these numbers are
ethereal they're gonna vaporize like
they did for Joe Lieberman who at this
point was polling at what 50 percents
right and that's you know probably just
old name recognition at that point right
I think there's got to be a huge name
recognition and people have not seen him
campaign in really I mean as a
presidential candidate in 16 years I
actually have that true no no I ears 10
years 10 years later tenure I actually
have no idea where this idea that Joe
Biden is a great campaigner comes from
III maybe that's the case but I mean I
don't remember that being the case when
he ran for president 2008 his numbers
would not indicate that he was a great
there is a middle position
we're just if we're just talking about
him as a campaigner politics as politics
or trash but I think did like the caller
from Scranton the other day you know to
this show and it was fun to literally
have a caller from Scranton that could
back your point hey I think it's
somewhere in between I think some of it
will evaporate because his record is
horrible by any metric but I think no I
mean he does have a certain type of
charm which i think is like I would
imagine in this audience tons of Bernie
people a good amount of Warren people
probably even some baito people with
that sort of Gen X version of sort of
empty rhetoric but I think Biden is
exactly the type of person that people
like us will totally not get but there
is actually a market for well of course
there's some market but i but not at
Lieberman like total implosion but is
this a is this bargain defined by
geography is it defined by racial
identity by working-class identity no
it's defined by age but the story about
Biden is oh he's the white working-class
whisper that's wrong he was supposed to
get these white working-class voters who
were skeptical of Obama right that's
well I mean I think I think I mean on
some level I think that was I think
there was maybe some accuracy to that
that I think that the the idea that he
provided some ballast to that concern
probably was probably the case they
don't know if that's the case because
for one you know that I don't think the
vice presidential pick
ever ever ever matters I don't think it
matters but I do think that it I don't
think it matters in terms of getting
votes but it does it matters I think in
terms of creating narratives like I
think that Sarah Palin for instance with
with John McCain I think that it it in
many respects made it impossible for him
to get the drubbing that he was gonna
get yeah he hadn't picked Palin but it
also made it impossible for him to win
the election like it did both yeah I
mean that's that's a good way of looking
at it I don't know what the academic
literature says I would probably
gravitate just you know after watching
the past few years to the former
interpretation that that was the
necessary ballast that kept McCain
afloat a guy who's not really liked by
his base not even that much so liked by
the establishment but I want to wheel
back to your original question here one
of the things that I've seen reported
from you know Biden's campaign staff is
their mooting the idea of picking a
running-mate before the primary start
which is very baffling to me as a guy
who's you know polls as the front-runner
because that is of course what Ted Cruz
did right before is you know campaign
ends right it is a desperate act I mean
that's why the Hail Mary that's why I
don't I don't I don't think it's
anything other than an advertisement to
his weaknesses and I also think that
it's like you know plant pretending to
that he may do the pic and pretending
that he's looking at Stacey Abrams I
think is really just his way of
signaling like I'm not he is trying to
deal with his liabilities before he
enters to the race which is smart thing
to do right we turn is in 2016 that's
exactly hit me most with that's like the
bankruptcy that's exactly that's exactly
was can you have lunch right that's
exactly I was saying his weaknesses were
on gender and I'm banking and so I meet
with a woman who is very strong on
banking and in this instance I think he
perceives himself as having issues on
gender and on race and on the idea of
mobilization because Stacey Abrams is
all about mobilization where is Joe you
know Joe Biden suppose
I can convince these these these Trump
voters to come back to the Democratic
Party or so a segregation desegregation
split the difference there as well it's
I honestly I'm I can talk probably the
least about Biden because I just
reflexively ignore every news article
about it right I'm of the mindset that
you know this this isn't fun or
interesting just run already and as Matt
put it to me the other day let's see if
the majority of Democrats actually do
want to embrace oblivion right now right
I don't think that's going to happen I
don't I do think that he probably does
also have a a floor I don't think I
think it's probably like a third of what
he he's polling at maybe it's a little
bit lower even than that he's I mean
he's he's in the race like he's firmly
there he can't really be forced out but
I think if he experiences a media
environment that is so totally hostile
to him which I think he will I think
he'll get the scrutiny that Hillary
Clinton did not receive in 2016 from the
you know friendly liberal sources I feel
like that's just going to suck up all
the oxygen he would need so
