[Music]
let's talk about this story just well
briefly and then we'll go talk about the
what what's being reported amongst the
Democrats there's a New York Times story
out today that's citing I guess four
sources saying that in fact Donald Trump
personally ordered his son-in-law to get
a top-secret security clearance
both overruling all the concerns by
intelligence officials and the White
House's top lawyer this is a apparently
you know source with for people not
clear on on where they are they may not
even be White House officials actually
it sounds like it but this is and
apparently John Kelly wrote an internal
memo about how he had been ordered to
give Kushner the top-secret clearance
because he was so concerned about having
responsibility for this made total cya
the brave John Kelly who is gonna be the
adult who's gonna save us all just
covering his own ass
essentially for something that he
thought was highly dangerous I mean
because I would put the odds of Jared
Kushner and apparently Jared Kushner has
asked for more top-secret information
than any other official in the in the
Trump and the Trump administration he is
putting more requests I was working and
it's very exciting I would put the
chances that he has not given or sold
this material to people that he is
hoping will fund his family's business
at somewhere between zero and like zero
point seventy percent or something he's
organizing it in Evernote right you're
forgetting about all the different
projects he's been on so far as you know
counsel to the White House and all that
right and I'm to be fair I'm not
counting any of his massive foreign
policy or national
achievements he's solving peace in the
Middle East as we speak over there right
now that's gonna require some classified
info this clip is sort of fascinating
because aside from the fact that ABC
said like you know let's let's have a a
nepotistic interviewer interview a
nepotistic government official and so
abby hunt was sent down to huntsman
huntsman excuse me was sent down to
interview Ivana Ivanka Trump well what
was it like two or three weeks ago I
guess it's interesting just to watch how
she lies when she's lying there are a
lot of investigations going on as you
know Democrats launching new ones this
week one of them into the clearance
process some of that you and your
husband now have security clearances but
there were some issues early on and
there are a lot of people that question
whether you were given special treatment
by the president overriding other
absolutely officials can you speak to
that there were anonymous leaks about
there being causes did you see like she
turning more into her dad yeah she's
leaning into it pretty right good go
backwards that anonymous leaks Wow she's
he's gonna love her even more else can
you speak to that there were anonymous
leaks about there being issues but the
President had no involvement pertaining
to my clearance or my husband's
clearance what were the problems early
on there weren't any other than a
backlog that exists of close to a
million clearances across government
which this was happening under the Obama
administration the Clinton
administration there are literally close
to a million people in the federal
government who are in the pipeline to
get their permanent clearance and are on
temporary status so no special treatment
no how dare you suggest that my father
would give me his daughter special
treatment I
I'm struck by how the immorality of the
elitist
class because it's not like look she and
Chelsea Clinton were friends before this
right it's not like she's this diehard
far-right conservative but because she's
been placed into this role and it's all
about gaining power
she's completely adopted it and has
become this very person so of course I
mean she needs to maintain power play
this role and she's going to do it and
why and just bald-faced lie and I and
and it's look it's legal for the
president to do this right the president
has the ability to do this it's just
that I they feel they gotta lie but
there's a such a natural compunction to
lie I guess I guess just apropos of
nothing I it's been pretty well reported
that NBS said I have Jared Kushner in my
pocket right right
just you know just a little atmospheric
on this one he is Trump in his pocket to
its truth it's through my friend yet
they're both they both have significant
real estate deals Kushner and Trump
separately with Saudi within Saudi
Arabia and I imagine the dynamic is like
you're getting me a deal you take a
taste for yourself too because you gotta
take care of my grandkid what's so funny
is when Trump made his first visit
overseas to Saudi we were doing these
bits of like the Saudis telling the
Russians like cuz why you make it so
complicated like what you do is you fly
him out you put his face on a billboard
you tell him he's great give him a gold
Cheyne Wright can have a blockade on
Qatar why do you what's all this with
robots and all this nonsense
[Laughter]
