the Joe Biden's legislative record is
highly problematic and his record as a
as a senator is it's a highly
problematic I think for folks on the
Left and of various stripes frankly
running from finance to his role in the
Thomas
Clarence hearings Clarence Thomas
hearings I should say and and you know I
I'm old enough to remember when we
referred to him as senator from MBNA but
yeah these there's another set of
problems that he has and and I I frankly
am I'm not a hundred percent sure that I
I know exactly how to feel about this
stuff there have been numerous women who
have come out and said that Joe Biden
and they have been careful to say that
it's not any type of sexual assault but
that he has he he invades their space in
ways that are inappropriate and and to
and to forward and I to me it's almost
like in and and I don't know I I don't
see him doing this to men per se maybe
he does but there is a certain amount of
like quality where he feels like he has
propriety over over folks in some way I
don't know what's your take on that well
I mean I say if his record didn't
contain as many sort of paternalistic
sort of aspects to it and by that and
that's calling him a sexist but I'm
saying that he's paternalistic and and
in a way that is very very old-fashioned
toward women I would think this might
not have quite the same salience but his
record does show that I mean he was you
know he was anti-abortion he believed
that men needed to be you know informed
if their if their wives or girlfriends
were contemplating abortion I mean he
has been you know the way he treated a
Nita Hill not not that he was
disrespectful toward her but he was
paternalistic toward her and in a way
that was you know frankly a
so his you know the fact that he sort of
did this thing I mean someone described
him as a human golden retriever well the
fact is is that you know if you have a
golden retriever that is constantly
jumping up on people and snipping
crotches and doing that sort of thing
some people might not mind that but
there are people who do and it's
inappropriate to have a dog around that
does that all the time because there are
people that are uncomfortable with that
I happen to be one I don't particularly
like to be touched by strangers it's
just not my thing now and maybe that
makes me a cold person I just can't help
but I've always been that way if that
Joe Biden we're coming up and touching
me and you know kids sniffing my hair
and kissing my head and all that I mean
I know I wouldn't take it as a sexist
thing necessarily but I would think I
would like it I wouldn't like it just
simply and you know it's made worse by
the fact that he was a powerful
political person he was doing this to
women who were involved in politics you
know like Lucy Flores the one who was
running for governor in Nevada and the
woman who was working on Jim Hines
campaign those are women who you know
you're not really in a position to do
what Angela Merkel did when Bush tried
to rub her shoulders would just you know
wave violently wave him off because he's
very important Danny somebody that you
know you got to go is it worth it you
know and women are just getting tired of
having to make that calculation all the
time is it worth it for me to say
anything no just let it go you know let
old Joe do it or whoever you know
whatever it is at whatever level now I
understand that this is a great area
that is new to people because I don't
think most people think that Joe Biden
meant to be you know dominating or that
he was meaning to invade people's space
for some nefarious purpose it's just the
way he is but society is changing and
you know people in public life the rules
are changing and he is kind of a man out
of time I mean I hate to say it but you
know know what a man at the past I think
that really I think that exactly I mean
these things I think are heightened
because there's some question about that
in the first place right like these
things feed into this narrative one that
he's a man from the past his politics
young to be you know sort of like dipped
in amber
from 1993 in some respects I think the
thing that happened with Stacey Abrams
is also indicative of this yes that the
same attitude that allows him to think
that he has a free pass to encroach upon
people's personal space was the same
idea and it said that yeah I can I can
leverage Stacey Abrams for my you know
for my deficits and show she's you know
she'll like it or her yeah I mean like
gay I'm a former vice president and you
know that's it's my it's it's to her
benefit to be seen you know what I mean
like like I don't it's not a incumbent
upon me to presume that she has some
sense of like autonomy or a desire for
how her career to you know trajectory
goes so I think that is indicative of a
lot of things about about Joe Biden that
I think feed into that narrative and
it's gonna be interesting I mean I I
would have thought that he would have
jumped into the race by now frankly um
and and I suspect that to the extent
that he was planning on jumping into the
race or that he's planning to jump into
the race that he would have thought that
he would have jumped into the race by
now too but I think they might be
waiting for a lot of this to die down
but I don't know going to right it's not
going to this is going to be part of the
campaign he's going to have to deal with
it and that's part of the problem for
him the fact that he didn't know this
there were memes all over the internet
about this I mean you didn't know that
this was going to be an issue for Joe
Biden I did I'm sure you did most people
know and yet they seem to be completely
unprepared for it and that's just
another aspect of Biden just kind of
thinking what he can just coast on his
record and on his reputation and on his
image as this great guy that was Obama's
wingman all those years and everybody
loves him well the polls show that he's
popular but not overwhelmingly popular
he's not like over 50% he's not somebody
that everybody in the Democratic Party
is clamoring for so you know I don't I
really I mean I just really feel like
he's a man of the past and he would be
wise to retain his reputation as a
former Lion of the Senate and you know
you know he's destroying his his legacy
I think by running and I'm not sure
people seem to think he's the strongest
candidate and I honestly do not think
that's true I mean I watch him and he
just he's not even as good as he was you
know twenty ten or twenty years ago and
he wasn't that great then that's right
he wasn't someone he never won any never
won one electoral vote or one primary I
don't think ever so you know I just did
yeah I don't know I don't know you know
I mean a piece the nominee god bless him
I'll vote for him I'll save and send him
money you know I I just don't I just
don't see it I mean I think that he is
he passed his moment all right we got to
take a quick break when we come back
let's talk about two things one we saw
some first quarter numbers you're from
you're from California you know what
it's like to talk about box-office
tallies it's sort of a second order
issue but maybe in a race this size it
has more salience and then we would be
remiss if we did not talk about the fact
that the president the United States
seems unable to either say the word
origins or to access it in some way we
will be right back I'm Sam cedar this is
ring of fire radio
