Gleeson next time you talk about AOC in
the next and the 75% rate mentioned how
conservative it is
she's starting after 10 million won
before it started around 3 million in
today's dollars indeed speaking of which
I think this is a good transition um so
I was actually I was I sometimes go on
i-24 which is this global I mean it's a
guess because it's Israeli I don't I
mean not David Schuster's not right-wing
but I mean there's Anand I have not
always realized how unbelievably
insanely far-right a lot of the
editorial bits around me and I always am
debating people who are like they have a
lot of troubles is how I'll put it and
and the host yesterday he was just like
well how do you think AOC and rush he
did sliver doing they've both been
getting into a lot of trouble I was like
and I said well I think they're both
doing great as evidenced by the
Republican total shambolic response to
them and as if on cue right at the round
the same time I was doing that hit Sean
Hannity was having a full-blown psycho
emotional breakdown on Fox News about a
OCS billionaire comments now without
further ado I present to you Sean
Hannity having a breakdown a world is
going to end in 12 years if we don't
address climate change and your biggest
issue
your your biggest issue is how are we
gonna pay for it and like this is the
war this is our world war two better
make that bucket list
twelve years that's all we got left and
she recently called the American Dream
she actually called it immoral call for
oppressive taxes on private businesses
and wealthy individuals oh the top 20%
of Americans pay almost all of the taxes
already and she actively supports the
nationalization of the health care
industry the energy industry just like
Venezuela and recently bashing America
I'm gonna change my twitter handle to
just like that's already an 8 o'seas bio
oh yeah right that's well that's it
that's actually the you know how they
release like those boring like campaign
books that should be her book it's like
she's like in front of American flags
she's like just like that is what health
care policy see Venezuela the energy
industry just like Venezuela and
recently bashing Americans who are quote
living in excess I thought that was the
American dream take a look so after you
make 10 million dollars in one year your
dollars after that start to get
progressively taxed at a much higher
rate and really what that is is that
it's the tax interpretation of one
answer to the question of how much is at
what level are we really just living in
excess and what kind of society do we
want to live in let's empower the
government to confiscate it all you
better hide you nice things because here
come the excess police congresswoman's
new policy adviser changed his twitter
handle to quote every billionaire is a
policy failure even vowed to convince
his boss that a 70 percent top tax rate
is too low and he talked her up to 90
percent exactly after state tax is that
nobody's gonna work in the twisted world
of what is now the radical socialist
democratic party apparently making money
and being successful is evil
but Venezuela is a heaven on earth
opportunity for us right we recently
said on Fox News contributor Lawrence
Jones to Acacio cortezes district to see
what her constituents actually think
about these socialist fantasies let's
take a look
she believes we should tax the rich 70
percent so 70 percent of what they make
should go back to Sam
do you agree winner sure why not I am
all for it
too low too low what would you suggest
90 percent they make so much money that
some 70 percent nationally 10 percent
New York 4 % city then add property
sales taxes and you get to keep nothing
I would say a Sean Kennedy's case he
literally should get to keep nothing
I want a complete abolition of
homelessness except for a little bit of
homeless live for Sean Hannity I will
make an exception that would do him some
good
I mean what does Sean pull in the year
20 million 20 mil
second 10 million yeah that's second
million yeah that would actually put him
in some trouble yeah I don't know how
responsibly he's spending this that's
true let me apparently he's living in
excess but I think look I mean I don't
know how what's so funny is it's like
they clearly that segment idea the ideal
is you go to her neighborhood and a
bunch of people that's crazy because my
dream is one day all these Steve Jobs or
some other nonsense right but then when
you encounter like real people or like
yeah of course I'm not a demented
lunatic obviously there should be higher
tax rates on above 10 million a year fun
things like well no that was a right
that was my thing he's like well yeah
just well you know what put that sassy
latina on there and then that'll like
the ideal is what you have is some who
would be like I'm surprised I didn't pay
somebody to be like I came from
Venezuela for freedom man so but that
but that's just amazing because the
whole dynamic we've talked about this
for a long time but the whole dynamic
for so long has been Sean Hannity
basically doing the same segment when
Obama's like what I think you should
have graded a health-care pay scale
which may attack sup today which can be
taxed on
surcharge on every third private jet
flight and he's been going like that's
like having a you know having these
conniptions about these profoundly
modest centrist initiatives that people
like Obama have put forward which are
really hard to explain so they're easier
to terrify people about and they also
usually do come with a lot of annoying
catches like you're forced to buy
private health insurance and then you
have to deal the subsidy system it's
better than nothing but it sucks because
private health insurance sucks then when
you're confronted with yeah well what
about we just tax useless people like
Sean Hannity and give everybody Medicare
the thing is actually happening so the
freak out is that much more intense and
then you encounter reality and most sane
people are like right of course yeah
every single time they put her on Fox
News and try to make her policies look
bad like I don't know if it's that
somebody sympathetic is working there or
her policies are just impossible to make
look bad to the majority of people who
are super wealthy but like like they now
people who watch Fox understand top
marginal tax rates a little bit better
yeah this yeah absolutely so this is
apparently and everybody should follow
him this is at Dan riffle he is policy
for aoc he's the every billionaire a
policy failure and he tweeted out in
most other offices for most other
members I had been shit-canned on the
spot for that Hannity segment last night
I'm grateful that I work in the very
best office for the very best member and
then he has a link to the O to
Alexandria Cascio Cortez's tweet these
they're so good at this
so she tweeted tempted to frame this and
put it on my desk with a laughing emoji
at the Hannity segment and the Handy
segment says Alexandria Cascio Cortez's
policy guy every billionaire is a policy
failure you know how we talked Chuck
horse it is their right is basically
just interested in only in the libs yes
it is a lot of fun to just own people it
is and they have no idea how to own
someone like this know especially that
screenshot Sean Hannity
because when you talk about specific
policies and you talk about economics
like it's a lot harder to do the SJW
red-baiting cultural Marxism yes
you're on better terrain when you're
talking about giving people health care
than debating somebody's a stand-up set
um what you say he's calling it now
is that Sam hear me yes be careful I've
heard that there is a lavender outbreak
in Brooklyn Sam
thank you Michael that's a good stuff
everybody first of all the idea of Sean
Hannity making zero dollars is very
appealing to me but I mean Sean Hannity
more like over the years I have seen
this guy just blatantly lie in a way
that you know he knows what the truth is
right like I mean there's tiny things
that I have seen over the years that he
has done that have been that have
impressed me because I'm so aware that
he knows the truth of what he's saying
like at that moment where he talked
about you know between city taxes and
state taxes you'll you'll get $0 zero he
he knows that he will make exactly what
he's making today up in his first ten
million dollars and then after the ten
million dollars it will be largely gone
and and he knows that but he lies to his
audience the one time I remember seeing
him do that before was was years ago
when he would talk about Bill Clinton
and Monica Lewinsky and he kept getting
Monica Lewinsky 'he's age wrong and like
he clearly knew but he kept saying like
she was 19 and you know it's not a big
deal but it was like I heard someone
call correct him on the air and he
continued to do it day after day after
that and I was just like that the guy
knows he's lying like he's not you know
it's not like he's coming up with a fact
or a figure that one makes him
dacon right he knows he's lying and he
justifies it that's always what I found
disturbing about Hanna fortunately he
lacked the talent to be as destructive
as he could have now of course he's the
senior adviser to Donald Trump oh I was
gonna say he's one of the most important
policymakers / propagandists in the
world today all right look I'm gonna
call back in with just one other
