[Music]
let's play some of this debate and let's
start with there were three different
very solid punches landed on Joe Biden
by Bill DeBlasio Tulsi Gabbard and Cory
Booker or excuse me
part of me two solid punches on Joe
Biden by Cory Booker and Bill DeBlasio
and one very solid punch on calmly
Harris by a Tulsi Gabbard yeah I don't
worry till sea fans we're gonna play
that too yeah don't you know told a
whole season all right this is uh by the
way I have no problem without a lawsuit
anything that pressures Google I am
totally down with so total props on that
Google should be sued and suit off them
this is Bill DeBlasio and I want to just
say I mean not only is Bill DeBlasio
absolutely right about this but this is
important because look people as I've
always said I think if you don't like
Barack Obama on a kind of on a personal
level I suspect you have racial issues
but as a politician the man was present
United States for two terms and then you
talk about Wall Street Joe drones if you
talk about Wall Street you talk about
foreign policy talk about immigration
you talk about inequality you talk about
ecology this is not a record I'll be as
diplomatic as possible you don't want to
replicate this record and so Bill
DeBlasio is absolutely right to attack
Joe Biden on deportations and be honest
about what the obama-biden record on
deportations was this is the time to do
it it's a Democratic primary Biden I
didn't hear your response when the issue
came up with all those deportations you
were vice president it√≠d States I didn't
hear whether you tried to stop them or
not using your power your influence in
the White House did you think it was a
good idea or do you think it was
something that needed to be stopped
mr. president came along and he's the
they came up with the idea first time
ever dealing with the dreamers he put
that in the law he get he talked about a
comprehensive plan which he put on a
lady for the Congress saying that we
should find a pathway to citizenship for
people we say he said we should up the
number of people that were able to bring
it in this country lastly he also
pointed out that we should go to the
source of the problem and fix it where
people were leaving in the first place
so he did compare him to Donald Trump I
think is absolutely bizarre but I don't
hear an answer from the vice president
I'm confused I asked a vice president
point-blank did he use his power to stop
those deportations he went right around
the question mr. vice president you
won't be President United States you
need to be able to answer the tough
questions I guarantee you if you're
debating Donald Trump he's not gonna let
you off the hook so did you say those
deportations were a good idea or did you
go the president say this is a mistake
we shouldn't do it which one I was vice
president I am NOT the president I keep
my recommendation in private unlike you
I expect you would go ahead and say
whatever was said privately with him
that's not what I do what I do say to
you is he moved to fundamentally changed
the system that's what he did that's
indeed but it much more has to be done
much more has I don't hear an answer de
Blasio is a hundred percent right and
the deportations were absolutely wrong
inhumane and this move that any
criticism means you're equating or
drawing equivalency between Obama and
Trump is dishonest juvenile and
offensive to the lives of those people
and also I just want to say I mean that
you know pathetic weak t to say oh ago
so you would have said what was said in
private later
Biden mentioned that he opposed the
surge in Afghanistan which good for him
surge in Afghanistan was absolutely
wrong and a profoundly cynical decision
similar to the one words very similar to
the dissertations precisely by currency
with a certain group of people for a
broader aim in this case the
military-industrial complex and the
immigration case Republicans but
you know both cynical both wrong in both
instances but Biden by saying he opposed
the surge is in some sense having a pub
a private conversation publicly I just
want to note that because it was so
pathetic and Cory Booker is gonna hit
him on this just literally right after
the previous and this was very well done
you can't run a whole race that is
predicated on don't ask me any tough
questions I was President Obama's vice
president and oh whoa you're identifying
a troop surge in Afghanistan or record
deportations well you know I'm my own
guy mr. vice president you can't have it
both ways you invoke President Obama
more than anybody in this campaign you
can't do it when it's convenient and
then dodge it when it's not and the
second thing and this really irks me
because I heard the vice president say
that if you got a PhD you can come right
into this country
well that's playing into what the
Republicans want to pit some immigrants
against other immigrants that's
somewhere that's okay well that's
excellent that was a Cory Booker had a
lot of really strong moments last night
I'm not sure how much it will move the
dial but he was definitely on the straw
now that that debate can do nothing but
good for him and I think that that it
was great to see Cory Booker of all
people debunk a tired neo liberal
immigration talking point that endless
Democrats and Republicans have echoed
that if you're and you know desirable
you can stay if you're not you can't
this is a great way of actually looking
at three different positions on
immigration
there is the overtly racist Trump
Republican approach which you know why
not people from Norway or not people
from Hill countries right
now it is absolutely not the same thing
and a ridiculous false equivalency right
and it the person with a PhD could be
from Ghana the person with a PhD could
be from Bangladesh Nigeria Norway
Jamaica whatever right so that is what
he's saying but he is saying it's
someone with a PhD
that's the that's that's multicultural
neoliberal capitalism which is better
than white supremacism the real answer
is don't pivot people who mainly be
refugees or maybes trying to resettle
life in the United States we have a
decriminalized humane process that
respects rights for all period and of
course that doesn't mean open borders
that that really I the open borders
rhetoric is really unhelpful right now
because one it is used by the right
basically to mean cheap labor to exploit
yes well it also activates notions about
migrants that have been really deeply
propagandized into the American public
and so I think you need to take a more
incremental approach to getting there
it's it's just not happening tomorrow I
mean that no nobody you and again if you
want to make a concrete again a ideas
like Daniel best neurs advocacy which I
am totally on board with in a long term
of some type of broader America's Union
that's right move towards open borders
that that's actually how you do
something like this I I do support that
as a long-term goal with raise standards
redistribution and all of the other
issues that you need to address but in
the short term the answer is you
decriminalize you human eyes and
demilitarize the process you observe
what is already on the books in terms of
refugee conventions and and so on you
immediately make illegal the family
separation policies you as I've already
said you demilitarize and then yes you
have a hemispheric approach so that you
end u.s. foreign policy of pushing a
drug war supporting dictators Honduras
has a massive military base there you
know that is what's driving the
desperate human need to of people to get
here which nobody wants to be in a
situation in so you know it's just very
important to have this clear humane
progressive position and not get tripped
up in all these various different types
of open or not open borders right
it's very confusing and unhelpful and
you need to draw a clear third lane
between the ethnic cleansing and racism
of Trump and Republicans and this well
by golly if you're here to start a tech
company we'll take you we need to take
anybody that needs to be here I want to
play one other mode this is near a
Tannen yeah near attend and said the GOP
didn't attack Reagan they built him up
for decades dem candidates who attacked
by Obama are wrong and terrible Obama
wasn't perfect but come on people
next to Trump be kind of is this is my
outreach outrage of the day and my
outrage of the day is near at hand and
calling someone else in politics
terrible well it's also just so
profoundly and strategic and ridiculous
right we can't we can't inflate Obama's
legacy like a Reagan's was one like the
parties are different there's different
mindsets but it's also a completely
different media environment like right I
mean it's it's Harry Potter it's it's
pure Harry Potter and also by the way I
mean Ronald Reagan partially became who
he was because he and his political
movement vigorously attacked the
relative domestic moderation of Ford and
Nixon so it's absurd I mean if you're
doing political analogies barroco
president obama was a moderate so he's
more analogous not in terms of
historical importance or charisma or
anything like that but he's more
analogous to you know a a moderate
Republican right he's more like George
HW Bush than Ronald Reagan he's more
like Gerald Ford and Richard Nixon in
terms of his relative position to the
other parties so the idea that you can
just sort of pretend through wish
fulfillment that somebody served a
equivalent ideological anchor is just a
fantasy and in addition to fact as Matt
points out in today's media environment
Ronald Reagan who of course was a
massive racist and arch far-right leader
but at the same time he gave amnesty to
immigrants as he should have done great
move should be done today
do you think that that would have lasted
for a second in a Fox News Alex Jones
media environment they would have turned
on Ronald Reagan a second in fact by the
way they did turn on Ronald Reagan when
he did the best things that he did in
his presidency which has pursued
disarmament agreements with the Soviet
Union there was a massive Republican
freaked out about that yeah no this is
yeah I mean this is just fantasy world
to try to suffocate a necessary debate
today okay I agree that it's gonna be
hairy when Obama's legacy intersects
with actual real ongoing problems but
the thing that the the trade-off he made
with the deportations trying to build up
goodwill with fascists is like this is a
bit of a ridiculous metaphor but I think
it might underscore how ridiculous that
calculus was when I was like a fourth
grade or something like that
one of my best friends got a Shiba Inu
puppy I don't know if you've seen those
very cute and I really wanted one
and I asked my parents for one but they
weren't really super hot on the idea so
what I did is I cleaned my room as clean
as it ever was in my entire life and I'm
not a terribly you know Clement Roo when
it comes in my immediate environment but
I cleaned it look how Brendan's lever
and it's such a like leash you're
acknowledging it the entire I mean I
focus on more important things but I
find it the everything off the floor
just because I also notice my friend did
that when they got the dogs home right
these two things correlate right and
guess what I didn't get the dog right
exactly that's good
