[Music]
now look there's a lot of talk here
about paying people to support your
candidacy a couple of things I want to
stitch together you've had those uh
screen grabs right a lot of people have
been attempting to promote my candidacy
for the Senate
22:22 I am at this time not going to
make a commitment one way or another
keeping my options open I will say that
we do have some early data that suggests
that maybe maybe there's an opportunity
for me last night my understanding is
the state of New York
released the vote tallies for writing
candidates for governor in the 2018
elections if we could pop this up on the
screen you will see that I received two
write-in votes one for me as governor
and one for me as governor on a ticket
with Cynthia Nixon where she would be
the Lieutenant Governor a little
downgrade because of the primary
appearance I guess right but still nice
um I don't know you could double vote
like that no no it's not the same vote
it's two different votes oh okay it was
just sketched in on one line two
different people
yeah I don't think we can do I don't
well you can write in anything you want
it won't count though well it's unclear
we've decided probably not to contest
the fact that that was not counted now I
will say this somebody made the point
that Virgil Texas from Chapo Trap House
got three votes which of course is one
more vote
may now I will say that Virgil Texas
outspent me probably ten to one he was
campaigning very aggressive he was on
and on he was in this office yes
campaigning he was in this office
campaign so the idea that I did reaching
out to awk Medina jawed I mean it was a
very aggressive camp I had two-thirds of
the votes that he had but almost like
zero percentage of the campaigning and
expenditures that he had suggested me
that I'm a real shot it also he had a
book coming in less look a shot at
making out Schumer well I mean I'm
looking to 2022 now what Schumer well
I'm saying is that these are data points
right and I want to say thank you to
those of you who voted for me I will do
my best to uphold the standards and the
the ideals that inspired you to vote for
me you know my fondest wish is that some
grifting Democratic consultant that is
overselling Schumer on some elaborate
polling and messaging package that he
probably doesn't meet need but might as
well pay for with all of his Wall Street
contributions somehow that data point
ends up in some PowerPoint for an
overpaid consulting cedar has some
strength yeah I think if you could see
the right in here for a podcaster
there's some dangerous signals left
you should really shell out let's just
say I'm not shutting any doors
