well what is the yang thing he's he's
not for getting rid of private insurance
because it's too disruptive now oh wait
I thought he was into disruption wait
what happened he changed his mind on
private or he's clarifying he's no
longer into disruption it turns out yeah
let's hear this I support the spirit of
what bernie is trying to accomplish I do
think that knowing private insurance in
a very short period of time is a bit too
disruptive and I would not do it and
rehang sucks as well so now there's so
much wiggle room in there like what does
that mean like I applaud the spirit of
this very specific proposal I wouldn't
do it too soon I think there's a lot of
like he's he's wiggling quite a bit but
is clearly trying to sort of make
himself more palatable to you know the
the centrist constituency I mean the
public option guy I mean it's always
been I don't know I mean I remember his
people he used to freak out and say he's
supported Medicare for all I maybe that
was on his website for a while but I
think it's been pretty clear for a
couple of months that you know like
Buddha judge his definition of Medicare
for all is not Medicare for all
