oh but before we do I want to talk about
this this case that I think we're going
to know within a day or two if
essentially roe v wade is is done is it
is inoperative
in this country and what I mean by that
and let me just be clear from from from
from the get-go
right now there is a federal right one
that the Supreme Court has determined is
embedded in our Constitution for women
to receive an abortion and it is a
important enough right that it cannot be
infringed upon but at the highest
standard of scrutiny in other words
there cannot there can be some
mitigation of that right some
infringement upon that right it states
after a certain number of weeks the
state can outlaw abortion except for in
very narrow circumstances but the most
recent example of this scrutiny came in
regard to a trap law which is a short
for targeted regulation of abortion
providers in 2015 it was 2030 yeah 2015
excuse me 2016 there was a Texas law
that went to the Supreme Court it was a
whole woman's health versus Heller stet
this is a Texas law that basically said
well specifically said
[Music]
a physician performing or inducing an
abortion at a clinic had to have active
admitting privileges at a hospital that
is not more than 30 miles away from
where the abortion is performed and that
hospital needed to provide gynae logical
or obstacle health care services so if
you're at a and many times physicians
working at these clinics do not have
[Music]
admitting privileges at hospitals
certainly not within 30 miles but very
often they just aren't affiliated with
the hospital they work for the clinic
may travel depending on the state they
may travel around to various clinics and
whatnot this was a law that was set up
specifically as like a bank shot to make
it impossible for clinics to provide
abortions to women it's like also you
know they have other laws like trap laws
like this like the clinic must have 22
foot high ceilings you know things that
are basically impossible to have happen
in the real world that decision the
hellish debt was a 5-3 decision Scalia
was dead there was eight eight justices
on the court and Kennedy added the fifth
vote to the four liberals on the court
an identical law was passed by Louisiana
he went to the for a Fifth Circuit Court
of Appeals and that Court upheld the
Louisiana law now even one of the guys
on the court appointed by Reagan
wrote in the dissent that you all are
ignoring the Supreme Court precedent
circuit courts of Appeal they cannot
ignore Supreme Court precedent in this
law as written in Louisiana was was
virtually identical if not identical to
the Texas law the Supreme Court struck
it down this fifth circuit could could
not find without completely ignoring the
supreme court that this law was
constitutional so the way that this is
resolved is the case heads up to the
Supreme Court the lawyers who are
representing the abortion clinic and two
of the physicians presumably worked
there
filed an application Supreme Court on
Monday yesterday to halt this Louisiana
law because they've already resolved
this question if the Supreme Court now
which is constituted very differently
than it was in 2016
Kennedy is gone Scalia's seat has been
filled
there is a 5-4 majority more than likely
to simply say we're not going to address
this in other words we have no problem
with lower court's ignoring that
precedent we set about trap laws and if
that's the case every state in the
country that is a red state and more are
gonna try it well the red states are
going to try and legislate something
very similar they'll probably just start
with this and then if that's not
effective in eliminating abortion
services in their state they'll come up
with another one and roe v wade there's
not going to be any announcement that
roe v wade is overturned but
is essentially no longer in effect now
this dynamic already exists to some
degree around the country you have I
think it's one or two states in the
center of the country where there's
maybe one abortion provider virtually
impossible to reach for a huge
percentage of the people in the state
but this is gonna be more comprehensive
this is going to be contiguous states
it's gonna be a real problem we're gonna
get to that situation and I think people
predicted it
when Kavanaugh was nominated that it
five years abortion will all be all be
you know at the very least in 25 30
states across the country it'll be
illegal and this will effectively make
it illegal insofar as the requirements
that the states will have will make it
practically from a practical standpoint
impossible to get an abortion in those
states and we should know within a day
or two whether the supreme court or how
they react to this if they they say to
the Fifth Circuit know send it back you
you do you did this wrong we've already
ruled on this then it's alive for
another you know who knows but if they
don't there's going to be 25 states
within a matter of months probably 20
states within a matter of months that
will pass similar legislation and
abortion clinics will be basically
impossible in these states so that's
terrifying
it's terrifying and it's like it you
know it's like watching a slow-motion
train wreck the moment
Donald Trump won that election it was
all but assured right I mean
you know maybe a meteorite hits the
Supreme Court or you know knocks out
people but this is this is the reality
and we'll know in a couple of days about
this at least this threat and I don't
know maybe Cavanaugh gorsek will be like
or
Robert's will say I don't feel
comfortable overturning precedent that
is two years old
but when they don't really have to say
anything they just have to sort of turn
their eyes away and look away a little
bit very dangerous stuff these are gonna
get pretty crazy I think the next two
years are gonna be pretty nasty stuff I
could be nasty well past that but
guarantee the next two years is gonna be
difficult you know everyone made fun of
the women's strike for being sort of a
cue imminently forming thing that's not
a real strike but like we might have to
do a real one and I'm glad people are
starting to wake those muscles up again
because we're gonna need them it's
certainly happening amongst the the
teachers across the country I mean there
was a vote apparently taken last night
in West Virginia to go do a one-day work
stoppage in this West Virginia is where
a lot of these teachers strikes in this
round started and the fact that they're
willing to go and do it again they're
not playing and not to mention all the
airport workers the airport we talked we
talked about that yesterday it was when
the when the airline attendants
basically just said look what's happened
with the with the air traffic
controllers we're next that was a not so
veiled threat and it worked it worked it
took two hours essentially for that to
happen
