the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any of these they
are we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is it's Wednesday July 10th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Wednesday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program Loren Rogers executive director
of the National Center for employee
ownership discussing a new piece and the
New Republic an economy in waiting
fighting inequality by turning workers
into owners discussing that with him
Nancy Pelosi continues the
non-resistance by joining with Mitch
McConnell and deferring to Trump on a
Kostas future as calls for the labor
secretary that gave human trafficker
accused human trafficker actually once
convicted human trafficker Jeffrey
Epstein a horrifying sweetheart deal
several years ago but Trump's pick just
his labor secretary apparently migrant
children were in overcrowded Arizona
border station have alleged abuses
ranging from sexual assault to physical
abuse Attorney General Barr won't repeat
won't recuse from Epstein prosecution
but will remain uninvolved in any review
of a past plea deal and federal judge
respects Trump administration's bids
swap out lawyers for a citizenship Uruk
census case on citizenship question Iran
welcomes france's efforts to save some
form of the Iran deal Israeli Education
Minister calls inter-are intermarriage
rates for us Jews a second Holocaust and
a strong rebuke of those that would
cheapen the term concentration camp by
you
to describe containing children to
Porter Sergio Moro Brazil's Justice
Minister after his rampant bias and
corruption has been exposed in the
political imprisonment of lula da silva
and more he's taking us temporary leave
from his position as the fallout from
that scandal that mass exposure
reverberates in brazil bizarre story
democratic donor edy buck who has had
two african-american men died in his
home of crystal methamphetamine into
overdoses in the last 18 months he's now
getting accused of human trafficking and
revenge porn extremely bizarre story
which already was basically a rebuke to
black male lives if you look into it
just in my opinion and the UK ambassador
the US has resigned after his quite
accurate assessments of the Trump
administration had been released the
appeals court looks skeptical of
Obamacare a panel of Republican justices
there and in North Carolina law signed
by a Democratic governor will allow drug
dealers to be prosecuted with murder all
that and much much more on today's
majority report three of us are here
Brendon might need to step out early to
get to Philly it's gonna be down to just
two of us it's gonna be down to just two
of us we've actually done that before
man we've done that many times we have
definitely pulled off the the two-step
very well before so yesterday we talked
about Tom Steyer getting into the race I
mean
I think stylistically one of the reasons
that it's so maddening is he actually
does I mean he really does I I didn't
think of it yesterday
on this show but when we were talking
about last night on TBS he he does
remind me of Marty Funkhouser and Curb
Your Enthusiasm and that actually in a
way it he has a likability that none of
the other sort of equivalents in his
Lane remotely possess right like howard
schultz delusional oligarch unlikable
nothing positive to say for him steyr
seems like kind of an i mean to the out
of touch boomer liberal on steroids that
have been bands in the united states
right like but that actually adds to how
maddening it is because it's like you
know in Schultz's case there's oleg
Archy there's delusion and then there's
the fact that this really is just a
self-interested class warrior fighting
to / to protect a position that he
thinks is under attack
Tom Steyer is coming out in his
announcement yesterday and basically
saying oh no I'm not just a delusional
hedge fund billionaire I am the
progressive champion I which and on some
level I think he actually believes that
Bernie Sanders was asked about this by
Andrea Mitchell yesterday and I think he
spoke for a lot of us in terms of not
just his feelings about steyr but really
the whole systemic problem that Tom
stires candidacy represents and we have
a new candidate in the race
Tom Steyer the billionaire who's made a
cause of impeachment what do you think
about him entering the race with all of
his money well you know I have known Tom
for a number of years and I'd like Tom
personally uh but I do have to say as
somebody who in this campaign has
received two million campaign
contributions averaging I believe $19 a
person I am a bit tired of seeing
billionaires
trying to buy political power so I like
Tom he is a good guy he's a friend of
mine but I'm not a great fan of
billionaires getting involved in the
political process so he should not be
taken seriously as a candidate you think
no I didn't say that look if you are a
billionaire by definition you are taken
seriously but I think the American
people understand that one of the great
problems facing American society today
is that we have a billionaire class
which is getting richer and richer while
the working class of this country is
struggling in fact has been decimated
over the last 45 years and people are
sick and tired of big money in politics
people want to overturn Citizens United
in my view we've got to move to public
funding of Elections billionaires
and this is not just tom style
billionaires should not be able to spend
unlimited sums of money trying to buy
elections well I mean of course he's
absolutely right and I you know the only
possible upside from people like steyr
running is to make exactly that point
about the systemic challenge the
systemic problem the systemic
undermining of democracy that having
that level of wealth creates inherently
no matter how well-intentioned you are
no matter how much you think you're a
nice person no matter how much you might
even be on the right side of some
important issues and then of course the
other thing with steyr and I really
would recommend that in a respectful way
it does not have to be super sarcastic
or polemical but you can be responding
on all of the social media accounts with
like hey you know hey Tom thanks for
your interest here's a great project
that would be way more helpful than you
running for president here's something
on gerrymandering here's something on
local elections here's something on
state court races here's a you know
initiative on the environment here's any
number I mean we said it yesterday the
literally millions of ways in which you
could benefit this country in this world
instead of a
just a delusional narcissistic exclusion
and and that and the bigger point right
is like well no he's a billionaire so he
will be taken seriously and you know
that's a systemic problem
nobody's gonna just say you know who is
the New Jersey State Public School
teacher of the year
I don't know right and nobody's saying
we should find that person and they
should run for president I don't think
it's such a diss analogy at all I mean
there's there's no reason why in any
healthy functioning society why that
background would be an automatic
launching point of a presidential
campaign this is what a billionaire is
running for office sounds like I own
conviction that's exactly right that's
right and that is the true line of the
demagogue the clown fascist of the you
know of the of the Starbucks delusion
and yeah steyr to because at the end of
the day that is the I'm the one who can
magically do this stuff even though I
have no experience no context no
grassroots a base well water lucien no
coalition no organic anything well i
have money and that sort of magically
confers competence now let's play what
we're gonna play one more bernie clip
before we get to the interview because
this was actually another thing that was
incredibly important yesterday
announcement that bernie sanders an AOC
are teaming up to introduce a climate
emergency in congress climate is in fact
an emergency there is a global
ecological crisis and this is the type
of energy that's gonna need to be
harnessed in an in and outside of
congress to really make the aggressive
interventions that are necessary and of
course this is some pretty good vintage
i don't know whether he's outside of DC
or in or maybe he's in burlington but uh
bernie threw on the pole oh it's a nice
day
said i started showing myself with my
smoothie charlie good cedar rapids all
right let's check this out this morning
i introduced
nation in the Senate declaring that
climate change is a national emergency a
similar legislation was introduced in
the house by representative bloom hawa
and Alexandria casey of cortez anybody
who does not appreciate that climate
change is a not only national emergency
what a global emergency really does not
understand what's going on and what the
scientific community has told us is that
we have all of 12 years in order to
transform our energy system away from
fossil fuel to energy efficiency and
sustainable energy or there will be
irreparable damage done to this planet
our job right now is to have the courage
to take on the fossil fuel industry who
make billions and billions of dollars
every single year destroying our planet
to take them on and in fact to transform
our energy system away from fossil fuel
to energy efficiency and sustainable
energy this is a national emergency the
future of the planet
is hanging on our decision about moving
poet let's go forward together
thank you I I also you know I love the
consistency that every single message is
really defined by the basic conflict in
the stakes the conflicts of the stakes
is the fossil fuel industry there a some
asymmetry of their power relative to the
rest of the process until that's
corrected you're not gonna have serious
action on this regardless of the
scientific conversation regardless of
even really effective and necessary
public persuasion fundamentally if you
don't take on that concentration of
power you are not going to have the
necessary action that's required at all
and I would say just one other thing too
that with regards to the broader
conversation about climate and why it's
not just sufficient to sort of argue
about whether or not you quote-unquote
accept the science when the right wing
accepts the science of this their
answers are going to be apart I'd like
an authoritarian so like okay yes
there's shrinking resources there's
already resource
we're gonna have conflicts over water
okay let's make it another let's build a
wall let's build a wall
let's get money let's get essential
resources to a narrow set of
constituencies and people it's
fundamentally a political conflict and
that's how he's framing it it is an
emergency and and I love it it's
important all right um we are gonna take
a brief break and then we're going to
come back with Lauren Rogers he's
executive director of the National
Center for employee ownership this is
the majority report
you
back to the majority report Michael
Brooks here joining us now is Loren
Rogers executive director of the
National Center for employee ownership
Loren thanks so much for being here
my pleasure Michael have to be with you
so Lauren let's start really simple here
what when we talk about employee
ownership what specifically are you
talking about in the context of the work
you do sure there's a there's a spectrum
of employee ownership in the United
States here those are the core of the
employee ownership world is something
that sounds a little arcane it's called
a an employee stock ownership plan or an
esop it's a it's a federal retirement
plan for a quirky reason of history and
it's pretty big it's got about 6,000
companies privately owned companies and
other thousand they're in publicly
traded companies covers about 2.8
million people if you just look at
privately held companies and they've got
about a hundred and thirty billion
dollars in stock in their companies
these these Aesop's the employees own
anywhere from half a percent to a
hundred percent to the business right
now the most common percent is that the
employees own the whole company through
a nice up there are other forms of
employee ownership one is what people
probably think of most often when they
think of employee ownership is a is a
worker cooperative right and the United
States has a long-standing history and
worker coops they're about 450 worker
coops in the country about 7,000 people
work for them they're actually they're
doing pretty well they generate about a
half a billion dollars in revenue every
year so they're uh they're doing great
and and also the the another example of
worker coops sort of at a at a scale
with maybe bila the modular grown region
in Spain as an example yeah that's right
they are people people call them the
mecha is employee ownership they're a
huge 82,000 employee a set of companies
their whole family of companies and they
they're all democratically governed
owned by the
workers and they produce everything from
dishwashers to running a retail outlet
to high-end racing bicycles are all over
and so in the United States what are
some companies you said yes so there's
close to and I'm quoting now from the an
article by John case your colleague in
the New Republic it's that close to
7,000 US businesses are partially or
wholly owned by a trust known as
employee stock ownership plan or ESOP
which you just outlined and some of
these companies where what are some
examples of ones that are actually
majority employee owns as an exam can
you talk a little bit about a New
Belgium Brewing and maybe also the WL
Gore & Associates yeah of course so
there are two fabulous companies New
Belgium Brewing the entire beer they've
been doing this for for an awful long
time and they've been one of the success
successful figureheads of our movement
they often speak at events they're one
of the companies that a lot of other
companies emulate and in fact having New
Belgium in the craft beer brewing
business has led to well I shouldn't say
led to but they're part of the movement
in the craft brewing world there are a
whole lot of employees on pressed
Brewers now so we've got got a whole
bunch of on harpoon brewing and these in
these coasts in the Boston area
whole bunch of them one thing that's
interesting about New Belgium is that
they're a really interesting combination
of a very business focused business you
know they do open book management so
everybody at New Belgium understands the
profit and loss statements are all
engaged in making the business as
successful as it can be but there are
also really thoughtful about kind of a
high-touch high-end sort of human
element of business so they get
everybody involved in in the mission and
the values and kind of the the rituals
of being an employee owner at New
Belgium you mentioned gore-tex o WL Gore
is the company that makes scoretext and
they're one of the most creatively
structured companies out there they have
a self-organizing work group so if
someone
WL Gore employee has a great idea she
tries to recruit colleagues to join her
in this project and if she does and it
happens and if she doesn't it doesn't it
could be that the great idea comes from
somebody who's fairly new and it could
be that the president or the manager of
the location joins that team and reports
to the new person so they're very
flexible and very focused on on projects
and getting things done um and so what
is the history specifically of ESOP
legislation going back to the 1970s how
does this become and I guess you know
okay obviously somebody can go and set
out and create something like a food
co-op and you can structure business in
a certain way and you know you could you
could potentially structure it as a
nonprofit or various other kind of forms
of ownership models but this specific
model of employee ownership actually has
a long history of federal legislation
behind it
what is that history going back to the
1970s it does and if you don't mind we
step back just a little bit mother Danny
and go anywhere you want alright let's
go to 1956 then okay great that's that's
the the year that the first
ESOP was created in the United States it
wasn't called an esop at the time but
it's same model and that was there was a
newspaper company and the Bay Area and
at that point the work there was as you
said Michael there was no federal
legislation to support this so if you
wanted to create an esop you had to go
to the IRS and say here's what we'd like
to do can we do this sort of a case by
case permission so as you alluded to
something big happened in the 1970s
which is that the Congress passed the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act
lovingly called ERISA and that's set up
a framework where any company could meet
some minimum requirements set up by the
federal government and if they did that
they could create an esop you know the
ESS are still there still oversight by
the Department of Labor and the Internal
Revenue Service to make sure
everything's done as it should be but
it's a lot a lot easier to make an esop
then so the number of esop companies
went from about
200 that had accumulated over the prior
two decades to where they are now which
is 7,000 companies with Aesop's and what
ERISA did is it made well it was a
creature of Congress so it combines a
whole bunch of different goals some of
which appeal to Republicans some of
which appeal to Democrats so everybody
was in the 70s it was trying to make
sure American business could really
compete with Japan you might remember
the scare in the auto industry so the
idea of employee ownership was hardly to
make American businesses more
competitive it was partly to create a
new source of retirement wealth for
ordinary working people and it was
partly to directly address the
stratification of wealth the the people
who came up with this was an investment
banker named Lewis Kelso who his
explicit idea was that no working person
is ever gonna keep up in the modern
economy unless he or she owns a piece of
companies because the companies are what
ultimately generate wealth in our
business and if people are excluded from
the the ownership from the success share
of the success of those companies
there's no way they're going to keep up
and so yeah no no I that's interesting
because that's actually one of the I
mean we get will speak more broadly in a
couple minutes but my you know sort of
my democratic socialist instincts are
very excited by the idea of you know
obviously if company's being
democratized and you know a company like
New Belgium I was already actually
familiar with through Professor Richard
Wolf's work and how you know how dynamic
and how exciting that is and and
actually and then I think you know that
actually gonna spills into a broader
conversation of could these companies
could this model also have broader
ancillary effects right so that in
addition to the innate and primary goal
of enhancing what you know sort of you
know earnings retirement security and so
on could this also have other effects on
decision-making in a company in terms of
you know environmental goals or other
social impacts actually maybe can I just
ask you that more broadly before we get
back to specifics what would that also
start to come into the analysis at some
point that if companies start to have a
broader set of stakeholders that that
might potentially translate into a
broader set of systemic thinking about
you know businesses impact on the
community or the environment and so on
yeah being a really subtle and
fascinating question Michael I'm really
glad you asked that there are a number
of our companies of our member companies
that King Arthur Flour is one good
example they set themselves up as kind
of a what is well it used to be a unique
thing but it's getting more common a
company that is both a hundred percent
owned by its employees and a B
corporation so they've got a commitment
to a triple bottom line of environment
social and business success and there
are a number of our companies that that
do that there there are there's a really
nice fit between being employee owned
and being a benefit corporation there's
another sorry just really quick what is
a benefit corporation could you just
elaborate on that for a second yeah a
benefit corporation is a form of
business organization where they
companies amend their bylaws and in in
37 states there's state law provisions
that encourage this so that they aren't
so that they aren't focused exclusively
on shareholder value they're looking at
other stakeholders so that they can also
bring in environmental concerns and and
social concerns great and sorry I
interrupted your flow there what was the
second point you're gonna make second
point is that that there is a lot of
bringing in other values some of those
values though are from the right end of
the political spectrum I mean the person
who's most directly responsible for
Aesop's was a Democratic senator Russell
long he was a southern Democrat
you know he had deep concerns ryo-san
goes yeah exactly right so he was really
excited about employee ownership as a
way to combat the stratification of
wealth a good democratic liberal idea
but it was also really excited because
he's got some some real market values
too and like a lot of Republicans who
support employee ownership now he saw
employee ownership is a great way to
build a capitalism that has more
capitalists just a more robust
capitalism that would really get it
capitalism and the benefits of
capitalism to a bigger piece of the of
the population so I think what we see is
we see a bunch of our member companies
are like King Arthur Flour or New
Belgium and they do things that really
engage in the in the communities that
take social environmental concerns into
into account but a number of our other
companies come to this from values which
which aren't tied to the left but other
values that may be tied to the to the
right end of the political spectrum and
so we've got some companies that are
defense contractors we've got some
companies that are that manufacture
supplies for for but I'm not sure the
right way to say this but they're
they're specifically Christian supplies
so if you get a tchotchke that your
church gives out or something like that
it might be made by an employee-owned
company so what's interesting about
employee ownership and I hope that you
and your readers leave this conversation
not exactly knowing which side of the
spectrum I'm on personally it's got a
really strong roots in both the left and
the right so and that's and I think that
if that's actually I appreciate the
clarity for the purpose because you know
obviously this is a show certainly on
the left and I think it's it's helpful
to understand actually that and one of
the things that's exciting about this is
that a to me I mean look if you if you
already had a more broadly democratized
economy where more people were doing
better across the board that's already a
better place to be having an argument
and
bate from to begin with right like
that's already a significant upgrade so
that that I'll you know defend innately
and then I think you know that's a
that's an important question I think
obviously a lot of people you know in
this program would say well no it
couldn't you know the goal would not to
have you know not to be a you know
communally owned you know defense
contractor would not be the upshot
people in this audience obviously
because there's you know broader
concerns about you know well-being of
people across the planet and so on but I
think that that's a but is is it is I
understand it makes total sense that
there would be companies that identified
with more sort of on the on the
conservative side of the spectrum that
would want to you know bring in a
broader sense of you know I said
stakeholders they could say stockholders
in fact right but in terms of politics
right now and I don't want to make the
I'm not trying to get you to be partisan
I just want to talk specifically right
now in terms of who is working
legislation or talking about ideas on
the campaign trail that would support
this model so I know that you know
Bernie Sanders is an example actually
going back to his time as mayor of
Burlington was extremely supportive of
these types of enterprises and helped
actually you know set up coops in
Burlington I know that there's
legislation I know there's one version
of the Labour Party in the UK and I
think Bernie's introduced similar
legislation which I'd like to ask you
about first which would basically the
government would give bridge loans to
medium-sized companies if the workers
wanted to absorb them as am i
understanding that correctly yeah the
the Bernie has not spelled out the
details of what he would do he's got
several different pro-worker ownership
proposals right now and you're
absolutely right he's been one of the
longest term most active supporters of
employee ownership well I was going to
say in the Senate but it's even bigger
than that he's he's one of the heroes of
of employee ownership in Vermont is has
more employee ownership per capita than
just about any state
in the in the country so there's a
there's a good reason that he's a good
reason and a good effect of all that
senator Sanders has done so in terms of
his proposals some that are most
exciting I think are he's talked about
setting up a worker ownership bank which
would facilitate the transition of
conventionally owned businesses to
worker cooperatives or he stopped
ownership that's a fabulous idea the
idea of his that I'm most excited about
is the idea of setting up a state
employee ownership center in all 50
states because if you when when I look
at this field and I see what's what's
holding back the creation of more
employee ownership it's it's mostly
about the marketing because if you think
about him the main time that a company
becomes an employee-owned is when
somebody set it up a business they own
it all themselves they're getting close
to retirement or trying to decide who's
going to own their business after them
and they can choose they can decide to
sell it to somebody in the family if
there is somebody like that for in most
cases there's not they can decide to
sell to a competitor or a public company
in their field they can choose to sell
the private equity or or some other
holding company or they can sell to
their employees and a lot of people are
think that selling to their employees is
great but they don't get quite across
the finish line and that's because in my
opinion there's so much money right now
money is so cheap private equity firms
have a huge amount of money public
companies have a huge amount of money
they're looking to use it productively
and one way they do that is by acquiring
these fabulous businesses that otherwise
would be great candidates for employee
ownership and I think that's actually
another place that the left and the
right come together obviously anybody on
the left would rather see the wall
street not own these firms and I think a
lot of Republicans are there as well
they like the idea of Main Street
ownership so I think I think that's
another place we can all would you say
in terms and and I would include by the
way a lot of demo
rats here frankly you know who take
money from you know financial services
when you're talking about yeah you know
I could totally see a large part of
Republican voters liking the idea of
mainstream ownership as an example but
you know you have some examples yet
obviously Sanders is a leader I want to
talk about Warren's corporate board
seats in a second and you actually point
out that actually a globish are and
Gillibrand have sponsored some helpful
things in regards to this as well is
there any Republican I again I totally
on a business and grassroots sense makes
total sense
is there any Republican legislatively
that's working on this right now that's
in that sort of in in support of this in
a constructive way in Congress yeah
there are I think the biggest hero of
the last of the last Senate it is
senator Kirsten Gillibrand she was the
moving force behind creating the first
major legislative success around
employee ownership and in a decade the
Main Street employee ownership act what
does that do that encouraged the Small
Business Administration to create more
employee ownership and in two main ways
one was by extending SBA guarantees to
loans that are used to transition a
business from conventional ownership to
employee ownership and the second is by
starting to use the whole outreach
apparatus of the SBA and they've got a
lot of them to spread information about
employee ownership so that business
owners learn about it as as an option I
see it as a great new source of
information that's pushing the other way
than all the marketing done by private
equity firms so that is that is Senator
Gillibrand is is the person who should
get the credit for that but she did
bring on a Republican co-sponsor who was
very eloquent and and very engaged in
the process that's a Jim Risch the Idaho
and at our last conference we are we had
our conference in Pittsburgh and we had
about 1,900 people so both senators
brand and Senator Risch were gave video
welcomes to our our attendees there and
in Senator Risch isn't the only one
there are folks in the in the house who
have supported employee ownership as
well from from both sides of the aisle
what about uh the idea of a Elizabeth
Warren's idea of employees elected on
corporate boards in terms of how does
this kind of how would that play into it
that is that sort of a cousin idea
she has separated the board seat from
from actual ownership by employees and
so she's thinking more of the kind of
German code determination model where
people just by virtue of being employees
have a right to a role in corporate
governance that's yeah I think that's a
separate issue and in my mind what's
much more important is the actual
ownership its governance matters of
course but I think that when ownership
actually changes hands then you don't
just get a change in the types of
decisions that a company makes you also
get a change in the criteria by which
companies make decisions and for whom
they make decisions so in my mind having
a minority of the board be appointed by
the employees is far less important than
having ownership by employees because
ownership by employees is a system
change it rewired the decision making
process inside a company so just well I
want to get to in a couple of minutes or
in a minute you'll talk about how you
know candidates should run with this
which is also I think part of the the
John cases article that were kind of
referencing here but let's talk could
you explain the United I didn't know
about this the United collapse and how
did this ESOP how did I get tied into
United collapse and how did that
potentially and obviously you would say
incorrectly sort of cloud people's
deception of this yeah United Airlines
is one of the spectacular failures of
employee ownership unfortunately and
interestingly I think the the best way
to look at that is a as an airplane
analogy which is that journalists cover
it when a plane crashes but they don't
cover all the safe landings and and most
ESOP stories are kind of not that
interesting stories of companies people
haven't heard of you know just doing
well right United Airlines what went
wrong was partly a result of of timing
they put the Reese up in place in 1994
and it was a result of it was the
initiative of the pilots union and they
worked really hard it was the second
time they had tried to create a an
employee ownership plan that United this
time they succeeded partly because they
recruited the Machinists union and
non-union employees to join them in
creating the ESOP and they ended up
collectively those three employee groups
ended up with 55 percent of the shares
of United and the other forty five
percent of the shares were still traded
on the New York Stock Exchange and there
were couple problems with it that doomed
it well maybe not from the beginning but
there are a couple problems one is that
the flight attendants Union never bought
on there's a really intricate soap opera
Union politics story behind it but the
the flight attendants are the face of
the company to most United customers and
having them not involved was was pretty
crucial as a mistake there was also a
really quirky way the United East South
was designed which is that it was sort
of built with a self-destruct button it
lasted ten years and then it was
designed to start fading away most ease
ups when we do surveys eighty-three
percent of our members say they intend
to be permanently employee owned but
that wasn't the case that United because
of the way they
because intricate finances behind the
transaction and then the biggest problem
with united was with 911 those planes
crashing into the World Trade Centers
cause several airlines to go bankrupt it
didn't matter how well the airlines were
run but you know United was the one
employee owned airline that went
bankrupt and people pointed that
sometimes as a failure of employee
ownership but there are plenty of air
lines that were investor owned that went
bankrupt and people don't indict
investor ownership so I think there's a
double standard going on there all right
yeah that sounds exactly right to me so
if I'm guessing if you were to advise
candidates you would say hey senator
Sanders do an ad that connects you know
the great proposals you're putting
forward today that you outlined earlier
on and then go back to these companies
you helped get off of the ground and you
remain Burlington and go do photo ops at
employee-owned companies like New
Belgium hey you know senator Gillibrand
you know you need to you know sort of
you know raise the profile of your
campaign talked about this great
legislation you co-sponsored in 2018 do
you think that this can be used to
Center and I would add you know
particularly in light of you know Donald
Trump making a whole lot of kind of
noise about America this and that you
know do you think that this is a pretty
potent message for candidates to put
forward you know Michael I'm a little
biased but I absolutely yes I think what
you just described those photo ops doing
it that way that sounds like a no I find
that a really compelling approach to
talking about economic transformation I
like that a lot
I you know I'm a little bit of a policy
nerd so I'd love to see them throw in
some of the statistics you know you've
got some great numbers like
employee-owners have 92% greater net
household wealth than not employee
owners employee owner you have 53%
greater job tenure than non employee
owners both of those numbers by the way
are look
at Millennials from a federal data set
from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and
Millennials are the people you'd expect
to have the smallest benefit from from
being employee owners but you know they
also have more flex time they've got
more they're more likely that parental
leaves there are three times as likely
to have tuition reimbursement to their
companies they're more likely to be
involved in decision making so I mean to
a point you raised before it's not just
about dollars being an employee owner is
an educational and a transformative
experience because I mean let's go back
to Marx most people are alienated from
their businesses they work and they
don't have any connection to what's
created or the profit or the success of
the business if you're an employee owner
not only do you intimately understand
how your business works what your role
is and how you affect the success of
yourself and the success of all your
colleagues you also have more training
more involvement more responsibility to
be a steward for your business well let
me just say Lauren you you are a very
good salesperson because obviously Marx
and the alienation is exactly the way to
brand this to somebody like me and this
audience but I actually know but I it's
funny because I mean first of all
seriously yes in fact I absolutely think
a conversation about you could talk
about what you certainly should talk
about Marx and alienation but you could
also talk about in fact connecting these
issues to a much broader set of crises
and questions that people have right now
about powerlessness about a sense of
lack of meaning about not only the
objective crises of wealth concentration
and inequality and you know the economy
working for such a narrower and narrower
set of the population which is a huge
crisis and real and material terms but I
think you're absolutely right to there's
also just this huge sense of so much
elimination of human capacity in so many
regards and when you you know when you
empower people like this kind of across
the board
it allows people to be much more of who
they are that means expressing a lot
more capacity and talent and also having
more actual powers so therefore they
have you know more resources and better
lives and you know that I like that
synthesis you're putting me over there
thank you and that when people come to
our conferences you know we have CEOs
come to our conferences but we have a
lot of non management people come to our
conferences and what they say really
fits back exactly what you just said
Michael it's people feel that they've
been able to take more forgive the
phrase the more ownership over their own
lives because of what they've learned by
being an employee owner well that's
great
Loren Rogers executive director of the
National Center for employee leadership
the piece that were referencing was in
The New Republic an economy in Waiting
fighting inequality by turning workers
into owners by John case also mentioned
plea
action in a place of and Richard Wolffe
in the second half of the show but look
up ma Dragoon as an example and
definitely read the article and check
out all of the work that Lauren is doing
with his team at the National Center for
employee ownership Lauren Rodgers thanks
so much for doing this
thank you Michael appreciate it take
care take care all right folks
well Matt it's just us now it's like the
old days it's like the old days how do
you think we're doing oh it's I I mean
if this is old hat this is old hat we're
still a no lean mean fighting operation
I guess Brendon and Samer are off to a
Netroots train journey to Philadelphia
journey to Philly it's so I think I
don't actually don't know how they get
there but what something in uber just
funny to think too cuz cuz Sam used to
do all these solo trips now he's got
like a little travel buddy right yeah
come on Randy let's go
Brendan's got the right disposition for
that Brendon has Brendan is Brendan is
totally Jeeves in that situation with
their jerseys New Jersey Jeeves
assisted sir okay okay cut out like the
SAMS of Airy agitated rooster jeez no do
you see oh my god
between that and I'll just say this I
don't know what we're gonna do with it
but the haim saban
IDF Power Rangers bit that we were
cooking up earlier I don't give that
away all right that's it don't you can't
see oh we will sue on I will see you to
death well sue everybody become a member
I'll see you faster than IDW free speech
you already you already pre-prepared the
summons exactly pardons and Otis is
already ready for whoever takes no Co
seriously we're working on that become a
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M slash become a member
that's how this show works that's how we
give you all the coverage we give you
that's how this whole operation runs you
know why you should support it
check out dust just coffee dot coop fair
tea trade tea coffee or chocolate today
was the debut of the quickie with Sam
and a Laura Steiner I listened to it yes
this is uh you're gonna like this you're
gonna want tight for a minute primer
yeah share it with your Normie friends
share it with your Normie friends
definitely a good way of them to sort of
ease them into the majority for it
universe we had a really fun time on
team BS last night it's you know we
always do but Emma biglan was in we did
an in-depth dive on the Hong Kong
protest we actually the shout out was on
part of the movement arising out of the
resistance to Standing Rock was city
councils including
Kshama Sawant Seattle pushing to put to
direct municipal money into the creation
of state banks like the one in North
Dakota which could be a very significant
progressive goal the the Bank of North
Dakota is where I got my loan to go be a
fact-checker in London for a summer that
is so cool
that is really quite an impressive
institution very happy to pay that one
off actually right now I'm not even
joking I'm much when I when I submit the
payment for that I'm like you know what
fair enough yes right exactly so and
then incredibly fun postgame a lot that
we covered this weekend we did a think
tank session with the crew an extended
crew Vic Vienna next week we're
recording with a Sudanese activist and
then Joshua Kahn is returning the studio
with more discussion on First Peoples
activism the climate crisis and also
practical tools for organizing he's the
one who did the Simpsons episode with us
on how to build a movement from the
bottom up
Joshua Khan knows answers to a lot of
questions that I think left us have
common anxiety about is very
straightforward ways of approaching
things like well how do we do the
practice and practice and I'll do what
Joshua knows Joshua knows and has been
doing it for over a decade from the
Philippines to Arizona you know from
from Fiji to Colombia so become a patron
patreon.com slash T mb/s definitely
subscribe to the Michael Brooke show
YouTube channel we have a huge amount of
clips up there now and everything from
the anniversary of the Honduras coup to
how the left should talk about
technology in the future obviously
ongoing coverage of all things Brazil
the political imprisonment of Lula we're
really cooking with that over 55,000
subscribers now on YouTube which now
we're not even a year in on YouTube and
I think that that's like that's solid
yeah but go subscribe to this if you're
listening I'll be on YouTube because we
want to get to 100k before the end of
the year yes
doable I think it
is doable so that's even though
YouTube's doing some funny business
even though YouTube is not friendly if
you can do snail creators they failed to
obscure our art Matt what's going on I
was started to listen the Rutger bregman
episode of literary hangover fascinating
yep we go into record Brickman I think
that is you know I I mean I think the
antiphon it has the more farther extreme
left part covered so I thought with this
episode we discussed more of the
Keynesian reformist sack dem you know
pie-in-the-sky folks for Sodom versus
the US sell Marxist realist
revolutionaries but record Bergman has
an instant synthesis of a lot of these
things and I think there I am a
suspicious of ubi and so we go into some
of our suspicions that but I think
Bregman is one of the better messengers
of it if if yang was just messaging like
record breckman was about ubi I wouldn't
have much beef with Andrew yang but he's
not yang was going across the country
saying in addition to Medicare for all
and expanding the social safety net we
should have a ubi pro I'm een what's
funny is enough is that once actually
not bad on some of that stuff it's now
said on so support like the student debt
cancellation yeah I think he's yeah
I think if he just was straight across
the board though pretty much like this
should just be an add-on I mean yeah
what's funny is that one of the things
that Lula successfully implemented was
arguably a form view bi which of bolsa
família is a cash transfer and the only
condition was is that you gave you got
your kids immunized and put them in
school and then families just got money
and that did a lot but it was part but
the distinction on add is that this was
a government that was investing in
social services right board in expanding
health care and college and university
construction it literally building
hundreds of new universities so it was
part of basically a broad Kensie an
effort in a developmentalist model so it
was and it was a huge success if a
neoliberal government can
and said we're gonna do a less generous
bolsa família and then slash everything
else I would have a major problem with
that right as part of that overall
structure it was a huge success and it's
one of the reasons that the Workers
Party under Lula took between in the
super conservative metric 20 million I
would say more accurately 30 or 40
million out of poverty so yeah it's a
conversation we should it's I feel like
Camilla Harris it's a conversation worth
having yeah and she shouldn't be at the
expense of food stamps right just like
obvious yeah piss off what do you do
yeah yeah like I mean or run is a
Republican or run is a right or
independent or something but yeah
together there'd be a lot of value oh no
I actually we be actually really
interesting it'd be kind of scary and
kind of interesting having scary and
interesting but maybe good you can
inject some of that stuff so check that
a literary hangover folks literary
hangover and also there's a great bad
catalog with Orwell and all sorts of
stuff
all right folks see you in the fun half
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
you know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you alright but dude
dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now
so win-win it's win-win hell yeah now
listen to me
two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion
Wow third don't you see everybody's
taking their dumb juice today come on
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my seat I'm hoping that
more moves to my repertoire all I have
is the dip in the swirl fine we can
double dip yes this is a perfect moment
no wait what you make under a million
dollars come here not thank-yous me
you all right take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there
take whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber laughing I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready - I see some people Shitler
with such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue thank you for
calling into the majority report them
we'll be with you shortly
welcome to the fun half Matt and I are
here Matt actually right out of the gate
I am for you are you Matt are you going
to be reviewing the book act equality by
Edward Bellamy um
no if I do it Edward Bellamy book it
would be looking backward probably I
mean I depends I'm just not familiar
with equality looking backwards
interesting though because it was a huge
bestseller nationally like just massive
like Fifty Shades a great type of
numbers and like in 1899 or 96 or some
somewhere on there and it was basically
a utopian socialist sort of vision like
this guy would woke up a hundred years
in the future there's something like
that like Andrea and talks about how we
have all these amazing new time-saving
conveniences and stuff like that so it's
uh Edward Bellamy's interesting guy but
ultimately it was a vision of socialism
without political struggle so have
limited utility not gonna work that's
not playing right okay uh all right
let's take a call out of the gate you're
calling from an eight for seven area
code who are you where you calling from
and my coach Josh from Chicago hey Josh
how are you Josh I you know I hate
Melinda Katz Melinda Katz is not good
what's going on and I'm good what's
going on okay
so I've been working on this actually oh
great
the bond in fact I spent a lot of my 4th
of July going through data and stuff
like that's sort of barbecuing but I
think so
basically as people know on Election Day
Tiffani c'mon declared victory by like
1,100 votes which is of course not a
sizable Mart it's about a percentage
point victory I think is what she had
and we were told by election experts who
know what they're talking about which
they said it's basically mathematically
impossible for Melinda Katz to win even
if I should have to get something like
70% absentee ballots right on when they
come to absentee ballots the day before
July 4th July 3rd in the evening Melinda
Katz declared victory after not saying
anything by 20 votes on the absentee cap
because the Board of Elections threw out
a bunch of affidavit ballots and didn't
count them a lot of these affidavit
ballots are thrown out for stupid
reasons including literally they're 114
in court right now saying they basically
did not fill out that they were member
of the Democratic Party in the party
field and actually there is a bill right
now that should be on andrew cuomo's
desk which would actually be forced
those affidavits to be counted it would
actually prevent a lot of reasons for
why people have to sell it affidavit
ballots in the first place
conveniently Andrew Cuomo's refused to
sign this I don't know why it's weird
I'm surprised but I
he's usually devising a plan of
democracy he declared he was the left
you know I don't know I I think for me
and I think this is the thing that I
know a lot of us said at the time during
the primaries in 2016 or some people
said that those primaries were stolen
we're felt like the Clinton people were
stealing the primaries and I don't think
that was the case I think Sanders just
lost you know he didn't run a good
enough campaign well I'm just I mean
yeah and then the L so those snails are
wrong I mean look I think eat well
whatever right we but like yeah this is
still an election this is what a stolen
election looks like and these people are
trying to steal an election because
this is a bigger deal than AOC winning
and this is a bigger deal than even
someone like Julia winning because of
the implications that this has and also
the fact that borough-wide election no I
think that that's look there's no
question and by the way I'll just say
maybe I shouldn't open this up but I
think like look the big picture is is
that yes Hillary Clinton won more votes
than Bernie Sanders and I think there
were some areas that if I recall there
was you know there was some ridiculous
stuff that was you know look there were
places that like it literally was the
rules right but I there were some
caucuses that Bernie won but Hillary
ended up getting more delegates from I
those are that's clearly a problem right
I have no I wouldn't be shocked that if
you know if Sanders Clinton was a 50/50
race and it came down to some vote
counting in Queens I would yeah you know
is is exactly the type of thing that I
would be looking for in terms of tipping
the election in an illegitimate way so
yeah that's what they're doing
it's a machine and I think this is a
good point of like not getting into you
know yes it's it's it's stolen if if she
I mean this is more analogous to the way
2000 was stolen yeah in Florida I mean
that's what they're doing they are they
are getting ballots that should be
counted to be thrown out on the most
spurious of technicalities to you know
to basically drag their preferred
candidate across the finish line yeah
that's totally illegitimate it's
democratically illegitimate so even if
it crosses you know whatever boxes
because Cuomo hasn't signed this law
it's fundamentally an illegitimate
election I mean in the same bar though
and it's a different circumstance but
that was you know that was what was
great with Stacey Abrams origin like I
acknowledge that I'm not gonna be
governor they're not gonna graduate the
guy whose whole win is based on voter
suppression ya know
so what are the state of things now
though I mean is is this still in play
yeah I so I think she's gonna win I
think Caban is gonna win because right
now there's about a hundred fourteen
ballots in court the court date was
supposed to be yesterday but it's been
pushed back to half of the manual
recount okay so I think there's two
scenarios here that are working in our
favor one the fact that I think these
actually it's funny enough the judge is
actually a Republican judge they moved
it from the Queen's Supreme Court to the
Brooklyn Supreme Court and actually
that's probably better for us than if it
was part of the Queen's Democratic
machine right one of the judges yes
so I think these votes are going to get
counted because these people I mean I
spoke to one yesterday I'm not gonna go
to any details but this person was a
registered Democrat and the other thing
that I think is working in our favor as
well is if people remember and I don't
know how many votes Bill Nelson gained
or lost in the manual recount but that
really didn't matter because it was
still it it wasn't close enough to
really be affected by a manual recount
this is now 16 votes because we gained
about four we gained four votes when
they did open up five affidavit about
six affidavit ballots and found five for
a coup bond you know I think it's very
also very likely that this will get
flipped back to Caban on a manual
recount or it's gonna come become even
closer
I would advise people not to pay
attention to Shawn King on this because
you've been tweeting some pretty
erroneous facts people don't know what
an affidavit ballot has been cast for
and until they open it up I mean a lot
of affidavit balancer she's never open
um I would file Christina Chung who's
done a really good job of reporting very
thorough and actually you don't have to
be biased to show how ridiculous this
processes and her just likes back to the
matter of reporting on this shows just
has like almost the perfect I don't
wanna say satire but it's the perfect
critique of these people because it
shows just how stupid these people are
I will Josh ridiculous yeah so but okay
so that's one scenario and then was
there a second scenario well the worst
scenario would be if Melinda Katz this
Katz keep dress I think this is gonna
keep getting dragged out for a while I
don't very possible winner isn't even
declared in July
I don't know what the rules are about
WFP running Caban in the fall if when
the cap is indeed declared the winner
but I mean if WFP could run her I think
there would be I mean I I'm not I think
there's no doubt that if this that is
they actually title this for her that
there needs to be whether it's
independent or whatever else we would
need to figure out a way for Caban to
run in the fall WFP maybe I'm a little
wary of them in some ways but if they do
it that would be great and that would be
a perfect line for her to run on but I
would say even looking at just
potentially a completely independent run
yeah because I think Katz is very
dangerous actually there's been a lot of
in her history that's been revealed
including the fact that she at one point
dated the founder of the guardian angels
in New York Chris Christopher Silva yes
she did the guy would that's actually
pretty funny okay all right so she's
kind of like a Sopranos character all
right um
Josh I appreciate the call we'll stay
focused on this all right man
yeah thank you appreciate it you're
calling from a 303 area code who are you
where you calling from 303 are you there
303 going once
yep yeah the box
how would you run against Mitch
McConnell if you were gonna take him on
for the Senate in Kentucky Matt a
cocaine Mitch cocaine Mitch be a
campaign built her own little story done
by Lee found little stoop I leave that
your phone or is that I don't officially
know but I know that buddy yes sir in
the nation yet reporter for the
intercept now but a little discovery
that was found in the
discover on a boat in the dock somewhere
there was a boat but yeah that's what
that's how I would do it I am pretty
confident you would not do this um this
is Amy McGrath she's challenging Mitch
McConnell in for the Senate now you know
I'll just start really bluntly Mitch
McConnell is almost definitely not going
to lose this race Mitch McConnell is the
grave digger of American democracy he's
one of the worst most immoral people in
the history of the United States of
America he wields power with no regard
for anything and is a bagman of
corporate America and any delusions that
people have had about him opposing Trump
or anything I mean look if you were
naive enough to think that in the first
place you're already quite out of touch
of politics in reality but you know it
should be honest shadow of a doubt that
he it profoundly does not care in fact
you know even going back to the Bush era
there's there's some reporting I recall
the time of you know Mitch McConnell
sort of privately understanding that
Iraq was much more disastrous than his
but his willingness to continue for
political reasons to keep you know
feeding that slaughterhouse as long as
he was politically necessary he's there
purely as an instrument of his own power
gain he wants to be Senate Majority
Leader and he's there to do the business
of oligarchy and corporate America in
taking more and more and more wealth and
designing a judicial system that hand
strings the shackles democracy you know
this is a book democracy and changed by
Nancy McLain has brought you know
broadly you need to understand
libertarian and Republican economics in
general by reading that book but I think
even just the sort of personality and
what Mitch McConnell is a conduit of is
that book and then if you actually want
to understand Mitch Alec's Perrine wrote
the kind of definitive work on him from
the New Republic and he's very
politically savvy
and he is built I mean consider again
this guy has always been chronically
unpopular he's been a punching bag by
four Republican talkers and pundits he's
obviously you know he has no charisma he
has no human appeal so ask yourself why
is this guy been politically you know
unvanquishable for decades and it's
because he is the conduit for the most
powerful forces in American politics and
he knows how to patronage and he knows
how to do machine politics in Kentucky
there was actually a piece years ago
about how and it might have changed
recently but about how Mitch McConnell's
national agenda of endless assaults on
labor in the middle class always had a
couple of rare reception exceptions when
it came specifically for narrow sets of
constituencies in Kentucky so my point
is if you're gonna run against this guy
might as well just run a clear campaign
of denunciation and opposition to one of
the worst figures in modern American
history or you could do what you think
is a clever triangulation but it's
transparent and embarrassing for
everybody else to see because you're not
a good political communicator and you
could cozy up with another one of the
worst most grotesque human beings in
American history in an attempt to
triangulate against Mitch that's what
Amy McGrath is doing check her out on
Morning Joe this morning there have been
many people over the years who come at
Mitch McConnell who believe they he or
she were the candidate that we're going
to finally take him out politically and
he has persevered he's been a resilient
political candidate and a politician in
Washington through the years why do you
believe this time is different
well and you're absolutely right to say
he's very formidable and he's been
around 34 years I think this is
different it's a different race because
you know Kentucky voted overwhelmingly
for Donald Trump and you can say
Kentucky's a very red state but it's a
very Pro Trump state and if you if you
think about why Kentuckians voted for
Trump they wanted to drain the swamp and
Trump said that he was going to do that
Trump promised to bring back jobs
he promised to lower drug prices in
Kentuckians and that is very important
and you know what who stops them along
the way who stops the president from
doing these things well Mitch McConnell
and I think that that's really important
and that's going to be you know my
message that the things that Kentuckians
voted for Trump for are not being done
he's not able to get it done because of
Senator McConnell this is like I don't
know you know obvious I don't think he
does campaigns anymore but this is like
the most insipid you know just you too
clever by half mark Penn that
I've seen in recent memory and this is
of course still a party that's being led
by you know the endlessly you know just
totally empty and vacuous Chuck Schumer
and Nancy Pelosi but I mean you know the
avec the obviousness of how this is not
gonna work is obvious to every I mean
what else can you say okay the the only
people that you're gonna motivate to go
to the polls that are actually Democrats
in Kentucky obviously loath Donald Trump
they loathed his misogyny they loathe
him because he's a grotesque thing
they're gonna be totally put off by
their candidate actively praising Trump
she's not even doing the the real red
state play which is do Jetta play which
is like hey man I believed his scam and
now I don't she's literally saying no no
this guy is really trying but oh but
Mitch McConnell's holding him up because
she thinks that as a woman Democrat that
she's gonna Bank shot to the audience in
Kentucky that would be in
sending that message which are like you
know Infowars listeners and you know
other you know extremist crackpots who
have a cult relationship with Donald
Trump it's it's stupid it's vacuous it's
embarrassing to watch and you know look
I never I sure I hope that she beats
Mitch McConnell but it will be the
thumping that she will get is quite
richly deserved that she's gonna
campaign that way Heidi Heitkamp tried
what she's basically attempting in North
Dakota to keep her seat the seat that
she had already had right and she lost
to a Mogga ideate like it doesn't work
yeah I mean honestly it's just Claire
McCaskill also lost now now of course
MSNBC thinks it's actually not only is
that interesting to listen to but she
should be a paid contributor to save
Barack Hussein Obama I mean normal
people both Democratic and Republican or
Republicans are not gonna fall for this
scam and normal Democrats are gonna be
disgusted this is almost it's almost
just about what kind of propaganda are
you going to give to your base with
these candidates because you're probably
not gonna be McConnell even if you run a
great VSA plus campaign right no but you
might as well run that and draw the
distinction between Mitch McConnell and
what your party stands for instead of
this by confusing that doesn't
that is attempting to play to the local
crowd but that I mean we'll see how well
that works
she'll lose worse than Grimes who I'm
already sure at Grimes ran a better race
and I yeah I mean that's exactly it and
well I'm basically what you're doing
there is you're saying I am such a
careerist that I'm gonna run this
complete nonsense because some
consultant I don't knows maybe convinced
me there's like a 2% chance of pulling
this off I mean and frankly the same 1
or 2 percent chance of pulling this off
which are going to be predicated on you
know totally unforeseen unpredictable
events the
what would need to happen to put that
race and play you might as well run a
DSA plus campaign because neither of
those things are gonna make any
difference just embarrassing um James
Darwin Michael tailed Matt will you can
tell Matt to review Caesars column by a
Donnelly yo grip Mr fan excellent
interview I'm supporting workers owned
businesses I really like your knowledge
on Brazil Mike also reading the death of
democracy by Benjamin Carter het really
good book about the Weimar Republic that
sounds terrifying and necessary uh
unpopular front did you see this calmly
Harris's says credit scores should
include rent utility and cell phone
bills I don't know what that means what
does that mean I don't know I mean it's
calmly Harris so might need insulin
survey that's that's terrifying
yeah legislation to reform how credit
scores are created has received
bipartisan support well as another red
flag
she called for amending I don't know I
would have to follow up on this to me
though like that's another area for I'm
ready for frankly the Sanders style
proposal of we're just gonna clean up
peep like we're gonna have credit
amnesty I mean this is another system I
could tell you I mean growing up in a
family that dealt with evictions that
dealt with severe economic scarcity at
certain points and then being in a
position where you know you you you you
do this you do that and oh my god we
might be able to secure some home a home
for the family and then to have after
all of those steps to actually create it
the thing that blocks you is a credit
score which frankly look it's not the
same thing but it is it is fundamentally
it is some form of it it is a proxy for
economic discrimination
frankly so I I'm you know to me that
that would be like is there racism
reflected in the credit score system and
how credit scores are measured I would
have no doubt because race and class has
factored into everything in this society
but my answer for something like that is
what's a clean simple process to clean
up people's credit scores and get them
outside of that system because again
just like everything else
if you dig under the surface a vast
majority I still have a bad credit score
I grew up in a family with no money and
not until very recently in my life was I
able to sort of be in a position to kind
of somewhat put myself together
financially right to sort of take care
of things broadly right that's
relatively recently so you're paying so
you're starting in a hole it's student
loans you're paying off multiple things
you know you go to most people who have
Brett a bad credit score it's because
they've put absolute necessities on a
card that's it or you know you didn't
even use a card and you just you know
you missed a payment then there's a
whole credit score system where
companies are advertising as paid
services things that you actually should
be able to just publicly access without
any problem that's a whole other
industry that just you need some form of
Jubilee you need these massive economic
resets you need complete absolutely you
just need those unplug it I don't know
maybe plug it in again but I don't know
maybe not you know I don't know but I
there's so many areas where it's like
the nice decent little reform of 15
years ago which was insufficient then
incidentally is just ludicrous today
well I mean this is the point I always
make about libertarians is like the
longer you allow sort of economic
situations too and a lack of
concentrations you know to persist in
history the more that history actually
matters right and that's and Breton that
connects by the way as a Fiat as a
theoretical model that's how you can
understand student debt and the need for
complete amnesty and Jubilee with the
same reason that you need to fight to
get us Canadian banks the World Bank and
IMF and to totally cancel as an example
the quote-unquote debt that the
Caribbean still owes me go historically
you look at the hole that Hades and I
always use this as an example but it is
literally true that Haiti that was
founded as an independent republic from
a successful slave revolt this should be
a heroic country for everybody in the
world that was CLR James as argument in
black Jackman's right is that this is a
this is the fulfilment this is the
ultimate arc of the French Revolution
after the Revolution I think was a
couple decades later they the French
essentially hell re threatened to
reinvade if Haiti didn't pay them off
for liberating themselves from being
slaves and that still rolls over to
today where Haiti is in a sort of second
colonized status I mean I you know look
you you need debt relief and Jubilee and
it looks to me now like you have the
answer for credit cards up in front of
us which is Ryan Cooper Cooper
nationalized the credit bureaus
absolutely and we forgot right
Equifax yeah we don't even remember
these things I know it's insane it's
insane I mean that that's a company why
would a private company hold so many
people's credit scores and information
begin with ridiculous shouldn't exist
that should be totally D commodified
government-run and it was breached in a
massive hack no accountability so I yeah
look there's a whole bunch of these
things that it's funny because they're
they're very inviting for technocrats
but right now the answers are
technocratic maybe the rebuild is when
we have technocratic procedures but
right now just wipe it out you have a
bad credit score how about you fill out
this little form we fix it how about you
don't fill out any form how about we fix
it you have a credit you have student
debt gone no more
Kentucky Fried comrade hey Michael I
wanted to shout out the struggle for
Assembly Bill five in California the
bills to help secure workers rights for
independent contractors in California
uber and lyft are working behind the
scenes to get a special carve-outs that
keep their drivers from having a minimum
wage or benefits please call your local
California state representative and to
tell them to support workers rights for
all independent workers all right this
is really important I'll take away the
takeaways if you are in California you
must call your assembly person and tell
them to vote for a clean Assembly Bill
five no single exception all independent
contractors need to be get minimum wage
and benefits no exception for ride share
services in fact funnily enough like
that the bill should be like written
specifically to target uber and lyft
exactly right like these these companies
are so pernicious and dangerous all
right thank you Kentucky Fried komarin I
go on i-24 from time to time it's a at
times can be an awkward experience
because of not all of them i mean david
shuster isn't there anymore but a lot of
the anchors there have a what they have
such an extreme far-right israel bias
that I mean I remember one time an
opening package for a segment before I
came on in my head I had to say the host
like you're gonna need to do less bias
opening packages before I come on like
that that's ridiculous and so kudos to
Emily Maher of if not now which is a is
if I understand it I think this believe
is a Jewish pressure group that fights
against the Israeli
you patient and here she was talking
about young Jewish voters are tired of
the position that says you support
Israel as a sovereign nation state
literally doing whatever it wants
anytime anywhere any place in a country
that administers so many human rights
abuses
I represent a base of American Jews and
the base of the Democratic Party who are
calling on Democratic leaders to reject
AIPAC and actually take meaningful
action towards ending Israel's military
occupation that deprives Palestinians of
civil political and human rights you
know I think it's clear that this
generation of young American Jews knows
that violating the rights of humans and
children is wrong whether it's at the
border or whether it's taking kids out
of bed in the middle of the night and
the West Bank and we're calling on our
political leaders to actually represent
that view we're tired of the blank
cheque that the Democratic Party has
given to the Israeli government to
continue the status quo in Israel to
continue dispossessing Palestinians of
their land and of their lives and I
think you know we're ready as American
Jews to stop feeding the the territory
in the arena of the political moment to
establishment that doesn't represent us
or our views and so we're asking
politicians to actually take take
responsibility for this issue and put
forward bold new solutions to end what
is this injustice that's really well put
of course this is an issue with the
presidential candidates were obviously
and he certainly doesn't have a perfect
record on this none of them do though
Bernie Sanders did as part of his in the
1980s and in supporting Jesse Jackson
acknowledged Palestinian human rights at
a time when there was not even that that
saying that the Palestinians and these
that the Israelis should negotiate with
the PLO was actually a controversial
position even though become mainstream
in the 90s and ultimately lead to the
failed and discredited peace process
Bernie's infinitely far ahead in terms
of just saying that in fact the United
States should follow through on its
actual policy of opposing the occupation
at least until Trump
and in terms of centering he spoken
clearly on the humanity of Palestinians
he's objected to the atrocities example
of the Israeli murder of the Palestinian
protesters at the Gaza protests as an
example Kamala Harris Christian
Gillibrand and Cory Booker are very much
on the opposite extreme they are
absolutely situated within the
discredited and really horrifying
Democratic mainstream that she's talking
about there Joe Biden is a leader of
that Joe Biden of course as you would
expect as a has a terrible record with
supporting these things
Peabody jej defended if I along with
Elizabeth Warren quite aggressively
various Israeli actions Elizabeth Warren
again I'll keep saying it her reaction
to if you go back to 2014
Israel's shelling and pounding of Gaza
which killed hundreds of civilians in
days it shelled UN schools there was a
horrifying photos of Palestinian
children murdered on the beach in Gaza
she came out and did the same robotic
AIPAC talking points that everybody does
and I will definitely say that Sanders
response while not nearly as callous as
hers at that time was not great either
and the ground is shifting because of
work of people like like Maher like
Emily Maher but this is an area where
we're still well behind the curve and
there still is just a clear and distinct
difference in political candidates if
you have even the inkling of a caring
about basically recognizing the
Palestinians as human beings most of the
candidates on the stage are still not
doing that functionally and you know the
and it's and it's an incredible
double-edged sword because how you can
on one hand be a party that is supposed
to represent the broadening recognition
of the truly full democracy for all and
then conversely support an apartheid
state and the only way to do it is
actually through the the appeals of the
most crass reductive ident
any politics which has always been a
major problem in discourse around Israel
and all too many most frankly you know
almost all Democrats have embraced even
at times when you know the most horrific
atrocities are being committed by Israel
and there's also a model I'd look up
Geoffrey Halper Jeff Halper who runs a
group is part of a group called Israelis
against home demolitions and another way
of understanding Israel and
understanding the occupation is that
Israel is the sort of frontline of a
broad sort of north-south divide that
whether you're talking about policing in
in Ferguson whether you're talking about
counterinsurgency in Afghanistan that a
lot of Israeli models of repression and
counterinsurgency and there's a big
reason why Israel is huge in exporting
weapons and exporting security training
if you go back to even back to the 80s
Israel was part of at least Israeli
contractors are part of the Reagan era
policies of training death squads and
Latin America there's a way in which
according to helpers argument the the
Israeli model is the stand-in for the
broader securitization of east-west
policy generally and the occupation is
the kind of center and staging ground of
how that policy unfolds and I I think
that that's largely true in a very
important way of understanding that
dynamic on another note related to this
AOC accurately called the obscene
conditions at the border concentration
camps I did a whole segment a couple
weeks ago where in response to Chuck
Todd having a tizzy fit about it we went
and we read hopefully if Chuck was
watching the Miriam diction the Dix
Webster dictionary definition of
concentration camp which absolutely
describes the detaining of refugees at
the border even even before we get to
the
atrocities that are being committed by
ice and immigration enforcement officers
that I Anna Presley and Rashida to lib
an AOC
and really only a couple of others are
bravely fighting against but it
certainly led people including Chuck
Todd and well actually Megan McCain
didn't go in this direction because
megan mccain obviously made it about her
dad but it was a really reported minder
to take the you know don't don't ever
use any terminology that might ever
sheep in the memory of the Holocaust one
of the most horrifying genocide and
events in human history well you know
while I will defend the proper use of
the word concentration camps to describe
the Trump administration concentration
camps I will say that I do think we
should honor the legacy and not forget
that history and not cheapen it in any
way shape and form which is why I have a
little bit of a bone to pick with
Israel's new incoming education minister
Rafi Perez who said in a July first
meeting of the Israeli cabinet and I'm
quoting now from Axios that the rate of
intermarriage among us Jews is quote
unquote like a second Holocaust like a
sonic boom quite similar to there was a
time we knew the six million people who
were literally gassed to death by the
German government and so that was one
thing
and now another is a shill Abramowitz
[Music]
my my missus she's an Italian guy so
this is Somalia which is like the
Holocaust this is another example of the
very Western insane thinking in modern
Israeli politics I'm so glad that Haim
Saban essentially directs Israeli policy
for Brookings Institution in the
Democratic Party I want to know I want
to know I mean that that is gonna be a
worthwhile question to ask the the woke
Democratic Party why does a Haim Saban
support you and not Bernie Sanders yes
why does he hate why does he explicitly
say hi I'm Sobhan billionaire from
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers funder of
AIPAC in the Democratic Party and a guy
who is a again quite similar to Sheldon
Adelson in terms of it's not just it's
not a question of defending Jewish
humanity and dignity it's a question of
a defending Israeli Apartheid and
killing and discrimination he said I
love all 22 candidates well except one
and then what do you say said something
I really don't like Bernie Sanders yeah
I don't like Bernie and you can write it
down these people are doing something
really helpful which is that they're
telling you who to vote for you know the
new Pete there was a peace and fortune
that came out the other day that said
like Wall Street's starting to feel okay
with Elizabeth Warren the peace is used
to say nobody except Sanders and Warren
now they're saying not Sanders so all of
the worst people are telling you this is
the one verse they don't want you to
vote for so I think it's a pretty good
indication a Democratic mega donor homme
Sobhan we love all 23 candidates Tom
said then pauses no -1 i profoundly
dislike bernie sanders you can write it
and why wouldn't he he's a billionaire
influence-peddling plutocrat whose prime
foreign policy goals are the
dehumanization and nationalism I mean I
I would I would hate Bernie Sanders to
Bernie Sanders as a voice for justice
equity and against bigotry of all kinds
I mean yeah sure I'm principally against
the carceral state but if you had to
gulag any sort of subset of individuals
the ones termed mega donors only could
be a good place to start oh yeah and we
can even have different conditions I
would like I put Tom Steyer in a more
Swedish type PlayStation yeah yeah Tom I
can play for tonight calm less nice
conditions maybe he go to something like
IDF thing a little bit of a broader
sense of reality um okay let's and
speaking actually you know what let's
let's continue on this thing on this
theme so Tucker Carlson I'll do the
usual preamble here I think Tucker
Carlson is somebody that is is I want to
overly state it but he's a complicated
figure in American life it is
significant in the media landscape when
at least relative to cable news you have
somebody with a hard right nationalist
agenda is also somebody who is far more
willing than almost any of his
counterparts to acknowledge actual
economic realities and social trends
that's just the truth I have no problem
of Mark Blythe going on there and
describing Kenzi and economics and
inequality no problem with that
I prefer Walter Bregman pushing back
against Tucker Carlson's obvious immense
hypocrisy and I think it is important to
remind ourselves that this is the real
engine of all this stuff Donald Trump
campaigned is a fake economic populist
and on bigotry and xenophobia he's
governed as a republican plutocrat and
has gone a hundred percent on white
ethno state politics and that's still
the bed and bread-and-butter of Tucker
Carlson which is why
a Swanson Air Trust Fund baby who spent
his life being a character of himself on
cable news has an obsessive vendetta
with not only a good congresswoman
somebody in fact that if America had any
intelligence we would use to nation
brand as an example of what a great
society we could be that somebody could
literally be a refugee from Somalia and
then could emerge as one of the most
courageous and important emerging
members of our Congress and I do this
after the the Sobhan story because of
course don't forget that again with of
course always the reception of exception
in Bernie Sanders and you know a couple
of other progressives in the cohort
Nancy Pelosi has not had Ilan Omar's
back Chuck Schumer and Steny Hoyer have
had the opposite of her back and I have
no doubt that the Homme sovereigns of
the world would love to get rid of her
because she's willing to speak honestly
I was moral consistency about the Middle
East whether Israel or Saudi Arabia so
this pathetic racism of Tucker Carlson
is aided and abetted by the Democratic
Party elites that will not be a hundred
percent in ill on Omar's corner Amara
isn't disappointed in America
she's enraged by it virtually every
public statement she makes accuses
Americans of bigotry and racism this is
an immoral country she says she's
undisguised contempt for the United
States and for its people that should
worry you and not just because o Mara is
now a sitting member of Congress Yellin
Omar is living proof that the way we
practice immigration has become
dangerous to this country a system
designed to strengthen America is
instead undermining it some of the very
people we try hardest to help have come
to hate us passionately maybe that's our
fault for asking too little of our
immigrants we aren't self-confident
enough to make them assimilate so they
never feel fully American or maybe the
problem is deeper than that
maybe we're importing people from places
whose values are simply antithetical to
ours who knows what the problem is but
there is a problem and whatever the
cause this cannot continue it's not
sustainable
no country can import large numbers of
people who hate it and expect to survive
the Romans were last to try that with
predictable results so be grateful for
your Han Omar annoying as she is she's a
living fire alarm a warning to the rest
of us we better change our immigration
system immediately or else we won't or
else have good members of Congress see
what's incredible there is what's
conflated and of course the last verse
the last part is pretty historically
illiterate about Rome but I'll set that
aside the last point is the real point
which is a ethnic racial and identity
appeal about blocking immigration from
certain countries that's the actual
point the other points are in fact he's
wrong about you know I would say and
this is where some people don't like me
acknowledging that I think there are
some incredible strengths of American
synthesis and indeed the melting pot
because that footage of a observant
Muslim woman elected to Congress a
refugee a leader in this country dancing
to Shakira at a pride parade uh you know
what I'm actually quite willing to
acknowledge that but you would not see
that in a theocracy of any sort you
wouldn't see it in an ethnos State at
our best you get to see it here so what
he's talking about in terms of the quote
unquote assimilation is already here and
already being enacted by Allah no more
and those who support her that's it
and obviously look we can play the game
there's plenty of counter quotes where
she talks about her love of this country
I think pretty demonstrably the fact
that she's in fact chosen to at the end
of day let's face it beyond such a
mainstream path as being a politician
Congress person this is not somebody who
has chosen to put themselves in the
margins of American life somebody who
when she's actually
spells out or position on Israel as an
example as a supporter of a two-state
solution somebody who has consistently
said that she just wants the United
States to as an example I don't know not
support decapitating babies in El
Salvador as when she questioned the ever
odious completely morally void Elliott
Abrams she again as always is a voice
not all of our conscience and what we
actually need to do in a way that not
only is beneficial and necessary it's
actually pretty unprecedented in modern
politics and the profound tell is the
last point when he makes it about
specific countries that's the appeal
he's aiming for that's the point of the
white at nationalist atheists of all of
it but then the other point when he
talks about things like a simile a wrong
incredible example of the synthesis that
is actually possible in a genuinely
civically bonded multi identity
democracy which we should defend against
people who would endlessly fragment us
of any sort or another and is in fact a
big advantage that the united states has
at its best
yeah i mean some people make a
distinction between nationalism and
patriotism and nationalism being
offensive and patriotism being defensive
and I'm not sure how useful that is to
make but I will say that when I see well
what Ilhan represents does make me feel
patriotic and ironically like that is an
amazing thing and I new thing there is
something a merit American about it
maybe not uniquely American right but I
who can really say things like that who
can really say things like that maybe
every Eddie but everybody can get there
but it is here and it is something that
exists here in a positive way and it's a
threat to Tucker cross and it's
absolutely a threat to South Carlson
what did you want to play here oh yeah
just his little reference to Rome
reminded me of a another video so just
was a shout out Sean
he had a response to stefan molyneux who
also likes i don't know how well tucker
and Stefan get along but but John did a
really good response to this is it
question are the commonly referenced um
around the Rome Rome was destroyed by
multiculturalism sort of thing oh you're
not gonna blame I'm sorry I thought you
were gonna play it my bed alright let's
take another call you're calling from
three three Oh area codes worried where
you're calling from hi Michael hi this
is Nicolas Galina
from a and Ohio hey Nicholas how you
doing what's on your mind well the the
first question that I wanted to ask was
a bit was building in a bit of the
foreign policy realm so recently aired o
on had a bit of a setback in the eastern
Bowl selections mhm and it it seems to
me that one of the key takeaways from
Beth is that the previous ruling party
the Republican People's Party could have
an edge in future elections because of
that setback but I'm wondering if there
could also be an opening for other
populist parties to potentially um
aid in ending heroines fascist rule in
Turkey well the trouble is and and it's
you know we'll see because I'll let you
go Nick I appreciate the call answer
your question well they actually won of
course the Istanbul elections a couple
months ago then the AKP air diwan's
party actually said they was were
invalid and demanded another race which
the Republican People's Party actually
won again uh so we'll see what happens
now I mean there's no doubt that Turkey
has just gotten worse and worse and more
and more vicious and autocratic under
air21 in the last couple of years the
most important other populous forest was
HD
which was a Kurdish social democratic
party that expanded its electoral base
by not only advocating for the rights of
the Kurdish people in Turkey but
actually having a message that really
started to incorporate other vital
social forces labor rights women's
rights the ecology movement in 2014
people may recall in air21 there was a
big environmental movement in Istanbul
that was violently suppressed by the
air21 government the leaders of the HDP
are in jail now there are political
prisoners these are actually other
political prisoners that we should be
talking about a lot more Jean Basel and
I wrote a piece about them for the
Jacobin they've been put in jail by the
air21 government on trumped-up charges
so and the question for the Republican
People's Party which I'll just end this
briefly right now like look if I was in
Turkey I would associate and push you
know anything that is a counter to air21
yeah it needs to be supported in order
to in any way preserve Turkey but their
legacy there they're that old they're
that they're the remnants of the Ataturk
party so there are traditional models
that mean they have some social
democratic politics but ultra
nationalistic very bad on you know
things like you know sort of broad
rights for the Kurds which ironically
air21 and his first wave of politics was
better on because that fitted his
political calculations then so the
question about the Republican the JI pay
is whether or not they can be sort of
more broadly moved in a social
democratic direction as well but the HDP
is the really important force in
politics and they've been made political
prisoners and we should be talking about
them and advocating for them that is
what I would say you're calling from a
7:01 area code who are you where you're
calling from
hey this is Tom from Minnesota a Tom's
going on what's on your mind oh I really
enjoyed the interview today I just
wanted a regarding that is one to throw
to remind people that the policies
advocated by
a lot of the modern monetary people are
like incompatible with the values
espoused by a lot of them Marxist
compensators as you mentioned with the
Macdonald urban policy in the UK I think
that's a nice synthesis of the two using
the state apparatus illa Tate um
changes in the power dynamics in the
workplace mom and yeah and like the
student that they are I mean the student
debt cancellation policies have really
been pushed by a lot of mm tears and a
lot of the more in-depth policy papers
have been written by image advocates
actually regarding that and then my
question on it so I wonder I wanted to
follow up on the caller from last week
sorry I'm puppy-sitting don't know if
you can hear the background so I don't
hear anything go ahead okay um no I
wonder follow up on the caller from last
week the Bernie bro from org and it was
going on the date with the supporter no
and I just wanted to mention that
something that I've noticed that's
really helped me like communicate with
people as gays often mentioned like just
by virtue of listening to the show
regular they were in a pretty small
subgroup of the population with regards
to like political awareness and I think
a lot of people's choice of candidates
is largely you know charisma and
identity based mm-hmm uh and referring
people intuitively just discussing the
candidates themselves I think referring
people to left commentators who may be
armed they are better able to identify
with you know whether it's yep um you
know based on gender or race lines has
always been a good tactic for me um like
even I mean not just gender and race to
like one my closest friends is a fairly
successful consultant and what he's
prides himself on you know being
historically and politically aware so I
referred him to like uh on on Jared Oz's
work and that you know change this
political outlook radically oh just
because the guy speaking the same
language and stuff so right just want to
throw out that that's really
good idea yeah thanks man yeah next time
and I'm just wondering have you guys
read on Neil postman abusing ourselves
to death yes yeah big man okay what did
you what did you think of that I'm
debating reading it and because I'm
interested in like learning more about
the connection between comedy and
political discourse it's not really it's
not a comedy it's it's a more broader
critique of technology television
specifically yeah I would read it I
thought it was fast I mean there are two
Neil postman books there's there's
amusing ourselves to death and
technically and both of those I think
are both of them are frankly a little
bit outdated but outdated in a way
that's still useful for understanding
how we got to where we are right now
yeah that's because because I actually
came to it so a guy named Steve Almond
wrote a article in the Los Angeles Times
in February titled something like
Colbert and SNL are making drops Trump's
not stronger and he wrecked out he
referenced postman in that article I
mean I think it's yeah and that's why I
assumed it was referring to a comedy but
maybe it's just like I think it's just
in general yes it's probably I mean I'm
good yeah like the entertainment
industrial complex Heil helped lead to
Trump thanks for the call Minnesota
colors central mass comrade just read
capitals realism for the first time now
I'm reading the trial can you recommend
an uplifting book along similar lines to
combat the bleak outlook of those two I
mean I can recommend some app lifting
books I don't know if it's necessarily
along similar lines each along similar
lines of as what capitalist realism and
the trial you want positive books along
let's let's deal with the same things I
mean you could read the new Marc Fisher
que Punk anthology a lot of it's still a
downer but there's like he has like his
uh psychedelic communism stuff is
interesting I don't know I would just
read something that's uh you know what I
think a book that is is I would say is
optimistic it might be a little dated
but it's optimistic and it deals with
some of these kind
of broader theoretical themes there's
it's a trilogy from heart and agree and
honestly I haven't read them in years
but its Empire which came out in 2002
which is fascinating some ways dated but
it's it is really interesting it's very
dense and some of it's a little I think
you know I'm not totally sure how well
it holds up in some ways but Empire
multitude and Commonwealth and check out
a multitude I'm not sure again you know
it's it's worth reading I think I think
there's some inspiring stuff in that
that's theoretical or just watch Klaus
with niecy Nash okay i buy it
read logic for the left we give them an
argument logic for the left by Ben
Burgess it's a fun book it'll make you
feel better and you'll learn a lot
parameter any thoughts in the incoming
AOC lawsuit about her blocking people to
on Twitter I don't know where I stand on
this being someone who isn't a prolific
social media user oh I guess Trump Joey
salads the pee drinker himself
who's running for Congress somewhere
around here as a Republican is right
suing a OC for blocking him I don't I
don't really have I mean I'm a I'm kind
of a little a crypto free speech guy I
don't really care if politicians block
people from their Twitter accounts
because you can just like log out and
look at their Twitter feed but I do know
that if she is sued for it Donald Trump
has blocked people and so Steve King so
everyone's going down if she does right
yeah I think there's actually a new
ruling on Trump and blocking people I
don't know I don't look I understand why
I'm sure there's tons of people that
they would want to block um yeah I don't
know us with you I made a bigger fish to
fry I'm a pretty I'm actually I am kind
of a big free speech guy I realized the
more I think about it but that's I don't
care I just don't care about that one I
that's also just like the the way we
choose to use time and I wouldn't use
use use time on that one um all right we
have a bunch more sound to get to first
let's do Brazil
Sergio Moro the corrupt judge in lava
jato case who helped engineer the
politically motivated imprisonment of
lula da silva very important to keep
reminding everybody
Lula led in all the polls Lula would
have beat balsan ro so could you imagine
a year in if you had a president Lula da
Silva in Brazil
instead of JR bolson era with regards to
the environmental crisis in the Amazon
with regards to Venezuela with regards
to pensions labor and then much more
broadly having a powerful unparalleled
political communicator fighting against
resurgent right-wing authoritarianism so
this broader slow-motion coup that began
with the illegitimate impeachment of
Dilma that be that was fulfilled in this
grotesque farce where you put this
hugely successful iconic president in
jail on charges that there's no evidence
for other than plea-bargained testimony
that we've seen as part of these lava
jato leaks that the literal one person
who gave the plea-bargain testimony
changed his desta mone after getting a
plea deal so the the whole process is
utterly corrupt it's exactly what Brazil
wires always said it's what I've said
and it's certainly what Lula the Workers
Party and his attorneys have said and
what's important here though with Sergio
more I mean one it's still important the
the Glenn Greenwald is getting death
threats regularly Sergio Moro is in
charge of the equivalent of the
Brazilian FBI and they are targeting
Glenn Greenwald in the intercept right
now so we need to you know again put all
 aside and have a hundred
percent solidarity with Glenn Greenwald
in the intercept this is not a time for
you know pedantry and silliness have
disagreements and debates but this is
somebody who now for the second time in
their career frankly is broken a hugely
important story arguably the most
globally significant story at the moment
right now who's him his husband and his
children are under threat then there's
also the fact that this whole lava jato
thing
was covered in a completely supportive
and credulous way by the New York Times
by the Washington Post by the Guardian
by Jimmy Dore by all of these people
because it fit this simplistic nonsense
anti-corruption narrative which has been
used by far-right forces from Donald
Trump to Narenda Modi and to junior
bolson ro so Sergio Moro has taken a
temporary leave and he's actually coming
back to United States for the second
time this month which I find very
strange and I would definitely say that
if you look at the broader Brazilian
story that even though the Workers Party
government under Lula and Dilma even
though they did so much and primarily
focused their aims and goals that they
achieved like Lula's goal of eliminating
hunger that even though but in many ways
they followed a moderate course I think
there's no doubt that the fact that they
had publicly run State Oil Company which
they used to reinvest in social programs
and they wouldn't allow to be privatized
is a major reason that even as
conciliatory as they were they still got
on the bad side of the United States's
reassertion of its interest of its
corporate interest in latin america and
that's the broader reversal of the pink
tide that we see across the region but
this myth of Sergio Moro was an
essential part of the u.s. policy
against the Workers Party the
reassertion of oligarchy in Brazil the
dissent of Brazil and to outright
neo-fascism under bolson ro and all of
the media that slimed and smeared Lula
and the Workers Party and discounted all
of the underprivileged people to Brazil
because they wanted to get back into a
sort of unmitigated corporate agenda
there the false reputation of lava jatha
was a key part of it and at this
incredibly powerful hearing that
happened several days ago a glob glob R
Braga who was a member of the pasol the
people's a social socialism and liberty
party he explained
- Sergio Moro exactly who he was and
this almost led I think actually to a
fistfight but this is powerful from
Brazil
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
democracy a Brazil era for chachi-ji de
alquiler whose wish to compel the apes'
are descriptive wish that's incredible
that clip has gone around Brazil should
go viral everywhere again all solidarity
with Glenn Greenwald in the intercept in
Brazil they're under serious threat
right now he can watch glenn greenwald's
conversation on Democracy Now and also
just add you know again he said he took
his reward Sergio Mora was appointed
justice minister under paulson ro after
politically imprisoning the guy who
would have beat balsan ro and whose
mandate was to do very similar things to
all sources of resistance inside
Brazilian society and that brings us to
Honduras just on a similar theme over
the past couple weeks in Honduras
there's been big protests against cuts
to social services in Brazil for the
last ten years excuse me in Honduras for
the last ten years Honduras has been run
in an extreme neoliberal us-centric
fashion and that goes back to the 2009
coup against Manuel Zelaya but first
we're going to play this quick report
from al-jazeera
this elementary school was once
considered among the best in the city of
san pedro sula today the classrooms are
literally falling apart teachers are on
strike and say the Honduran government
has abandoned its commitment to public
education as you can see the wood is
rotten it's been eaten by termites
that's why the roof caved in some 90% of
public schools in the country are facing
a similar infrastructure crisis last
April the hunter and government
announced plans for funding cuts to
public schools and hospitals since then
educators and medical professionals have
been organizing nationwide
demonstrations and the unrest has been
growing the hunter and president has
called for peace but has also deployed
military police which are now present at
all major public demonstrations protests
so Juan Orlando Hernandez who's the
Honduran president was re-elected in
2018 under you know there was
accusations of fraud there are other
problems involved in that
he's a very right-wing leader he
represents the Conservative Party to the
conservative National Party of Honduras
and it's important for many reasons I
mean one you know all of the typical
he's exactly the type of right-wing
leader with all of the problems that
you'd associate with it that the United
States always backs in Central and Latin
America at the expense of the people of
those countries in 2009 Manuel Zelaya
who was a center-left leader who was
making moderate but significant reforms
for poverty reduction for redistribution
for indigenous people was removed in a
coup a coup that Hillary Clinton her
State Department decided to back and
ever since then Honduras has been back
under far-right leadership there's been
rampant abuses we remember the
assassination of the incredible
environmental activist Berta Caceres
casitas which is incredibly important
bro Khanna actually introduced
legislation with regards to her which
deals with some of these
in Latin America and again it's just
important that you cannot understand the
refugee crisis and the resulting
terrorism of the Trump administration
with regards to those issues without
understanding the broader context of US
policy in the region and the u.s.
supported coup of 2009 is an essential
part of that I'll just say briefly as we
know have as much time but I I used the
clip they had an interview with Manuel
Zelaya that was very significant for the
gray zone project which I'd recommend
people watch and we played a segment of
it and did a longer part of it on on T
MBS and you can go watch that in the
Michael Brooke show YouTube channel but
you really need to understand the the
Honduran coup context and the u.s. role
to kind of watch and figure out how all
this stuff plays out you're calling from
a five one six area code who are you
where you're calling from Oh yo yo yo yo
yo yeah yeah can hear you what's up
actually called on yesterday I asked Sam
an obnoxious question and asked you an
hour's question that was a great call I
remember that that was well done thank
you I try anyways yes Sam's gonna ask an
actual protocol version that sounds good
yes I like this guy your phone's dude
your buddy's doing the same thing again
though I thought that was only for Sam
alright can you hear me now yeah yes do
that whatever it is you're doing do that
right
for some reason speakerphone is better
but whatever okay okay
anyway so I came home two weeks ago and
my mom was watching Bill Maher okay but
the first time I've seen it watch this
show and so she hits me with immediately
that she doesn't think Bernie could win
the prize or the general election and
that Democrats need to be like racist
and like
sexist to win okay I don't know how she
came to like the logical conclusion the
show but yeah one wonder I wonder how
watching Bill Maher like an aging
somewhat funny
ten years ago pothead and like a roster
of like David firmly like yet David
Fromm and Andrew Sullivan could have
ever come to that conclusion on TV
though that's a good question I mean
it's just because I'm not trying to get
politic competition is a kicked in yeah
we forgot politic you know I think part
of the reason is because yeah Apollo you
don't have yeah I mean I cuz because
part of it is like John Oliver isn't
funny
and he doesn't represent like actually
like his politics are better but they're
not radically different politics I I
don't know I think you know tomorrow
know what there's it there's a segment
of baby boomers that Bill Maher like
still speaks to in a very specific way
it's like you know it is it's like I
think there's a demographic that
basically have the politics of just like
you know it's just pure DC politics but
they're also not as like uptight and
woke yet so they kind of like like I
think they're like you think they're
dinner
yeah Gen X baby behind of like that's
sort of like on one hand like oh my god
Russia okay but like whoa why can't
people calm down that Obama Dolomites
joke was hilarious you like that
type of sex yeah they have a lot of
spending power but you know you can
always target your mom that nobody rolls
better against Trump in the Midwest and
Sanders and you need to win Wisconsin
Michigan Pennsylvania to become
president and nobody in fact Biden right
now is second to centers and that poll
line up so I mean that's serious
argument more yeah I think you're right
he's absolutely Bernie Sanders is
definitely from a map electoral map
point of view is absolutely the best
candidate to defeat Donald Trump period
not to be rude thanks for calling me
thank you very much appreciate it that
was a good call but he asked that like
Sam was whining contest Anisha it is
very funny that bit of to speak very
clearly for all of the the non-essential
communication in a phone call and then
immediately when you go into the point
[Laughter]
squirrel MF Buckley is the Sudanese
activist going on t mb/s next week I
commend Kabul oh yeah
Cibola yes it is yes indeed JB
Experion Experion already as a way for
folks to opt into having utility bills
to be included in the credit score
however you're just letting them you're
just you're just letting them know
everything about you sounds right to me
just financial surveillance exactly a
square Mike some jerks downtown waving a
huge Trump reelection gag Flags downtown
flags downtown and a parade but also
equal pay signs being held by young
girls and boys
Rapinoe and the soccer team are changing
politics with strategy and tactics
Pelosi and Schumer should take notes yo
Rapinoe and I don't know why I'm
mispronouncing your name she has done
significantly more to push back against
Donald Trump than anything Chuck Schumer
and Nancy Pelosi have done in the whole
time that they have taken aback Congress
take another call you're calling from a
401 7 area code who are you where you're
calling from
hey yeah this is Derek from Springfield
Missouri hey Derek what's going on well
um I was the guy who said that like King
Bhoj alone was my professor or whatever
oh cool oh and he convinced me to watch
your show and fancied your show and I've
really enjoyed it
Oh awesome how's it going what's on your
mind finally nerves like you know how
there have been like several calls
lately of people who used to be like on
the right but then like you helped win
them over or whatever yep
I'm not one of those stories but I can
tell you that you guys wind me off with
jimmy dore how do we do what did we make
you'd you're a sellout how did
that happen well I originally liked
Jimmy door just because he had like you
know all the passion so to speak on the
left and I felt like that at first he
was kind of right about the whole silver
mining thing I don't know maybe I was
just depressed after November or
something but right that kind of spoke
to me for a while right then you know
he'd been covering Syria for a while and
the video that finally convinced me to
unsubscribe from him was when he was
responding to like norm Tomsky saying
that like we should protect her job and
stuff right and yeah and like I like
rode up a lot so I thought was a good
idea and Jimmy tourist like what Kurdish
Free State in the Middle East
Stef do you know about this Kurdish
priest eight mentally I've never heard
of it Jimmy okay I'm thinking these are
the guys who have been covering Syria so
to speak for like the past two years and
they just want her to write Java I never
saw an ant on Twitter I mean I
just want to say really briefly because
I'm I'm I'm mostly like I I made a point
of talking a little bit about the lava
jato stuff with Jimmy because it's in
some way I mean first of all because I
just think anybody who you know even
indirectly fed to what's happening in
Brazil should at the very least be
trying to clean up their mistakes but
and also I just hilarious to me that you
know somebody who's so prone to and
usually rightly too seeing a negative
u.s. role in the world would be so
totally credulous about a DOJ backed
massive quote-unquote Anti Corruption
squad that backs left with data that
politically targets left-wing leadership
but anyways that being said the point
about Jimmy has never been the passion
is awesome being simple is great I wish
that both this show and my show could be
simpler sometimes
yeah all of the that people
wield like like that even Sam is sitting
there being like my problem with Jimmy's
that he isn't ready enough books I mean
that's a very funny character and I will
do more jokes like that actually I'm
amusing myself right now
but it's it's that you can be simple as
hell you can be passionate you can hate
Democrats you can hate corporations and
all that but yeah if you do a whole
bunch of segments on Syria you should
know what the literally only left-wing
governing force in the region is yeah we
should maybe play the Ty Lee plan of
this year 2018 and here's what he said
the other crucial quote this is quoting
Chomsky the other crucial question in
the status of the Kurdish areas rahova
in my opinion it makes sense for it
makes sense for the United States to
maintain a presence which would deter an
attack on the Kurdish areas that's what
Chomsky says Chomsky noted that the
Kurds have succeeded in sustaining a
functioning society with many decent
elements in Syria's north I'll be honest
I didn't know that I didn't know that
did you know that that the Kurds had
succeeded in sustaining a functioning
society inside Syria's in the north I
didn't know that did you know that
not until I read this article right
that's how I read this article the idea
that no I just want to say I think
there's actually some people watching
this who probably say like hey you know
good on him like it would be nice to see
more people in media admit that they
don't know everything and have some
humility and I'd say I completely agree
with you the problem is if I you know at
the same time again it's and what is
Aleppo the problem is is doing a whole
bunch of content on something and
presenting a totally simplified view of
it and not knowing a major piece of the
puzzle at least if you have a left
perspective well in that's the problem
not humility
about not knowing something I just want
to be clear about that well oh
definitely it's it's the way he goes
after people who would suggest maybe
more complicated approach to Syria as
you know hills are like crypto CIA
yeah yeah yeah like you were part of
this ayah that aired he doesn't know
what the Kurds are right exactly exactly
well thanks for the call brother yeah
absolutely
nice kid drag this into a Jimmy door
segment I always get dragged back I mean
seriously how because I'm I'm I'm pretty
spent on those I don't I think I think
that well is dry except for Bernie or
bust bill it was fun having Bernie or
bust bill back last night actually
I love the were smarter than you
majority report maybe you know about
that if you read how many books have you
read first of all the first question I
like to stipulate how many books have
you read uh-uh-uh-uh-uh matt has a whole
audible list and he's a producer on my
show where we read all of us read
actually read we read the books you
could read them in paper form you could
download them on a tablet you could
listen them as an audio book I don't
care just so long as you read books and
we read more than you if you ever bought
an academic press book in the last two
months that was actually a panic like
that whole argue about 2016 instead of
say I'm doing he's like it supreme cool
it it's that it was just like gives you
have you heard of Yale University Press
I rest my case
[Laughter]
Chris Hayes is my friend and he knows
about Princeton the Princeton University
Press I bet you've never even heard of
Rutledge which isn't technically an
academic publisher but they publish many
volumes that are reviewed respectfully
in the academic press all right let's do
a little bit of apps time before we go
so I mean look the big takeaways about
Jeffrey Epstein are it's a stand-in for
the total rot of our society
the main thing obviously is that Donald
Trump's labor secretary Acosta gave him
a horrifying sweetheart deal when he was
a prosecutor in Florida basically let
him off with less than a slap in the
risk for pedophilia and human
trafficking and we know that Donald
Trump in a profile written during when
when there was it was a very popular
thing to write these gatsby s profiles
that was always the the hackneyed turn
they would use with who's this Gatsby us
figure Donald Trump said something to
the effect of a loves women almost as
much as me many on the young side to
paraphrase well here is Donald Trump and
again you know this look there are so
many things endless things floating
around Donald Trump most of which I
completely believe uh we'll see you know
we'll see what his yields but this is a
good methodology a good set again this
is this is how he lies this is how he
turns and this is how he you know
connects with his cult well I knew him
like everybody in Palm Beach knew I mean
people in Palm Beach knew him he was a
fixture in Palm Beach I had a
falling-out with him a long time ago I
don't think I've spoken to him for 15
years somebody should ask what the
following yeah yeah that's that is quite
a good question what was your
falling-out with the human trafficker
that you both shared a love with one
the younger side about Donald Trump
years I wasn't a fan
I was not yeah a long time ago I'd say
maybe 15 years I was not a fan of his
that I can tell you I was not a fan of
his so I feel very badly actually for
secretary Acosta because I've known him
as being somebody that works so hard and
has done such a good job I feel very
badly about that whole situation but
we're going to be looking at that and
looking at it very closely we're also
going to be signing a big contract in a
little while so we're going to see you
in a little while in a different room in
a different part of the White House what
so actually yeah I think he is actually
a little bit uncomfortable about this so
okay here's what we know we know that
Epstein got sweetheart deal for these
charges we know that he accumulated a
huge social network in academia and
science and politics we know that
everybody from Bill Clinton to Steve
Pinker to Chris Tucker on the flight
like logs the plane and we know that
there's specific allegations against a
member of the British royal family and I
believe also against Alan Dershowitz
allegations that's what we know now we
know that he's been arrested again and
has a whole new set of pedophilia and
human trafficking charges
and we have none we and again we also
know that Acosta gave him the most
lenient to teal tear justice a deal
imaginable
oh here's the Trump quote this is Trump
on Jeffrey Epstein I've known Jeff for
15 years terrific guy 15 weird how the
the the term 15 keeps coming up yes it's
almost like that son also the I think
the accuser was 15 when she ended up in
yeah I'll go into that any way you could
retreat in the quote he's a lot of fun
to be with any and and it is even said
that he likes beautiful women almost
much is the I do and many of them on the
younger side no doubt about it
Jeffery enjoys his social life that's
that bone-chilling to a quote okay
but so this is what we know and even if
you want to just say hey this is you
know this is this could implicate any
number of Republicans and Democrats it
could there is one person in American
national life who from everything that
we know of has absolutely nothing to do
with Jeffrey Epstein and that is of
course Barack Obama what do you do if
you're Fox News and you're dealing with
this story do we have that clip well
you're gonna try to do a Hail Mary pass
about Donald Trump's labor secretary
letting a human trafficking pedophile
get away with us less than a slap on the
wrist who are you gonna try to blame I
think you guessed it of what went on and
and the situation down in Florida with
the cost of just taking a total look
here or with Epstein excuse me well I
don't think people are taking a total
look at this because there's a lot of
kick a lot of things that go into these
decisions a when there's someone like
this involved this does not skip
Washington that means the AG knew about
it that means the investigative agency
the FBI let's go Steve well OC said some
of the faves and the Democrat Party
Democratic administration the nature of
political campaigns and how they are
sort of how we do campaigns here means
Obama was campaigning in 2008 I wasn't
actually in office then that was the
point that man has summarized the
administration right it's not just a
Casta making a decision like this other
factors go in if there was corruption
then every investigative agency
all right so Lawrence P Jones and harris
faulkner think they're something the
only problem is is that george w bush
was still president obama's non
president and in fact there is no
indication that george w bush
administration in fact had anything to
do with this well we know is that Acosta
was responsible for this the current
labor secretary under donald trump
yeah and his capacity as a prosecutor
that guy I forget his name ready but
he's from campus reform so that tells
you about Emmet which is basically like
the Pepsi to turning-points USA's cause
it definitely group you could trust I'm
sure it is funded through grassroots
mechanism reading from a political story
the one weird court case linking Trump
Clinton and billionaire pedophile this
is about Virginia Gill free who filed a
civil suit
what says Guthrie formally Roberts claim
she was fifteen and working as a towel
girl at Trump's posh Palm Beach Club
when she was recued recruited nearly two
decades ago into sexual slavery by
socialite just Lane Maxwell then
Epstein's girlfriend right weird that
fifteen keeps coming out of his mouth is
actually extremely bizarre I had Sam
mentioned yesterday I mean there was
somebody who came forward
it didn't go forward we don't know why
let's do the victor thing oh we don't
have it okay it's too complicated all
right all right folks we're gonna take
one more call and then a few Iams then
we got to go okay see Jesus so I do feel
like Sam so many calls cuz we read books
in you gay I forget how that bit started
it was years ago but it was like
somebody basically saying we just had a
problem with certain people because they
weren't intellectual enough yes I think
it's a get just get a few head we're the
smart ones you're the dumb ones if you
have to understand if you follow those
rules we'll leave you alone we could be
friends it's just you guys you know get
with number one smart shirt you're
calling from 308 area code where are you
where you coming from
hey Walter Brad hey koloski what's going
on what's on your minds I called you
like three weeks ago and told you about
some flooding going on
oddly enough still flooding but I did
actually have a question for you to what
would take a little bit of time the
other it'd be pretty straightforward so
do you have a decent amount of time or
not
I would go with the straightforward one
alright so I am a Republican however I
would consider myself to be fairly on
the moderate side but for a place like
Nebraska we are a red state no question
about it so my question for you is that
wouldn't it be advantageous for
Democrats and red states or Republicans
and blue states to just bring down the
party barrier go for the other team and
then do their best to affect primaries
because I mean there's absolutely
nothing you can do in Nebraska to get a
Democrat so I would say so if I
understand you correctly Ivan if
somebody said like hey I'm a member of
Nebraska DSA I want to run for the
Senate
I'm part of DSA first and foremost I'm
running in a Republican primary I think
that would be cool I mean I I don't have
any problem I don't have any particular
attachment I could get elected to office
and implement an agenda I don't care you
know independent green Republican
whatever yes I'm a big proponent of this
I mean I'm from North Dakota North
Dakota has a history with the
nonpartisan League that literally was
formed because it had open primaries for
all for both parties and it's just we're
gonna run in both of them will run in
the Republican we're running the
Democrat and I think that is especially
in places like Nebraska and Nebraska is
like North Dakota were that you saying
you're Democrat doesn't help you with
anybody wouldn't make any difference
though you think I don't know because
Democrats come out to play real I mean
and sometimes swing it but I mean as far
as like the representatives go I don't
know I feel like if people were just to
get rid of the party name and just go
with the dominant force they would at
least be able to get the most moderate
person and which I mean it might be good
let's say it's it basically blocks we're
probably not going to be able to
exercise power very effectively getting
in that way but you at least block some
from getting in so I mean I'd I'd be
interesting to see it tried I don't know
how feasible it is yeah I mean it seems
to me in some ways I mean that's I mean
I think obviously people should be
thinking about organizing strikes and
things outside of politics everywhere
but that's one of the interesting things
about red states is like these
incredible movements for strikes which
are really you know that's clearly one
of the most important things you could
do happening in a place like West
Virginia that's been dominated by
Republicans I I don't know I don't know
the answer I mean I think you'd have to
tell me more whether or not if somebody
came along and said I'm running as a
Republican or I'm running as an
independent and I support you know
Medicare for all and I'm running on a
good solid plan a platform well one
thing I've kind of noticed and I kinda
am into politics I probably will be on
the ballot for the houses next coming
primary who are you - I for president
Thanksgiving who you gonna vote for for
president like who like how do you
actually vote um as of right now I would
probably be in the Warren camp I think
she's probably the best move for
agriculture okay even in the last
election I voted for Clinton over Trump
just because once you start talking
trade wars I know for a fact that's just
gonna break our knees so right it
literally so you're already basically
functionally you're voting as a Democrat
basically now I would sound fairly
conservative but I feel a lot of things
in progressive like boos meant that I
think the conservative sides is
basically abandoned on for political
reasons not basically corruption that's
actually my biggest complaint with the
Republican Party is that they are in my
opinion becoming very
Oleg Arctic's so yeah there's only one
way to you have to structurally attack
that problem or like a Teddy Roosevelt
like Republican maybe without as much
imperialism but basically small
government but break the hell out of
anybody it gets too big and starts
throwing the
wait around for the government yeah I
mean I I think there's a lot of this I
mean my uncle is a soybean farmer and in
in south eastern North Dakota and he
didn't vote for one or the other he
abstained from four from one for
president and he has been apparently
talking to my mom not happy with Trump
and the whole trade war stuff so yeah
and I do think yeah there's a lot of
people that are not happy and I think
the only reason they won't vote against
them is because they find Democrats just
I don't know what it is like elitist
even though that doesn't make sense if
they represent the working class better
I have no idea siren song groans and
you're running for office as a
Republican and for the house but you'll
but obviously a different kind of agenda
hmm I plan on being pretty strong
moderate basically I've been making a
lot of cases for things like Medicare
for all mainly for the fact I know it'll
be the only mean see they start rural
health care it is the only white cost
effective way to ensure that small towns
don't lose their clinics and hospitals
so how did you get into uh how did you
get into this show and you CH do you
watch do you listen to my show or match
or Young Turk on farmers oh I love that
no I'm just whatever you just keep it
I'm just watch other left-wing shows or
listen to or is it just this one I
generally just like information and
perspectives I think too many people get
caught up in echo chambers and it's just
not healthy I mean I think it would be
far more beneficial for everyone to just
get along and try to work towards a
common cause as opposed to you're just
wrong and yeah it's just not
constructive everything breaks down at
that point I mean everybody has a reason
for believing what they believe in but
this I guess I would rather be informed
and not force so I find shows like here
is the general entertaining because
well I don't think the right really has
anything to compete with right
would you uh curiosity would you be the
first Republican candidate even on a
local level to call for freeing Lula oh
yes
actually I think we need to address our
entire Latin American policy is the
closest thing we have culturally to the
United States I think Latin America is a
better partner moving forwards in Europe
or even in some regards by Canada well I
mean we're just physically closer to
them and they're more important to us
than anyone else they got the water -
alright but um actually let's say hey
again if you call every color if you
become the first Republican to support
Medicare for all you should make a
little video announcement for that and
we will run that no actually honestly
yeah you're right I lost track there but
in all seriousness if you did a video
you know Republican you know state law
can't a state lawmaker or a state
candidate explains why Medicare for all
is the only way to save rural health
care I think that would actually do a
lot I don't make that video just for
your viewers to understand this it's a
great idea because it subsidizes rural
health care it's the only way for it to
work and if this government ran overhead
bureaucracy would be reduced not to
mention it's the most cost effective
thing because of the economics of scale
plus you're not building a new
organization it already exists so you
don't have to reinvent the wheel it's
just simply cheapest and the most
effective way to do it so why give
billions away to the ultra-rich when we
could just give it to the poor so they
don't have to die sounds pretty common
sensible to me and I mean I just you
know I'm um I lost both of my parents
basically to preventable health diseases
before the age of 20 so this is kind of
one of those things where I'm not really
wanting anybody else have to go through
that so so let's just do what you know
any modern country would do you know
absolutely I appreciate you call thank
you for talking with us
learn a lot all right all right
thanks man have a good one you too take
care good luck all right yeah good way
to go out no more calls today sorry
about that folks that's fascinating I
would be really curious to see if you
could convince me that a significant
portion of it was just genuine like
brand toxicity of that name specifically
so it's a lot of it in places like that
in places that a don't have a lot of
people but B have those electoral
college votes like it's just Democrat is
I don't know what it is but it's all
I've ever known at when I lived there is
like it's a joke to be a Democrat if you
and and I mean kept me on a federal
level it's different because I think I
do think you know when you start getting
into like look basically when you get
into the house or the Senate who you're
gonna vote to organize as leadership is
one of the most important things you can
do but I mean that seems like a no brain
I guess the same thing would apply for
statewide office but whatever you're
going to a Republican dominated
legislature you're gonna get elected as
a Republican and say that we should
support Medicare for all and breaking up
agriculture cartels why on earth like
great be a Republican don't bother being
a don't worry about that who
cares yeah I mean I'm smart to me yeah
particularly if you're not like a
leftist right like if you're a moderate
but I mean the RIP frankly if if that
would work it would be great for this
country it would be great for this
country and I'm not trying to take a
shot at Warren here I'm just saying I I
think objectively like look we used to
say a same political environment would
be center-left Sanders center-right
Clinton and I agree and let's add the
center would be Warren
you know it's funny cuz he said the
Teddy Roosevelt tradition Teddy
Roosevelt tradition is know where the
Republican Party I actually would say
that the politician I mean this with its
compliments and its criticisms that most
closely resembles that tradition in
modern politics is absolutely Elizabeth
Warren there's no doubt about it
and that's somebody who tracks as a
Liberal Democrat in today's world I
don't think that that would in a healthy
political culture that would not
necessarily be the case that could be a
centrist POD am America gave my pod am
American gave my parents a copy of
understanding Marx by Professor Richard
Wolffe really good basic overview of his
ideas and explorations of alienation I
highly recommend it it's a great book it
is a great book and subscribe to all of
Richard Wolf's channels final I am of
the day the board is out of juice I
don't know why finally I am in the day
love the quickie segment subscribe to it
tell people about it
Sam's at Netroots tomorrow we'll be back
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
