[Music]
so a story today in Politico apparently
there was a big meeting Democratic
caucus in the wake of Justin Amash this
Michigan Republican congressman
libertarian outlier definitely but he is
called for impeachment says the
thresholds been met and so you have
members according to this Politico piece
of the Democratic caucus leadership
Jamie Laskin a couple others Raskin I
should say who he is a constitutional
law professor they want to start
proceedings largely because this is all
about the obstruction now is really the
the sort of the straw that's broken the
camel's back for a mosh and for others
when you start impeachment hearings I've
said this in the past the weight of a
congressional subpoena under the
auspices of impeachment inquiry is
simply heavier and as as as judged by
the courts and from a political
standpoint and this Amash thing and
yesterday I said it made it bipartisan I
was being a little bit troll ish with
that because I sort of hate that
construction that one member of a party
can make it bipartisan but particularly
when you're talking about the
Republicans who simply it's a fact march
in lockstep far more often than the
Democrats but but just even broadly
speaking there is something between
bipartisanship and partisanship right
that it's not necessarily bipartisan the
call for impeachment now although
there's members of both parties but what
it does is the knee-jerk reaction that
Republican voters have that the only
reason why the Democrats are pursuing
this is because of partisanship that no
longer were
works in the same way it creates
pressure on Republicans because if it
was just partisanship it would be a
no-brainer for every Republican to say
I'm not signing on to it I was talking
to Brandon about this before in the
analogy he made was you know it's the
difference between like it's a crack in
the ice the ice hasn't broken up but the
ice is not rock-solid and that crack has
relevance it creates pressure and
apparently though Nancy Pelosi still
being adamant that the play here for
Democrats is to just pursue serious
bipartisan legislation like things like
enhanced the Do Not Call Registry and
you know look for an infrastructure bill
that will never happen maybe we could do
a fraudulent bill with Donald Trump on
infrastructure privatized solve oaths
hey God maybe you'd appreciate a few
less calls it night Samuel I bet you are
here's mica one on one with speaker
Pelosi right after that meeting I
believe it just Anna Marcia's position
on impeachment he's tweeted more today
he's come right back at the president
does it it doesn't fit the bar for
bipartisan support for impeachment
well the bipartisan support for
impeachment has to be in the Senate yeah
in terms of congressman Madden his voice
speaks to the silence of so many other
all the other Republicans not to hold
this president accountable for the oath
of office that he takes to protect and
defend the Constitution respecting the
co-equal branches of government so a mas
may be one voice but the fact that
and the absence of other voices it
speaks very loudly so doesn't it put
more pressure on you that a conservative
Republican says the threshold for
impeachment has been met no no no why
but we have to we're not this isn't
about politics it's not about passion
it's not about prejudice it's not about
politics it's about patriotism and it's
about the presentation of the facts so
that the American people can see why
we're going down a certain path I I that
is one of the most incoherent responses
the only thing that strikes me about
this she says it's not about politics
not about passion it's about patriotism
and presenting the facts the only thing
that strikes me about that that makes
any sense whatsoever is that it's all
peas and she's she's for some reason I
think I feel like there's some type of
code there like we're only gonna speak
in alliterations and therefore I just
don't know what the therefore part is
but it's clear that she has a plan and
it's just to speak in alliteration but
here's the bottom line the first half of
her response that Amash understands that
the president is completely obstructing
the job of Congress we just heard this
from from a federal judge it makes
absolutely no sense that Congress has an
impeachment power and that they have
oversight authority if they don't have
authority to investigate it is a
complete under undermining of our
constitutional structure what the White
House is doing in terms of like keeping
Don Magan from testifying
keeping Muller from testifying bill Barr
not showing up this is I mean I think
there are other reasons to impeach
Donald Trump again read the report read
the Muller report
it's pretty stunning uh you had Michael
Cohen apparently told lawmakers right
this would be part of an impeachment
hearing that Donald Trump's personal
lawyer told him to lie to Congress
basically said perjured yourself this is
all impeachable and the idea that Pelosi
can say at least Amash has principles
and is showing up the rest of the
Republican Party the bottom line is if
you don't pursue impeachment in this
instance for the obvious obstruction
you're basically saying that's it
Congress loses the power this is a
use-it-or-lose-it type of situation you
won't remove Donald Trump from office
but what you will do is lay down a
marker and say there is a thing called
accountability we may not be able to
remove you from office but we can
impeach you we can put it on record that
you've been impeached and from a
political standpoint it seems impossible
to me now that this is tenable like that
this is some type of recipe for winning
I mean I guess maybe there's some type
of 14 dimensional chess where Nancy
Pelosi wants to be you know lead from
way behind but I just don't think that
happens in this scenario
can I just add two really quick things
one it it's incredibly frustrating also
because when she speaks like that she
makes it sound as if Hamas is doing a
like a Jeff Flake thing which is exactly
the opposite of what he's doing right to
be really clear if you read his Twitter
thread this is not a you know I'm a
Republican but I'm a little bit fed up
that Donald Trump is such a jerk he is
giving the most clear and cogent
breakdown of and again we can I mean
part of the reason I don't put much
energy into this is because it's to me
it just seems demonstrable that they're
not taking their functionality seriously
but he's just saying look this dude has
clearly obstructed just
this this has happened it's documented
it's clear he's doing it right now
and therefore as a good libertarian
constitutional nerd our job kicks in to
do X it's the opposite of the type of
posturing that she's talking about it's
a clear clinical case and she's failing
on both counts cuz she's not connecting
with the grassroots Rashidah to Lib
let's just impeach the mf'er because of
course f him or the this is actually a
thing this is actually a job that we
actually theoretically do this yeah if
it's really about like patriotism and
preserving norms and doing it the right
way or whatever they should be doing
these proceedings as the information
comes to light without regard to
politics or when the election is or or
if she's doing some like twenty
dimensional political chess she should
tell people that like we're going to
impeach this guy it'll be easier to do
it after the election
