[Music]
we also mentioned in our conversation
with Mehdi Hassan the the indictments
that have been released against Julian
Assange and they're charging him with
the espionage it is the first time
someone has been charged with espionage
for publishing information that was
leaked it to them we had far too many
well not far too many we had just they
should none of them should have happened
espionage charges are threatening to
espionage charges of leakers during the
Obama administration Trump has nearly
reached the same number of people in his
two years as opposed to Trump's I mean
excuse me to Obama's eight but this is
the first time we're seeing this with
and the theory of the case is built upon
at least partly the legal theory is that
you cannot entice someone to leak stuff
to you and that enticement includes
inviting people even if you're just
putting out a general call for it
they're not even claiming that Assange
approached Chelsea Manning and said hey
go in there and get some stuff there
saying that this solicitation was just
on its website saying that you should
you know we invite you to send us
information that you are trying to leak
and that is a regular practice by news
outlets just go and check on some of
your national security reporters what's
on their Twitter feed yeah they always
have in their bio the encrypted
communications hit me on signals do you
have something to tell me signal out US
authorities outlined 18 additional
charges against Assange 17 of which fall
into the u.s. Espionage Act
all the charges arose from the sharing
of classified intelligence documents and
diplomatic cables the Chelsea Manning
past the WikiLeaks for publication faces
maximum of 175 years it mean that that's
even secondary what the the the legal
theory of the case what's problematic
carried to sell a staff attorney at the
night first amendment Institute at
Columbia University wrote on Twitter the
question isn't whether Assange is a
journalist but whether the government's
legal theory threatens freedom of the
press this is important because I
understand why people may night may not
like Julian Assange
may not like WikiLeaks but this is this
is really important Julian Assange is is
completely secondary to this frankly the
government argues that Assange violated
the Espionage Act by soliciting
obtaining and then publishing classified
information she goes on to say that's
exactly what good national security
investigative people the solicitation
charges are based on open calls for
information that WikiLeaks posted on its
website I mean we could pull up we can
pull up all sorts of organizations where
there are open calls for this New Yorker
The Times the post the intercept
prosecutors allege in the indictment
that Assange and WikiLeaks quote
repeatedly encouraged sources with
access to classified information to
steal it that encouragement was
literally writing on a website how to
send tips to ProPublica have you seen
something that troubles you or think
should be a story do you have a tip
about something we should be
investigated you have documents or other
materials that we should see we want to
hear from you that's Pro Publica I mean
this is really problematic posting on
its website quote most wanted list for
organized for leaks organized by country
and saying the documents must be quote
likely to have political diplomatic
ethical or historical impact on
how is that different from what do you
think there's something we should see is
it important to people on ProPublica
this is uh this is dangerous stuff and
here's something else that's important I
think to note and I think this is you
know gotta take it with a grain of salt
but certainly if you look at what they
did it makes sense according to the
Washington Post Matt Miller spokesman
for the Justice Department under Eric
Holder said that when Holder was
Attorney General they were weighing the
Wikileak case this case specifically
2010 officials in that administration
debated intensely whether Assange could
be charged for publishing classified
information but ultimately decided that
doing so would be quote dangerous and
untenable Miller said there was quote no
way to apply the legal theories in this
case to Julian Assange in a way that
they could not also be applied to a
reporter for the Washington Post or
other outlet and even if prosecutors
felt the case was righteous officials
were concerned that it would not survive
a First Amendment challenge in court the
concerns were really twofold one was
whether it was the right thing to do and
whether it could set a dangerous
precedent then there was also concerned
that these charges could be thrown out
in court now there's no doubt in my mind
that part of the calculation is we're
going to intimidate people that we are
going to at a time where we're about to
have the Attorney General dig in to all
this stuff that's going on we're gonna
make it clear that if any of this gets
out the Attorney General decides to
publish a classified document that says
X and refuses to classify another
document that says
wait not X we don't want anybody to tell
the public that there's a documented
over there it says not X this this is a
very hairy situation and and I don't
want to be you know I think there's a
lot of value in declassifying
intelligence material but I do not trust
a G bar to decide which ones we're going
to see and which ones were not here is
Daniel Ellsberg the the person who
leaked the Pentagon Papers on Democracy
Now I think that must have been
yesterday or talking about maybe this
morning talking about these charges
yesterday is a day that will be live in
the history of journalism of law in this
country and of civil liberties in this
country because it was a direct attack
on the First Amendment and unprecedented
when there hasn't actually been such a
significant attack on the freedom of the
press in the First Amendment which is
the bedrock of our republic really our
form of government since my case in 1971
forty eight years ago but this is I was
indicted as a source and I warned
newsmen then that that would not be the
last indictment of a source if I were
convicted well I wasn't convicted II the
charges were dropped on governmental
misconduct and it was another ten years
before anybody else face that charged
under the Espionage Act again Samuel
Loring Morrison and it was not until
President Obama that nine cases were
brought as I'd been warning for so long
but my warning really was that it wasn't
going to stop there almost inevitably
there would be a stronger attack
directly on the foundations of
journalism against editors publishers
and journalists themselves and we've now
seen that as of yesterday that's a new
front in president Trump's war on the
Free Press which he regards as the enemy
of the people every time every time
there's a loss of rights in a
in really in any society it always
starts with the weakest the least
popular whether it's group or individual
understand that that's the way that this
goes you roll this that's the way this
stuff is is rolled out and and the
reason is not just because it's
strategic it's also because that's where
they think they can get away with it
first there are plenty of people right
now that the government could look to to
go after to bring these same charges
plenty of people over at the intercept
that you know from reality winner
anybody's getting any type of leaks
plenty of people they go after Assange
because for the most part he is really
really disliked by a broad mix of
Americans so suck it up keep an eye on
the larger principle rather than
focusing on who this one individual is
because it will not stop with him it
will not stop with him and it has far
greater implications than just Julian
Assange
