play something that's at least somewhat
amusing alan dershowitz as you know is
but trigger warning of the oh yeah just
just basic human law I would say trigger
more at warning for everyone literally
everyone know like what sensitivities
you need to ask someone who's not into
trigger warnings I will say this is a
universal trigger warning so alan
dershowitz as you know is in some
respects implicated in the Jeffrey
Epstein saga they were friends I think
at one point Dershowitz may have
represented him in some fashion you
represented him in the last case
apparently Dershowitz is very upset
because he's been implicated supposedly
allegedly by a victim and Dershowitz is
going to make it all about the lawyer
David Boies and here is on Laura
Ingraham show making the case why is he
going after me I have to tell you I have
a theory I think he's projecting a David
Boies has a terrible reputation for
sexual activities and I've issued a
challenge to him look I've had sex with
one woman since the day I met Jeffrey
Epstein I challenge David Boies to say
under oath that he's only had sex with
one woman during that same period of
time he couldn't do it so he has an
enormous amount of hootsburgh to attack
me and the challenge my perfect perfect
sex life during the relevant period of
time he's doing it for money he claims
he's doing this per she always came
first I may take the perfect amount of
eye contact and it was a perfect fusion
of lustful about and sensitivity and I
challenged David Boies to match that
people talk about trumped arrangement
system but like this is the way his
language has seeped into all of
our brains did you imagine Alan yeah my
perfect perfect sexual record perfect
perfect sexual
the the idea that this is you know sort
of about you know that it's like part of
his sex life part of my sex life was
just you know to take these women who
were trafficked these girls who were
trafficked like I don't know it's a
weird conduct construction to started I
say that's my part of my sex life dad
was and David Boies and I asked David
Boies if he switched positions or one
wrote method without any attention to
his pot news do you mind it was a
perfect
not to me sounds like a veiled threat I
don't think that was a failing about it
it was not a veil was that was very
clear nuts
perfect I was in ten of ten and I have
dreams at night but the Olympic judges
give me the perfect schools
skoda go to the phones come from a
