[Music]
and again we're gonna cover this more
tomorrow because Elliott Abrams in
addition to being a horrible ghoul in
and of himself is a is a door he's one
of these people you can use as a door to
understand
I mean crimes across the globe us-backed
crimes from Latin America to the Middle
East there's a whole world to lay to
waste I mean he's not doesn't have the
power in the clout but there is a kind
of kissing Geryon element here of blood
on his hands across the globe and
Elliott a brand so we'll play the clip
where I mean it's just exquisite and
Ilan Omar is one of the best members of
Congress we have and solidarity
solidarity and his you know his
pestilent whining was also quite
enjoyable to watch but let's take this
as a door here to understand exactly who
this guy is and what his background is
and also by the way going back to these
stupid cou question of earlier this is
the point person on Venezuela Trump the
reason he's testifying in Congress
because the Trump administration and
Mike Pompeo want this guy whose
background is in backing death squads
mass murder Mafia States covering up the
mass rape and slaughter of people
including children as young as babies to
be the point person on Venezuela so
again let's be very clear this isn't
just a history lesson this is a
contemporary threat I mean anything from
the people from the United States to the
people of Venezuela so let's start with
this sound this is Elliott Abrams back
in the 1980s I don't think I see this
one on the sound sheet no the one where
he's talking with Alan Aaron this is him
with Alan Nair what it's not on the
style sheet so something's Nair and
Elliott Abrams on with Charlie Rose in
1995 talking about Guatemala okay let's
so we're going to talk about
Guatemala and El Salvador we're gonna do
two little history lessons here but this
is defending and again I want to just
give this set up by saying the general
and chards have Guatemala in the 1980s
that Elliott Abrams is justifying and
who backed is in prison right now for 80
years for genocide this is a matter of
public record this is not just laudable
lefty reporting this is led rooms in
1995 I think you have to be you have to
apply uniform standards President Bush
one took once talked about putting
Saddam Hussein on trial for crimes
against humanity Nuremberg stealth
tribunal I think that's a good idea
but if you're serious you have to be
even-handed if we look at a case like
this I think we have to talk
start talking about putting watermelon
and US officials on trial I think
someone like mr. Abrams would be a fit
subject for such a Nuremberg style
inquiry but I agree with mr. Abrams that
Democrats would have to be in the duck
with him the Congress has been in on
this the Congress approved the sale of
sixteen thousand m16s to Guatemala in 87
and 88 they voted more I don't know who
this guy is but he's a hero
Alan Aaron okay okay I actually do know
that name but I don't know him well this
is amazing and watch I mean of course
Abrams this is actually a preview of his
sleazy response I mean I mean look at
him
to ill on Omar but also look at Charlie
Rose be like oh whoa don't get impolite
here go ahead go ahead he promised the
Democrats would have to be in the duck
with him the Congress has been in on
this the Congress approved the sale of
sixteen thousand m16s to Guatemala in 87
and 88 because they voted more military
aid than the Republicans asked for and
again I invite you and Elliott a word
back to discuss what he did but right
Charlie but I want to be in the doc it
is ludicrous it is ludicrous to respond
to that kind of stupidity this guy
thinks we were on the wrong side in the
Cold War maybe he personally was on the
wrong side I am one of the many millions
of American missionary I don't work
cited supporting the massacre of
thousands in organized I was there I
want to paly lutely and that's a crime
that's a crime mr. Abrams which people
should be tried you know put all the
American officials who won the Cold War
I'm getting in the dock alright okay I'm
not I'm not mad at that let's play this
clip from the BBC
this is 2013 and this is the general of
course Elliott Abrams should be sitting
right alongside him and Ronald Reagan
and all these other goons but he did
actually face consequences as a BBC
report after 36 years of civil war in
which 200,000 people were killed few
thought this moment would come the
former military leader of Guatemala
efraín ríos Montt in court to hear his
sentence on charges of genocide and
crimes against humanity in court to some
of the thousands of victims members of
the itch chill ethnic group who day
after day had testified over the rape
torture and murder the military had
inflicted on them and their families
during Rios Montt
time in power I know this doesn't erase
the pain but it guarantees that the
atrocities committed by the Guatemalan
army won't be repeated my brother can
finally rest in peace and that thug will
finally go to prison and that means a
lot in this country where there's so
much impunity in the innominate quote
from a piece from 2013 by Greg way grade
in Guatemalan slaughter was part of
Reagan's hardline in 1966 the US Army's
handbook of counterinsurgency guidelines
summarized the results of AG war game
waged in a fictitious country
unmistakeably modeled on Guatemala the
rules allowed players to use quote
unquote selective terror but prohibited
quote unquote mass terror genocide the
guidelines stipulated was not an
alternative a decade and a half later
genocide indeed was an option Guatemala
supported materially and morally by
Ronald Reagan's White House Reagan
famously took a hard line in Central
America coming under strong criticism
for supporting the Contras in Nicaragua
and financing the counterinsurgency in
El Salvador his administration's in
Guatemala or less well known but even
before the 1980 election to rajaiah
retired generals who played prominent
roles in Reagan's campaign reportedly
traveled to Central America and told
Guatemalan officials that quote mr.
Reagan recognizes that a good deal of
dirty work has to be done once an office
Reagan continued
munitions and training to the Guatemalan
army despite a ban on military and aid
imposed by the Carter Administration
that led and had just briefly once more
and Reagan was consistent in his moral
backing for Guatemala's genocide areas
in December 5th 1982 for instance he met
with Rios Montt the man we just saw on
that clip it was in prison for 30 years
for genocide in Honduras and said quote
he was a man of great integrity and
dedicated to democracy I'll Salva the
worm and of course Elliott Abrams is the
point person for this in El Salvador
this is a contemporaneous report I
believe those Peter Jennings actually of
some of these death squads backed in al
salvador these are the types of people
that Elliott Abrams was working with
with Ronald Reagan El Salvador right
wing and the presidential candidate of
arena a slick well financed organization
that is more than a political party it's
a paramilitary operation when dobichon
accepted the presidential nomination he
denounced death squads and violence and
he warned the United States not to make
any threats against the El Salvador army
but this week the Los Angeles Times and
the Albuquerque Journal reported that
one wing of a Rana is made up of death
squads the death squads strike at anyone
they suspect of working for the
guerrillas or sympathizing with them
even when friends are involved say I'm a
businessman I said dad and I have
decided along with my other friends that
you're a communist and you must die I
could pay one of my bodyguards to have
you killed
that's one type of operation even if
we're social friends that happens there
was one man who very painfully told us
that he had to sacrifice a friend of his
in the name of free enterprise
so that's what we're talking about here
and I'm gonna quote from John Schwarz in
the intercept in December 11th 1981 in
El Salvador Salvadoran military unit
created and trained by the US Army began
slaughtering everyone they could find in
a remote village called Elmo zante
before murdering the woman and girls the
soldiers raped them repeatedly including
some as young as ten years old they
joked that their favorites were the 12
year olds one witness described the
soldier tossing a three-year-old child
into the air and impaling him with his
bayonet final death toll was over 800
people the next day on December 2
December 12th the first day in the job
for Elliott Abrams as Assistant
Secretary of State for human rights and
humanitarian affairs in the Reagan
administration Abrams snapped into
action helping to cover up the massacre
news reports of what had happened Abrams
told the Senate were quote/unquote not
credible and quote the whole thing was
being significantly misused as
propaganda by anti-government guerrillas
this past Friday Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo named Abrams is a special envoy
for Venezuela
according to Pompeo Abrams will have
quote responsibility for all things
related in our efforts to restore
democracy in the oil-rich nation the
choice of abram sends a clear message to
Venezuela in the world the Trump
administration intends to brutalize
Venezuela while producing a stream of
anxious rhetoric about America's love
for democracy and human rights combining
these two factors the brutality and the
uncas Ness is Abraham's core competency
and the peace is Elliott Abrams Trump's
pick to democra to bring democracy to
Venezuela has spent his life crushing
democracies by John Schwartz in the
intercept so look both we should know
and of course this also combined could
be quite correlated with ongoing US
support of right-wing forces in Central
America and this of course correlates
with issues related to migrants and
people fleeing violence and coming here
and the white nationalism of the same
Trump administration trying to ferment a
coup in Venezuela but
it's a vital history lesson that
everybody should and needs to know if
you're an American and it's present
because this is the game plan in
Venezuela and that's why again I'm not
going to make excuses or airbrush the
failings of the of the present
government but this is not the issue the
issue is right-wing forces in a coup and
an administration tapping a point person
who has gallons and gallons and gallons
and gallons of blood on his hands and
the position of Maduro in the position
of the mexicans and the positions of the
or agua and the positions of all
moderate sane forces is that there does
need to be some type of diplomatic
process I don't know how that works
frankly because squeezed in the middle
of Venezuelans of all classes who are
really suffering because of all of these
different factors is the fact that you
have a Bolivarian revolution that has a
real and positive history and has done
some great things also done some very
bad things and it's it has internal
contradictions and has faced a
relentless brush for the United States
and the political representations of the
opposition are us-manufactured far-right
course forces trying to have a coup
there so I don't know who you do
diplomacy with but I do know that you
oppose us action there period and Ilan
Omar is a hero now there's some people
that disagree with me about Ilan Omar
and this is pretty extraordinary because
I'll give you this at least Elliott
Abrams well he's as he said that core
competency of covering up slaughter and
being an anxious you know liar but at
least he's coming out and saying who
isn't true and no you know and democracy
and winning the Cold War at least his
sociopathy and lies are somewhat on the
ball but leave it to Kelly
nagisa men and I think we also I don't
know if we have the one from max booed
as well but Kelly Magus Maggie Simon
she's a VP at four at center of American
Progress security okay so you would
assume and I just want to be really
clear about this and and look obviously
us Empire and us abusive rights is a
bipartisan affair you see this in
Venezuela only handful of Democrats
willing to speak out about Kumaon
Goering there that being said some of
these issues actually would specifically
relate to the abrams profile were
actually opposed by democrats at the
time you saw that carter had put
restrictions on Guatemala which Reagan
lifted and the US Congress under
Democratic votes opposed funding the
Contras which is what led to the
iran-contra scandal which is the crimes
that Elliott Abrams was pardoned for by
George Herbert Walker Bush but they'll
go wrong Contra affair literally leads
to things like selling arms illegally to
Iran to wash money back to fund these
death squads because the US Congress
will not vote to give the Contras money
and also the cocaine smuggling that the
CIA was complicit in so you're talking
people like Chris Dodd and John Kerry
opposed some of these policies in the
present moment so the base here is
extraordinarily low okay now I'm giving
you a huge mulligan here which feels
pretty weird for opposing genocide and
the mass rape and murder of children but
I'll you know I understand you see to
some extent I'll give Kelly maximun a
mulligan or not a mulligan I'll give her
a head start in a race rather I'll say
well you know I guess obviously you
can't speak obvious moral truths if
you're in Washington but again these
obvious moral truths were somewhat at
least reflected in the votes of like the
mainstream of the Democratic Party in
the 1980s this is her tweet I worked for
Elliott Abrams as a civil servant he's a
fierce advocate for human rights and
democracy yes he made some serious
professional mistakes and was held
accountable I'm a liberal but I'm also
fair and we've got a lot of work to do
together in Venezuela I bet we share
goals let me just I'm sorry and I should
warned if kids were listening but let me
just go back to some of these serious
mistakes that she's not even including
so I think she's probably including just
his pure criminality with regards to
being pardoned for a ron contra an El
Salvadorian a Salvadoran military eunuch
Raiden trained by the US Army began
slaughtering everyone they could find
the remote village of Eldon boson Tay
before murdering the women and
children's the soldiers raped them
repeatedly including some as young as
ten years old skipping ahead Abram
snapped into action
helping to lead helping to lead a
cover-up of the massacre reports were
not credible said Abrams okay just a
little reminder of again it is
extraordinary to me to be in a position
where I do see actually a culture that
should be way less punitive and way more
forgiving and recognize human mistakes
and fallibilities and so on and so forth
this is not normal outside of the
foreign policy establishment in the
United States to cover up the mass
murder and rape of children and
basically be like yeah he was a nice guy
not to her next tweet
no one is not lionizing neo-cons which
by the way is an anti-semitic term Oh oh
really
I wasn't aware of that we are agreeing
on a bipartisan view of the importance
of democracy and alliances against
authoritarians
even as we have disagreements over other
foreign policy issues this is not hard
people well actually you know it is hard
is that this alliance against
authoritarians which even I would
imagine mediocre resistance people like
her I'd imagine that those
authoritarians include Donald Trump the
administration for which this person who
spent the 80s covering up atrocities and
again this is a fraction of the whole
world that he is laid to waste this guy
is a point person for him in a foreign
intervention III I don't even know how
to I don't even know I mean the only use
of a person like her existing is to
reveal the gist complete casual
found immorality of that mindset and
speaking of profound immorality and also
you know pulling it I mean it is
incredible it's one thing you know again
this is this I can see why people find
conservatives less annoying because the
conservatives are the ones who
shamelessly and without any knowledge
and with complete immorality come out
like like Brett you know Kilmeade and
all they know about foreign policy is
getting through Red Dawn a couple of
times and they go yeah and they're just
 morons and they just blow v8 and
they're just idiots and of course
they've ruined the planet but it's the
Liberals in the centrists that are gonna
both tell you to all you know killing a
kid with a bayonet is actually a lot
more complicated than you think when you
think about geopolitics and incidentally
we do need to destabilize Venezuela but
they also are gonna flip and get
sanctimonious with you or Alon Omar for
being rude which brings us to max boot
another person who has a atrocious
public record whose primarily a war
propagandist but because I guess to his
credit he recognizes that trumps just
overt grotesque misogyny and racism or
inappropriate of course he's embraced by
a bunch of idiots who would you know who
who have you know I don't know Hillary
Clinton Walters in their homes max boot
disgraceful ad hominem attacks by at
Hilmar Minnesota on my Council of
Foreign Relations at see if our
colleague Elliott Abrams she doesn't
seem to realize he was a leading
advocate of human rights and democracy
not a promoter or genocide more evidence
of the loony left I cautioned Democrats
about slugs his old car and then he
plugs his own column maybe this is the
same column where he said that we need
to have Empire for at least another
three centuries that one yeah but but
but uh but woke Empire let me just do a
little bit more reading and this is a
Reagan wall of course led brooms was in
charge of Human Rights humanitarian
Phares this is back to Guatemala where
the genocide took place I'm saying max
boot used the phrase genocide by the way
saying and I forget who pointed this out
I can't maybe it was discourse lover on
Twitter but it's correct um that tweet
is actually tantamount to Holocaust
denial there there is a there is a
genocide in Guatemala this is not a
historically contested fact the Reagan
administration backed that government
and you can come and talk about the Cold
War and infiltration and all of that
 and whatever and you want to bank
out about it that's fine but you don't
tighten and pinions behind your own
facts okay and this is back to the
Reagan administration aid for the
genocide in Guatemala the aid helped the
Guatemalan military implement a key part
of its counterinsurgency plan following
the massacres soldiers herded survivors
into quote unquote model villages
detention camps really where they were
they used food and materials supplied by
the US Agency for International
Development to establish control and
Reagan was consistent in his moral
backing for Guatemala genocidaires
that's what I quoted before and then he
called Rios a man of great integrity and
totally dedicated to moat to democracy
continuing to quote great in here just
ten days after this meaning one
declassified US document reveals that
the State Department informed of rel
founded allegations of large-scale
killing of Indian men women and children
in a remote area by the Guatemalan army
other declassified documents revealed
the White House was less concerned with
a massacre then with their effectiveness
or with countering the bad publicity
stemming from the bad reports from the
reports of the atrocities that of course
was part of Elliott Abrams brief now we
have a little bit more here this is Jade
J Nordlinger I don't even know who he is
but he sounds aptly named he's a
national review nerd oh god here we go I
am not great this is Jade Nordlinger I'm
not greatly sympathetic
and not greatly sympathetic to rep Omar
surprise surprise
but really someone oughta give her a
clue on who Elliott Abrams is the guy's
been championing freedom and human
rights his entire life and taking unholy
 from the illiberal left and right
again I thought the illiberal right and
especially from a completely
marginalized utterly irrelevant rag that
nut has no relationship to anything that
is a fly in Trump's America
I thought the administration that
Elliott Abrams is working point on now
would be part of the illiberal right but
you know again and then just back to
again let me just say this I'll quote a
little bit more about this fervent
defender of human rights and democracy
John Schwarz in the intercept Abrams who
previously served in a multitude of
positions in ronald reagan and george w
bush's administration's
often with titles declaring their focus
on morality first he was an Assistant
Secretary of State for international
organizational affairs in 1981 and then
the State Department of Human Rights
position mentioned above 81 to 85 and it
goes on to mention a whole bunch of
other gust positions he got the job when
he was 33 years old and this is actually
this is you know what let's just keep
doing a little Republican history here
republic reagan wanted to name ernest
leffen left ever let effer as Assistant
Secretary of State for human rights and
humanitarian affairs but left FERS
nomination ran to the ground when two of
his own brothers revealed that he
believed African Americans were quote
inferior intellectually speaking a
disappointed Reagan was forced to turn
to Abrams a second choice this who these
people are folks Ilan Omar is a hero and
she she gave the most classy response to
the good to the minuscule amount of
good-faith criticisms about her tweet
and then maintained her integrity in
terms of the policy set with Israel
this guy has laughed off mocked
dismissed and lied I'm not gonna respond
to a question that's stupid I'm not
gonna respond to a question every
sitting there yeah so a guy who should
be in jail who right now I mean this is
like some horrifying like Clint Eastwood
Bruce Willis like gotta get the old guys
out of retirement vehicle except it's
the old guys out of retirement to set up
death squads in Venezuela and then lie
about it that's his brief it's
disgusting man
