[Music]
with Sam's cedar wear everyday casual
Friday that means Monday is casual
Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday Wednesday
casual hump day Thursday casual Thurs
that's what we call it and Friday casual
Shabbat gommage our day report with sam
cedar it is Friday March 29 2008 19 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
looking back on the week that was with
Pam Dixon from the Ben Dixon Benjamin
Dixon show also on the program Judy gold
who will be bringing all their favorite
expletives to discuss the President of
the United States meanwhile bar
seemingly has no intention of letting
Congress see the Muller report and a
federal judge rejects Trump's and run
assault on the Affordable Care Act that
v surfing circuit case however continues
unabated Mitch McConnell wants no part
of repeal and replace part 2000 Supreme
Court allows bump stock ban to stand
while challenges continue in HUD sues
Facebook over discriminatory ad
practices meanwhile Mitch McConnell
dropping another nuke on the Senate will
speed up judicial confirmations the
third brexit vote fails in parliament
and it is a
total cluster shag New York state banned
single-use plastic bags second state to
do that and why they used to call Joe
Biden the senator from MBNA all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen oh I should also mention too
that I was trolled on Twitter about
about having Marcy wheeler on twice I
think we actually had her on three times
I'm not sure it was either two or three
times but I think two or three times to
discuss the ongoing Muller probe and
which took place for which took place of
course over the over the past year and a
half two years and so I was trolled on
that and I have been wanting to have a
conversation with those people who have
been feeling I guess so vindicated by to
the extent that we know what the
implications of the Muller investigation
were I guess presumably just that there
will be no more indictments we don't
really know the scope of what Muller
found but we do know there's no
indictments so there will be no criminal
charges brought against the president
now of course we knew that wasn't going
to be the case anyways because the DOJ
says you can't bring criminal charges
against the president but there'll be no
criminal charges beyond the campaign
manager and some of his close affiliates
well so to the extent that we know
anything there's been some people have
felt you know very vindicated I guess
and which I think I'm not sure exactly
what vindication that they were
were ostensibly seeking you know we have
been I think pretty measured in our
coverage of the the ongoing
investigation and I think from day one
we thought there were financial
shenanigans but that the idea of Donald
Trump being a Manchurian Candidate was
pretty far-fetched I think two or three
interviews about an ongoing
investigation of the President of the
United States is probably warranted
maybe people didn't think there should
be an investigation I'm not quite sure
we'll find out but so we were criticized
I was I was asked to apologize to you my
audience for having Marcy wheeler on to
or specifically to times but like I said
I think we had her on three times
although I'm not sure about that over
the past two years so that would have
been somewhere in between approximately
four to five hundred shows we dedicated
almost 1% of those to covering the
Muller report and so I am afraid however
that I will not be issuing an apology to
you folks for that I still think there
is more of the story to tell and I
suspect that we will hear more about it
in the oncoming ongoing weeks and months
and I been perfectly comfortable with
having had Marcy wheeler on and I would
still encourage you to continue to read
her because I think we're going to get
as over the months and weeks and years
perhaps we're going to get more
information as to what what went down
with this administration and so however
I've wanted to find out exactly what all
the hubbub is about I mean Michael
Tracey is one of those people I've
issued some invitations to others he was
the first one who seemed to be
completely available
and so we will have him on today at 120
or so so we will have him he didn't want
to call in like a schmuck and I will say
this I don't appreciate the implication
that people call in to the show or
Schmucks but maybe he can address that
maybe he'll apologize for for implying
that meanwhile it's pretty frankly it's
McCarthyite to call people who call this
show Schmucks conjures some of the worst
imagery of our history you're trying in
many respects to silence people I think
you're silencing people who want to
exercise their First Amendment and have
very politicized atmosphere very
politicized but we will get to that
conversate conversation later in the
program in the meantime it has been one
week now that the the report was handed
in by Robert Muller
there have been reports that the
investigation that the the full report
is 300 pages my understanding is that if
it were 300 pages including all of the
actual elements of evidence that would
be rather small just from you know
casual conversations I've had with
people who have been involved in these
type of investigations but so we don't
really know and after a week there does
not seem to be a plan as to what
Congress will be able to see within a
couple of days I think the deadlines for
both the Senate or particularly the
house
Jerrold Nadler of the judicial Judiciary
Committee has demanded it I suspect that
they will be going to court and within a
week or so to attempt to force the
Attorney General to give that report to
members of Congress I think we went
through exactly the same thing with
Watergate wasn't there it wasn't that
the case that
the Nixon administration was forced to
hand over the report I seem to remember
after arguing executive privilege yeah
yeah and so you know we've been down
this road before
again the the White House could be just
refusing to release the report because
they want to maintain some type of
executive privilege as to protect the
institution of the presidency it could
be you know for future presidents it
could be because they also think
politically it makes the Democrats stick
their neck out a little bit I guess if
there's you know nothing in the report
that it's completely exculpatory for
Donald Trump or it could be that there
are certain things in there that they
think might be problematic to the
narrative that they're building we don't
know and like I say we'll probably see
court cases coming in the future
however with all this said about the
report this is I think Fox and Friends
comes up with the most interesting take
as to why we might not want to see the
report and by the way the headlines
really are so negative on a positive
story for the president they can't
handle it because the 300 pages are
coming out soon here it is the
Huffington Post the mobile report is
hundreds of pages long which raises the
question how accurate can afford page
summary be you never heard of
summarizing New York Times says model
report exceeds through under pages
raising questions about the four page
summary like what questions that it's
not for 300 pages and Muller's report on
Russia and Trump is more than 30 pages
long that's what we like you said the
summary thing everyone is probably
thankful we don't have to read 300 pages
we all will probably but you would have
a confession I never read The Odyssey I
only read them on earth no very good
passing yea passing I love her said she
says we will probably I am willing to
bet that no one on that couch will read
the 300 baby need some nerds I just
don't think that's gonna I don't even
know who had bet on know that I would
bet on the couch for having a better
chance of reading that I read on a
homework is he's a friggin historian oh
is that right his books yes I did not
know densive Leon it's in the Barbara's
part nothing as a co-writer but often
has a code never hurts
alright well listen we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back a Ben
Dixon from the Benjamin Dixon will be
joining us Benjamin Dixon show will be
joining us from EMI
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the
proprietor and hosts of the Benjamin
Dixon show Ben Dixon welcome to the
program Ben Sam thanks for having me
always a pleasure so let's talk a little
bit and I just mentioned earlier that
we're going to have a unplanned call to
Michael Tracy who to talk to why he is
he is so adamant adamantly excited about
the yeah about the the Mulla report but
we of course we haven't seen the Muller
report yet we we have only seen the you
know a three or four page letter that
purports to top-line it I guess and also
to say that the Attorney General has
made the unilateral decision to not
pursue obstruction charges which you
know many people think was really more
the purview of Congress because of
course a president can't be charged with
this stuff anyways or can't be indicted
as the sitting president is my
understanding
but with that aside what do you make and
just you know putting the the reporter
side and week and also I mean I don't
any element of it if you want to talk
about right but specifically the the
idea that somehow Congress will not get
access to a report that has not been
either redacted or edited by the White
House seems to be highly problematic
yeah and I think it's I mean it's part
and parcel for the Trump administration
right it's not surprising but I would
think that particularly journalists who
at least pretended to be objective in
this process would look at that and that
is a story that is a major
that is a major problem that is a
problem for our functioning government
so no matter how it plays out right
whatever is in the report I'm not one to
believe that bar went too far off course
you know I'm sure he obviously didn't
state anything that could have been
damning to Donald Trump but the fact
that this is not being shared with
Congress really sends off more red flags
and you know I know you have a Michael
Tracy on and full transparency I just
had a mute him this week
on Twitter because it's so excited about
this and and my question for him and and
I've asked them on Twitter but it's like
if we came into this with objectivity
right and and we had even if we were
just hedging our bets maybe something's
gonna come of this Muller Pro maybe
something that's not at this point you
still can't celebrate because of the way
the Trump administration is carrying on
about redacting this document before
anyone in Congress sees it so
objectivity will say hold your horses
and let's see let's explore this story
of why the balance of power in the
United States the checks on power are
not going to be allowed to operate and
function properly right and I think like
you know I mean certainly it's been my
opinion I think the almost unanimously
on this show or unanimously on this show
I think that the the speculation and the
the coverage has been excessive and you
know I think we've articulated but it
would be also rather odd to completely
ignore a an ongoing investigation of the
president United States yeah and it's
not like I mean earlier this week I
think I used the the metaphor like you
know this is like the cops think you
have a dead body in your car and and it
turns out you only have ten kilos of
cocaine but you drive off anyways I mean
there's gonna be speculation as to like
maybe you do have a dead body in your
car and people start to follow you but I
think like even if the even if it turns
out that you
just have your you know a overdue book
from the book from the library in the
trunk of your car if you drive off as
the cops are approaching you thinking
that you have a and it's and it's not
you know it's not that often that the
you know the the president United States
fires the FBI chief who is doing this
investigation so I don't know it's uh
it's an odd situation these are odd
times however and you know we'll get all
of that conversation with Michael Tracey
more because I think you know one of the
things about this I I certainly don't
know that I would be dedicating this
much time frankly to the Muller report
until we would see it but right you know
there's there's apparently at least some
element of our our media universe that
and and and frankly our political
universe that that that thinks that
there is some type of accounting to be
had for talking about it at all during
the course we're recognizing that it
existed or you know bring some curiosity
as to what was going on I mean we did
have a lot of indictments that came down
I mean if anything this certainly to the
extent that people were were skeptical
of the what was it 12 or 13
GRU operatives being indicted in
absentia this certainly makes those look
like they're more legitimate right I
mind so I don't know but I guess go
ahead the only other thing I would say
about this right is like if we look at
it purely through a political lens and
and by political lens I mean like
political hackery right you know this is
what this is what media does right now
right there in media entertainment
complex
so MSNBC did run up their ratings with
this I mean in an obscene way but you
know it really speaks volumes to me that
we have people who are ostensibly on the
Left I don't really even know what
Michael Tracy considers himself I'm
gonna stay tuned in to hear the
conversation but you know we
we're expecting and demanding the level
of accountability from MSNBC over this
Russia probe and we're demanding that
accountability through Fox News like
we're actually gonna do it through the
largest propaganda machine that we've
seen an American as far as I can stern
in American history right the hypocrisy
alone should be enough to choke them
so that they cannot breathe but I mean
we we are expecting something of it's
such an asymmetrical battle that as
ridiculous as I think MSNBC has been
over the last two years people are
actually demanding the level of
accountability that they have never
asked for from Fox News and and while a
lot of people want to get above that
fray and they think you know it's bits
we should expect more from the left or
from the ostensible left I really just
believe that it is representative of how
far conservative propaganda is free to
reign in this country and while MSNBC is
playing the same political hackery hack
job now we're talking about you know
firing people and and doing opening up
new investigations on the left and you
know holding the media accountable and
going back and checking on the Obama
administration like it's it's it's
really it's not a healthy environment
anyway you cut it but it really lends
itself towards pushing America further
and further towards the right and people
who are smart enough to know that really
should be careful about participating in
this rightward shift that this Mulla
probe the results of this Muller probe
seem to be taking America well I will
say this that I think that you know I I
think they're you know for people who
perceive themselves as as a specific
type of reporter or journalists that
they're they they it's I think it's
perfectly appropriate for them to not
have an investment or operate under an
investment of of you know what ideology
it helps I mean I you know I mean I
certainly think that people hid behind
that during the Bush administration
and and helped the Bush administration
many times it was my experience but I
you know as a general principle I think
that's appropriate but you you make a
good point it's very difficult to offer
a media critique of a CNN or an MSNBC
but tacitly endorse Fox I mean that is
nice to me to be a fairly untenable
position to have and and sometimes the
endorsement is you know is is is is
larger than tacit I mean certainly
certainly even I think like you know
Rachel Maddow who I think like largely
people would agree gave over her show to
to the the Russian story she would do
other stories right I mean so like I
think it would be I think you know the
the idea that people would be like well
you're missing out on the story that she
did about you know agribusiness or
whatever I mean I don't watch the show
enough but I know that she does other
stories I think if somebody came out
that those same people who might also
praise Tucker Carlson let's say for
being brave enough to say X Y or Z and
overlook the sort of like the the core
of what Tucker Carlson does you know
that cuts both ways you know like if
yeah and and I think that's the point
you're trying to make right it
definitely cuts both ways but it also
you know and I agree with you like the
the the veneer of being an objective
journalist I mean it I think we might
can find one in the wild I think they
may actually exist but in reality man
we're in such a hyper partisan America
that the the idea of both sides are the
idea of being objective really leaned it
automatically leans itself towards
conservatism in this country right you
know we like to laugh and joke Oh truth
has a liberal bias but no money has a
conservative bias and money is being
poured so much into the right-wing
persuasion of this country that you know
the machine is set up such that you know
any anything that isn't purely
right-wing propaganda at this point is
considered to be like socialism like
hey you know Tamia is considered to be
Castro right it's so out of proportion
that objective journalism really should
be able to understand that you cannot go
on Tucker Carlson simply because he's
the only person that gives you a
platform when everything about his show
everything about this whole media
complex in this country is pushing us
further and further towards the right so
objectivism really almost would would
protest participating in those types of
shows that's just that's just how I'm
feeling this morning though all right
well so with that said to let's talk a
little bit about you know and I imagine
we're gonna see some you know getting
back to the substance I've imagined
we're gonna see some court cases coming
up about this but let's talk about some
other court cases that are taking place
the Trump administration has joined in
in the 5th Circuit Court case which was
brought by multiple states I can't
remember how many 16 states maybe it was
that basically are arguing because
Congress got rid of the mandate
essentially with the ACA removed the tax
penalty that was associated with not
getting health insurance that it
invalidates the entire law under the
theory that when Congress made the law
they had it include the mandate and that
was an essential part of it and Congress
would not have passed the law without
the mandate so it's not so it's so it's
not severable on its face it's laughable
case because Congress came back and made
the decision to get rid of the mandate
and they were fully aware that the rest
of the law existed they did not have the
will to overturn the entire law so the
case itself is sort of a joke it's being
weighed in the Fifth Circuit and the
Trump administration has joined in much
to the chagrin it appears to be
of Republicans in the Senate and the
house because they got their clocks
cleaned over this issue sorry I mean
we're what
first off politically huge a huge
political mistake we should say and and
and I and I would add just one more
thing about the report and this is more
from a political perspective that report
the ongoing investigation and the
potential threat and you know look the
obstruction thing was a jump ball
apparently I think inhibited the
Republicans ability to pass legislation
that was bad yeah and until I'm
convinced of a sort of a you know which
I think prevented real world bad
outcomes right like literally the loss
of health insurance for hundreds of
thousands of millions of people
among other things in terms of like real
world you know from a political
perspective yeah
the real-world outcomes of that would
have been devastating and I think you
know relatively speaking in terms of the
real-world outcomes of what has been
going on with you know as a result of
the of the the over reporting on the
report i I think balance is out pretty
well at least from a political
perspective but but back to the the
specifics of this we now like where how
does this play out because if Democrats
can run against Republicans on health
insurance again in 2020 we
simultaneously we have a fight amongst
the Democratic contenders for the
primary on health insurance as well I
mean this just seems to be lining up in
a very very good way for people who want
you know to get closer or to get to
single-payer health insurance yeah I
think it's a it's it's ultimately going
to be a net win how quickly can we
actually get to a single-payer system
and how long of a gap is there going to
be between that victory and what
happening in the courts right now I
think that's the that's the important
question is spent so for people who are
dependent on the ACA right now so it
there is a path towards a good political
victory there but what does that look
like and how long how long does it take
now in terms of just the raw political
victory I don't know if it would I don't
know if you and I talked about this
maybe almost I don't six months maybe a
year ago but but like you said that was
a net win in terms of this Russia
coverage as obscene that some of it was
excessive as a lot of it was I'm gonna
be honest with you we had no other way
of jamming up the system so I'm just
like just pure raw political analysis
and you know kind of like a mecca of
alien kind of style politics I mean what
other play did we have when we did not
have the house and the Republicans that
everything and so we were able to jam
them up long enough to get where we are
right now
similarly the Republicans are actually
you know handing us a win because
somehow or another we were able to turn
the Obamacare into the Affordable Care
Act right it was no longer stained with
their hatred with Republican hatred for
Obamacare it became necessary in so many
people's lives that it became popular
and something that that Republicans paid
a price for as you can see in the
midterm so now they want to run on it
again but by all means let's do it
because it is as necessary today as it
was back before the midterms so I think
it's a net win in a very long right I'm
gonna say a long-term look but in terms
of the political outlook I think there's
a really easy path if Democrats actually
nail their messaging and and actually
just take them to task similarly to like
the Special Olympics
Fiasco okay that that is that is
definitely something that you want to be
able to run against something that's
clear-cut and that is uh that's really
no question when it comes to political
advertising and running a campaign the
and Trump had to reverse himself on this
but you know like I that that to me is
so mystifying like just the level of
incompetence the
here I just don't understand that at all
the you know like the the Special
Olympics thing is just sort of it's it's
stunning it's stunning accommodates it
first off they were never gonna get
those cuts right those cuts are never
going to happen you know Congress is
simply not going to pass a budget where
they cut money for the Special Olympics
right so even to just float that idea
to float that idea is just like hey
listen I'm not gonna do anything about
it but you know if we could I just want
to know what we would well just how
horrible of human beings we are just
like how callous we are and you know
like the I mean I don't know with what
voters they think that would appeal to I
I think it's like the it seems to me
it's must be like you know Mick Mulvaney
like it's like a purely and I'd honestly
like an ideological thing like we are
just the idea if we are contributing and
helping folks in our society who need
you know who need the help in some way
like and we're not allowing the sort of
the philanthropic world to fully fund it
that we are sort of ideologically impure
or something I mean this is just sheer
the ideology itself is sheer insanity
and yeah politically its sheer insanity
I mean I I'm at a loss almost to
understand this I can't I understand it
a little bit more and more every day
because there's a level of narcissism
and a level of over confidence in your
ability that really lends you towards
being extremely vulnerable to your
stupidity and this is this is exactly
what is happening with the Trump
administration and particularly Betsy
DeVos right she she and Trump probably
had his fingerprints on this before hey
I don't I don't know the backstory of
how they came up with this ridiculous
idea but they're just super confident in
their ability to get away with whatever
they want to get away with and when you
have that level of narcissism running
through your veins you're going to
actually do a lot of things
that are stupid and the real question is
is like how how can the public hold you
accountable for that level of stupidity
that you reveal through your narcissism
yeah I'm just I'm I'm I'm blown away by
that I and you know Trump had to reverse
himself he also reversed himself I guess
on the on the Great Lakes preservation I
think maybe he just wanted to be you
know and part of it could be just that
he I mean the only other thing I can
imagine is the dynamic that the there's
a dynamic of like him wanting to be the
guy who comes in and like fights fights
government you know what I mean like
he's fighting his own government in some
fashion and like I I'm like he's setting
it up to be a white knight like III
maybe that's too clever or you know and
maybe but I have a feeling like that's
the way his his voters would perceive it
yeah but you fight the IRS you don't
fight the Special Olympics you know you
just there's a certain I don't know I
mean that's there's a way to win with
that strategy every we've seen it you
know they want to drown the they want to
make the government small enough to
drown it in the bathtub but you don't
lump in the Special Olympics into that
category and expect to get a political
win so that's just the level of
derangement that I that I'm surprisingly
running into more and more yeah it's
pretty shocking all right so let's just
turn to the the you know the 2020 race
at this point like we're still waiting
to see if Joe Biden drops in there were
a report in CNBC maybe it was I guess
last week into last week beginning of
this week saying that big donors were
basically telling Biden I can't we can't
bundle for you until later in the
campaign I don't know if that's true or
not but that was the report which was
interesting we had multiple reports
saying that that sources although
they've denied it sources from the Biden
camp
were floating stacey abrams as a vp she
came out and shut that down in multiple
areas in in in in a way that suggested
that she was a little bit annoyed by it
which i'm not yeah which you know i
would be he's not he as far as i know he
didn't go down a campaign for stacey
abrams where i'm like he didn't like you
know this is for a guy who's trying to
cover for you know make up for some of
his deficiencies in some ways this just
exposes them mm-hm
yeah especially we consider his much of
his history you know what the first
thing was when stacey abrams came out
and and basically shut that stuff down
it really let me know that nobody from
that campaign actually had even
contacted anyone from their campaign
right and so the level of hubris that it
takes to say yeah you know that system
down in georgia i want her to be my VP
without having a conversation about it
whatsoever is political malpractice
because you get egg on your face like
you did this week but us also just like
the height of arrogance me like i mean
what was he what was he even thinking
with that but he also think about his
baggage his political baggage with black
women in general like it just it just
wasn't a good move and as politically
savvy as people like to think he is I
think it also exposes that he really is
not well no no wait a second so so
here's the thing though is that I don't
know that it was political malpractice
under as much as it was is an awareness
I mean it's a political malpractice in
under estimating I think Stacey Abrams
in somewhat in this way in this way I
think Joe Biden could have gotten away
with this five years ago or ten years
ago or certainly back when he was
running you know like on some level he
certainly got away with it with
Elizabeth Warren in 2016 and I suspect
that it didn't go down any differently
with Elizabeth Warren
but I think he just thought like oh
she's not going to be in a position
where she's gonna knock me in any way or
come out and sort of poopoo this idea in
any way because she she has now come out
on record saying look Joe Biden and I
met but we did not discuss it in you
know we did not discuss it during any of
our meetings and so she's putting it out
there that yeah Biden did not contact me
and I'm not in I'm not interested in you
know running for vice president in place
yeah I mean you put those things
together and the absence of the sort of
the platitudes that you would normally
get Joe Biden's a great guy he was a
great vice president I would be honored
to be you know working with Joe Biden
and I appreciate the offer but I am you
know I don't run for second place like
that's another way you could do it but
she was basically signaling like you
can't I'm not I'm not yours to leverage
with this community and and I think that
is what I think that is indicative of a
liability that Joe Biden has is that he
is he's practicing politics from another
era and it's tone-deaf and ammon in a
myriad of ways that I think would will
will come out during the course of this
this campaign right but is it's the
reason I say it's malpractice political
malpractice and I here think that
everything that you just said if it
worked previously for him but you know
you just one thing I'm married to a
black woman one thing you don't do is
put words and black woman's miles man
you don't you don't expect to get away
with that and the the lay of the
political land right now I don't know
who ever told him that was a good idea
you know it really backfired in a way
because she didn't pull any punches she
didn't she didn't worry about his ego
like you said you you you you outlined
it perfectly
she didn't butter him up and then let
him down easily no she she knocked the
wind out of him on this and so you know
in the sense to me it's like it's
malpractice because he miscalculated in
a very spectacular fashion how how
far-reaching is it how how much baggage
will it hurt him you know will it Willis
and bag him for a loan for your time I
don't know but for that news cycle it
was really
it really just showed a level of hubris
that you're right he could operate with
in the past so I guess he figured it
worked for him in the past he could try
it again he just tried it with the wrong
one and he really should have analyzed
the situation better to realize who he
was trying to just speak on behalf of
like say hey you know Stacy if anybody
in this race I would never try to put
words in their mouth it would be Stacey
Abrams
because she's so prolific with her
communication skills and her ability to
just cut to the point and not really
give too you know craps about what you
know people's feelings being hurt so
that that that's that's that's what I'm
saying when I say it was malpractice
Whoopi I don't know how long did it hurt
him but when she went on the view yeah
that was pretty bad a bad look for a Joe
Biden yeah what and all right I mean I
don't know you know we're gonna have
plenty of time to talk about 2020 going
forward and this is where we're at the
Kamala Harris came out with a couple
interesting proposals this week as well
although there was also a devastating
story about the implications of her
promoting a policy of arresting parents
patron saint for truancy yeah I can't
off the top of my head remember where
that story was but it's a it's an
extensive story that that really I think
may hurt Kamala Harris
I mean stories of a mother who has a
child with sickle cell Amenia and she
the kid couldn't go to school in some
days and they came and arrested her
that's not good a good indication of
like of the implications of that type of
program but we will get to that I think
more in the future we leave anything on
the table for this week Ben I think we
covered it all yeah just the drop of the
report on the on the president exactly
Ben Dixon
Benjamin Dixon show thanks so much for
your time today buddy I really
appreciate it
always a pleasure Sam take care
all right we're gonna go to get Judy
gold in just a moment but let's um I
want to do that let's do the rush
limbaugh this thing is nuts
it's so weird to see him now in some
ways right I mean aside from like the
work that it appears that he's had done
and the there is something that is like
anachronistic about Donald I mean about
Rush Limbaugh it's also weird to see his
gold-plated microphone in like 1080p
yeah it's usually on a webcam these
 live forever yeah I guess
that's true
let's uh let here is rush limbaugh on
the sean hannity program oh why from E I
be Southern Command headquarters the
most listened to talk radio host in the
history of the medium radio talk show
legend rush to the fire hey Rush how are
you I am fabulous it's great to be with
you tonight you know for those that
never caught you with half my brain tied
behind my back in a lot of ways you're
like Trump you see these things and
people bubble and fizz like alka-seltzer
they have no sense of you were not sure
if I got that gun through we get stuck
with another thing so you say constantly
go back down look now Rush Limbaugh has
has a hearing problem this is well
documented and the there was a lot of
speculation that it was a function of
his oxycontin abuse from the early
aughts so he does have a device that
some type of hearing aid that that helps
him so that's probably what's going on
here but it really does capture the
essence of it like you are like bubbling
alka-seltzer and then he just sort of
stands he has a brain malfunction as
all that Botox can't be helping either I
think there's a lot of work being done
there a lot of work into his brain let's
let's just that play back in with half
my brain tied by my rope got you with
half my brain tied behind my back
in a lot of ways you're like Trump you
see these things and people bubble and
fizz like alka-seltzer they have no
sense of you were it was no question
that's what's going on there right go
back go back it so it was I mean look
this happens sometimes you know I on
this program like I'll do a declarative
statement and want the other person to
to to pick up on it but but this is why
it's and understand that Limbaugh can't
see Hannity Hannity can see Limbaugh but
I don't I doubt that they're the the
feed goes two ways and so you know I've
been in these situations to where you're
in a remote camera but it's still really
funny let's watch it one more time I'm
sorry folks
the history of the medium radio show
legends Rush Limbaugh hey rush how are
you I am fabulous it's great to be with
you tonight you know for those that
never caught you with half my brain tied
behind my back in a lot of ways you're
like Trump you see these things in
people here smiles like alka-seltzer
they have no sense of you were through
we get stuck with another thing so you
say controversial things also and you're
joking when you say half my brain tied
behind my back
well no actually I do I split my skull
open and I take funny this professor
Matt one a diagram Hannity sentences and
no look like Good Will Hunting but
they're they're all very very excited
about
the the mullah report showing that and I
think maybe there's also a tremendous
amount of relief because I wonder if
they didn't think that it was quite
possible that the the president was so
excited about getting his his his tower
in Trump Tower in Russia that he would
be offering things now I still think
that we probably have that dynamic and
in various areas right I mean we've seen
stuff like Ivanka Trump and some very
dubious moves by the US government in
terms of like China after Ivanka gets
certain copyrights and trademarks in
China so who knows if that dynamic is
going on it's a very tough dynamic to
prove that quid pro quo even in the
context of we've had multiple instances
I think Tom DeLay was one others who
have had who was the the governor of
Virginia Bob McDermott MacDonald was it
Bob I can't
the he was he and his wife were tried
for bribery no and and they ultimately
got off the Bob McDonnell I think it was
Bob McDonald and maybe and he ultimately
got off because we don't really it's not
really a crime to get stuff for doing
stuff and he walked so you know the the
quid pro quo is a very tough is is not
with our politicians it's highly
problematic I think flaw in our law but
that is the that is the reality of it I
don't know that there is you know even a
the bribery needs to be very very very
explicit
all right we got to take a quick break
when we come back we'll be talking to
Judy gold
[Music]
you
ACK ladies and gentlemen Sam cedar on
the majority report let's just play like
literally just three seconds of five
seconds of our intro song only because I
don't want it to step on our guest today
[Music]
and that's enough ladies and gentlemen
Judy gold Judy how are you okay I can't
there is I there's not enough hate in
the universe to to explain how how I
feel okay this piece of are
you okay no I can't take it I can't
 take any more I can't watch the
news I'm done you know what let me tell
you something the stain is 300
plus pages long and he writes a
summary of three and a half pages the
 didn't even read it
everything's an you a tit and exonerate
you're not exonerated
you're a and all you do
is he's going to mar-a-lago I'm
not going to play golf go
yourself
go go your self I feel like you are
really jeopardizing your opportunity to
host the Correspondents Dinner first of
all he says he said
and it's stupid Nazi rally last night
okay then they said aoc who is he
nothing president up his
sycophants you Lindsey Graham he's
 artist
you two-timing piece of
I can't
take it I just want him to have a
 debate with Pete Buddha gig as a
gay guy who can put him in his
goddamn place
so wait what did Lindsey Graham do that
got you so teed off he exists I know but
I'm just dying
I hope first of all let's just I can't I
don't even know where to start
okay he wants to shut up all his you
know he wants to get rid of journalists
and shut down MSNBC and shut down CNN
when he can say whatever the he
wants
he can lie he can make up
stories he can side with white
supremacists and dictators he can say
whatever he wants no one else can say
anything there's no freedom of speech
for his critics he lies is that
freedom of speech I don't think so
that's freedom of psychosis and the
people that's a good life you know well
you know it's not what he says but he
does but then journalists journalists
who are trying to uncover the truth they
should be going to enemy of the people
he likes
Kim jong-un's you you you
okay yes you as a staff record
label and as a crew you
know that duty he walks around with that
stupid long coat like these ahead of the
mob Oh Ethan Orange here and
then he calls he calls pencil-neck
like that - you're that's how
you respond to a true patriot love
democracy and love America
pencil-neck mirror I think today
I'm just gonna let you have all of the
ones Judy I this is what the mullah
report thing felt like it felt like you
know I was on hold for a starring role
on a TV show for two years I'm on hold
every week I'm getting phone calls they
love you number one choice you're the
number one choice you're gonna you're
still pinned up there
they're just casting the rest of it but
you're definitely their first choice for
this card this is going to change your
career ball a lot and then all of a
sudden I get a call they went in another
direction that's exactly what that
 model report was right and and
so and and and what what happens now
like I mean I I you know Michael sitting
here saying this is why the coverage was
so bad and I agree it gave you false
hope your agent your agent called you
how did that implicate your behavior in
any way like are you going to now are
you going to nap hold on I'm talking you
can get on the mic if you want all right
I mean if you want to make this case so
but like I I you know obviously people's
if if you let's put it this way if
you're aware of this investigation going
on I mean your hopes are still pinned on
this right either way I mean I guess
early on if people are like you gotta
wait have patience if your agent is
saying you know you got a way to have
patience you're still going to be
thinking about that that starring role
but I mean I'm just curious what right
what what are the implications are you
going out to beat up somebody now or I
mean okay the duty is disappointed you
know I'm not but we haven't read the
report like the point is it is
it's three and a half if I okay if I
have an assignment in an English class
and I had to read like a 350 400 page
book and they're like we need a summary
like this is your final exam on
this book right and you hand in
three and a half pages and the teacher
race okay obviously did not read this
book I'm fat you know that's what it's
like it's like first of all who the
is this bar just fat oh
yeah I got it oh yeah well I mean to be
fair he you know he did a pretty good
job of cleaning up some of the loose
ends with the iran-contra situation
which and so I mean he's he's
well-versed that how you roll these
things out okay I don't give a okay
we're not talking about iran-contra
right now we're talking about a
dumb idiot stupid filthy disgusting
excuse for a human being being president
of the United States and putting us in
danger all our allies data he sides with
dictators he obviously I mean it's so
obvious he lies he come 9,000 plus wise
okay and this no I want to read the
 report I want to read it
I paid for the goddamn report and I want
to read it I I mean I think it's
it would be shocking if at the very
least our representatives if the you
know I mean it's quite possible there's
stuff in there it's just too sensitive
to share but it would be shocking if
Congress was not allowed to see the
unredacted report I mean that would be
just absolutely shocking right
and I I would hope that you know that
there's a universality that very say we
wanna see the whole damn report yes
I was the first thing they had to be
panada summary they beeped Bernie cuz he
said I want to read the whole
 yeah he said I want
to read the
all of it no he said damn and they beep
them but it sounded good and
Bernie gets bleep saying damn and Donald
Trump's face is on television without
being get yours a little anti-semitic to
me don't you think
seems a little anti-semitic no oh
varying the two like I can't watch the
news because I can't you know it's like
I stopped I unfollowed Donald Trump jr.
because it he is just the biggest
scumbag that why were you following him
I feel like you're you should have like
a medical professional tell you that
you're not allowed to do that
like I'm genuinely worried about like
your your blood pressure to follow
Donald Trump jr. my mother used to say
that too why are you getting your blood
pressure up I mean seriously
look it's because I can't believe the
world my kids are gonna grow up but
you're gonna put pipelines into
like just ruin the earth you're
gonna say there's no climbing chicken
with them for I seriously seriously this
is we fought we fought through you know
years for equality and civil rights and
dignity of human and this
undignified dumb orange everyone
hates about America blob of fat
McDonald's pride in president of
the United States
you know I think it was I don't know if
it was like the Prime Minister of
Austria somebody said something to the
effect like America is really you know
we got to be careful of this country
they elected him once they could elect
them again and I think like the idea is
that you know I think I think Donald
Trump is symptomatic of a real problem
with the country I think is you know
it's coming to a head and I'm I'm I'm
quite convinced that I think the
presidency of Barack Obama aside from
his you know deficiencies as a president
from those of us you know have a
critique of him from the left but I
think just the fact that he was black
drove a significant portion of the
country I don't know what it was 15 20
25 percent completely insane completely
this country has is full of white
supremacist religious zealots you know
it's it's unbelievable that you know
they can take a temper tantrum to the
point of ruining ruin country for all
the people who made this country I don't
want to say great because I so are you
have you been you know going out doing
shows like I just like how do you well
I'm right yeah yes I have been out doing
shows and you know I have to preface my
thoughts on this by saying you
know I'm not talking about your poem and
I'm not I'm not talking about political
leanings I'm talking about this
quote-unquote person that he like
character doesn't matter like this when
this one does character not matter I
mean certainly there was a lot of people
who I think voted for Donald Trump
who
we're singing a slightly different tune
10 10 15 years ago right I mean like you
know that and you know use one thing to
say like well Barack Obama I mean Barack
Obama was just a I think broadly
speaking like I say I had some issues
with his politics but as a human being
seems to be like a far better example of
the species than Donald Trump I mean
right if aliens were to come down from
wherever it was and we had to sort of
say like make our case for you shouldn't
you shouldn't kill all humans I would
certainly want to push Obama out there
before I push Trump out there oh so now
I'm gonna save the devil's again same
from space race that I understand I
just you know never I never fought like
even when I disliked the president you
know politic and it was never that they
they weren't dumb I mean yeah well some
of them was that like George Bush jr.
whatever it's named George W I
mean what he never no one ever I mean
it's like a toddler it really is
it's like oh you don't like me you
 you so immature it's be so mentally
ill T there's even North I mean he just
said today no man has done more for
Puerto Rico than I mean are you
crazy
that comment actually made me as mad as
Judy that is so disgusting for him to
say that specifically about Puerto Rico
which is a colony to begin with and that
is where I think when he throw more
systemically but this they
were out of power for 11 months and he
went and threw toilet paper at them like
he was shooting baskets
and now they're shut there's a conflict
in the Senate about the amount of aid
that goes to Puerto Rico while the food
stamps are getting cut that is very
Scullion and a half p disgusting right
losing a nutrition support a million and
a half Puerto Ricans yes and we and we
already have them indebted to us paying
off vulture funds I mean look I'm sorry
I don't want to sidetrack this but that
is so disgusting right here yes now Judy
just calm down for a second we're gonna
play this audio of Donald Trump praising
his own work in Puerto Rico I've taken
better care of Berto Rico than any man
ever what a lunatic he's talking any man
whorehouse that he that is so does um is
he mistaking Puerto Rico the place for
perhaps a person he refers to as Puerto
Rico I paid for all the procedures where
a mypod Ricans where am I and what about
me Devon I mean what the she is on
laughing like her face I just
feel like she's like a sand worm
underneath like I said the other day she
always looks like she's about to unhinge
her jaw and swallow a child whole
[Music]
 gross they're all horrible
horrible horrible and now he's putting
people on the board of the Kennedy
Center like Mike Huckabee who you put
Mike deciding he put jon voight on the
on the home
yeah you know what's amazing is they
color the Kennedy senator that when they
set up the Kennedy Center no one
involved in that could have ever
contemplated that this type of guy would
be with like they're like well let the
president choose like we're only gonna
get the best people like the most
esteemed people best people ever that's
wow like dumb dumb dumb dummy
dumb real I mean just like he's dumb
like he just he doesn't know anything
about how the government works he
doesn't read he I mean so what do you
have planned for the spring Judy is the
book on what is the book what is the
bully can you give us a yeah I'll give
you a little bit on freedom of speech
really moving into a Rubens territory
and into Dave Rubens territory what what
is the what is it what is the book I
mean is it a interest and it you know
yeah it is very interesting because you
know we can't tell jokes like we we
can't go in a club and tell a joke
because it might offend someone
and yet this piece of can
stand there and say whatever the he
wants and he's supposed to represent us
in the world yeah I'm stoked during this
book I am too is this coming out book
it's coming
in October and it won't be coming out if
I don't finish so hard to write
its you've got the written book I it was
the most excruciating thing that I've
done like you know right at least when I
would write scripes as scripts I could
say okay I'm gonna have a chance to
execute this like this is not right you
know I mean for me writing a script was
always like just a means it was never an
end right and when I you know and I
co-wrote the book was Stephen Cheryl and
we did each took like you know sort of
took alternate chapters or I don't know
if it how it worked out Brian took about
half each and I have to say like when I
was done writing that book I felt so
empty like I was like ah you know
because usually I write the script and
I'm like excited about shooting it or
seeing you know right you know and now
it's just like ah it's just sitting
there and it's dead she needs a pep talk
Sam oh no it's very rewarding I make a
big influence on the culture but okay
once it goes out the door Judy then what
happened is it went in and like became
almost worth like maybe 95 cents I do
like the juxtaposition the book tour was
fun the book tour was super fun and
you're gonna love the book door I'm
working on a book proposal myself so I
am listening very intently you're a
writer you write these you write I know
I'm doing it because I miss writing and
it's like the only way I could think of
to get back to it I'm doing my book as
the script it's a remaking of The
Sopranos through the IDW and I'm looking
forward to the part where Sam Harris
Clips Dave Rubin so that would actually
be yeah it's it's another project
actually Judy what is the that was I was
legitimately insult person in a bit well
listen we got it we got it we get a jump
and but what is the name of the book
um we are kind of figuring that out okay
fair enough but this is exciting
don't worry it'll be politically
incorrect this is uh okay yes you know
but there's other many there's other
subtitles that are also important I was
just a position of like people getting
like freaked out about every joke or
whatever being way over up with like a
president who literally is like and you
see that guy who has muscular dystrophy
check out this aggression it's a good
jocks taboos right
pencil pencil neck no pencil I got the
feeling that he was trying to sort of
like it was like a veiled like it was a
euphemism for other things other things
not so big smile hey funny if Obama
called trey Gowdy you like fish face
like fish face
Benghazi fish all right
Judas face talking again bad committee
Judy as always incredibly cathartic to
talk to you feel much better yeah I
needed to unleash so I'm very very happy
today with the day you wanted you know
person thank you thank you all right
we'll talk to you soon love you bye
alright bye Judy gold ladies and
gentlemen when I texted her and I said
the hey can you do Friday she just wrote
back yes all caps i effing hate effing
effing it was I knew she was ready I
knew she was ready alright folks we're
gonna take a quick break and when we
come back we're going to be talking to
Michael Tracy about the Muller report
and or the summation or just the entire
investigation and what he found
problematic about it we'll be right back
after you my name out you mentions
you
[Music]
you
they're back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone we should say early
this morning when I got into the office
we were doing our prep and I got tweeted
at by our next person on the phone to
the effect of will I apologize for
having Marcy wheeler on the program on
her coverage of the Muller investigation
writ large in fact that little burrito
right here it's hey Sam seed are you
going to apologize for repeatedly
hosting marcy wheeler an FBI cooperator
and proven fabulous the Judith Miller of
the Trump Russia Fiasco on your show for
uncritical interviews thereby deceiving
your audience and helping to perpetuate
a I don't know if that was spelled right
but a giant fraud and the answer is no
but I wonder perpetrate a fraud a giant
fraud and well the answer is no Michael
welcome to the show but I am interested
in talking to you about this because I
am somewhat baffled by some of the the
critique and the celebration or what
it's about on your part so let's just
start with this so that we have some
basic sort of understanding of where we
both stand on this do you agree that
like you know Glenn Greenwald who also
is a big has a similar critique as yours
and Matt Taibbi that there should have
been an investigation launched by with
robert muller well first of all time I
genuinely appreciate you having me on
this I feel like this is an
extraordinarily important topic and
needs to be discussed rationally by
people of good faith so thank you you
know literally I do want to get to that
but I want to just explain that tweet
first because I know it's an engineering
sorry we'll get to the
we will get to the tweet but let's start
with just the underlying really the
whole well no the whole impetus of the
conversation is that I've been
interested in and having you know having
a broader conversation about this and
you were one of those people and it
popped up I mean to be honest you
wouldn't be the first person I would
have chosen who to represent this I'm
just to be honest but it just you know
fate would have it but before we get to
a third order or fourth order thing in
terms of like you know you want to talk
about Marcy's credibility I just want to
know the underlying the underlying
reason for this conversation is is the
Muller investigation so let's just start
do you think because if you think there
was no reason for that investigation
then people are going to understand at
least where you're coming from here and
I'm just curious
if you do if you do did do whatever
think that there was a reason to have
the the investigation of the the Special
Counsel well the Special Counsel
investigation we now know was launched
on false pretenses because the impetus
for the investigation at the time the
impetus for the investigation according
to all the Democrats who heralded Robert
lower as this valiant favor Democrats
did not have any robert muller but they
heralded his appointment okay Ben they
touted him vociferously as the person
who is going to hold accountable for his
purported conspiratorial relationship
with Putin that came to be characterized
as collusion that was the whole reason
why Democrats were so adamant that this
investigation has all we did wrong my
motive my point who appointed robert
muller rod Rosenstein i don't absolve
rod Rosenstein at all i don't absorb any
of these security state officials that
democrats and this NBC decided that they
were in love with over the past two and
a half years because they were were
convenient foils for donald trump i
think it's a total journalistic disgrace
do you think john brett him a liar by a
mess
listen this is a very easy question for
us to have to start this question to
start this okay the question is do you
think did you think at the time of the
investigation and if it's a different
answer from dead and do you can tell me
but did you think it was appropriate to
have this investing to launch this
investigation and if you want to say do
you now in retrospect you want to have a
different opinion that's fine too I'm
not this is not a gotcha question this
is a question I got to find out if the
underlying thing was a valid thing to
have happen sure I think the underlying
thing has now been proven to be a fraud
and it was apparent to me from the very
outset so going back to July of 2016
that it was a fraud okay okay the
narrative we are not answering the
question Michael this is a very easy
question because when Glenn was asked
this question when math question they
can answer it without giving an extended
this is a very easy question yeah but
but it's a complicated subject so I'm
giving a little lead-up before I fully
answer the question which I guarantee
you I will now I always believed that
maximum government transparency is
optimal but I was never cheerleading for
Robert Muller because I understood that
the entire investigation was predicated
on a fraud therefore I didn't would I
didn't think it would uncover anything
that related to its core mandate which
was the Trump Russian conspiracy so no I
wasn't going around screaming and
chanting and marching in the streets
like a lot of liberals and Democrats for
Robert Morin like touting him as the
folk hero
right no I was never advocate for the
investigation but I didn't oppose him I
was agnostic about the investigation
okay so I'm not asking if you
cheerleaded for the investigation I'm
not asking if you marched against the
investigation you are a journalist you
are a person who obviously has opinions
do you think did you think it was
appropriate to have the investigation I
mean if you thought it was a complete
total fraud you
must have been against the investigation
from the very beginning before it was
even launched well I wasn't against the
investigation because I always thought
that it had the potential to implicate
various Trump at athletics and you know
crooks that he surrounds himself with in
crimes that are ancillary or unrelated
to the core conspiracy charge so if
somebody like manna Ford or you know
Roger stone or somebody got wrapped up
in a criminal indictment that stemmed
from the original Special Counsel
investigation I wasn't going to complain
about that I want people who are in
positions of power that's what hapless
panel correct right that's what that's
what happened but the investigation also
sparked a tidal wave of conspiratorial
fresh okay Michael Michael Michael you
are giving me an answer about retrospect
if you want to say in retrospect I
regret that I thought there should be an
investigation or in retrospect I was
against this from the very beginning
that's a perfectly suitable answer but
I'm just trying to get us on some type
of ground of footing I'm just basically
like are we both on the same you know
planet here because I can answer this
question regardless of what I thought
happened after the investigation I do
believe there should have been an
investigation there clearly was a an
intelligence investigation and when he
fired Comey the head of the FBI and went
on and said I fired him because of this
investigation I clearly thought there
should be an investigation now you're
telling me you had no opinion you were
agnostic as to whether the the president
United States should be investigated at
anytime day you were completely agnostic
as did I wanted Trump to be held to
account and investigated for his actual
offenses and the many harms and you knew
what these offenses were you knew his
offenses worldwide Michael listen I
gather everybody knows you have a
problem with Democrats in MSNBC I have I
have some similar critiques but I'm just
trying to get out what you knew before
do you think there's some type of
commissary I hang
at MSNBC I don't know you've been a
contributor haven't you yeah I show up
and I don't I go I go on these shows
directly with the host and that's
correct
I am friendly with the host yes okay
have you pressed them on their
complicity in this overwhelmingly
staggeringly mine Bob and Lee fraudulent
enterprise that they were central actors
in promulgating something I mean I don't
know that I would have put it that way
but okay well I but I mean listen I mean
listen I have been very vocal on this
show about the excesses of this but I'm
trying to ask you a simple question that
you seem to be reluctant to answer for
some ungodly reason BAM I'm happy to
answer it what did you know about Donald
Trump's offenses before the
investigation in July what did you know
and how did you know this I knew that
there was no rational basis for even
postulating that there could have
feasibly been a trump Russia conspiracy
which is what precipitated the
investigation again I'm not crying about
the fact that other people you know
offense has got uncovered incidental to
that but I wasn't also were you aware of
that
I knew we would spawn this paranoid
frenzy that was going to overtake the
Democratic Party and lots of liberal
activists so caused real damage to the
body politic so okay so you're convinced
that there's been a real damage to the
body politic now where you were where
were you aware that the Russians were
behind the hacking into the the emails
dump and you know what they did on
social media without without any
question as to what implications it had
on the election because you and I have
no idea what that was I suspect it
wasn't a dramatic impact on the election
although obviously the emails were quite
problematic for the the the Clinton
campaign but nevertheless I happen to
think there's probably a dozen things
that were were but fours in terms of her
loss but were you aware of that and do
you acknowledge that that is the truth
well my attitude towards those emails
was that they uncovered genuine
corruption and now I understand that but
that's not what I asked you revealed
that
that Bernie Sanders got screwed out
that's not what are you being so evasive
why are you being so evasive
here I'm inviting you on the show
because you want it to malign one of my
guests and cry about my am i inviting
someone on my show and I'm asking you
some basic questions and already ten
minutes into this you won't even answer
the basic question do you believe the
report that you now tout in its saying
that the Russians were interfering in
the election by hacking into Hillary
Clinton's emails and by their
shenanigans on show social media do you
think that is true yes or no did you
know that in July I unequivocally reject
this notion that that election
interference so we're talking about
social media quotes on Facebook you
answer my question not some question in
your head I agree I agree that all those
things have been alleged to care being
carried out by the Russian government
and I agree today do you agree Barr memo
that you are saying exonerates Donald
Trump do you agree that that letter at
least says that they did that yes that
letter does say that of course okay so
you don't believe that part but you
believe the other part yeah you you
think the bar memo you think the bar
memo is controlling on the things that
you're interested in proving but not the
things that you're not interested in
proving the thing I'm interested in
illustrating is you being so evasive
here it's pathetic you know what
honestly listen listen this is what I'm
gonna do I'm gonna invite somebody else
on here who has some integrity to talk
about this who shares very similar
positions and reader questions you're
interrupting me after 30 seconds because
these are simple yes-or-no questions
just to fight just it so that what can
actually have a conversation and you're
dragging this out by 14 minutes what's
it looks like yes or no question ask it
again and I guarantee all I answer I
don't you answer you as on please Bob
well the first one is should there have
been an investigation you claim you're
at you were agnostic about that fine
that's your answer if people want to buy
that that's their your answer you did
you do you believe that the Russians
hacked into the the emails and that they
had social media BOTS and whatnot can
you give me 30 seconds to answer the
question I promise I will
you got 36 I 2018 there was no evidence
furnished by any law enforcement
authority to the Russians hack the DNC
emails then robert muller did issue an
indictment that alleged that russian
intelligence
actors were responsible for the dnc hack
i accept that that constitutes evidence
is it dispositive 100% definitive
evidence no but as evidence that I'm
willing to grant that there's a
preponderance of likelihood that yes the
Russians did hack those DNC emails and
yes that they were responsible for some
social media hijinks but the idea that
those means on Facebook and these
shitpost listen I don't we don't need to
debate that because I agree with you
we don't need to debate that because I
agree with you now good sir Lee said
this from day one so okay so now we we
agree that the investigation uncovered
the what the preponderance are the
Everett evidence any qualification you
want to do that but the on balance the
investigation prove things to you or at
least led you to believe things that you
didn't know back in July of 2016 right
so we can see that even though in July
of 2016 when you did not believe the
Russians were involved in any of that
your assessment as to whether there
could have been some type of
coordination with the Trump campaign in
that regard would have been would have
been sort of a based upon a lack of an
awareness that the Russians had done
anything so it's conceivable at that
point but you but I'm gonna grant you
that despite the fact that you were
agnostic about this and you're screwed
so that you you were agnostic as to
whether the existence of the
investigation should have happened and I
will also add like I said some of the
biggest critics of this investigation as
to how the behavior of the Democrats and
the journalists around it have behaved
believe that the investigation was
justified
so I personally believe that the
justification was justified and now we
can at least go forward and talk about
the implications of me having somebody
on the show who was read into this stuff
and started out as a skeptic herself but
because of first-hand knowledge that she
had of one of the potential players in
this this hole that was caught up in the
investigation or at least peripheral to
it
came on my show three times after that
to discuss the investigation and you can
tell me why I need to apologize to that
for my audience great here's why so I
agree 100% with Matt Taibbi when he says
in his recently published piece which
I'm sure you're aware of that the scale
of the media error as it relates to
Trump Russia matches or exceeds the
scale the media error as it relates to
Iraq / WMDs not in the sense that they
caused comparable levels of death and
destruction because obviously Iraq
cannot feasibly be surpassed in that
arena but because of the all-consuming
deluded behavior that totally overtook
huge huge swathes of the media to the
point that there's now this kind of
Russia skeptics caucus in media that
includes Agni Greenwald Tybee Aaron Mata
at the nation etc because there were so
few of us who are offering a
countervailing perspective and
thankfully we have gotten some
recognition over the past couple days
and I'm gratified by that I don't want
to gloat I don't want to celebrate cuz
it's actually a very depressing time
that no need to do it I despair that's
all you know well Judith and Judith
Miller is known primarily as the New
York Times reporter who credulous leave
heated the information that was fed to
her by government sources pertaining to
aluminum tubes remember that which was
then Oh believe it yes I remember again
yes but you you got so young listeners
and viewers Sam's I'm just refreshing
their memory and that's what she's
primarily known for but she's also known
for going to prison or rather jail for
85 days because she refused to give up a
source to law enforcement authorities so
Judith Miller's not seen as a total
journalistic disgrace on reasonable
grounds but at the same time she refused
to commit the mortal sin of journalism
which is that you can't give up your
sources to the police the cops or the
FBI
whereas Marcy wheeler who's now running
around pretending like she's a
journalist
with covering the Michael Michael
Michael Michael Michael no I'm not gonna
let you sit here and and in in malign in
that way all right
nobody was going to bring up nobody was
gonna bring up you accusing Maxine
Waters an old lady of assaulting you all
right but but if you want to play that
game we can play that game
absolutely we got her on speed dial bro
listen so so because you really catch it
we brought up something that's totally
unrelated no I thought about because of
your petulant but her deranged
conspiratorial Russia comments and in
the heat of the moment I didn't phrase a
tweet as accurately as I could have but
the idea that I alleged assault or
violent an absolutely false and I would
hope you would retract that I can show
you the initial tweets if you really
want to look at them yeah well you show
me the drew the tweets and then I'll and
then I'll retract it okay so all right
so you have an issue
you're comparing marcy wheeler to judith
miller who was dating okay who was
protecting members of the bush
administration who are perpetrated a
fraud on the united states with the
purpose of invading of getting the
country to rally around the invading and
occupation of a country which led
the deaths of hundreds of thousands of
people by DoD accounting millions of
people you're telling me that this is a
that she plays a similar role in this
because she not at the behest of the FBI
not at the behest of a government
official felt that she was involved in
this investigation in some way because
of information that she had received
from someone she felt was playing her
that's the acquit that's the that is the
equation you want to make now Judith
Miller no hold on wait a second was it
was not that the destruction law or the
death caused was comparable it was the
media error this is not tell you this
point no I'm talking about Judith an
element I'm talking about Judith
Miller's role in a and so when she lied
for Scooter Libby and for Dick Cheney
she knew that she was opening up a
portal to a war and so you're soon as
Chancellor you're suggesting which is
you don't give up your sources to the
police Marcy wheeler not only didn't
give up gave up resources voluntarily so
he wasn't in some kind of court
proceeding like Judith Miller was Marcy
wheeler decided on what if Miller was
protecting people who ultimately had to
be pardoned by a president who had to be
pardoned by a president or have his his
sentence commuted by a president who
perpetrated this lie the the analogy
here is so bizarre Michael but let's get
to this but since you brought it up
because I wasn't going to you know have
you defend this analogy because it
wasn't yours but since you did I'm very
curious as to how you might defend this
analogy because to me this whole to the
extent that there was anything there's
there is a malfeasance by the press it's
far more like the OJ Simpson trial to me
which was completely overblown
and proceeded as if you know everyday
they were camped out there a lot of
people made their careers off of it and
I found the whole thing to be a horrible
exercise on the behalf of the media but
at the end of the day what was the
stakes let me ask you this let's say
MSNBC functioned as what media outlet
would you let's say they functioned like
just they because you don't expect that
the cable news is not going to cover an
investigation of the president right you
would secure John Brennan and James
clapper yeah okay all right but you know
my expectation is that they would cover
it I I have no problem but let's do this
scenario where MSNBC with MSNBC hiring
John Brennan the former director of the
CIA
absolutely okay great great okay but I'm
asking you I'm trying to find out what
the baseline is here and I want to find
out what the implications of this
because if you're gonna compare it to
weapons of mass destruction which led to
the deaths and destruction of hundreds
of thousands of lives because that's the
stakes right that's the stakes because I
want to know what the stakes are here
and if they're even remotely comparable
because the OJ Simpson thing is a far
more apt analogy because the stakes at
the end of the day were you know what
the the United State Politics is less
informed that people have exploited this
for making a lot of money and a name for
themselves and whatnot and so I want to
know how you can justify it like what
would have happened in the world what
would be different today if if MSNBC
hadn't hired those people that we don't
think they should have hired if they had
just covered because obviously they've
got to cover it a little bit it's an
investigation of the President and
they've got to cover when you know Mike
Flynn it turns out was looking to kidnap
somebody for Turkey or when we have
indictments that we both agree seem to
be valid of operatives from Russia and I
don't I have I have a problem with the
United States interfering in
and I have a problem with anybody
interfering with ours and I probably
talk more about the former than I do the
latter frankly but assuming MSNBC just
covered the investigation in a
completely non cheerleading way what
would be different today the rendering
of the stakes that I agree with is the
one that's been put forward time after
time by Glenn Greenwald Matt Taibbi max
Blumenthal other principled non
supporters of Trump who have been he a
different of the joint and I'm telling
you what the stakes are
now I said from the outset that it's not
comparable in terms of the death and
destruction wrought obviously the
invasion of Iraq was one of the greatest
crimes the US government ever committed
however in terms of media failure and
the production of an all-consuming
frenzy that totally dominated American
politics and media for approaching three
years and it required all kinds of
self-delusion elevating all kinds of
cranks and morons and losers into
positions of prominence in the media and
attributed them with unearned influence
yes I think that their influence to do
now in terms of real-world scopes and I
could tell you the bolt of atomic
science scientists which has the doom
fake Doomsday Clock these familiar with
that mm-hmm minutes to midnight in terms
of like when the analyzation is going to
be destroyed you know so you have all
kinds of factors that they incorporate
when they make the judgment as to where
you know at what point the clock should
be set and in 2018 the clock was closest
to midnight as it has ever been and one
of the reasons was you know addition to
climate change others other other
contributing factors one was
geopolitical tension and this narrative
which has totally consumed American
politics for almost three years has
ratcheted up you don't think the Donald
Trump scrapping scrapping a nuclear
agreement that had been in place for
decades
led to that more than what Rachel Maddow
was saying about Russia oh I don't I
don't I agree with that wholeheartedly
we're where this assessment can you
point my listeners to where where can
you do it on listeners power
where can you point my
to where they can go find out just how
much the the hyping of the investigation
not the investigation itself right
because because all those people you
cited but for you being agnostic all
thought it was perfectly legitimate to
have that investigation so where can you
point me to where these this clock and I
can tell my listeners they can go they
can go see this link where the hyping of
the investigation led to us being that
much closer to a nuclear destruction
your listeners contact Doomsday Clock
into Google and I can find it
and they can find and the and they can
assess how much of the hyping of that
investigation lead I don't know I don't
know that the process undertaken by The
Bulletin of Atomic Scientists actually
all typically you're occupied well I
mean we deeply betweens we are there I
presume that you okay so so the stakes
are that the Doomsday Clock may may
because we don't know as you've just
said may have been raised
maybe I just put in your ledger okay and
that's it or is there more more in terms
of the stake yeah well I mean I'm Mary
oh is the investigation on MSNBC does
not hire people who I would have
preferred they did not hire and and this
is the the this is the alternate
universe and the the investigations not
hyped
there's no cheerleaders politicians
don't use this investigation as a
political cudgel in any way because we
know that politicians would never do
that and should never do that what and
so we have in your favor the possibility
that sandwiched in between the end of a
massive nuclear proliferation agreement
being scrapped
and a president who wanted to pull out
of NATO and Alliance is changing and the
scrapping of the Iran deal that it could
have been not just the investigation but
the hype of the investigation could have
led the atomic clock to get closer to
midnight I've put that in your ledger
what else well let me give you a nice
this is really significant okay one
stake that I think pertains directly to
this entire disgusting ordeal is that
the reputation of the media has been
obliterated Matt Taibbi very cogently
makes this point in the piece that I
hope you've read he outlines the
mountains this mountainous pile of
errors and outright fraud in some cases
retractions no ways this is your case
too let's just be clear because this is
your case right this is a case you're
making right but but but in that people
because I'm just using that piece as a
reference point and I've you know
compiled errors of my own in the past
but the way that the media has totally
discredited itself I think it's a danger
for the country because with a president
that has authoritarian tendencies like
Donald Trump you need a measured and
rational and evidence-based opposition a
rope I wrote about this in Fortune
magazine yesterday you need an
opposition that could actually count
around sports
tendencies but what this opposition did
to Trump so this kind of fit confluence
between the liberal media and Democrats
touting this conspiratorial fairy tale
what they did was encourage his worst
impulses so they wanted that they
criticized him when he engaged in
diplomatic overtures with this
nuclear-armed state and said that Oh any
kind of vague sign of friendliness
toward Putin is proof that he's
colluding with Putin so what a trump do
he tore up the INF treaty and which may
spur a nuclear arms race again I'm not
absolving Trump himself of any
culpability in this he's the president
and I pin blame on him for sure and what
he bombed Russia's equine state
repeatedly in the
Syria he's attempting to overthrow the
government as well Venezuela and in part
citing as rationale the fact that Russia
needs to be driven out of Venezuela
which is their you know chief ally in
the Western Hemisphere he sent lethal
arms to Ukraine in contradiction with
his own campaign rhetoric
the list goes on so this climate that
has been fostered no way to say like
Adam okay hold on for one second let me
just let me just listen I know okay yes
increased geopolitical hostilities and
endanger the American public so these
people who were against him tearing up
that treaty he did it because ostensibly
it was going to look like it it was him
being tough with Russia right although I
think you'll find people who would argue
that it was probably Michael Michael I'm
going through your list I'm going
through your list okay our Syria policy
I'm sure you're aware of right that the
Obama administration was was arming
through the CIA was armed people in
Syria right and to the extent that Trump
was bombing in Syria there's no evidence
it seems to me that it was in some way
it was in some way not helpful to
maintaining Assad in power which is in
and frankly look I don't think we should
have been involved there since day one
but I think that Assad was perfectly
fine with just that airfield being
bombed yes they rebuilt it in two days
well I think things are a little more
sophisticated than that Michael but if
you want to believe that that's fine
and and it's not clear to me that the
tearing up of the nuclear proliferation
deal doesn't enhance Putin's strength to
the extent you're saying the Venezuela
thing has been on the agenda of people
like John Bolton for a long time not
just Ron Bolton but he's been out there
in Republican circles for a long time
you may recall Hugo Chavez
also demonized for a long time but if
you want to think that that is somehow a
function of his his his his feeling like
he needs to stand up to Russia which I
don't know that the American public was
terribly savvy as to the Russian
Venezuelan relationship then that's
certainly your prerogative but all of
those media stories that you're talking
about the long list if you ever went to
empty wheeled net which is Marcy wheeler
site you won't see you will see that she
was way a ha way out ahead of of I don't
know what you've written about it but
others on saying the steel document
dossier was more than likely a complete
farce she was way out ahead on certain
that she possessed secret evidence that
she handed over to the FBI that was
going to prove that there was a trump
Russia conspiracy now Muller has issued
his findings and there is no such
conspiracy and Marcy still being cryptic
and evasive when asked what it was as he
actually turned over to the FBI she
still won't give a straight answer I
think that investigation well we got to
see the report really until we assess
that right because you can say that what
happened did not reach the level of
criminality that would have afforded a
an indictment but you can't say that
what she is claiming didn't happen you
can say her assessment of the level of
evidence for criminality was wrong and
it might have been and it appears to be
but you cannot say that what she said
and claimed happened didn't happen oh
I'm sure something happened to her the
the critical detail was always how she
portrayed it and what she did with it
journalistically she portrayed it as
smoking gun evidence in a bombshell that
was going to being you know the key that
opens the door to this grand Russia
collusion conspiracy and Muller totally
obliterated that population no don't
know what Muller's all you've seen is
one sentence of what Muller said stop
characterizing Muller you're
characterizing
barmen muller said which was that there
was no trump russia conspiracy and
that's exactly what Marcy said would be
established by that evidence that she
claimed that she possessed and hand over
handed over to the FBI and this kind of
extraordinary and I think I think you
would condemn I think I think that that
that we're going to have to get an
accounting at one point as to where that
evidence fits in but it's simply it's it
seems far too early before we get that
and for you to claim that she is like
Judith Miller protecting politicians who
lied to us she may have been wrong in
her assessment in the import of what she
knew as how it fit into a broader
investigation but the malign intent that
you seemed to be wanting to heap on her
as part of your what you perceive is
something that you know uh you know as
you've won some type of Academy Award or
something because we most of us not you
you were just agnostic as to whether
there should be an investigation of the
Trump administration without really
knowing any of the details like there
was evidence of Russian meddling but the
rest of us including everyone you've
cited today agree there should be an
investigation so you're going around
parading now that the investigation is
over has done its job you're you're
you're walking around as if you were
some type of clairvoyant all you did is
properly critique the media for getting
carried away with a story but you've
been unable to list one concrete fact
and I can list hundreds of thousands of
concrete facts as to why the the scale
of and the implications of what the
media did running up to this is nowhere
near what happened during the Bush
administration with lies into into Iraq
and I can point to hundreds of thousands
of concrete factors here's a concrete
fact for you Marcy wheeler was asked by
Bob Wright on why
a couple days ago about this whole
episode where she gave over information
to the FBI that she still won't
elaborate on and Marcy said yeah I
doesn't seem like it's totally panned
out as to what I handed over the FBI may
well have to study that I'm quote crazy
and I think that you know plausible
because the rationale that she gave for
why she handed this over to the FBI and
I'm going to quote you something here
that she wrote if something happens to
me if something released if someone
released a stolen information about me
or knocks me off tomorrow everyone will
know why and who likely did it she says
she was saying that she could have been
killed by Russian well no no no my
Russians over well you don't know you
don't know who she was referring to if
you think she was gonna be killed by
well listen we know that Donald Trump
has had associates who are involved in
the Mafia right okay I was gonna be
killed you were whirling feel excited
Felix aider Felix a doctor well listen
you don't know what contributed to her
fear well I don't and that's why people
have been asking for to expound on it
and she said fastly refused and let me
also give you another quote as to what
impelled her to hand over that
information to the FBI again commit a
massive journalistic breach that nobody
really bothered to scrutinize because
she was assumed to have credibility I
should say that she has impressive
research skills and I followed her work
for many years but she said as a
rationale for why she did this quote
this investigation is not primarily an
investigation into Donald Trump it's an
investigation into the people who attack
the United States it's time Republicans
started acting like that like that
matters you know it's part you know what
I'm glad I mention that because that
board out to be absolutely correct
wasn't it excuse me Mike we have already
stipulated haven't we that the russians
hacked in to to Clinton's emails right
we have already established that they
have attempted to alter the outcome of
the election whether they did or not we
don't know but yes you've just
appreciate you bringing that up
because I think that's about as as as
exculpatory of your charges as you would
want where she said this is not about
because theoretically right well that
could still be in play and we don't even
know do we Michael or do you now and
have the same knowledge you had in July
of 2016
nothing about the knowledge that I've
accumulated since then when we've me to
believe that the quote that the
characterization of quote attacked on
the United States is accurate that's
incredibly sorry Michael are you are you
accusing somebody of being hyperbolic
like is that what you're doing are you
accusing someone of being hyperbolic in
a blog post Michael is that what this is
about you don't like her hyperbole I
don't like the fact that she was touted
as this expert on Iran Russia including
on MSNBC in The New York Times
on the basis of some delusional fairy
tale that she crafted for her stuff what
delusional fairy tale you don't know
this Michael you talked about getting
out ahead of your skis buddy you should
be very careful it's not over yet though
is it cars ask you a quick question do
you think that you know in a vacuum a
journalist
burning a source to the FBI raises
ethical concerns in a vacuum yes yeah
okay so then why didn't you probe her
more in death about her rationale for
doing this I went back and listened to
some of that initial interview you did
with her in July of 2018 and all she
said was you know I can't talk about
that she gave kind of cryptic hints as
to what her reasoning was and even now
after moer obliterated her reasoning for
it she's still not yeah first thing doc
you don't know what Muller has done you
don't know what Muller has done you tell
me what you you don't know I'll tell you
why Michael because I have followed
Marcy's work for over a decade excuse me
Michael let me finish
I followed her work and I find her to be
incredibly credible all of her reporting
in the past has
handout all right she started off as a
skeptic she has been a critique as loud
and as significant of a critical voice
on the national security apparatus as
anyone in this country as anyone in this
country she has done far more research
into this than I know that you have and
so that's why that is why I gave her
wide berth and I trust her judgment and
the reason why Michael reason why
Michael I wouldn't have you on I
wouldn't have you on you know since you
reported on sandy from this program
frankly it's because I don't think you
have the same level of rigor or
integrity that's why okay but I
appreciate your Cayenne I think you've
had your say if you want one final word
to use your your adjectives about how
disgusting all of this is and how angry
you are at at you know various
individuals becoming stars on MSNBC
please I am angry not just about that
but because a mammoth fraud was
perpetrated on the American public and
had all kinds of deleterious
consequences that it's going to take
years if not decades the bully reckoned
with as Matt Taibbi and Glenn Greenwald
and others have the thing was yeah once
she became a collaborator with the FBI
she ceased to perform any kind of
recognizable journalistic function and
she'd been treated with extreme
skepticism after that very point but
instead she was treated to like glowing
Washington Post profiles where she was
you know it was said that you know she
burned a source because she had this you
know really revelation of conscience you
know she had all these easygoing
interviews with people like you or she
wasn't challenged on why she did this
massive breach and it turns out that
sure enough Oliver no no that's not true
last part listen I'll let you edit oral
eyes all you want but you can't make up
stuff alright bye Michael thank you for
joining us I really do appreciate it
[Music]
hey I didn't get to iron out my
complaint
excuse you and I sat here and listen I
just want to say like I am open to
having this conversation with people who
I think frankly have a little bit more
integrity than Michael I don't think
being a martyr and taking his position
you know is a is a sign of of some form
of integrity I think you know some of
what we're seeing seems to me is a
vestige of of you know other battles and
to say that you are agnostic first of
all I don't know how in July of 2016 he
was aware that there was a there was an
intelligent investigation into Donald
Trump I'm not sure how he knew this mmm
of 2016 maybe it was reported I don't
recall it being reported but maybe it
was and he clearly was wrong let's put
these up I forgot to even use these
let's put these up yeah
Michael Tracy uh was completely wrong
when it came to let's see
in January of 2016 there's still no hard
evidence for Russia
hacking 17 let's go forward there is no
hard evidence and then rushing hacking
has to be one of the truly most
ridiculous propaganda offenses in modern
US history why is it that every blaring
report about rushing hacking falls apart
in a moment's notice this is the it's in
2016
obviously now if you're going to take
the bar memo seriously then he was wrong
I think is the word I mean and I could
add all sorts of adjectives to make it
dramatically wrong colossally wrong
wrong about is his fairy tale it's a
severe collective media failure a
mountain of misinformation any attempt
to proffer alternative theory gets it
cast as
toriel an Iraq sized mistake the media
once again will be to blame what a
coincidence a year and a half later they
still convinced to that go ahead
government officials are furiously and
selectively leaking classified
information to paint a certain narrative
about Russian hacking apparently one of
those people who leaked that classified
information is in jail now for five
years
William bar to one of those people are
in jail now for collaborating with the
intercept just I just oh well that's no
we don't need that's not very graceful
that's Matt Matt where you're gonna be
suspended maybe that I hope you didn't
cut to that Matt Matt would you put up
the I'm sorry the quote tweet of me
please because I actually there is it in
seventy eighty percent of this is just
personal grievance and annoyance but
because I by the way cuz Mike I was the
one who said this morning all right
being a little diplomatic and then I saw
that you put my name in your mouth and I
said okay Sam go ahead we could even do
Maxine Waters references but I just like
there were people on this story who did
genuinely take a a highly agnostic
position as I think mostly this show did
and so yours and and I I agree I think
what you're undermining I actually
because I'm a defender of the Taibbi
piece I think that's how you be critique
is very important and this is and this
is what your victory lap is is I made a
tweet which I've actually again as part
of my agnosticism I've said for a while
I think people are over killing on this
and it's also just a joke Russia Russia
Russia isn't a strategy and Michael
Tracy like his hit list of people he
wants to parade on it's so large that he
finds this and goes usually was enabling
the fraudulent Russian narrative by
giving a tacit online progressive TM
support and I actually literally don't
know what he's talking about
like actually if I live in Brooklyn or
that I should have run into the studio
during a marcy wheeler interview and
said no that's not because frankly while
i am a little bit more concerned where
this is ending up I think there are some
differences here which are fine I took
the same view that Sam did to Marcy
wheeler I'll totally cop that she's an
incredibly serious reporter who I first
got exposed to trying to understand what
the NSA story was where she was a critic
of the national security state and
totally on point so even if you want to
you know run some laps and distill some
lessons and critique I I agree I think
John Brennan being on MSNBC uses try as
a travesty
why are you doing if only because it
keeps me off more vision that's the best
part of it I felt like dude it's you're
not you're making this you you and
people on both sides of this equation
from the beginning as you I like what
you said Sam it's it's a proxy for other
things and you're turning this into
silly Twitter nonsense and when you
quote tweet me you get Andrew yang
people in my mentions and I will not
abide that sir
Wow I hadn't pegged you guys all for
such smug Brooklyn hipsters do better um
that was uncomfortable what's that
I enjoyed that way more than the well
they return to be it's a good the race
IQ debates I know all the race it was
better than race IQ debate but it was
not as good as Jesse Peterson who really
did some work on Sam
I you know good December Tyee B's like
me I think like the mid the the media
criticism is absolutely warranted and
I'm not frankly from a political
standpoint I'm not like I don't think we
ever played an Adam Schiff but leggins
but I'm not convinced that in terms of
what the politicians did because here's
the thing I never ever ever ever
believed that this was going to cause
World War three and for those who did
I'm also not going on Twitter saying
that I was the only one who didn't think
who was not you know praising and
following every gasp about the
voluminous a the Russian investigation
and I was the only one who knew that it
would not cause World War three not only
yeah but but I'm sorry I just want to
say like you know what this is
absolutely objectively you could if you
didn't use so much ridiculous hyperbole
and talk about World War three is this
helpful for Russian US relations and
figuring out long-standing problems and
cooling tensions no it's not but again
what we say that the evidence is that
that well know that Russia likes you
that's under that bucket part of one of
the things that they're gonna need to do
along with China and everybody else is
actually I mean that's a whole
literature amongst some people who do IR
what is a new world of Geneva
Conventions look like in the era of
drones and hacking and all of this sort
of thing
of course I mean but the broader point
is is that you could still say we don't
want to feed a you know a
military-industrial complex narrative we
don't want to be melodramatic and overly
hawkish about Russia but if you just say
doing a segment on something that in
fact actually happened is tantamount to
declaring a global war wall by the way
going on a show like Tucker got where's
Tucker Carlson's here's the one segment
here's one segment here's one segment
that I would do cuz I've been I said
yesterday that the only reason you ever
play a Tucker Carlson piece is to
criticize him or explain how even when
he's right he's dangerous here's a
segment I would give pure positive
coverage to have Tucker Carlson went on
his show and was like I'm really
concerned about war and that's why even
though I support Trump and he's my
president pulling out of the Iran deal
is the most catastrophic Allah dangerous
thing that has happened in the world in
the past two and a half years which by
the way it is you why don't
you give that 20 percent of your
attention that is a catastrophe and if
he did a report that highlighted that I
would have played it on this show and I
would have said credit where credit is
due
sometimes a fascist clock is right you
know twice a one sit there twice a day
here we go let's play the clip he's
right I mean it really does smack of a
lack of integrity to launch into a media
critique which i think is the critique
is valid but I mean let's be honest you
get on Tucker Carlson show on fox news i
mean honestly like a.j like the the the
the tacit endorsement
did you like did michael tracy when he
was on taco carlson did he say to a
tucker like uh you know in the before he
was on air like hey man you should
really lay off the hatred of immigrants
and stop by moaning the fact that we're
losing our white culture in this i'll go
back and check to make sure you know
there's fear-mongering about russia's
there's also fear-mongering about
gypsies it just seems a little concern
trollee to me i mean i don't know the
most about michael tracy but do you
really think he cares that much about
the credibility of the bourgeois liberal
that's the other thing it's like the
stakes seemed to be that the corporate
media has lost credibility which good
right that's fine i'm a leftist and i
think that's fine people shouldn't
believe the things that they see in
corporate media i remember a quote and
here's the thing and and I would also
add not only is it disingenuous to say
like I'm really concerned with the
credibility of MSNBC and CNN and that's
why I go on Fox do you for your own not
only is that disingenuous but the
implications of cable news I think are
far less and and again you know like I
think there would be a better argument
if we actually if there could be
concrete things and I understand that
the world clock the Doomsday Clock is
closer to midnight or it was you know
six months ago or whatever but I do
think there were other factors involved
there and we cannot divine this but to
point to that seems to me to be a little
bit disingenuous as well but but but
like I said willing to put that in
as shaky as that is in in that column
but there are no other real-world
implications of this that that I think
that you could point to that where are
where this we're the hype around the
investigation because again the
investigation found that the Russians
did engage in this activity and I don't
happen to think that it materially
impacted the outcome of the election I
think there was a lot of other thing I
think call me reading that letter I
think not going to you know campaigning
through the Rust Belt I think trying to
protect a Paul Ryan for a deal on
repatriating taxes I think going at
Trump you know on on on personality and
on on you know the her CV I think that
was also a mistake I think there was a
like I said we've been through this a
hundred times there was a dozen mistakes
that contributed that all had to align
in many respects not to mention her
record but I would not be happy about
like hey we tried to put guy doe in in
Venezuela but we didn't succeed so no no
blood no felt like yeah I don't think
that should be our policy I think that's
wrong and I don't think that we can sit
there and say like it's okay for Russia
to do this and I don't think that we've
heard the last of of Marcy wheeler she's
not hiding somewhere and yes I will give
her a greater berth and I will from
people I have skepticism of and people
can make their own assessments as to
whether that means that I am not to be
trusted and people can go listen or read
Michael Tracy or go to other shows I'm
perfectly happy with that I think you
hit the nail on the head just now though
when you said that you give Marcy
wheeler credibility and maybe not
someone like Michael Tracy and I think
not to go ad hominem but that maybe
some of what is driving his obsession
with this well yeah it seems weird the
fixation on Brooklyn media types and to
say he's one of only like five people
who've gotten the story right which was
like I remember a lot like talking about
this a lot and we always minimize like
the collusion angle because it seemed
obvious that's why the Trump camp was
pumping it up is because collusion is I
was gonna be the harder thing to prove
so we were saying like let's look at the
corruption that was always the line but
what also makes no sense is what does
that mean to have the story gotten the
story right like I guessed what the
conclusion of an investigation that I
think was necessary what it would be
like if the investigation if you think
and now to be fair Michael Tracy claims
he was agnostic about the investigation
but everyone else he cited thinks that
it was legitimate well he also claims
he's in the same group with Glenn
Greenwald there Matt Taibbi yes I mean
maybe he is but but my point is is that
if you think an investigation is
warranted then you must say that there
are questions that need to be
investigated questions that are the
answer of which have not been provided
yet so the outcome of the investigation
all you're doing is like betting on a on
the results of a basketball game the
critique of what the media has been
doing throughout the entire time seems
to me to be unchanged
you either hype it too much in real time
completely distinct of what the outcome
of the investigation is or you don't and
there's no doubt that the media has
gotten out in front of it it's it's skis
on this and to the extent that frankly I
didn't see the stakes I still don't see
the stakes which is why we did not
dedicate this show to constant criticism
of it but it's also why we did not spend
our time on this show on the 600
episodes that we've probably done since
the launch of this investigation maybe
700 I don't know 500
why we covered other things and had you
know
Marcion maybe four times to talk about
the specific three times to talk about
the specific investigation but when
Michael Flynn gets fired we're gonna
have her on to fear monger to fear
monger of course like that's not weird
the the head of national security the
National Security Advisor want to kidnap
a dude time for some Russian for money
that's not weird
there are grifters on both sides of this
thing and they're deranged people with
brain worms who are fixated on it on the
side of the resistance lips and the
people who've been to stick too far in
the other direction and I don't really
trust either if their credibility yeah I
would say wick
I feel tied between people who want me
to care about how good the investigation
and the media coverage was versus how
bad people and I don't think it's that
important like if that's your bailiwick
I don't trust you as a leftist I'm sorry
you should be reporting on so many other
things all right and the Liberals at
least don't pretend to be leftists oh
well you know what I guess we're not
gonna go into the fun half will just be
a freebie Friday Michael has to go
everyone Oh Michael's going out I've got
to go I've got to go I've got to go
create a bunch of sock puppet accounts
on Twitter and go after oh it's a nice
ratio and I don't even have a fraction
the followers the guy um it's tough
stuff I have two more patrons ah
although this is uh we got to figure out
we're gonna do on Monday we're gonna get
to this sound in a second but I want to
read this this email because I would
have totally forgotten I know the
official anniversary was a couple months
ago
dear mr. cedar at all and alas I ignored
the pre aar shows on New York local
radio but for me the anniversary of the
majority report will always be March
30th 2004 that is the official and
bursaries of this program in terms of
starting as a daily show was done with
what's-his-name on the best show no well
the sharp lling show that was that was
just a one-off in February of 2002 2003
right before the Iraq war invasion when
there were real stakes to hyping a
massive lie as opposed to like oh god I
can't believe that dude is now a has a
contributor ship on a cable network
 anyways I know the official
anniversary was a couple months ago and
alas I ignore the pre aar shows a New
York local radio but for me the
anniversary of the majority report will
always be 2004 March 30th I was 18 at
the time just starting to get into
politics but pretty clueless and there
was a moment there where I probably
could have gone either way the show came
at just the right time your work has had
a big influence over me in the last one
and a half decades and while
disabilities
thanks for the hardship membership have
sadly kept me from going on to make the
world much better I like to think that
I've helped convince at least a couple
of people to think differently
themselves over the years thank you for
your work and congratulations on your
resilience fondly Allen Allen thank you
so much for the email it's really
gratifying that counts convincing people
counts is making things better
absolutely that's been one of the my
favorite things about especially meeting
people at live shows when you hear about
like them like wayward scrolling YouTube
for libertarian debates and then finally
they get they fight they see the what I
did not believe that that happened at
all until I started working here it's
documented revelation all right let's
what do we got here oh this is this is
actually encouraging like I'm not I'm
not the biggest jay Inslee
you know proponent but this I thought
was a very good media appearance I
understand why more so why politicians
would go on a program like this because
you're trying to you're trying to reach
as many people as possible
and I don't think I mean I think there
is definitely an open case as to whether
or not politicians should go on to Fox I
certainly don't think others should go
on to Fox unless they are in some way at
odds with the narrative that Fox wants
to push and ensley seemingly seems to
not not be at odds but is really rolling
over Steve Doocy here Steve Doocy
thought that he was getting the the
lightweight assignment I'm talking about
the green new deal but here is and I
love the chyron 2020 hopeful makes the
case for climate change for a tional
leader not a pessimistic one in the
white house I think I'm ready for that
job this country needs a spark of
optimism all right a lot to unpack with
that are you suggesting that climate
change is why there's flooding out in
Nebraska right now
yeah the science is really abundantly
clear on this we need a president who
believes in science and gravity and the
climate change modeling by the
scientists are clear it's going to cause
more forest fires it's going to cause
more flooding at the same time in
various places more drought rate and so
we're getting it on both ends of the
situation here
I met a scientist from university
Washington last night who suggested that
we ought to believe both in climate
science and gravity look if you went to
10 doctors and they all told you you had
cancer you don't sit there and deny it
it's time to have science this is a
scientifically literate country and we
need a scientifically literate president
who really believes in the can-do spirit
of this nation well I intend to be that
president well I grew up in Kansas which
was right next to Nebraska I remember 50
years ago the flooding then so
you know I don't know that people were
talking about climate change back then
but that's why every words they work but
they're taking it about it now when they
are in your towns burning down when your
towns burning down the people of
paradise California are talking about
climate change and they deserve a
president who will protect them rather
than the oil industries and I'm tired of
putting out billions of dollars to the
fossil fuel industry and the lobbyists
that he's put in charge of this nation
he wanted to drain the swamp he's put
the swamp in charge of our tax policy
it's just wrong
uh Steve Doocy just officially got a
pathetically steamrolled that was pretty
impressive I mean I you know intially
going around with that I you know maybe
there's a climate change SAR in the next
administration if we're lucky and
someone like that seems to be to be well
suited to because this is obviously a
tremendous emergency if people believe
in it like my friend's dad in rural
Rhode Island who's a trump supporter and
has a ton of guns I kind of take him as
a bellwether for a lot of this stuff
even he believes in climate change now
and he cares about it because he likes
to go out in nature and hunt has never
been for a long time it hasn't been
about that the people are divided on
this issue
it's that the powerful are Donald Trump
was out in in Michigan last night very
excited that he's not going to be
indicted for for coordinating with the
Russians who were involved in the
campaign at least according to the bar
memo and here he is talking about what
is this clip here this is the supporters
outside being very excited for the Q non
oh well let's first I want to see Donald
Trump feeling very excited so what does
he do he translates this excitement in
to a an attack on people who are
escaping intense violence in their
country
and the people who represent them in
their right to seek asylum under US law
missus of amnesty amnesty
you have people coming up you know
they're all met by the lawyers the
lawyers of and they come out they're all
met by the lawyers and they say say the
following phrase I am very afraid for my
life I am afraid for my life okay and
then I look at the guy he looks like he
just got out of the ring he's a
heavyweight champion of the world he's a
Frenchman it's a big fat con job folks a
big fat con job
well how despicable of a human being do
you have to be we just talked about the
other day
reports from El Salvador that policemen
were fleeing the country because they
were afraid of the violence and they cut
the domestic violence exception they cut
the domestic violence exception they cut
the there was one more exception it
escapes me at the moment but they've cut
these not exceptions but rather factors
for which someone could apply for asylum
I mean this is how despicable how low
can you go here the number of asylum
seekers who actually get asylum I think
is somewhere around like 20 or 30% maybe
not even that high and people travel
they put themselves at enormous risk to
come up to the border because they are
terrified well this is his light motif
though and he's always gonna return to
that no matter what and he's probably
feeling a little bit happy right now
he's back on his
what's it what's this oh well this one
is this is this the wind energy there's
number eight
let's do this one Donald Trump is also
not the brightest bulb on the planet and
I think he knows that a lot of his
supporters are also not the brightest
bulbs on the planet why can't we have
renewable energy because the wind that
will provide energy for your TV
sometimes doesn't blow hard that's not
if Hillary got in you wouldn't have that
stat I can tell you right that you'd be
doing wind windmills being and if it
doesn't if it doesn't blow you can
forget about television for that night
[Applause]
darling I want to watch television I'm
sorry the wind isn't blowing I know a
lot about wind I know a lot about wings
oh my god he does know a lot about wind
being a windbag himself just your
president ladies and gentlemen I've
noticed a lot of I think that's there I
this may be conspiratorial but I feel
like that's a secret movement to try to
prejudice people against the look of
windmills like oh the windmills are fine
but they look so gross they make the
landscape look bad I think yeah I've
heard of that but I think they actually
look cool I hear a lot from North
Dakotans let's put this yeah we don't
want artificial things but oh but put
that cell phone tower up so that we can
get cell phone reception let's do the
him deciding he wants to run against the
green new deal
but I'd rather not talk about it tonight
because I don't want to talk them out of
it
because I love campaigning against we
I want them to make that a big part of
them
no more airplanes no more cows
one car per family one car oh you're
gonna love that in Michigan hey how do
you like that give one car per family
out of it
you know I don't think one car per
family in Michigan place - well you
right not to us and it's got to be of
course an electric car even if only goes
160 miles
what do you do it's 160 miles darling
where do I get in charge where do I get
a charge
now we want to have a lot of cars per
family we want people to leave a great
life that we want be able to make those
cars and we want all of these companies
coming to Michigan and all of the other
great states and dozens
so there it is green new deal
I hope that there aren't Democratic
advisors right now looking at that and
trying to broad to develop big lessons
of the fans who come out to see Donald
Trump to his comedy routine no like I
said even the Trump dads who are
building doomsday bunkers in their yards
against marauding urban gangs would
rather not have to use them we're gonna
do reverse psychology and they're gonna
fall for it immediately don't I want you
to make this a big big part of your
campaigns oh let's do this Pat Buchanan
it's been a long time since we puts up a
Pew can people forget PAP you can used
to have a show on MSNBC when I first
started doing hits on MSNBC it was as if
I was going on to like the baby fox
Scarborough country pap you can in show
took a Carlson show I think it was I
can't remember who else and here is a
pap you can and on Wow that is a very
flattering picture of him an oddly
flattering picture cuz he's younger
they're too much younger but Laura
Ingraham Fox News host has a radio show
and here he is I remember in 2004 being
in radio row and at the Republican
National Convention and or maybe it was
the no I'm sorry that's the Democratic
National Convention and talking to a guy
who didn't quite understand what air
America was I think but you know I told
him I so he knew that it was on the you
know liberal I guess and he was
bemoaning the neo-cons
he was like he said I'm I'm a pat
buchanan guy myself
oh my god that's right neocon sir
Jews and I was like that's my
understanding yes just sort of like they
so comfortable with their bigotry it was
it was stunning really stunning I was
just like yeah tell me more but I've got
to but here his PAP you can and still
carrying the same torch he has for the
Republican Party for 30 years
well more but it was 92 when he ran as a
president under the auspices of a
culture war and the really the death of
the white race that was taking place of
course takes a long time white yeah the
white genocide to take place and here he
is you know with a slight twist on
what's going on here this is well we'll
unpack this statement cuz this is really
sort of unbelievable
we give 1.3 million green cards which i
think is way too many every year in the
United States most America polled say I
think it's either keep it the same or
90% of these are folks coming from what
you might call the second or the third
world and people are you know people are
fundamentally basically good but there's
no doubt there's a greater difficulty in
assimilating people from different
civilizations and cultures and
ethnicities and and and and racist in
the United States it then there then
then other folks and we know this is
true african-americans have been here
since 1619 they helped build and create
the nation they're part of its culture
and history and yet we haven't fully
assimilated African American citizens at
the same time we're bringing in millions
and millions of people were conducting
an experiment which you know it to me
I'm a pessimist I just it's not working
it seems to me but miss Harris what did
she say mean she's virtually in the
first part of it that comment she made
she's calling for open borders that's
the end of countries
to be fair I haven't listened to the
full interview when Laura Ingraham says
hey Pat I got to stop you there the idea
that somehow african-americans have not
assimilated to our culture is stunningly
offensive and the idea that African
Americans you know have not blended in
with white people enough yet and with
have not adopted white culture after all
we did to beat beat it into them
literally is really offensive Pat I mean
this is the idea that she can maintain a
radio show that is sponsored by major
corporations for allowing something like
that to be unchecked is stunning I will
say I was a little surprised when Kamala
Harris said no nations no borders
law and order she's really pandering to
the far left there even if Kamala Harris
said that that would be a second-order
issue like they want to criticize that
but the idea of claiming that African
Americans their presence is somehow some
other to America like America existed as
a white nation we brought them in as
like in the annex and the idea that they
you know like the idea that America
doesn't that American culture does not
include black people is beyond like it's
beyond offensive it is the idea that
coca-cola or whatever it is is going to
advertise on on on Laura Ingraham show
the idea that somebody could have media
cult immediate critiques and support the
outlet that pays her money
really yeah I think the slave states and
then the subsequent Jim Crow South
assimilated black people exactly to the
extent they wanted to yeah and I also I
mean just the idea that like somehow
like african-americans have not
assimilated to our culture what doff
where is he living they created the good
parts of our culture let's be real
that's just stunning to me a white
nationalist sentiment yeah and when he
talks about civilization that just goes
back to all those ideas about the West
as this civilization that have been
constructed fairly recently as part of
the right-wing authoritarian white
nationalist program it's just it's
we got one more clip of Donald Trump and
this is really this is really the most
important one in many respects this is
going to have the most of sort of like
real-world implications because the more
responses he gets from this the more
he's gonna say it like he doesn't care
what it does to the Republicans and so I
hope that he every time he brings up the
idea of repealing the ACA or Obamacare
whatever you want to call it he gets a
great response because that's what's
going to dictate him saying that in the
future and here he is talking about how
easy it's going to be to repeal I feel
like I've heard this before yeah we're
gonna repeal replace much better to pay
a lot of money for the privilege of not
having to buy bad health care ok not too
good
so we're gonna get rid of Obamacare and
I said it the other day the Republican
Party will become the party of great
health care it's good it's important
and we've created new options to help
Americans purchase affordable health
plans all across state lines you now
have options you would have never had
positive incidentally apparently he did
not get the message that a federal court
struck that down they were offering junk
plans outside of the exchanges outside
of the PP of the PPACA the patient
protections and they were cheaper
obviously because they were like selling
we're selling nuke eyes it's they're
much cheaper now they don't have engines
but they're much cheaper it's the deep
state folks the Democrats are pushing
socialist government-run health care
that bans private health insurance for
180 million American
now think you've loved a lot of gems and
they're great they're great and you want
that they want to take them away that's
not gonna work I don't think that's
gonna work too well Republicans want you
to have an affordable plan that's just
right for you and by the way you can use
your doctor remember that that was a lie
28 times 28 times he said that was a lie
you get cheaper premiums and much lower
deductibles so deductibles and Obamacare
are so high on average $7,000 you don't
get to use it unless a really great
tragedy hits and then you don't really
want it because you don't give a damn
about your deductible right you'll be in
a position as that who cares about the
let's see if I can live back on is
 lastly let's go to this I don't
care about that BB though it's that Mona
the cue and on here is the I mean here
are the Trump folks I like how that how
sort of almost like calm they can be
with with this Q and on the said they
have yeah here we go
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
it's weird to hear people say go Q well
no Q is our are the people embedded in
keep Q and on yeah yeah it's I'm saying
it's bizarre to see them just do that
luck like offer that up without any
prompts so many cute look you might be
listening
look at how many Q anon like I just it's
shocking there's that many who know
about yeah that's where we were where we
go one we go all is also a queuing thing
no do you understand what the queue non
thing is they're cheering Q because Q is
the mole inside of the deep state that
is providing all this information and
fighting for Trump possibly multiple
moles I mean just like possibly Trump
himself I'm trying to think of like a
possible analog for a democratic
candidate like what like if you walked
down the line of like a I don't know a
Bernie rally or a Warren rally or a
Torah or Obama rally or a Kamala Harris
Valley like what could they
what could every I don't know like
they're walking 15 feet and they find
another series of supporters
what could they what consent entirely
parallel to the candidate yeah like but
but I mean even like what bat-crap crazy
conspiracy I'm afraid to make analogies
now so I won't make one well you're
thinking the Russia investigation
there's actually a thing but there was
an investigation I think the way
psychologically that some people engage
with it is similar to the way these
people engage with Q and on yeah okay I
suppose if everybody if like if they
went down the line and people are going
like mother he's gonna shave
like if now there was like a thing where
like mothers actually doing it like a
double Lindy
he knows that bar is is working for
Trump
so Muller put it in there and there's a
ticking time bomb and they're signed the
Trump Putin sex tape and then trouble be
cancelled and Hillary will be President
but even if the craz enstein brothers
run for president I doubt you'd get that
organic of a response from one of their
lines right no it's definitely a
minority louise mensch louise mensch
convention maybe what a thousand we
shouldn't we should not have had her on
so many times that was a retro spirit of
called a mistake to have louise mensch
on on half a dozen times that was a huge
mistake
and and i would say that the the eric
garland poster that we have in the
studio is probably now we should take
that down yeah I'm gonna burn my game
theory game board that was I should not
have had that tweed tattooed on my back
yeah I'm gonna stop getting tattoos of
Mahler at my Brooklyn hipster Muller
tattoo parties yeah actually cover up
who does mother look close enough to
that people could just adjust their
tattoos to look like like any old white
guy who has an old white guy tattooed on
their on their Roger stone
representation all right it's late folks
sorry we did not get to calls or Iams
today but I think we did some some fine
work we didn't get any Schmucks today we
didn't get any you Schmucks today that's
what really set me off
you don't call our College don't you
dare disrespect our code do you not
alright folks
we'll see you on Monday
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
