with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday December 19th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Michael Flynn sentencing hearing did not
go as planned meanwhile not huge but the
Senate does take a significant step in
prison reform meanwhile Donald Trump
forced to shut down his fake charity in
New York State in the midst of an
ongoing New York State Attorney
General's investigation heard of that
offense associated gonna really hurt the
Tim Tebow signed helmet market meanwhile
Facebook protected your data so it could
give it away
Trump bands bump stocks via executive
action that'll be interesting to see how
that turns out is it's about
triangulation and all 83 of the ethics
complaints filed against justice
Cavanaugh have been dismissed
basically because what are you gonna do
about it anyway
federal court rules to compel an unnamed
foreign company to give evidence in the
mother probe lawsuit filed to challenge
Wisconsin's Republicans power grab and
cuts to early voting and time for you to
meet the not your dad's Blue Dog dents
not quite as blue not quite as doggie
and not quite as many of them all this
and more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen it is hump day and it's not
just it's not just hump day it's a
special hump day ladies and gentlemen
because we are humping over the week
that is the last week before our
vacation so if there's an extra twinkle
in our eyes or bounce to our steps now
you know why but can we just play a clip
that lizard Rumsfeld that one that he
pulled our members and and we had a
audio problem with the the post that we
did of the Brendan Brendan Straka
starstruck video and so we've an audio
we fixed it we're gonna re-up it so if
the audio is fixed for members if you
want to redownload that if you want to
hear it a little bit better there his
audio got a bit quiet toward the end of
it so that's fixed now
yeah and lizard Rumsfeld on on Twitter
yeah you guys had quite clicks change of
ideas we're quite exchanging ideas and
this is at one point when he apparently
wanted to he had a problem
this guy Brandon with Jamie like a
long-standing problem at one point he
said the girl who keeps you from talking
to people or something like he thought
like you were
I don't know I don't know it's actually
officially part of Cheney's job now we
should say jamie is youthful she is not
in her teens or are younger and Brandon
did not get the message this this little
boy did not get the message and so I had
to explain to this little boy what Jamie
does because he thought well here is
this just one segment that lizard
rumsfeld clipped mock people i will
concede we were mocking your video and
and your show i if she associated with
antigua yeah uh she has a podcast called
aunty fada the aunty father it's a well
it is a i think it is a play on an tyfa
and the Intifada and so yes he started
blinking he didn't I don't think he knew
what the Intifada was now we should also
add we got an email now I don't want to
make too much a big deal of this because
I think we don't have the full data but
it is an interesting thing in it so I'm
gonna see if I can find this year
someone numb someone emailed and
apparently where is that thing there is
a place you can go a site I guess where
you can look up people's voting records
and apparently this is sort of funny you
know we don't have the most recent data
as to how Brandon Rondon has registered
but as of 2017 he had not registered as
a Republican which is weird an
independent because he's an independent
thinker it could be but the strange
thing is is that I his origin story was
that he voted for Hillary now I may get
this wrong okay and if I do I I
apologize yes your correction I will
issue a correction but here it is you
can go to the vote with me app and it
lets you look at voter registration and
voting history of people and that's an
interesting I had no idea that existed I
was actually wondering about that
apparently he did not vote in the 2016
general election whoa now I don't know
that he's ever truly did but anyways I
don't what spend too much time just do a
little self critique here if that's all
that we have it's pretty impotent what
do you mean
all we have is he didn't vote in 2016
and the whole core of his origin stories
that he voted for Hillary Clinton that
got fed up that's an impotent
performance it's important it isn't much
like the Democrats winning a historic
unprecedented in the modern era House
one might say that I think we were just
a pathetically being impotent now look
it's all fun and games when we make fun
of him without him being here of course
I do talk about him quite a bit
I did I did make fun of him to his face
and that is available to you as a member
if you sign up at joined the majority of
port comm just want to let you know
about that audio it's worth it folks
it's really I mean I'm going to make it
a new policy for now on that if someone
gets upset that we have made fun of
someone and not to their face I will
give them the opportunity to have me do
it to their face on the show on this
show or on their show or on just no show
just just like maybe we can meet have a
drink and I'll make fun of you to your
face that antiva one of today's sponsors
is Skillshare and the first 500 people
can't guarantee it's still fine
hundred folks who go to SK l dot s h /
majority are going to get two whole
months of totally free access to skill
shares entire library of super quality
online courses and tutorials Skillshare
is a vibrant online learning community
that offers courses on everything from
design to video editing photography
businesses technology cooking meditation
everything in between
there are Skillshare courses for
everyone you'll have no problem finding
courses that will be useful to you both
in your personal and your professional
life whether you want to sharpen your
skills with something you already love
doing or you want to learn how to do
something totally new Skillshare has you
covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages photoshop you name it you
know this occurs to me as I'm reading
this my my son is named after my great
uncle Saul who lived to a hundred and
four years and was taking classes it's
incredible
at a Learning Annex into like at the
last one I think it was 102 years old I
don't know if I'm making this up or
maybe it's correlation instead of
causation but I think there are studies
that actually like continuing doing
things like that helps I extend your
life honestly good for you like I you
know to to have a resolution that like
I'm going to learn one like significant
new skill per month I'm not gonna you
know become a master of it but to learn
that one skill I think is a great thing
you can do for yourself and particularly
in this era of just relentless
horribleness it is it is a good thing to
do for yourself I of course have learned
knife cutting skills not cutting knives
I mean food cutting with knives it's
like one of those narrow things that I
would never go to a Learning Annex for
and I certainly with all due respect I
don't want to be around other people who
want to know that will be in person I
just want to do it alone
you can learn that skill set yeah with
you exactly well I mean look it
sometimes it's easier just to like
we just learned what I got to learn I
don't want to you know there's other
chitchat I don't need you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to sk l dot s h slash majority
just think of everything you'll have at
your fingertips for two whole months do
this before christmas break if you get
it if you're getting like a couple of
days off for christmas this is a great
thing to do
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
i put a link underneath this video if
you're watching on youtube or if you're
listening on the podcast it's in the
podcast also one at today's sponsors is
privacy comm slash majority and actually
on some level you can use this for a lot
of the stuff that we talk about on this
program in terms of like offers because
privacy calm it's a totally free service
apparently they get paid by the banks
and the credit card services they let
you buy anything online without having
to give out your credit card number so
it lets lets you prevent companies from
overcharging you a and b you can use it
when you're signing up for free you know
to try out a free a free service some
any type of service and if you forget
that you did it and the free service
expires and they start charging you
which is the way a lot of these things
work they have a dummy credit card and
they can't charge you past that date so
it just takes a couple of minutes to
link your bank account to privacy calm
account and then you're able to create
virtual credit card numbers which are
linked to your bank account you can
create as many virtual cards as you want
you can delete them you can freeze them
and unfreeze them you can set limits on
each card it's great for signing up for
free trials because you can just create
a virtual card once and delete it
knowing that you'll never be charged
once the trial is over i don't know if
you can use this for a service like
venmo i'm not sure about that actually
but if you could worthwhile it's just a
great way to have a dummy thing in
between you and the sort of the
where things could go wrong it protects
you when companies get hacked in
people's information stolen because
you're not giving out your real credit
card number each card is locked to a
merchant so you're totally protected
against fraud and unauthorized use of
your card privacy's dot-com mobile app
and desktop browser extension make it
incredibly easy for you to manage your
wallet of virtual cards and allow you to
autofill your virtual card number at the
click of a button when you're shopping
online
there are countless different advantages
to using a service like this to pay your
bills and buy things online you can find
out more and get a hundred percent free
and unlimited access by going to privacy
calm / majority that's privacy calm /
majority I put a link underneath this
video if you're watching on YouTube if
it's uh if you're not and you're
listening it's on the podcast
description so check it out and as
always if you don't want to hear any ads
on the program become a member at joined
the majority report dot-com all right
let's go first to we'll get to the Flynn
thing I'll just keep you an update on it
I mean it's you know it's it's pretty
fascinating from a couple of different
perspectives I have to say we're going
to talk about Tucker Carlson's ads
fleeing from his show but first let's
start with the wall it was just
announced moments ago that Mitch
McConnell is going to be putting up it's
going to be putting up a vote to a vote
on a continuing resolution in the Senate
my guess is that would not happen unless
he thought he had the votes so I suspect
we're going to see a no government
shutdown they're punting til February is
that right Brendon the idea it's it's
interesting they the initially the the
idea was we don't want to punt to
February because the Democrats come in
and they have more leverage over the the
budget but as I was saying in the run-up
to the mid
elections I'm not convinced that Donald
Trump and the White House he doesn't
want the Democrats to take over on some
level I think there was reasons for him
to be concerned about all the
investigations and whatnot but I suspect
at this point like can you is there
really can to really even be more
investigation what's the phrase these
baked into the cake well baked into the
cake but also it's like if you are being
shot at with a machine gun and someone's
hacking at you with a machete and
someone else is lighting you on fire are
you handsome real live is making fun of
and sorry I was making fun you are you
really that concerned at the idea that
you might get run over by a car I mean
you know at that point it's like but
what this does politically for Trump is
to say I can't get something done
because I'm being obstructed by the
Democrats and he will be obstructed by
the Democrats cuz we will be all upset
if these not obstructed by the Democrats
so I guess the idea is we're gonna punt
to February and then we can actually
blame the Democrats for the government
shutdown then is what their arguments
gonna be it's very hard to blame the
Democrats for a government shutdown when
your party controls both houses and it
is ostensibly over the fact that no and
in the hairs of reality no one wants to
fund the wall even if it's artistic and
beautiful and really just a fence that
you could see through but the
administration is trying to make an
argument that it's not going to cost
America anything you'll recall Mexico
was going to pay for the wall and Trump
tweeted out this this morning
Mexico is pain in parentheses indirectly
for the wall through the new u.s. MCA
the replacement for nafta exclamation
part far more money coming to the u.s.
because of the tremendous dangers at the
border including large-scale criminal
and drug inflow the united states
military will build the wall okay i
guess there was there's a missing period
there but nevertheless the argument is
that i'm trying to parse this out good
it's a rigorous one now i think trump
understands that if more money was
coming to the united states it wouldn't
actually be coming to the united states
treasury it would be coming to United
States citizens theoretically I was
being sarcastic and then the argument
would be they're gonna pay taxes on that
money and that's where the money's gonna
come from now there are no official
estimates as to how much more economic
activity if any is going to be generated
in this country by the US and CA but if
you ostensibly it would be whatever you
know hundreds of billions of dollars so
that you could get the extra five
billion in taxes to pay for the wall of
course we're still US taxpayer money is
paying for the wall which is not Mexico
but imagine if you actually were a human
being and you had to try and sell this
to somebody and you didn't do it through
Twitter you actually had to stand in
front of them how would you react well
we don't have to ask that hypothetical
question because here is Sarah Sanders
trying to sell this BS to the White
House press corps with the deficit
ballooning to over a trillion dollars
under this president where are the
additional monies for this wall going to
come from and why is he asking American
taxpayer for them when he promised
Mexico's go we're not asking American
taxpayers for that we are looking at
existing funding through other agencies
right now that we can draw on to do that
in the media immediately the president's
been
the president has been clear that the
USMC a deal would provide additional
revenue through that deal that would
show the Mexico deposit the best is look
on this reporters face when she says
those very words he just go back just a
little bit I I'm sorry folks I mean I I
just love to look at the look of shock I
mean the idea that people can be shocked
by any of this on some level anymore
like I don't know how you show up to
that place every day for work and
there's actually anything that come out
of anybody's mouth where you're like
wait what here's has been clear that the
USMC a deal would provide additional
revenue through that deal that would
show that Mexico is paid for the trade
benefits if they're already don't don't
go to the Treasury he's saying that the
revenue provided and the money that
would be safe through the USMC a deal we
could pay for the wall so many more
times over and by doing that new trade
deal we have the opportunity to pay for
the will its go to private citizens
don't go to the United States traffic
he's talking about the general revenue
that comes from that tax we're not
taxing we're talking about additional
revenue that wouldn't have existed
without the president getting a new deal
there have been a number of things that
we've looked at in which we know we'll
have additional revenue that comes in
through the u.s. embassy from the US MCA
we think there will be more than that
that comes in yeah we actually in fact
in fact we're gonna we're gonna do I
mean what's amazing is she knows she's
gonna go out and tell that lie and she
still there's just there's no numbers
can't even make it up she couldn't even
get out there and say like well we
project I mean we've seen projections of
anywhere from 100 to hundred billion
dollars worth of new activity I'm not
gonna just come out here and give you
thank numbers and that's why take
monastiraki stats really serious
projected numbers and and here's the
thing we are living in an era where this
is none of what we just saw is is is
relevant it's not relevant from an
electoral Sam
point because most people won't watch
that it's not relevant in terms of the
people on Capitol Hill because the
Republicans are as despicable as the
Trump administration they are one in the
same the only difference is they don't
have to say these dumb things because
somebody else down on Pennsylvania
Avenue will say the dumb things for them
Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan have been
the greatest enablers of every horrific
thing that has happened in this country
Paul Ryan even had the audacity the
other night to come out and and call for
greater immigration for the Irish for
the Irish we are housing 15,000 children
right now and the only time that he's
talked about probably the said the words
immigrants in months if not years has
been to call for more Irish immigration
I mean give me a break
the idea that we're not seeing tens if
not dozens of reported pieces or think
pieces in the the establishment news
media about how wretched of a human
being Paul Ryan is is a disservice to
the country if I if you gave me like
three days at the FCC I would revoke all
of their licenses most of them are not
licensed but certainly the net major
networks would get their license revoked
by me I'm gonna revoke her license to
wear a peter pan collar because she is
not doing Manic Pixie dream girls any
favors with that representation people
don't know that you're in charge of that
to try Manic Pixie dream girl outfit I'm
gonna put it on and I'm gonna lie the
immigrants excused torturing children I
mean I got a consult with the others at
the Politburo but I think you know
additional do you say some shoe Eric
yeah I should tell you just as an update
you know we told you the story of the
seven-year-old girl who had traveled
through Mexico she was Guatemalan she
died
I'd in the custody of the u.s. border
patrol according to the border patrol
she was there for eight hours at the end
of those eight hours she had 105 degree
temperature they claimed it was because
she had not eaten or drank water for
days that they had gone through the you
know they've been traveling through
Mexico they sent to her to a hospital
within 24 hours she was dead they were
arrested along with about 160 other
people the idea that you don't go to the
kids first and make sure that they're in
in decent health it just seems to me to
be both bizarre and in another respect
unsurprising based upon our policies
here the lawyers of the dad I guess the
guy's name is Jake Lynn call he does not
speak Spanish I'm sorry the the the the
the girl was a jaeclyn the father is
nari they don't speak Spanish they
actually speak a native dialect I guess
a Mayan a derivation of of Mayan and so
when he speaks the cuicci language and
he communicated with border agents in
Spanish but it's it's like a second or
third language and they had him signed
documents obviously in a language that
he did not understand and so getting the
story straight
is is unclear but according to the
father she at least appeared to be in
good health as they traveled through a
Mexico they had not been traveling
through the desert for days before she
was taken into custody it appears that
they had been they arrested in December
6th
in New Mexico hours later they were
placed on the bus I does not appear that
any of what the Border Patrol said about
what she was doing beforehand is true
they were traveling with a group and
they were dropped off in Mexico about 90
minutes from the border so they walked
for 90 minutes they're covering up a
killing that they're responsible for
there did I don't know why they're lying
there there certainly I don't know if
they they killed well no excuse but
they're covering up for a yes a death
that they are complicit in right in
terms of their their negligence the idea
that this kid was not in any way
exhibiting any pain or or what not just
all of a sudden had 105 degree
temperature eight hours later just
stretches the imagination and so it's
unclear what's going on in that in that
holding area and apparently they haven't
let anybody in yet so who knows
wasn't I think Merkley was I was Merkley
Merkley went to try to visit another one
of these place well that was where they
were housing the children right but I
don't think that she was housed
separately they had yet to separate so
just at an update on that meanwhile a
Fox & Friends has come up with another
idea on how to fund this wall the you
know the obsession with the wall it's
fascinating because at this point it
might as well be like a concrete tire
around the necks of the Republican Party
because for whatever reason Donald Trump
feels like he can't motivate his base
unless he delivers on the wall and I
don't know if they actually care or not
that the wall is delivered but even if
it does like it just seems to be like
it's clearly not enough people and every
time they talk about the wall they seem
to dig a deeper and deeper hole for
themselves here is Michael Goodwin a New
York Post Colin
already so you don't hold this guy in
particularly high esteem but he has an
alternative idea about the wall that's
gonna make it all go away oh there was
no real funding for the wall I mean this
is a Republican issue as well as a
Democrat issue so clearly the the public
supports strong border security I think
many people I'm not sure the the
majority of the public thinks a wall is
absolutely essential but most people
understand that a wall has to be part of
the solution to border problems that we
have so is the ante I don't think that's
true actually I think the polling shows
that most people don't think a wall
needs to be part of that I'm not even
sure that most people like the broader
idea that he's talking about in terms of
what's so-called border security but
nevertheless continued problems that we
have so is there a private way to do
this there is you can you can create a
gofundme operation others suggest other
ways there is an existing effort called
I think fund the wall comm run by
sheriffs Association that's raised some
money but nowhere near what is needed
and yet according to to my mail a lot of
people who are willing to chip in one
one reader writes to me and says if the
63 million dollar sixty three million
people who voted for Donald Trump each
contributed $80 that would get you near
the five billion market and I think
that's the kind of thing that needs to
happen it could be a people's wall I
don't really care about the mechanism do
you do a tax checkoff of your retirement
account there are a number of ideas that
I include in the column but the
important thing is the public could step
in and effectively do this the thing
that the president wants and there is a
there are ways for the government to
accept private donations right and this
could be done that yeah it could be done
so we just got to get those 63 million
people who voted for Trump to give $80
each now I will say I just went to fund
the wall comm and they have already
raised a hundred
$52,000 towards the 450 million that
they are trying to raise and what's
awesome about this they have like one of
those you know a bars that go across
like this to to measure their progress
scroll down you'll see it here and you
can't even tell what color that they're
using to get to their that because it
has an e of it there's can you zoom it
wait a second I think I see it
zoom in zoom in a little bit more keep
zooming come down go down I think you
can see yes see oh he's gonna zoom in
and yeah you can see it almost the
curvature of it is that's if you ever
want to know what a hundred and fifty
two thousand dollars of four hundred and
fifty million looks like that's what it
looks like now of course four hundred
fifty million that's one tenth of the
wall so really how committed is Trump
space yeah it's really I want to see I
want to see profile after profile on
Trump voters who refuse to help fund the
wall right yeah like where are all the
private market people who are always
talking about you want government to do
this you want government to do that this
is very strange body the change you seek
in the world here exactly I also think
that I am then we should be working on a
project to support this democratized
version of the wall and let's get on it
guys well look folks this is what we're
gonna do we're gonna start fundraising
not from any of you who hear our voices
but maybe we should just set up a build
the wall right now dot-com I bet you
that like that's the only one that might
be available the wall right now or some
options I honestly I honestly think that
like we should contemplate that we
should have the end of the year
the executive meeting at the majority
report and see if we started build the
wall right now campaign go advertise and
and raise some money you better hope
they don't crowd fund that wall because
if it somehow comes to pass that they
build it and nothing happens
cuz it's stupid like he's not gonna have
that as a campaign thing anymore that's
true that's a good point but he seems to
really think it needs to happen all
right let's talk a little bit I want to
talk about the the Senate vote on on law
reform and then Elizabeth Warren's
proposal and what I think what I think
that signifies in terms of where the
race is well you know what's happening
with the race because there's a lot of
interesting things going on in the
Senate with Democratic senators in terms
of bills they're putting up they give
you a notion of where they're coming
from and what their what they're
planning to offer the country but
yesterday in a vote from a of 87 to 12
and that includes I mean you do the math
38 Republicans joining the 49 members of
the Democrats because all Democrats and
I guess 37 because probably Bernie as
well
I know 49 would be all the Democratic
members of the caucus I would say the
first step Act passed II basically only
impacts the federal prison system and I
think federal prison accounts for maybe
ten percent of all people in prison mmm
somewhere around there and it allows
inmates to earn reduced sentences
attempts to lower recidivism rates there
is a different version that passed the
House so they're going to have to
reconcile those but there's every reason
to believe that a Democratic House will
be will be just as easy if not easier to
deal with than a republic
house it does not cover state prisons or
jails or it will essentially shave a
collective 53,000 years off the
sentences of federal inmates over the
next ten years that's according to the
CBO there were about a hundred and
eighty-one thousand federal inmates as
of sometime this month the first couple
weeks of this month there were some
amendments that made what is a fairly
compromised bill even more compromised
that included sort of some bumps for
faith-based organizations you get you
get if you get if you get if you drink
the Jesus juice so you can get out a
little bit quicker or something and Ted
Cruz limited the number of of convicts
who are eligible for earned time credits
but of course he is such a despicable
disgusting thing but look it is it's
it's positive it's moving in the right
direction right no I mean it is good but
insufficient key factor apparently was
that Jared Kushner supported this
because his dad's in federal prison so
and as Neil Meyer I don't know who this
guy is the Edit editor at the the call
the call he said key factor he said the
lesson here is ending mass incarceration
requires throwing more parents of rich
and powerful in prison and frankly I
mean we've seen this lesson before right
marriage equality gets support from
Republican claw makers who find out that
their kids are are gay we see people who
the Republican lawmakers whose family
members get sick they become much more
supportive of things like pre-existing
condition getting rid of bans on
pre-existing condition or increased
ensure health insurance this is the most
conservative Republican thing in the
world which is to have absolutely no
empathy or understanding of a problem
until it directly impacts them and then
all of a sudden they become far more
aware of what's going on yeah I mean I'm
a prison abolitionist but this might be
one case where the carceral solution is
a step in the right direction there you
have it and trying to find you know that
the Kirk bar della thing maybe I can't
find that I had that in my stack here
and it's it's gone but Curt bar della
wrote an interesting thing this guy is
sort of an interesting character I mean
I'm not I don't get too carried away
here because you know I I don't like to
give people a huge amount of credit for
being a you know a decent human being I
feel like that should be the baseline of
humanity but Curt bar della he wrote a
piece in the USA Today entitled I became
a Democrat a year ago and I found my own
voice had changed everything and he
announced a year ago that he was gonna
leave the Republican Party this is a guy
who was a he worked it was a
communications person I think for
Breitbart at one point he was a staffer
and would campaign for Darryl eisah
Republican from California and the thing
that I found really fascinating about
this piece was the the guy is
asian-american and you know a lot of
times you see like those guys walking
around with the proud boys in these
groups that ostensibly are not white
Remus groups but you know we're just
white nationalists we just think that
you shouldn't pick on white people or
that the the country's culture is
getting you know is threatened I'm a
last time shell that yes we have no
sovereignty in this country if we allow
too many immigrants in and and what does
that actually mean I mean because we
don't have an instance of immigrants
first-generation immigrants or second
generation or you know first generation
immigrants or undocumented immigrants
literally taking over the country I
think there are some instances of some
recent immigrants running for local
elections and maybe you know Congress
but we don't I don't know if you know
this we don't have any instances of
undocumented immigrants or even
first-generation immigrants taking over
the country and taking away our
sovereignty sovereignty as a country so
that means when people say that what
they're talking about are a set of
values that they perceive as being
basically white values and well thought
everybody realizes that there's white
nationalism behind it though like if you
don't dig that deep into it without a
doubt a chain for some pickle any
explains precisely this dynamic what's
Sam singing exactly this signal to the
actual groups of what's really being
said and the conduit and easing in of
people who don't have those policies
right and some people who stay in the
conduit zone so here this is what's
interesting just to hear him him talk
about this and like I say you know I
tend to be a little bit of a skeptical
person a little bit jaded but I but I I
found this to be fascinating and and a
little bit you know I have some empathy
for this guy he said my first year as a
Democrat has given me an appreciation
with the gulf between the world views or
Republicans and Democrats even how we
digest and process information is so
different in the decade I spent working
in Republican politics in Washington I
don't think I ever heard
climate change come up as a serious
topic of social conversation and he said
I found the same thing to be true about
gun law reform
racial inequality social justice and
sexism as a Republican I just never
talked about these things but as a
Democrat I talk about them all the time
I'll tell you being a Democrat is a heck
of a lot more emotionally exhausting and
being a Republican was because I care
about a lot more things than I used to
there must be some wisdom in the old
saying that ignorance is bliss it's
funny because I remember as a Republican
we would often mock bleeding-heart
liberals who are always caring so much I
think to myself now what the hell is
wrong with these Republicans who don't
seem to care about anything at all and
it's sort of fascinating how someone
finds themselves in that situation this
is where it gets really interesting in
that respect on a personal level one of
the biggest changes for me and look I
don't know what kind of Democrat he is I
don't know what his politics are you
know when the rubber meets the ground
but in terms of this sort of conversion
that he goes through there's also like
an emotional element to it that is
fascinating to me in terms of the way
that one identifies with the world and
what one has to do to subjugate certain
things to move in certain circles and so
he writes on a personal level one of the
biggest changes for me has been how I
view the issues of race I've spent the
bulk of my life avoiding race my first
name is German my last name is Italian
and I was born in Seoul South Korea I'm
adopted I grew up in a very rough part
of upstate New York where I was taunted
and at times beat up by kids because I
was and looked different on some level I
was conditioned through this treatment
to believe that being different was a
bad thing and so I avoided it
I spent the bulk of my life rejecting my
Asian American heritage quite frankly as
a Republican this was very easy to do
the Republican Party's attitude toward
anyone who isn't white speaks for itself
why would I want to even pursue an
association as a quote/unquote minority
in a political party that spouts hateful
rhetoric about minorities and pushes
policies that discriminate against
anyone who isn't white it was a pretty
cowardly attitude can
how many have been brave enough to take
a stand and fight for minority rights
and control confront and social
injustice I put aside for a moment his
self-criticism right that dynamic of an
asian-american kid who is taught by
negative reinforcement that you do not
want to stick out you do not want to be
different and at one point as he grows
older it just becomes internalized to
the point where he doesn't even question
about it and this intense desire to
conform in the context of where he is
you probably can't even imagine like not
being a Republican his parents probably
were we're Republicans it's easier for
him to uh to conceive of subjugating his
own identity that dynamic is extremely
dangerous that is the dynamic on how you
get large groups of people to do
horrible things that we can't really
conceive of in our normal lives you know
I don't want to I don't want to you know
go overboard here but when you talk
about how people can witness war crimes
or atrocities or large-scale violence
around groups of minorities or how I
don't know a kid of that Latino heritage
can be in a group of a bunch of you know
white guys looking to beat up people who
were throwing down the white power sign
in pictures how does that kid like
rationalize it in his head and he's not
having to rationalize it and head the
work has already been done he is there's
enough I don't know if self-hatred is
the right word because it's that implies
that it's very active it has just been
internalized in such a way like an
aversion in aversion and there's a
tremendous amount of denial associated
with that and not to mention why
this is a historically malleable
category right so it is conceivable
maybe in the minds of some people that
they could become white or accept it as
such okay you know I don't think that's
it because I don't think I don't think
he has that historical framework in his
head at that point is he sitting around
with probably I don't think he knows
that like hey you know the the Irish
were once considered not white the
Italians were once considered not white
maybe if I wait I think it's just more
like I think it's just it's less
intellectual and it's just more a sense
of like if I keep my head down
everybody's acting like I'm one of them
maybe you know like I don't come on I
think it's really just comes down to
just a tremendous amount of fear and um
and I think he got jettisoned you know I
think what happens you grow older and
then certain circumstances happen and he
goes on to say once I stepped away from
the Republican Party its efforts to
promote racism through rhetoric and
policies offended me on a very personal
level I began engaging in these issues
and exploring what it meant to be a
minority in America one of my favorite
moments this year was participating in a
panel at politican called crazy
political Asians Oh like the movie I got
it's super clever you know politican has
this great way let's write at one point
the moderator MSNBC's Richard Liu asked
our panel what each year of us owned up
to being a member of the Asian American
Pacific Islander community most people
gave answers like kindergarten or middle
school my response was 2018 it may seem
like a small thing but saying this in
public for the first time was a big deal
for me this is sort of fascinating I
don't know what you do with this
information I mean frankly in terms of
like looking at this stuff but it is a
fascinating view into that world
I imagine on some level you know there
are all sorts of people who have that
type of reckoning like at one point like
I when I came out
and acknowledged that I was gay I
realized like why am i hanging around
with these people for whom I've had to
soft-pedal this by my in my entire you
know professional life or something like
that I have a feeling there was a lot of
that at one point when you're when he
was talking about like how only
Democrats talk about human rights and
only Democrats care about them like
that's why I'm much more inclined to
argue with liberals and conservatives
because if you don't have a basic
framework of human rights to begin with
that like I can't argue we're not
arguing from the same premise you know
right exactly I mean I think on some
level that's what Adam khopesh felt from
felt me if you don't have one set of
principle that is your Bible and then
everything emanates out of those tent
you know that whatever that one
commandment then it doesn't make sense
for us to discuss this except for the
fact that like we were talking about
government now so yes yes I think that's
I think that's true I think the value in
in arguing with with and in he's saying
Democrats and I think you know broadly
obviously it's people on the left but I
think for him it just became you know
sort of easier to say Republican
Democrat because he's a professional but
yeah I think that's I mean I think
that's a good point the value of arguing
with conservatives about this stuff it
seems to me it's just to show other
people on the who are within that
spectrum of people who believe in human
rights on some basic level that like
they're toxic
yeah and it's rare that they will come
out and say that but I have heard all
right to say it and it's shocking but
also like we need to make them say it
more yep absolutely
so there's the we got the Senate bill
that is just a matter of time before we
see at least some of that on a federal
level hopefully the idea is that
hopefully these federal guidelines start
to trickle down to the states that's the
the idea and it helps activists and it
be good you know it provides a toehold
and it's an indication you know
maybe when there is some bipartisan
legislation that passes on stuff like
this there'll be more of it going
forward all right one other thing I know
we're bumping up against it a little bit
but one other thing I want to talk about
before we go into the fun half is this
warned proposal from yesterday and
there's a couple of things happening in
the Senate that are very interesting in
terms of Democratic Democratic potential
candidates for for the presidency so
Elizabeth Warren yesterday and I haven't
seen the specific details of it but she
will release or has I think as of
yesterday released a bill that would
effectively create a government-run
pharmaceutical manufacturer to
mass-produce generic drugs and and bring
down prices in the same process the the
bill would establish an office of drug
manufacturing that would be required to
manufacture at least 15 generic drugs in
its first year where the agency
determines there is a failure in the
market the standards for determining a
market failure will be threefold one if
no companies producing a generic drug
people get surprised by this but this
happens all the time
they don't produce a drug because
there's not enough money to be made at
it I mean which in and of itself is a
perfect example of I mean they call it a
market failure this is not a market
failure this is this is intrinsic to
capitalism there are these are the
intrinsic limitations to capitalism the
idea that there are no beneficial things
in the world that can't as a defined by
by whether you can profit on it or not
is absurd it's an absurd premise we have
examples all around us did you know that
there is a Lyme disease vaccination
Michael no coming from an area where
there's a tremendous amount
like he's hiking did you know that yeah
I've had it you had no no Lyme disease
okay
the vaccination was rolled out about I
think thirty some-odd years ago it was
only about 70% effective but 70%
effective is pretty good pretty good I'm
getting a really actually incredibly
damaging disease and it was just not
enough people used it at the time they
took it off the market has never been
seen they're probably sitting on the
patent that competition would start
kicking in right and even more and you
know expanding it out we know that
there's whole sets of tropical and
infectious diseases that predominantly
hit like sub-saharan Africa and parts of
Asia that there's there's not even any
broad research into dealing with them
because there's no no honey it for
there's no money and we also know in the
late 90s the Clinton administration
threatened to slap sanctions on South
Africa because they were gonna produce
generics for their AIDS medications when
their crisis was spiked yep so in this
instance one of the market failures is
if no company is producing the drug if
one or two companies are making the drug
and there's a shortage or a recent price
price hike higher than medical inflation
that would also kick in the the drug
manufacturing Bureau essentially or if
the drug is on the World Health
Organization's essential medicine list
and the price is deemed too high while
being produced by only one or two
companies so but the idea of the US
government getting into producing a
product I'm trying to think if there's
another example of that this is a pretty
I mean it's an obvious proposal we
should be doing this we should be doing
this with a bunch of stuff I think we
should be we should be running the oil
refineries frankly I think we should ISA
delivering the internet but those are
all sort of like more like services in
terms of products I mean frankly I think
we should be in the business of doing
this not just for generic drugs we
should be doing this for a whole host of
things public there should just be a
pure
public pharmaceutical option and before
you go to nationalize all
pharmaceuticals there should be a use it
or lose it
patent requirement the idea that people
are sitting on intellectual property
that could save lives or improve the
lives of people and they're just sitting
on it to prevent a competitor from
getting it down the road is absurd I
think frankly there should be but use it
or lose it for all patents that's
probably most important pharmaceutical
ones but intellectual property in terms
of creative culture as well and but she
has pointed to that story about the 300
generic drugs and 16 companies that were
were price-fixing as a sign that her
policy is needed but just like even in
the short moment that we we contemplate
you know because one of the things that
we have in this country is a failure to
imagine like how government could
continue to make our lives better
how could policies that are are meant to
that are not considered market or
capitalist policies can improve our
lives and stuff like this starts to jog
the imagination a little bit now the
interesting thing about this now of
course it's not going to we're not gonna
pass this in the Senate I don't know how
many even Democratic senators will sign
on to it we'll see
last week Merkley Kamala Harris Amy
Klobuchar introduced the cure high drug
prices Act which allows federal
government to block price increases on
certain drugs that my mind does not go
far enough but I like it
again Merkley put forward separate
legislation the low drug prices act a
week earlier Bernie Sanders introduced
his own bill the prescription drug price
Relief Act in November you see a lot of
activity all of those people could very
well run for the presidency however and
and maybe we'll do well do that bet
thing later we're gonna pre record
something with Perrine for for next week
but I think particularly coming after
that meeting that Warren and Sanders had
last week this is a sign to me that
Sanders may not be running
because because if I'm Elizabeth Warren
and I'm running and I know that Sanders
is running now maybe he hasn't decided
yet it's good which it's quite possible
by blows this is very risky thing for
her to do because this is a pretty
radical piece of legislation I mean I
think she's very good at presenting
things that are radical in the context
of the United States where we're at
politically but just making them sound a
little bit more sort of like obvious in
the homespun on some level but this is a
pretty she's leaning into it quite a bit
and if she's gonna be running against
Bernie Sanders the lane she's gonna
choose is not going to be to the left of
Bernie Sanders the lane she's gonna
choose is gonna be just to the right of
Bernie Sanders and this policy puts her
to the left of Bernie Sanders or maybe
she's trying to appropriate some of his
politics to win I think he does that if
Sanders is not there I mean look you
pick a lane in a primary and it's quite
possible that that Lane on the left of
her is opened up that's why that's
exactly my point is that she's not gonna
try and out Bernie Sanders to Bernie
Sanders because no Bernie Sanders
supporters are gonna abandon him for her
because she's got more left policies
they're going to abandon him for her
because they think that she can win they
they're her policies are good enough or
whatever it is and so her Lane is not to
the left of Bernie Sanders unless Bernie
Sanders is not gonna be there in which
case then she needs to bring those
people in it also my theory it also
could be possible that she's savvy
enough to recognize that the plates that
the dynamics are shifting so much that
she needs to in the context even of this
primary to be slightly to the right of
him but theoretically more palatable
though the polling doesn't show that she
needs to reach a little bit deeper into
her left flank
you see I'm saying yup yep it's possible
I guess time will tell what Isis out the
other people trying to do that and it
totally Isis out right because like a
guy like shared
at this point who I think is another
good candidate but he's fully playing
that lane which is like I have a more
serious legislative and credible
progressive labor record I'll stack that
against anybody and he's very clearly
like I'm not gonna call for abolishing
ice I'm not gonna do medicare-for-all
yet because he's totally going the lane
of like I'm a legislator I'm serious I'm
gonna run in the Midwest blah blah blah
and so Elizabeth Warren is actually
gonna triangulate between those two
positions and I think she needs to shore
up her flank on her left both say
Merkley and sherrod Brown also
introduced legislation that would
permanently ban members of Congress and
senior staff from trading individual
stocks the the idea that that you can
even do that now is just absurd well
what we've seen but but it's interesting
the this is the thing you know there's a
little bit of like a racehorse II stuff
to the quality this but the other part
that's really great about it is these
introducing these this legislation is a
sense of where it gives you a sense of
where these candidates are going to run
and it gives you a sense of just like
what's happening in the Democratic Party
is very encouraging because there is a
certain clamoring even if people want to
be rooted in the like I mean I don't
know these people are talking about seem
to be one or be rooted in the center of
the the Democratic Party but to the
extent that they want to be anchored a
certain distance away from that center
there's still the like the drift the
current is to the left and so you know
everybody they may drop their anchor but
if you look at the direction in which
the chain that is attached to their
their boat is it's all tracking to the
left 100% yeah and that's encouraging
but I still want to make the distinction
between rhetoric and policy right
because we've heard these are policies a
lot yeah but are they actually going to
prioritize those things once they're in
office and I think I need to look at the
past record evidence of that I viewed
that on 2% and who gives the money but
the other big
or and how mobilized and aggressive
their basis and what they need to
satisfy in the context of holding right
our the the idea is that the more people
glam on to and I'm by people I mean like
actual people attach themselves to these
policies the more weight they have to
give them you know like if you see a
policy that you're that a candidate has
and you like that policy start to
organize around it and create and make
it something that they can't let go of
that's the idea now I don't know this
actually article doesn't seem that
revelatory and I don't know how well
connected but Jonathan Martin in the New
York Times his report on this meaning is
Sanders and Warren meat and agreed that
they're both probably running yeah so
you know but that doesn't I'm reading
into it and it doesn't it all it conveys
is like they're friendly and they
respect each other and they're talking
which could just as easily mean what's
am saying it mean who knows or it could
mean like hey we're both gonna run but
let's try to not tear each other apart
right because we're in a similar Lane or
it could mean that she's saying I'm not
gonna run and I want more specific wonky
things from you right this is what I
thought was gonna happen and I'm so
annoyed that we have to talk about the
presidential race in 2020 already just
throwing that out there yeah yeah we're
talking I know I know it's just very
triggering for me I talk about it too
though it's fine I get really invested
in it I'm not ready yeah everything will
be fine I'm looking forward to Cory
Booker like proposing like summer Airy
executions for Sheldon Adelson or
something he's like super on it Cory
Booker is like I think all the Cork's
actually need to be put to death that's
the most spiritually sound strategy like
words the first one he's gonna go after
yeah see no rush she did to live she's
tough all right well we listen we got to
take a break ahead into the fun half
folks just reminder this program relies
on your support to keep its wheels
chugging and now offers a a glimpse at
the Brandon Stark a debate that people
[Laughter]
that was so funny man Jesus Christ the
best pieces of a really sort of cringe
watch internet content of the year yeah
I think you made your own walk away
there you got away from walk away well I
want back that's right everybody turn
around and gonna do it 360 I got to come
up with a better hashtag and then
trademark it
first things first we've got a trade
market that's the beginning there were a
movement why are we doing a live show
not just a big banquet dinner where
people give when I said what do you do
with that 300,000 he goes well you could
pay for the banquet I'm like wait a
second but didn't you wake make money
off that well there's nobody has exactly
that's what I love it everything's like
wait a second what legal fees I Got News
for you everybody
well not everybody in this room but but
but at least two of us in this room have
started you know a business by filing
for an LLC or an S corp or something
like that and I suppose you get a file
he'll pay you five four five oh three C
or whatever it is but the lawyer fees or
maybe like anywhere from like $500 to
like maybe two thousand if things get I
mean I'm just thinking a lot I'm just
thinking like well things got really
complicated and I've holidays several
can I have a different binders because
like 700 bucks you can't say so long if
you're saying like where did the hundred
thousand dollars go and the words legal
fees hit your mouth do you know there's
something going on that's what I begin
marching on a thought much to speak our
truth to the British about their use of
aggression in taxation in India we need
to hire a copywriter at the beginning of
every movement I don't care like how
much you're spending on that website and
the video that you have from YouTube I
mean there's just no way you sort of
asked him how do you have money if you
don't make any money off of this well
I'm not area Gandhi he doesn't say you
didn't make any money off he doesn't
draw a salary
he doesn't draw a salary well because
I'm smart yeah I don't draw a salary I
take it all as a dividend as an S corp
dividend or something you know there's
some there's some like or it just it
pays for his house bought and mocked
people are walking away there there are
people I know who is bhakti I'm not
gonna say I say the name it's not
important that person's not really in
the picture much but somebody at one
point told me they were gonna start a
pack and I was like okay and they're
like I'm not gonna take any I'm not
gonna take any salary from that back
like oh okay great and then you start to
realize like oh what they're doing is
the pack is paying for them is covering
all their expenses to go and then
they're gonna get paid through a
different entity or something to that
effect like there's there's just
shenanigans with this stuff and there's
no doubt in my mind and this dudes not
gonna like you know I own my loincloth
yeah I want a forensic audit before I
come on and do your skype show or
whatever it is that's just like how are
you paying your rent right now dude yeah
I don't have a job I just feel like
that's an inappropriate question in this
case there's also nothing I mean look
the the problem is the whole premise
like I don't begrudge a guy doing
political action of making a living off
of it I begrudge what he's doing right
that's right the point is there is
absolutely no lied when he said he
doesn't make money off of it right he
didn't say you didn't make me say that
okay now hey girl no one talking lately
put this way look what he could have
done okay and still being have told me
truth he's like okay I'm going to pay
the walkaway campaign is gonna pay
$25,000 for the gala all the expenses
and I'm gonna keep
every 250 bucks that comes in so all the
expenses are paid by the company and any
revenue that comes in the company is
gonna pay for t-shirts but I'm gonna
collect the revenue from the t-shirts I
mean stuff like that more money to learn
more about the ins and outs of grifting
that's what it is it's basically you get
an entity that pays the cost of
everything so he could like he could
have the company pay for another you
know all the email blasts for another
campaign and just collect all the money
from that you see and that's basically
that's what Donald Trump did with the
Trump foundation well then that's also
like what most every oligarch does with
their foundation well they probably
sloppier right right I should start a
PAC damn honestly you start a PAC and
it's like I'm not going to take any
money but that PAC is gonna send you
around the country it's gonna pay for
your hotels it's gonna pay for your per
diem you got to eat and it's gonna pay
for your transportation and then you go
to events and get paid as Jamie it
sounds pretty good I'm gonna lease at
EMBs car it's gonna be like a an
Escalade all right we gonna take a quick
break
like I say join the majority report calm
not a penny of that money that goes to
join the majority report com goes into
anything except for side businesses that
allow for us to maximize the profit
through a special tax loophole so today
is Wednesday oh don't forget just coffee
co-op you missed the 30% off but you can
still save 10% with your coupon code
majority at just coffee co-op Michael
today is Wednesday yesterday we whoa all
right do you need a new chair we need to
go fund me joke that's gonna get hurt
we're gonna set up a 503 seat that's
gonna get the the chair so a great team
vs the where there's a thematic weave
between covering the 2009 coup in
Honduras the caravan and there's
actually a pathway to the interview we
had with Valeska Martines who's Lula da
Silva's co-counselor and that was
obviously a very meaningful interview on
the imprisonment of Lula lawfare against
him u.s. foreign policy please watch it
that's getting passed around some
circles in Brazil right now and people
are very enthused that we did that which
is great
did you see a pathway well in in uh I
think this 2009 coup in Honduras is both
a major part of the Caravan story
because Manuel Zelaya was moving in a
much more sort of basically just social
death
yes because Lula when he was president
gave Manuel Zelaya shelter at the
Brazilian Embassy in Tegucigalpa and
resisted the u.s. Kupala see that way so
there was just a connection between the
Honduras story and the Lula stuff like I
thought you were saying you have
basically define the the interview you
have - oh no no yeah there's a special
Dropbox no there's a there's a link of
like the u.s. reversal of pink tide
government basically so that was
incredibly meaningful to us check it out
on either patreon.com slash t MBS or
michael brooks show on youtube tomorrow
because we're doing no show next week
big waz is coming live in studio or
we're doing another show tomorrow and
we're more than halfway sold out for our
February for a show at the Bell House so
get your tickets see there Jamie out now
I'm assuming are youthful you do with an
teapot it's actually a pack that I live
off of you could come to our and in
chief a conference a pretty soon it only
costs $500 to come uh yeah no uh-uh this
week are the anti Fattah we have on Alex
attack of our fellow goth socialist
podcast pod am Amer
as well as his own podcast falling out
super he's a very funny guy we talked
with him about some pressing issues of
the day including radicalizing why mom's
penthouse is fascist turn and Teen
Vogue's leftist turn why did Amazon
think they could bring their subsidized
helipad HQ to NYC with no consequences
when this is a goddamn union town and we
have a little two minutes cheat on the
Scabbia scab
whoever did scab I'm talking of course
about Jonathan Chait who is whining
still about his co-workers at New York
Magazine forming a union he's such a
loser all right we're gonna take a
literary hangover oh sorry
oh I'm yeah I'm releasing and bradstreet
four members tonight so they get an
early episode for people who pay alright
folks see you in the fun half
[Music]
you
we are back ladies and gentlemen and
we're discussing I don't know if you
remember I don't know if you recall that
months ago I was is that this thing I
was anticipating the the release of a
portable dishwasher that does not need a
hose to be attached to a sink so that we
could we could get it in here and really
go to town on the mugs in the office so
we didn't always have them sitting in
the sink and I've been tracking this as
supposedly was supposed to be released
in the fall and it's not it sounded a
little too good to be true to be honest
I don't understand what's taking so long
I mean it's like a 20-18 no wasn't a
Kickstarter maybe it's a case of someone
who's just really good at getting
venture capital money and then they're
like oh wait I forgot to design the
dishwasher I need to dig into my emails
but they they have other they have other
products I mean I did a lot of research
on this believe me but leave me we were
talking about the wall earlier I see
Ronald Reagan tweeted out an image of
what appears to be who's that yeah
exactly
um Mike it was that the the the
unrequited racist from Indiana Steve
King and John Kelly with an image of a
wall that is it's like a tiny concrete
wall with panels and then they have some
wire on the top it's so cute and it
turns out that's not the one I wasn't a
very artistic one I want the artistic
one where you get the get the slats you
need to have the slats because it's with
the slats go down like this with the
wall it makes it slimming
it's much slimming here yeah so that's
not that's it that's an ugly wall they
think that's a pretty wall that's an
ugly wall and it's not even see-through
well first of all yeah its first of all
you can't see through it so if some
throws a bag of drugs over you can see
it you could get hit on the head on the
other side when I get a hit or two it
also you look at that wall it looks fat
because it does not have the slats which
is slimming um did you read the
butterfly sanctuary article about how I
voted for Trump and now it's eminent
gonna do it's gonna eminent domain my
butterfly paradise no I did not but yeah
it was pretty amazing but when they
actually described the scar that this
wall is gonna put across the like if we
actually made it how much like it just
sort of ecological violence it would be
it's just like it's ridiculous I mean
the guy deserves that for voting for
Trump but definitely just that part
bring your butterfly thing to it to my
house Saul would love it loves
butterflies here is Simone Sanders on
CNN and it is you know this does not
happen enough the the basic premise of
all of this is that there's some type of
crisis with huge gangs and violence and
terrorists I mean they keep trying to
make it sound like a terrorist I mean
excuse me a crisis and they'll say stuff
like there were ten terrorists over the
weekend who were arrested at the border
we just didn't tell you about it until
now because we didn't want to brag or
sometimes hey look you can stay we don't
want to freak people out but there is
all of these all of these immigrants
they have all sorts of strange exotic
medical diseases that are spreading out
around the c'mon up anybody panic that's
why we didn't mention it or or there's
all this murder that's coming across the
there's murderers all murderous this is
like it's becoming murder Central's
murderer central and the idea is to make
it sound like there's some type of
crisis and the reality is there is no
crisis there I mean to the extent that
there is a crisis we're creating it
we're creating a crisis in the lives of
these children that are being warehoused
we're creating a crisis in the lives of
these families there is no crisis we can
afford to absorb all of these people but
you don't hear that premise question
enough Arreola Chuck Schumer brought
this up in the oval office meeting they
had last week we gave you 1.2 billion
dollar last year where is it I as a
fiscal conservative and someone bothered
by the fact that no one really knows
what the wall should cost they asked for
five billion well I would like to see
the 1.2 billion dollars be put to work
now I don't know why you're waiting can
we also debunk the notion that somehow
America's borders are not secure I don't
know if you've ever left the country but
I leave the country quite often well and
every time I come back border I mean
okay but there's attention centers
because they do another crisis crisis
that the border has never forget party
this is a manufactured crisis we can
talk about our immigration policy yes we
have it we have a crisis in terms of our
immigration policy sure it's broken in
America it needs to be fixed but the
idea that we just have open borders and
folks are running up and through the
United States of America is not what we
are that's how families end up get
separated we have three United States of
America though Amanda that is not true
what do you mean this not I mean there
are people they're undocumented
immigrants there are undocumented
immigrants but the idea that just
there's nothing happening at the border
and there's just an immigrant people
just running are you the vast but you
have people who are here illegally are
here illegal because they overstay their
visa they overstay to be so plain
they're just not running through the
fire our people I've been to the border
and you see people crossing illegally I
mean it does happen I'm not saying there
I want to be clear I'm not saying there
are no democratic years going to the
border and saying that there's child
prison camps because the people are at
the border in crisis being housed and
President Trump is but yes that is
exactly what I'm saying it every time a
Republican operative or member of
Congress gets on television
Democrats are calling for open borders
and they just want our borders to be
open and our borders are not secure I'm
telling you that's why we're not gonna
be able to resolve this well there's two
things resolve it there's two things
here one it's a definition of a crisis
there is no urgent crisis weird it's
like no danger here and the the other
issue is is just in terms of like you
know what the weather there's no border
security
there's border security I'm not I I wash
my hands so I don't catch a cold
but I don't walk around in a plastic bag
and yes I could get a cold I could get
sick I could catch I could catch the
plague if I'm the right place at the
right time but there's also just sort of
like where do you devote your resources
what is the cost-benefit analysis of
what you're talking about never mind you
know basic questions of humanity and
basis basic questions of decency or even
basic questions of like net positive
that we get from immigrants just in
terms of like even if you accept all the
premises there's no crisis even if
you're worried about what's happening in
terms of you know white identity I Got
News for you it's not because of what's
happening at the border
that you're what your precious white
identity is getting diluted that's not
what's causing that that's not the
crisis is actually happening with your
fellow Americans if that's your fear and
the crisis only began to be manufactured
at least this one fairly recently like I
feel like people don't even realize that
up until 2003 I believe the I NS worked
mainly with the Department of Labor and
only the 2003 I'm pretty sure it's 2003
the DHS was involved and they made
immigration into a national security
thing well that was all in the wake of
of 9/11 yeah that was all the Department
of Homeland Security did not exist until
then it made
yeah everything became and terrorism is
yes okay that was also the original
bigotry of all these programs it was a
Muslim hysteria before it was Latin
America but they therea they used it
very conveniently to leak into other
areas that they found to be politically
at it yeah see that also the whole as
far as I understand the whole
infrastructure around like private
contractors and homeland security of
instruction that's what maze make a
stunning amount of money off of moody
Giuliani made a ton of cash though this
is whole consultancies ton of cash a lot
of that stuff was privatized during that
there was a whole privatization giveaway
which is why at one point like the the
union's
being part of I think was the TSA if I
remember correctly was such a big issue
because so much of this was was
attempted to be privatized come from a
six one seven area code who's this where
are you calling from
my guess is Massachusetts actually this
is mica from Seattle I'm from
Massachusetts originally we're in
Massachusetts were you from originally
I'm not concerned about Seattle Newton
alright fair enough
but you go to Newton Newton South you
and I went to do that Newton South huh
all right easy times I'm calling yeah
they look ran Euler for a second about a
regional issue so as I mentioned from
Seattle mom there's a profound risk of
earthquakes in the region there's a
fault that runs east-west through
Seattle that has caused numerous
earthquakes in the 20th century
last one in 2001 and offshore there's a
far greater chance or far greater fish
might call for far greater magnitude
earthquake in a subduction zone that
will be absolutely devastating an
equivalent earthquake happens in about
you that assuming 2010 in Japan that
flooded the reactor at Fukushima
that caused all those 18,000 casualties
and 250 plus billion dollars of damage
that is in the most earthquake prepared
country RS Washington State is a very
little to reinforce the buildings
Building Code FEMA estimates when the
subduction zone quake hits more than 1
million structures will be compromised
or glass and it's projected to be the
largest natural disaster in North
American history by far and this is
there's a really good a series in the
Seattle Times called seismic neglects
about how little is being done and it's
frankly terrifying good thing you guys
are building that huge tunnel that's
half built underneath your city
yeah that's opening up at a few weeks
actually
oh is it yep it will I think it's
January 11th we'll start transferring
over Wow
yeah I guess I'd like to make a larger
point sort of about our failure of our
politics sort of as a nation and even
sort of as a species to prepare for
these sort of events that we know we're
going to happen but they may happen
today tomorrow hundred years from now in
addition to you know sort of the issue
of climate change things that we know
we're going to happen but we just don't
do anything about it and it's going to
be bad and I guess it's just it's hard
enough to be pretty pretty worried
pretty upset about mean that is also it
seems to me a very strong case for you
know effective government because we
know we now have a corporate structure
in this country which completely
disincentivizes completely
disincentivizes any of corporate
leadership to plan for the future right
I mean maybe smaller privately owned
corporations some of them but but the
most part it's you get your cash quick
and dirty you you you cut you don't
spend money on on planning for the
future you you you use that money to
create a profit margin that you can
exploit now and increase your stock
price
and there is a problem with just you
know broadly speaking human beings have
trouble you know planning for the future
I think just broadly speaking you need
to have a forward-looking government to
do this and you know sometimes that that
fails like you know we under fund
pensions to some extent I mean I think
that's overstated about under funding
pensions it's really only becomes
underfunded when you have like a major
catastrophic event like a 2008 crisis or
something like that but broadly speaking
we fund those pensions you know
state-by-state I think you know it takes
a collective to be able to make those
type of of plans and but we have a
breakdown in that right now we can't
even do it for what we know is gonna be
just broadly speaking the biggest
catastrophe we can imagine and if I was
in Seattle the first thing I would do is
to say to say to Amazon and Microsoft
like hey guys I would put it on them I
would put it on them you gonna up your
taxes so we can pay for this but yeah
real quick about the I guess I'm sort of
thinking about the interviewed and
recently about the Pentagon budget about
you can't even do an audit of the budget
of how much you know money is being
wasted in defense and meanwhile we have
profound issues at home that are going
address yeah I guess the last point I'll
say about the earthquake earthquake
subject is the people who are most
likely going to get hit the hardest you
know are people of low socio-economic
fast these dangerous buildings that
haven't been updated in a hundred years
you know they're gonna be they're gonna
be hurt the worst um so it hits the
people on the bottom the hardest as
usual thanks for the call Michael okay I
take Africa maybe a dude next time you
leave Massachusetts you think twice
about it because there's no earthquakes
there yeah oh I know where I'll go I'll
leave the best state in the entire Union
to go to a quakes
I'm gonna that make sense we leave the
Commonwealth for a lot of sitting around
worrying about an earthquake
I'll leave the Commonwealth with cool
people to go sit in a earthquake zone
around a bunch of coffee shops and Bezos
maybe a lot of sense do to be fair to be
fair we did go through one two weeks ago
would that flea-flicker play the lateral
play that miami did at the end of the
game where you could have known sorry
I'm not the book Gronk in the you know
cuz the Gronk was in there worthless
well he was worthless on that play
because everybody thought it was going
to be one of those Hail Marys and you
want to put Gronk in the zone so that he
could knock down the wall but that was
to talk about earthquake
no idea what you're talking about
nobody does nobody does it was a
beautiful play actually it was a last
game was bad
call from a to10 area code I can barely
talk about it come from a 2-1 zero area
code who's this where he come from
good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio Ron from San Antonio how are you
John ah last 11 days have been pretty
rough for me my elderly mother has
dementia fell and memory care facility
where she was staying she broke seven
ribs and has a partially collapsed lung
most immediately the hospital wanted to
release my mother despite the fact that
she was an incredible pain just changing
her diaper and periodic turning to
prevent bedsores made her scream in
agony I went up the chain of command to
advocate for my mother but six days
after her fall they wanted to release
her I appealed and lost and on Sunday
she was released to a skilled nursing
facility I started my search for a
skilled nursing facility early last week
and then I told them the condition of my
mother they said that the the hospital
won't release her in that condition I
said they are going to release her and
then they said if she can't perform
therapy Medicare won't pay for it and
you have to go private pay and we have
the money for private pay but I was
dismissed by the stringent rules did not
take into consideration my mother's
dementia so I started doing research
and quickly came across a court case
called Jim over Sibelius which is a 2011
class-action lawsuit by patient advocate
groups in Vermont saying skilled nursing
facilities you know what there were
denying Medicare benefits because of an
improvement standard was being applied
the case went to trial in January 2013
and the Health and Human Services
Division of the Obama administration
agreed that there is no improvement
standard and even if a full recovery or
Medicare improvement is not possible a
patient may need skilled services to
prevent for the deterioration or
preserve current capacities the district
court judge in Vermont in ordered a
double H double HS to notify on their
website facts about the settlement but
the misinformation from the skilled
nursing facilities continued and
adversely groups had to go back to the
federal courts to try to get compliance
the latest ordered corrective action
program was ordered in February 2017 and
included training for skilled nursing
facilities so so I chose the the skilled
nursing facility that said that they
would work with my mother so that she
wouldn't be denied coverage but when I
got there the facility changed their
tune and the administrator said they
never heard of Jim O versus Sebelius and
that there is an improvement standard
and after giving them documentation and
telling them you know just googled Jim o
vs. Sebelius and they're still clinging
the idea that she has to qualify for
criteria and was dismissive of me so I
want to hear what you have to say and if
you have any questions or comments about
that well John first off I'm really
sorry to hear about your mom sounds like
it's been a bit of a nightmare for you
over the past couple of weeks and for
her and I'm really really my heart goes
out to you man and she couldn't have a
better advocate than to have you
advocating on her behalf
I mean I this is this is the first I've
heard of this dynamic but I imagine in
the context of any you know big
bureaucracy this is part of the problem
right is that it doesn't I don't know if
they're don't know if there is I would
imagine there is some type of
notification system for this but it's
well they're you know from a broader
policy standpoint you know if you have a
single-payer in the country this
facility doesn't have to be taking
updates from 12 to 15 or 20 different
entities that are telling them changes
in their policy it comes from one place
and they will know that you don't need
to have necessarily you can have a
patient like your mom where she won't
necessarily improve because of our
condition but it will keep her from
deteriorating and it'll keep her you
know it will be it provides some benefit
right and I mean the only thing I could
tell you would be to maybe see if you
can get a I would imagine there's local
Medicare lawyers get them to write a
letter to them or maybe there's a local
Medicare Social Security Administration
official could write a letter to them I
mean there has to be some compliance
mechanism and and and it may not be
there may not be one where there's
someone specifically an advocate but I
would also be surprised if there wasn't
in the state although its Texas if there
wasn't in the state or in the county a
some form of patient advocate that would
be official enough for the facility to
you know take seriously but would be
associated enough with Medicare to also
be aware of that ruling and the
specifics of that
of that of that regulation yeah I really
appreciate your concern for my mother
you know you know you've you've been
really kind to me over the years sound
so I appreciate that and yeah I mean
we're working with an ombudsman you know
some of these places though you know
they they're I think they're doing this
you know because essentially they're
telling their their therapists you know
that they don't qualify they're the ones
essentially you're making the judgments
and that part of this is just greed from
people like I spoke to the guy who is
like the the you know the highest rated
and the most expensive a skilled nursing
center and he was you know he was said
he was afraid that they were gonna get
prosecuted for fraud if they weren't you
know totally honest and but I mean part
of it I just think that they make more
money if people are in private today and
so initially I was going to go there and
then I said no I'm not gonna go there
we're gonna go to it like the place it
has the second highest rating and so you
know I just I just think that you know
they should take it farther I mean I
agree with you about you know you were
talking about earlier about all of these
different things that should be
nationalized a couple of days after
initially I put my mother in memory care
it was like you know they they don't
have enough staff I mean their profit
margin is right is the most important
thing to them and so you know that's
never going to change until like nursing
homes and skilled
you know facilities are nationalized and
I know that seems like you know tie in
the sky for a lot of people but I think
that if people who actually visit their
loved ones and see the understaffing
you know this would actually be the best
thing for them and like a you know the
the jobs guaranteed this would be
perfect for that you know you know the
people who need jobs this is one one
area where there needs to be helped
right oh and we should say
if the US government and the VA in in
the past year or two or maybe it's back
up but there was a couple of years where
customer satisfaction had dropped part
of that was because the stories they
were hearing and I think a projection
but but consistently the VA customer
satisfaction ratings have been through
the roof and people don't really fully
appreciate how complicated and how
difficult and how huge the VA system is
it is a system not only of hospitals and
healthcare completely government-run
with government paid doctors and nurses
and whatnot but they are dealing with
the most specific and difficult physical
ailments that we have in our population
because you're talking about people who
have been subjected to chemicals and
physical trauma that is completely
unique from what you see in civilian
life and so if the government has the
capacity to do that certainly they do
have the capacity it seems to me to
provide care for elderly folk who you
know the reality is is that more or less
the type of ailments and infirmities you
see with the elderly are more or less
the same you know the and so these are
these are these are good institutions I
think that we would want you know an
entity whose job number one is to be
responsive and provide care for people
and who also are you know our our I
shouldn't say threatened but our put in
check by constituents who show up once
twice five times six times a week to see
their loved ones there it's a it's it's
a good entity and you know it mean it's
a good it's a good candidate for that
type of thing
but John good luck with it if there's
anything else that we can do let us know
all right but all right thank you very
much thanks Nick here hang in there
that's rough very difficult sorry men
let's go to 702 phone call who's this
where he come from damn do you hear me
yeah who's this
thank you hear me yeah I can't bro a
full minute son Las Vegas what's on your
mind
Hey two things Sam number one I'm sure
you guys heard the report about
President Trump pulling the troops out
of Syria that really reminded me of them
interview you did with Marcy wheeler
when she was talking about when Trump
went to the summit with Putin and those
in very it was buried in a new cycle but
Russia basically said hey you know we've
had productive talks of President Trump
we're waiting for them to pull the u.s.
troops out of Syria I'm surprised nobody
brought this up in the mainstream media
yeah that's a good point that is it
this cuz whoa what the first thing I
really thought was wait a minute you
must have all this will be revolving you
know basically the Russian investigation
is ramping down to full start now but
nobody brought that up that you know now
he wants to pull this out now you want
support this fun and that's related to
Russia as well no I'm not the type of
the persuasion it's like Russia Russia
Russia but small things but that's a
really important thing that you know I
hope I guess that makes you media really
focuses in on that you know because
that's a really important detail I mean
I get a say from my perspective I'm
happy that we're doing it and it I mean
you know this is a 50/50 proposition you
either keep the troops in or you take
them out and so it's hard to sort of
draw a direct line to that to that
action and you know whatever
Trump's relationship with Russia may or
may not be I mean the timing is
interesting I'm curious about that can I
just want to add I think it's probably
the right call to and I don't I mean it
is the right call and I I don't see this
in a Russia lens but what I'm most
concerned about I mean this this is the
betrayal of the Kurds
and the Turks are gonna move in against
the road Java turds Kurds they've
already promised to do that they've
already done it to some not
insignificant extent and a more linear
line I would look at is is this what
air21 and the Turks want to ease up on
MBS a little bit right that's a trump
play I I think there's just a lot a lot
more forces in there remember now it has
been as Michael points out and it's a
good point that the Turks have been the
one who basically turned the screws on
MBS they're the ones who are drip drip
drip leaking out this Khashoggi stuff
and they're do and they're doing it for
leverage and just reported the u.s.
approves a three and a half billion
dollar Patriot missile sail to Turkey
that could also be part of this I mean
who knows right I mean you know that
same oh yeah good cuz I'm gonna get one
with the I'm sorry let me cut you off
but your sucessfully are kind of really
struck me because I want to get to this
to arm you were talking about how Kirk
by Delacorte by devil situation and no
you talking about the story and how it's
very interesting and um you said you
know when people internalize this stuff
know the propaganda of the racism or you
know the father or you're basically
suppressing the other aka your race you
know and when we get groups of people to
do this you can get them to do really
bad things in the first group that came
to mind we said that with the police
toward African Americans and black
people and how they systematically do
that all the time and of course we've
seen it on the larger scales like change
landing slave trade and you know the
genocide the genocide the Jews and
Hitler and stuff like that it'll be
horrific acts but that's one group that
just that's the first group that came to
my mind when you said that and you know
there's always you can hardly prosecute
these guys right you go hardly do
anything to the police and and it's
internalized and also by the way black
comes because you know this
I'll come up right up to not come right
up through the middle
they always have some those had some
blacks aqua but you know the police
black police chief or something you know
didn't cover for this stuff but what
that with the Kirkbride I was a fellow
that he pointed out the police chief
internalizes and stuff oh yeah I can't
talk about race uh you know what I put
it on the table and that goes all the
way up to Barack Obama by the way
because he heard off about prosecuting
the white supremacist and stuff you know
he's these guys are black things am
sorry but this type of stuff is like
20th century politics and you guys talk
about the leftward drift or whatever and
I think that there's a lower and lower
tolerance for this stuff it's a very
very lucky and and the kind of the
Avatar it's kind of thing if you want
it's Bill Clinton and you can you see
how he kind of how badly he's aged
whether your politics is not you know
you remember you went from the goddess
darling darling to you know just a
lecherous old man who's on edge seems
like you know if you put all this stuff
in that's just my two cents and you guys
you can keep doing the great reports I
like it take care thanks appreciate the
call that's not I absolutely agree that
there is internalized racism within the
police force but it's not only that
right because even if you got every
individual police officer to not hold
prejudiced attitudes the police exist to
protect private property and to police
and oppress surplus populations poor
populations who are not currently needed
by the official economy and keep them
keep them down so the problem is it's
it's huge and it's structural and we
need to really really rethink how we
want to enforce various you know codes
of society in the future there are it
seems to me some police reforms that can
have a benefit I mean I think I mean if
you're talking about the broader
problems of just their mere existence
obviously not but in terms in the
context of of race you can have a
structural response to this and change
the culture but you could also
change the culture in there in terms of
you know their what they're being asked
to do on any given point I mean at any
given time there are definitely reforms
that would make it better for sure let's
go to the phones calling from a 509 area
code who's this where you calling from
hit him right in getting right in today
damn yeah look at you getting on the
phone very quickly you've been doing
that a lot lately what's the matter they
keeping you from calling in to c-span no
that shows starts much earlier than this
one but I will say you get started to
not open the phone lines until the fun
half starts and that makes it easier for
people like me yeah I'm gonna have to
add earthquakes it's the list of things
I don't believe in apparently and I just
just a couple quick things real real
quick a couple of quick things I I know
that was super redundant of me yeah so
Jamie was mentioning border enforcement
did there's always been border patrol
but if you talk to anyone who entered
before like 1996 when we reform the
immigration laws and started to
militarize the border it was a lot
easier people would just basically walk
right over and but if you look at
there's a film from 1977 called Alan
barista which is about a Mexican farm
worker and you know part of the story is
avoiding La Migra and immigration and
and that's been sort of a part of our
history for a really long time but it's
really in 1996-97 when we militarized
the border we did put up walls and
fencing in the easiest parts of the the
border forcing people to enter through
more dangerous parts
and also this has been a boon for the
cartels and criminal enterprises that
help people make what used to be a very
simple trek and it's now obviously much
more complicated but let me ask you let
me just ask a question about that when
we set up those walls in specific places
right obviously it's like okay we have a
mile-long wall here let's say or I don't
know seven hundred and fifty yard wall
here and this is we put this wall here
because whatever the the topography
makes it an easy place to cross what is
the idea here that we are trying to
discourage people or we just don't want
them to enter in there or we want to
limit the number of areas that they can
cross I mean what is like why what is
gained by that is it because we don't
want to have to absorb as many people
based upon our asylum laws and and it's
a way of rather than preventing them
from coming in just sort of regulating
the flow so that we can process them
quicker with less resources or what is
what is your sense of what the the the
theory behind doing stuff like that is
well I think in when they passed this
immigration reform in 96 which has
really been one of the reasons why the
undocumented population has ballooned
and it's caused a lot of the problems I
think that they knew that NAFTA was
going to cause an increase in
undocumented immigration and they just
wanted to put up deterrence and make it
harder for people and as we've seen I
mean earlier this year they were
literally disappearing children and
people are still coming so but that has
been the stubborn thinking that that
people of both parties have shown for
the last 20 years that you know will put
up walls will make it easier for Border
Patrol to deport people without hearings
or without judges we're going to do all
of these things you know until the point
of we're going to take away your kids
and it just doesn't work the the story
of the the young girl who doesn't speak
Spanish the the Guatemalan girl that's
pretty common and a lot of times they
speak very rare indigenous languages I
had a hearing about a year ago with the
lady who speaks mom which is an
indigenous Guatemalan language and we
had to have two interpreters to go from
English to Spanish Spanish to mom and
then backwards because there just aren't
interpreters and I just had a an asylum
interview for a client who did it once
in Spanish and the officer was concerned
that her Spanish wasn't good enough and
so they asked if her brother could come
interpret for her and obviously there's
reasons why you wouldn't want your
brother to interpret your asylum
interview but also shows that you know
the asylum offices just lack basic
resources you know all these things even
like what John from San Antonio was
talking about you know there's all these
areas where we need infrastructure and
it's considered pie-in-the-sky but we
build a space for us and like nobody
thinks it's a big deal right and one
last thing
Jeff sessions earlier this year he
issued this decision saying asylum isn't
for victims of domestic violence or gang
violence right one of the things he said
and this sort of sweeping decision that
really didn't like change the law he
just sort of recited the law and then
says you know and of course this
wouldn't apply to people primarily
coming from Mexico and Central America
and there was a judge today in the DC
Circuit Circuit Court who well one of
the things that went along with that
decision was a memo to the Asylum
officers who do what are called credible
fear interviews at the at the border and
the interview doesn't give somebody
asylum it just gets them in they have to
establish a significant probability or
possibility that they could qualify for
asylum and one of the things they did is
to issue this memo saying
basically no one can pass their
interview if it's just domestic violence
or just gang violence and by getting
violence it's often like we want your
kid to join the ms-13 and if they don't
we're going to murder your family and
these are like not people who are
messing around these are people who do
really bad things and what and it was
already hard or impossible to win those
cases and what Jeff Sessions tried to do
earlier this year is just is to say
these these people presenting these
types of facts they don't even get
across the border and this judge in the
circuit court struck down all of these
changes today I haven't read the whole
decision but that's gonna be really
really good I think so there is good
news that's the same is that the same
judge it's the same judge same judge who
just with Flynn it's busy week that dude
yeah baby get the gang I am so
interesting that that I mean or just
worth noting that we have to debunk this
ms-13 fear-mongering in an American
context which is not to say it isn't an
actual organization that does terrible
things on a micro scale that have
nothing to do with most people's lives
which is the point but it is actually
really worthwhile when we're talking
about people being driven from these
countries as a byproduct of a lot of US
policy decisions that these groups yeah
they're incredibly real and they'll kill
me and they'll destroy families like all
of the stuff that he's doing here to
leverage racism paranoia is actually
real in these their countries yes yes we
will rape and murder all of the woman in
your family if you don't join this
cartel now is real that's not a
Breitbart headline here it's a Breitbart
headline and a lie and racism and fear
mongering there it's real and that's
precisely where Jeff Sessions is saying
oh yeah but that's not gonna fit the
criteria of being a refugee when you
know that's as precise the definition as
you could get and these countries have
like competitive murder rates with Iraq
at the height of the
insurgency against the US occupation but
like okay ms ms-13 is really uh it's
it's crazy it's out there a lot of Trump
people believe these uh fear-mongering
distortions of it but I'm almost more
concerned about the fear-mongering over
labor because if you don't have all the
facts in front of you it might sound
rational it might sound legitimate and
it's absolutely not true that
immigration drives down the wages of
american-born workers I mean do you do
you have any thoughts on the connection
between the criminalization and
racialization of migration and the labor
the labor issues involved yeah I think
it's it's interesting the sort of
disconnect between you know I live in an
area that depends like deeply on
undocumented labor and yet this sort of
ruling class the growers you know
they're all very conservative and they
want a certain type of immigration
reform that would allow more guest
workers but they're not really
interested in in helping people I think
most people kind of get that they're not
really competing for those jobs there
are some people who think that you know
that they're stealing jobs but I don't
hear that so much I think people kind of
get that that those are jobs that
Americans aren't doing I did have
imagined this the other day on the show
but my brother-in-law said well there's
no such thing as a labor shortage
because I mentioned to him that there
are like in meatpacking plants they and
in agriculture obviously they have
trouble finding workers he said there's
no such thing as a labor shortage
there's just employers who aren't
willing to pay which is sometimes the
truth right um I've heard agricultural
people say well in order to get
Americans to do these jobs we have to
pay twenty or thirty dollars an hour and
it's okay yes like apple picking
anybody's there maybe he's gonna be the
most American Apple maybe Apple picker
should be making a lot of money instead
of bankers right I think I was gonna say
there's just yeah let's play Apple
pickers $60 an hour with an excise tax
we put on Wall Street banks to subsidize
the apples before the cream by the way
you have to ban pesticide use there too
like before immigration was criminalized
in this way Mexican workers made about
the same as u.s. born workers like this
was a concerted attack on wages for
Mexicans and Americans alike
yeah there's no real interest in like
you know in an agricultural agricultural
workers are exempt from certain labor
protections under the the labor laws and
you know it's it's definitely set up
this way that was the big thing in NAFTA
the big thing in NAFTA was that Clinton
I don't know how much cajoling it did
but from the outside anyways the the
narrative was the Democrats were sold on
NAFTA because Clinton promised that take
another bite out of the Apple to add
labor and environmental regulations and
whoops we forgot it was you saw degree
of it there was one side you won't NAFTA
with no conditions then on the other
side you won't a labor an environmental
agreement we discovered that by saying
there would be but not doing it we
establish never a third well and that
thing were you reading a book and you're
just like I'm gonna put it down for a
minute I'm reading another one they
could get caught up in that one then
another one then you realize didn't go
back in the first one and at first one I
forgot where I was and I said forget it
so just that's many DNC makes me sound
like Omer pile Landrus impression since
we have you on the phone the US has
pledged now six billion dollars for
Central America five billion
rounding up two southern Mexico
what theoretically it's to provide well
this this is the giveaway right it's
better security conditions and job
opportunities which basically means
we're gonna give this money to the
police
just keep them out don't let the caravan
come they don't let the next car they
already give them mass I mean right
already the policy there is totally
militarized right Regan in terms of like
Mexico southern border well even just
more broadly Mike about giving Mike
packages to Mexico like when Obama was
president and I can't believe I'm
forgetting his name but the mama yeah
Barack Barack Hussein Abdul Aziz Obama
no but the the Mexican president after
Fassett de fox who accelerated the drug
war not pinning yet though the guy in
between I'm totally neglecting his name
but I mean actually pretty seminal
figure in Mexico but the reporting that
came out after he left office was that I
mean the only no he got from the Obama
administration essentially during a time
that they totally I mean they they
militarized the drug war at a completely
unprecedented level with us support and
also the usual double game where the US
was easier on certain cartels than
others for intelligence sharing purposes
and things like that
which is being suppressed in El Chapo's
trial right now in Brooklyn by the way
they they turned him down on his request
for drones he wanted drones that was the
only thing that turned him down on and I
wouldn't I mean and frankly the reason
you won't get a request most likely now
is because the upper door probably won't
ask for that but I wouldn't be shocked
if this administration would give drones
for that and look at Plan Colombia to I
mean that's a chance for everybody I
mean that's that is a Clinton policy
that environmentally devastated Colombia
and funded paramilitary groups and a
military that works with them so that's
like the pattern for all these places
appreciate the call Ronald Reagan as
always eat alright blanket what my audio
didn't he have another
point kidding I didn't know Oh Bree
answer what happened they weren't
restricting immigration to be mean or to
be racist right they were doing it
because they caused a new wave of
immigration by economically recolonizing
Mexico and lots of other countries and
they needed a check on that because
despite what some people may tell you
even some people on the left
globalization and neoliberalism is not
concerned with open borders for people
only open borders for capital makes it
better makes it even better
it's actually an important part of
neoliberalism that borders remain
restricted to people all right let's
move on here Matt did you yeah someone
just sent me a I don't maybe maybe she
took it down this Clara Jeffries she's
she is she better let me be really
diplomat immediately what is going on
the dishonest poll report no are you
talking what the oh the other twenty
sixteen thousand twenty sixteen so she
poet is the anti-semitic thing yeah well
she was just like here's Bernie Sanders
here's Bernie Sanders a monstrous Jewish
figure that steals cash she's not calm
now wait a second I've warm though she
should not be online she's a very
thorough she should not be editing
Mother Jones magazine no she should add
it Mother Jones but not beyond life yeah
that was from sixteen yeah what the
that is in it's is it still up there
this is will menaker shared this Gentile
children I was a perfect likeness it's a
perfect like this I want to take all the
Jimmy still up there I want to take all
of the Gentile children blood she still
tanks for health plans for minorities
and Jewish people in my opinion I think
it is a travesty that
one percent of the children a hoarding
99% of the blood I think it's a travesty
when you look at what Jesus actually did
which was be complicit with the Roman
occupation and make false claims about
himself I just well fast forward to
today she didn't draw it herself I guess
that's from phantom the toll booth this
was definitely when I was running for
president and my posture looked even
worse and I was dressed like an evil
sadistic cobbler
there's nothing wrong with this at all
clever Jeff please these are certainly
very normal healthy people that opposed
me disliking Bernie Sanders is an
own-goal like it's I'm not even saying
like you have to vote for Bernie or
anything like that whatever but like the
idea that you look at Bernie Sanders and
you're like oh it's nice old guy wants
me to have health care what an
he's rude yeah like you have serious
issues and that's why I think because do
you remember when he actually first
announced in and it was all like oh this
isn't gonna go anywhere and there was a
lot of like condescending like oh no I
like it that old codgers gonna be in
there talking about inequality I ain't
got no problem with that and then all of
a sudden he started actually because he
was speaking to what really was going on
in the country started to perform well
and then it just became this spasm of
spin and lies and bizarre you know
people have the biggest and in their
case the last thing I'll say I mean I
think in people like Clara Jeffries case
it actually does I mean it does affect
it must affect their perception of their
status and material interest but anybody
who's normal and doesn't have a direct
you know dependency on like Center for
American Progress or something not
liking Bernie Sanders is utterly bizarre
I mean I guess bizarre or just the
hatred is bizarre I mean I understand
people just don't like or whatever but
here I guess so but thinking okay she
actively you can make it up here for
yourself even guys trying to help people
forget likely people forget unless y'all
ago he was virtually silent about
Hillary Clinton until later in the
campaign
when it actually became a much tighter
race like the whole rigged thing from
the DNC again I said this many times
started with Martin O'Malley but also in
the context of the debates that is the
first time any of that was out there now
you never heard anybody criticize martin
O'Malley because he wasn't a threat to
win but that's the reality well he went
in terms of real objective reality he
went very easy on her I mean III think
like they're definitely and I'm not
saying he should have done otherwise but
I'm saying that I'm not I'm not that
that I'm agnostic about but in terms of
like objective reality the campaign he
ran against her by the standards of a
modern presidential race as gentle as
you can imagine and also that bizarre
like on one hand she's like this
ruthless political boss and on the other
hand like oh my god he actually debated
her that sexist is some of the most
bizarre incoherent weird disingenuous
thing imagine let's not really hope I
really time on this until before it
starts how hypocritical these people are
because they're not afraid to like tweet
a picture or concern shil about
whether or not Americans are gonna vote
for a Jew and then they're perfectly
comfortable turning around and saying Oh
Bernie is it a white man so he's too
privileged we got explain this pole this
pole okay we will read what she says she
wrote Claire survey asked black women to
say who's among their top three
candidates Harris Kamala Harris got
seventy one point one Beto 38.3% you
know I saw this and I was like that to
me seems very weird not the Harris part
the beta potato part like what just do
do black women across the country do
anybody across the country like in the
general population really know who bado
is like I can understand that amongst
activists maybe Biden 25 Booker 25
essentially Warren
twenty-two Abrams 15 Burnie 12 and it's
SHINee's never gonna be the nominee
unless he turns these numbers around now
if it is a survey of I don't know how
many black women need to do to get the
statistical you know what the margin of
error is but it turns out that current
affairs writes Clara the status
statistics is incorrect one this was not
a survey of black women with fewer than
fifty percent of respondents being black
and two only surveyed political donors
strategists from elected officials Wow
and I do have to say I mean maybe these
things will change but contra to these
peoples constant lies anytime you do an
actual sound poll Bernie actually
outperforms with people of color Wow so
yeah but that was literally what she did
we went to a room of a lobbyist simply
she essentially it was like hey Donna
Brazile what do you think of Bernie
although actually Donna Brazile will
probably be in the 12% right and what
she got in is she's like oh people are
yelling at me right if just four and and
people are yelling at me for lying yeah
and not correct he knows yeah you're
being relentlessly decision and that's a
call shot that the the white liberal
feminist that's like hides behind black
women in the Democratic Party to be
against Bernie is something we've all
been predicting was going to happen and
she perfectly just played the part and
thing I find it somewhat encouraging
that these people are so scared that
they're lying this much this soon the
best is the best that we've got good
news for us it's desperate we've seen
this before folks advertisers fleeing
Fox News shows we saw it with Glenn Beck
in fact it in many ways really hurt
Glenn Beck's career at least insofar as
he was going to be on national
television there were other factors I
think that that made him too costly for
Fox but it but it hurts when the when
when advertisers do this I mean when
advertisers abandon a show now there was
a tweet by Jack Schaeffer and we can
sort of set that aside he's from his
slightly different era but nate silver
backed it up and maybe we can put that
up where he claimed in what was
a bizarre tweet that there's some type
of slippery slope here and if
advertisers if people convince
advertisers to abandon a Tucker Carlson
show based on the premise that he's some
he's promoting white nationalism then
well he writes jakka's writes begin a
Jack Sheaffer who didn't like the
organized advertiser boycotts against
Bill O'Reilly and doesn't like the ones
against Tucker Carlson doesn't read why
but I imagine Nate Silver covers it the
logical endpoint of deeming advertisers
to have endorsed the political messages
of the shows they run ads on is that
only milquetoast both side ISM with a
pro corporate bent will be advertising
supported if any that should be good
news that really is ad supported at all
now first off this is not the logical
end point because he's starting with
certain premises it is not that
advertisers are endorsing the political
messages it is that they are enabling
the political messages and if the
political messages are extremely toxic
let's say like white nationalism or just
for the sake of logic since this is a
logic game we're doing let's say
advertisers who are paying for a full
out now Nazi are on TV I'm not saying
that that that the Tucker is I'm just
using the extreme because this is logic
it has no we don't have to we can use an
extreme in the sense because it's simply
a logical end point the idea that that
that people saying I'm not going to
support or enable that not that I'm
endorsing it but that I'm not going to
be part of enabling it that I'm not
going to take my hammer and bang in a
nail into a platform that makes that
rise up is not this it does not
inevitably lead to advertisers saying
like I don't advertise advertising like
I advertise on mainstream ideas that are
not
that maybe in that advertiser can say I
don't think cutting taxes for wealthy
people is a it's outside the mainstream
or that it's repugnant and advertise and
people can can can make that
determination but the idea that society
has no ability to differentiate between
white nationalism and simply somewhat
mainstream political ideas is absurd a B
we know that on the left it's a much
more narrow band that advertisers will
support anyways because a huge portion
of what is frankly mainstream or at
least closer to the mainstream of
political thought is anti-capitalist in
one shape or another and is necessarily
anti corporate so I mean that's absurd
that is absurd that advertisers cannot
make that determination that it will
inevitably lead to and here's the proof
there was a boycott of Bill O'Reilly
there was a boycott of Rush Limbaugh
when he said that stuff about
Sandra Fluke
there was a boycott of of of going back
and yet and yet even white nationalism
could get onto television even the you
know the left I mean there has been none
we don't even need to do a thought
experiment here because we have seen it
actually happened there is plenty of
room for all this garbage to examine
experiment and talk about what actually
happened
what do you both the thought experiment
and the reality balai that point well
there's a different thought Express this
is kind of what we were arguing about
yesterday and I agree with you Sam
there's no rule that the right and the
left have to be treated the same
so the slippery slope arguments if
you're gonna say oh you're you're
boycotting the left of the right you're
censoring the right therefore that can
be done back to the left it just doesn't
hold anyone well no it can be done to
the left yeah but it will be done
independently of whether or not it's
happening to the right I also
think that I mean at least in this
context I don't know what the argument
was yes sir this was at the arc between
it's a I don't want to get into the
argument from yesterday I'm sorry with
all due respect I want to get to this
Tucker Carlson thing because Carlson's
an ass and I want to encourage people to
speak to his advertisers and have him
dumped now I will say this I'm also
aware someone sent me it happens
of the promotion of Tucker Tucker got
when right
he had Mark Blythe on and it was from
someone who had also had Mark Blythe on
and it was really about that person
masturbating to himself and telling
himself I'm great cuz Mark Blythe is on
Tucker Carlson but let me just tell you
this when you expose your audience to a
guest that you like being on Tucker
Carlson show that does not help the
guest that you like that helps Tucker
Carlson period end of story
that's the reality and even if Tucker
Carlson comes to the realization and you
want to take him seriously that he's
actually doing that somehow our economic
system is unfair he is doing it in
service of something that is very very
bad and so even if Tucker Carlson comes
up with the idea like hey everybody
takes their pants off the same way or
everybody looks funny when they're
taking a poop that does not mean that my
point being that Justin Tucker Carlson
validates something that you agree with
understand when you communicate that to
your audience all you're doing is
promoting Tucker Carlson you're not
promoting the idea cuz if you be because
if you think that Tucker Carlson is a
bad person the fact that he that even he
validates ideas you have does not get
your idea anywhere okay just just so you
understand because that for some dumb
people out there who are so overtaken by
their own ego that they get excited that
one of their guests are on there or that
they're trying to curry favor with
someone who has a bigger Twitter
following than them that just needed to
put in that sighs but here is yeah that
was a sub tweet here is Tucker Carlson
promoting more
white nationalism after including Honora
Lopez and an awful lot of people just
like him
meanwhile the people profiting from the
policy don't want the rest of us to
think about it too much they want us
just to mouth the empty platitudes and
move on nothing to see here shut up and
go away those who won't shut up gets
silenced you've seen it a million times
it happens all the time
now so Tucker here is crying because
he's the subject of this ad boycott and
for him it's a free speech issue because
you know everyone is guaranteed a spot
on television everyone is guaranteed
their spot there and all of us can
pursue it because we know we have a huge
fortune to fall back on as it happens
all the time
enforcer scream what he says Don Twitter
until everybody gets intimidated and
changed the subject to the Russia
investigation or some other distraction
it's a tactic a well-worn one nobody
thinks it's real and it won't work with
this show we're not intimidated we plan
to try to say what's true until the last
day and the truth is unregulated mass
immigration has badly hurt this
country's natural landscape positive
there is no such thing as unregulated
mass immigration in this country not not
since anybody alive watching this not
since TV he's lying and then the
question is why would someone lie about
that why would someone lie that we are
subject to unregulated mass immigration
they had mark Blythe on though why would
someone lie about that natural landscape
take a trip to our southwestern deserts
if you don't believe it
thanks to illegal immigration huge
swaths of the region are covered with
garbage and waste that degrade the soil
and kill wildlife the Arizona Department
of Environment quality estimates that
each illegal border crossers Eve's six
to eight pounds of trash during the
journey into our country if you're
interested in more detail look at the
website they've created it's called
Arizona border trash it's dedicated to
highlighting and cleaning up the
thousands of tons of garbage strewn
across Arizona
illegal immigrants every year illegal
immigration comes at a hostage cost how
many how many minutes do you think
Tucker Carlson has designated in his
many many years on television he was on
MSNBC he was on CNN he had his own show
on MSNBC he had his own show on a CNN
set show on Fox he had a whole website
the Daily Caller is his website how many
column inches how many minutes
how many mentions throughout the those
that multiple decades of time I have
justice suggested do you think he has
talked about litter and the idea that
our biggest litter problem in the
country the biggest pollution problem we
have in the country is that the border
is absurd it's absurd the guy is a
racist he is a racist and I know he
hates that word and he's not going to be
intimidated by it of course he's not
gonna be intimidated by it why would he
he gets on television every night to
pull those buttons and then if somebody
says stupid enough to do so he can bring
on a couple of economic populist and
make it about like I'm just here for
them I'm just here for the people the
light people yeah I mean he doesn't
think that is very disingenuous where he
pretends that you know the illegal
status the quote-unquote a legal status
of migrants is just some endemic quality
to them and not the result of a very
deliberate set of policies in our recent
history well forget about even the
policies I mean we don't call seniors
who buy drugs from Canada illegal
seniors because they've broken a law
which incidentally I will tell you is a
more serious infraction than crossing
the border without the proper papers but
we don't call them illegal seniors can I
also just really quick I did watch some
of the blithe Peter
Carlson thing because I like to check
Peter Carlos excuse me Tucker Carlson
and Mark Blythe segment because I like
to check those things out and um look
watching Tucker Carlson actually do a
job where he is and he doesn't pretty
well but he's doing if you're properly
watching it he's doing a double game
where he's having to sort of pretend
that he acknowledges the real symptoms
that Blythe is identifying about the
economy while also not totally getting
away from the Fox News propaganda that
this is the best economy in the history
of humanity because Trump is president
so even on those narrow terms of why
he's bringing this person on he's still
essentially subtly just doing Fox prime
I think there's a debate as to whether
if I'm mark Blythe I go on Tucker
Carlson I can understand it from his
perspective he thinks he can carry his
message to people who wouldn't otherwise
hear it that make some sense to me all
right I think that's I think there's a
debate I could see arguing either side
of that but to then do a segment
promoting mark Blythe's appearance there
is it's again just so uh it's just about
ego it's not as it's just about ego I'm
what I'm trying to say is that's not
even what happened in the second yes I
know it is the most generous like oh
this is the SEC all you're getting all
you do yes is promoting Tucker car
making low information people go well
Tucker seems kind of like a bad guy but
I don't know he's maybe so straight and
even if he was not what happened even if
you say he's a chucklehead like I'm a
chucklehead okay no he's a racist and
you are providing your audience a reason
to like him you could provide your
audience a reason to to like Mark Blythe
without having Tucker Carlson in the in
the equation and the end the idea that
somehow Tucker Carlson validates your
arguments about economic inequality in
this country is also effed up because
there's a million people who will
validate that indeed we just played
but look low last week I mean that gives
away the game folks
it sure does these both interviewed mark
place and but also like first came on
this show in 20 2012 yeah 32 weeks ago
our week or two ago when I was you know
there we played a great clip of Mark
life explaining about a Brazilian model
for development and we used it to
illustrate a larger point like there's
but it with Mark life that has to do
with the idea that just because your
because someone of this ilk in some way
validates claims you're making
understand all you're doing is helping
them right so Tucker Carlson has done
this at least twice now because he also
had Angela Nagle on to agree with him on
everything regarding immigration as well
and like if you aren't supposedly on the
left and you go and Tucker Carlson show
and agree with everything he says like I
don't care why you're doing it like
that's not the same situation that's not
the same situation so like I say the the
the person who goes on there I can
understand on some level that they want
to reach a certain audience with a
certain message okay but I'm just simply
talking about the idea that Tucker
Carlson is validating your opinion in no
way in no way helps that opinion that
mean that should be obvious you know
who's a great populist David Duke great
populist that guy totally totally for
the working man you can go back and
let's see is early I think they know
that you definitely go alright folks we
get we got a little bit of time here
Tucker Carlson well he seems like a
little bit of a bad guy I don't know but
uh he's describing the economy here real
well which was lead up to here with that
Molly Hemingway suggests as Trump has no
okay yeah let's do this so Molly
Hemingway who is she now again the
Federalist I believe all right okay
says there was no collusion in Russia
because Trump has no business
relationships there now did she say this
before or after like a half hour or so
before oh yeah this has got to be really
rough Somali Hemingway's out there last
night on Tucker Carlson really trying to
establish that there is absolutely no
connection Trump had no business
dealings there don't you know
Tucker the Trump Towers in Moscow you
hear that to this day so you need to
have business interests in order to have
this collusion theory makes sense the
dossier said a bunch of actually kind of
contradictory things that Trump was very
interested in a business deal in Russia
and also that he'd been offered
sweetheart deals well if he'd been
offered sweetheart deals I think we can
reasonably assume he would have taken
them there's no evidence he has ever
successfully accomplished any business
relationship in Russia oh look at that
he's got a no proof stamp graphic on
there you know folks sometimes in cable
television life comes at you fast
because you could be at Tucker Carlson
at 9:00 p.m. saying one thing and then
you turn channel C and then an hour
later and then Chris Cuomo says this
face of this story or at least the story
the president would have you believe
take a look at this this is the letter
of intent for the proposed Trump Tower
Moscow all right it is signed by Donald
J Trump how do I know well because we've
been told it was by his lawyer and it is
and I'll show it to you in a second now
I want you to take a walk down memory
lane to remind you of what the President
himself has said about this project
first he said there was no deal listen
to this I have nothing to do with
putting I have nothing to do with Russia
but I have nothing to do with Russia we
had nothing to do with Russia you know
for a deal that didn't mean anything
it's a lot of pages man with a lot of
detail about what they wanted and how
they wanted it and how would he be paid
and there's a signature okay Cohen said
that so Cohen said that this was the
case the president said nothing happened
then he gave a different story
where the letter kind of came up but not
in the context of his signing it listen
I think you should go back to
I think it was January it was just
reported very well by catherine herridge
is a terrific reporter on fox she talks
about a letter that he signed I don't
even remember it and it specifically
talks about this deal catherine herridge
is a good reporter at fox worked with
her know her respect her president
doesn't need her to tell him what
happened in his own deal here's the
letter Cohen didn't sign it
the president did then this weekend the
president's esteemed lawyer said quote
it was a real estate project there was a
letter of intent to go forward but no
one signed it why are they doing this
this is Donald Trump's signature it's
here
we know this look I want to be clear I
don't like anybody involved in any of
the clips we just played but that was
pretty funny that was pretty funny I am
a criminal with limited cognitive
abilities stop oh right but here's the
here's the sad part about it I would put
the percentage of people like if there
is a set of people let's call it a
hundred percent who believed that Donald
Trump had nothing to do with Russia in
terms of business things now this is
this completely aside from whether there
was collusion or not collusion who knows
he clearly lied about it now that maybe
that's a problem maybe it's not but the
hundred percent of people who are
convinced they watch Fox he's convinced
him nothing to do with Russia I would
say that report by Chris Cuomo probably
knocked off two percent less right you
know the answer people sound plenty of
papers man he's a busy guy as a
billionaire I think Michael Cohen who's
already mine doesn't rat he gave he gave
him the paper try to trip him up later
and sohbet so again President Trump was
portrayed yeah it's Jew lawyer just came
yes you lawyer fixed in Russia that was
his biggest mistakes you trust Jews a
little too much nothing I met a medical
stay with Israel you said yourself that
there's a lot in it you said you said
there's a lot of papers in it you think
this of course I did yeah lot sorry no
guilty not guilty he who does that feel
me is not real to me not guilty there
was a lot of people yesterday who took
it on the chin do we have that judge
Jeanine clip so Michael Flynn goes into
his sentencing hearing yesterday he has
a deal with the Mahler prosecutors the
Muller team says we are recommending no
jail time we've had 19 different
interviews with this guy hours and hours
of testimony he's help them three
different investigations and then on the
way to the judge not literally but in
the wind up to the to the to the
sentencing Flynn starts to leak a little
bit about a stuff to make it look like
hey you know cuz he wants to maintain
his his well who knows what's in his
mind possible scenarios he's out of his
gourd other possible scenario is he's
trying to signal to a president Trump
that he got forced to do this I'm still
pardon ready another one is I need to be
cool with the conservative movement so I
can go on tour make some cash afterwards
there's a whole host of things right and
so much so that he leaks you get people
like judge Jeanine
well okay before we get there and so he
leaks part of of what supposedly
happened in that room when he gets
interviewed by the by the FBI so much so
that the judge says I need to see the
full 302 the 302 is basically the after
event report that is often classified
I don't think FBI is allowed to have
recording devices when they go and
interview it so it's all in this after a
report and the idea is this after report
is gonna show what a sham all this is
they went in there they entrapped him
and if they didn't trap them they trap
them
and if they didn't trap him they
ambushed him he didn't know he didn't
know the FBI when they were so friendly
he didn't realize this was on the record
they sprung it out on my Kevin they
sprung it on him they totally did and in
the wind up to this meeting with the
judge boy oh oh these fret federal
prosecutors are about to get their
comeuppance right judge Jeanine based on
his record of 33 years as a decorated
military man is an honorable man who may
have realized when he saw the transcript
that what he said was not consistent
with the transcript or maybe he wasn't
looking because they posit no so she's
saying they should have come in and told
him what he said before so that he could
be consistent
instead they didn't and then he realized
like oh he did something wrong pled
guilty because he ran out of money to
defend himself even having to sell his
house to survive or maybe to save his
son also in the crosshairs of these
people and for those of you who think
the FBI was just trying to get to the
truth you're wrong if they wanted
information if they wanted the truth
they could have shown Flynn his
transcript of his conversation to
refresh his recollection to get at the
truth but no they didn't want the truth
they wanted to take down a bit player to
get to the big player on Tuesdays the
parties will appear again before Judge
Emmet Sullivan a jurist unafraid of the
swamp a judge who has a track record of
calling out prosecutorial misconduct a
man who does not tolerate injustice or
abuse judge Sullivan can throw out this
guilty plea if he concludes the FBI
intentionally interfered with their
target
Flynn's constitutional right to counsel
there you go
and that judge heard it and instead what
he said was you know what what I'm
looking through these documents now what
you did was actually far worse than I
ever anticipated and I can't believe
you're not going to serve jail time in
fact I don't like your attitude about
this that you're hedging on this that
you're pretending you didn't know it was
a lie do you really want to submit this
plea right now because if you do I'm
gonna send you to jail
I'm gonna give you 90 days to rethink
this and do something much much more
relevant because what you did and we
have no idea what this is what you did
was rose to rises to the level of like
maybe not legally but colloquially trees
it so get out of my courtroom piece of
garbage that's basically what happened
it's nice to see all these people have
the realization that the FBI if it wants
to get somebody has tools that they
could make that happen
well it's also it seems like the FBI if
anything they this judge had a criticism
was like why you letting this guy off
the hook why is the DOJ let him off the
hook
raises some interesting questions as to
what what was really going but look
folks we're running late I've got to go
I'm gonna do three IMS and then we're
out of here I didn't realize how late it
had gone DC dad Sam build the wall right
now calm is a real website and the most
acrid repulsive evil thing I've ever
seen I weep for our country train boy
the idea of using GoFundMe to pay for
the wall is absurd doesn't that guy know
that GoFundMe is how we pay for our
health care in America the gleason I'm
surprised that Paul Ryan is still in
office I thought for sure when you said
he wasn't seeking reelection he would
leave early did Ryan want to be an
ambassador Ireland after he passed the
immigration bill and the final IM of the
day I'm sorry
[Music]
[Applause]
regarding the shameful death of the
seven-year-old Guatemalan girl a jaeclyn
kale a call the daily beast reported on
December 15th that she stayed at DHS
Forward Operating Base in Mexico where
the government previously found
contaminated drinking water from the
article some agents at the bases told
the investigators they refused to drink
wash their clothes or bathe in the water
ish all right folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
I was just got cut
[Music]
