we are going to be ending 2018 probably
very much how we started 2018 with
complete insanity in the news and you
know we're we're constantly sort of
entering into new territory it seems
like every week this week the big
stories the government shutdown the
potential for a government shutdown
the reasons behind a government shutdown
or potential government shutdown the
attempt by prosecutors and Mike Flynn to
offer a plea deal where he would not go
to jail that was a failed attempt we
will talk about that I'm not convinced
that those two things are not quite
related actually as we go on also the
question of our involvement in Syria did
we just pull out this week I don't know
we will talk about that all of these
things I think are actually related
probably more than we would imagine
under any other administration but
because of the nature of Donald Trump's
administration and the complete lack of
ideology or agenda the idea that one of
the people close to Donald Trump could
be going to jail or is turning evidence
you know state's evidence as it were
directly impacts what he does on stuff
that is completely unrelated so let's we
are recording this as of now more or
less you know late Thursday we don't
know if there is going to be a
government shutdown walk us through
where we are right at this moment in
terms of the shutdown as we as we are
heading off to vacation the the Senate
is heading off to vacation thinking they
had this thing wrapped up didn't they
they sure did I mean you know look the
discovere Minh Town saying I think
everybody's familiar I'm sure most
the public really kind of their eyes
glaze over when people start talking
about it because it's been going on for
years now these standoff between the two
parties and it happens with both
Democrat happened under Obama and it's
happening under Trump this one is
different
because you know and and all the ones
under Trump have been different because
Trump has a has had his first two years
of Republican Congress so there's really
no reason for it and it's kind of
bizarre that you know we actually end up
that you would think it would be smooth
sailing with with a Republican Congress
but it's not and it's largely because of
Trump's promise to build that stupid
wall on the border and you know the fact
that his other promise to have Mexican
Mexico pay for it is out was obviously
you know not a not a serious promise
when apparently his followers don't seem
to mind I mean is fine you know whatever
so now he wants to be he wants the the
taxpayers to pay for this stupid wall
and the taxpayers in large numbers I
think it's up to you know 60 plus
percent of the American public does not
want this wall and they sure don't want
to pay for it so we get end up being
stuck over this situation and you'll
recall last year there was a discussion
that you know that they had come to an
agreement for the wall in exchange for
legalizing the daca recipients and you
know I mean that I think the Democrats
were pretty generous they were going to
give them 20 billion or some bit large
number to build the stupid wall and most
of us considered you know well you know
you got to do something about the almost
a million kids here so you know okay
it's stupid maybe if the wall will fall
down you know whatever we can just how
it will rip it down but it didn't happen
because Stephen Miller and the
right-wing went nuts at the idea of
doing any kind of a deal with the
Democrats the whole thing fell apart and
then the the judiciary stepped in on the
dock of kids and we sort of been in this
in this holding pattern and so we come
up to this point and and again it's the
wall Trump wants his wall he's insisting
on his wall he wants money for a stupid
wall and the Democrats have
they're all saying absolutely not we
will not fund it and there are
Republicans apparently who aren't
excited about funding it there certainly
are some that are Democrats in the
Senate which means that they can't get
to 60 they don't have enough and there
are you know Nancy Pelosi said in that
famous meeting with Trump and Schumer a
couple weeks ago said you don't have the
votes he's oh I can get the votes in a
minute you know I don't worry I got
those if I wanted I'll get it well no it
turns out that he doesn't have the votes
that might became clear this week so he
can't pass that bill to fund the the
wall that he wants he can't pass it in a
Republican Congress so rather than have
a shutdown right at Christmastime which
is what we're looking at Friday
you know it's Thursday evening today and
we're looking at a shutdown tomorrow
afternoon as we speak here they don't
have a plan and what happened was Mitch
McConnell cobbled together a continuing
resolution said okay let's just get us
through to February now we all know that
there's an extenuating circumstance
there which is that in February the
Democrats will have control of the house
but what's the difference right I mean
they can't pass it now anyway so
whatever you know there might as well
extend it and get through the holidays
so Mitch came up with this idea nobody
was particularly happy but yeah okay
fine we'll just go kick the can until
until next year and Ann Coulter and Rush
Limbaugh and everybody in Fox News and
the freedom caucus in the house lost
their minds and they went crazy on him
and in fact Trump even had to unfollow
Ann Coulter on Twitter because she was
so extremely upset with him that he
didn't fund his wall and this is your
last chance Republicans will never be
elected again if you don't do it blah
blah blah and so he said on Thursday
morning called the House Republicans up
and said I'm not signing it so that's
where we sit I mean there's a deal on
the table Republicans are already
leaving town a half a bunch of the
Senators are gone a bunch of the House
members are gone in fact it was it was
being said that Republicans who just got
elected there who just got defeated in
the election that they've been gone for
days
right nobody knows what's going to
happen at this moment all right well
let's let's make one thing clear to
folks just in from a process standpoint
the implications of a significant chunk
of the Senate being gone means that it's
this bill or no bill right because both
the House and the Senate have to agree
on something so even if the house was to
vote on some type of new new compromise
and it doesn't seem like there's any
room for compromise here the Senate
wouldn't be able to vote for it on time
now what happened last year was there
was a shutdown late Friday night and by
Monday morning the the the Senate and
the house had voted on bills to fund the
government well that's not gonna happen
this time because Monday is Christmas
Eve day right and so we're looking at
the possible I mean I don't even know
have if anybody's really contemplated
how this is gonna work because it feels
like the government has to stick around
before through scheduled vacations to
just work out the furloughing of
government workers although I imagine
the OMB has done this but all right
let's take a break let's walk through
this and just sort of you know play out
these scenarios and take a moment I mean
will you just give a very comprehensive
rundown but take a moment to contemplate
the idea that the president United
States basically was getting criticized
on his favorite TV channel and then
changed his mind we got to take a quick
break I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of
fire radio be right back
