[Music]
here is FoxNews doing triage I am quite
convinced that this segment would not
have happened but for the really from
the Fox News perspective from the
president's perspective from the
perspective of anyone who was against
single-payer health care from the
perspective of people of the people who
are desperate to not have Bernie Sanders
be the Democratic nominee and
potentially the president United States
from all of those people's perspective
the Fox townhall was a bit of a disaster
for them now there's a little bit of
controversy about Bernie and Android
yang and I think Putin Budig edge is
going on
Budda judge is going on shortly about
ten years ago there was a concerted
effort to make - to convince Democratic
politicians not to go on Fox because you
did not want to validate their
propaganda operation as some type of
news organization but there was a
feeling that if you were to go on you
want to undercut their message and very
few people are capable doing that guy
Bregman who he had on Rutger Bregman did
it very well
of course he ended up getting bumped and
but was able to release this stuff
you want more examples of Donald Trump
having you know issues with what
happened on Fox at first he was sort of
like yeah you know and then he started
to get started to seep in that it was
really problematic for him and he was on
Twitter
raging last night many Trump fans and
signs were outside of the Fox News
Studios last night and now thriving
Thank You president Trump speaking goes
of Bethlehem Pennsylvania for the
interview with crazy Bernie Sanders big
complaints about not being let in stuff
with birdie
support us what's with FoxNews I believe
will be crazy Bernie Sanders versus the
sleepy Joe Biden as the two finalists to
run against the best economy in the
history of our country and many other
great things I look forward to facing
whoever me may God rest their souls whoa
that is named for Joe Biden now sleepy
saying may God rest their soul I don't
know I'm just throwing stuff out there
Fox is in triage they need emotional
care for him as well and and the White
House must be aware of this I mean this
is an all-hands-on-deck moment when you
send at this stage right now because you
want to participate bureaucrat in charge
of Medicare and Medicaid in the Trump
administration and they're bringing her
out now this is way early for this way
early much earlier than you would have
wanted to and they actually sit her down
with with kilmeade brian kilmeade
rather Medicare expert yeah their
Medicare experts the administrator for
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services administrator Seymour Verma
thanks so much for joining us so all
this talk about Medicare for all really
hits your office specifically can that
work well I've been saying that Medicare
for all is the biggest threat to the
American healthcare system what we're
talking about is stripping people of
their private health insurance forcing
them into a government-run program so
this is a bureaucracy that's gonna be
making decisions about everybody's
health care what kind of benefits that
they can have what kind of medications
that they can have access to and if we
look at other socialized countries that
have tried this approach what do we see
their long wait times poor quality
health care and that's why those people
are flying to the United States to get
their health care people say wow I'm a
senior I like that I like Medicare it's
working for me so why not give it to
everybody well look as a head of the
program
I can tell you that Medicare is a sacred
promise that we have made to the
American people they have paid their
entire lives into this program and now
we're talking about putting millions of
people into a program that was designed
specifically for them and what that's
going to mean is that they're gonna have
to compete to get care that's putting
them in line for their care and I don't
think that's fair and their and the
reality is we're having problems today
paying for the Medicare program and the
trustees have warned about the solvency
so just adding more people the program
is just gonna exacerbate it right this
is roughly what his plan looks like I
was talking for one second it will
exacerbate it if there is no more
funding but no one has proposed no more
funding obviously if anything it will
expand the services for Medicare and it
will put it on more solid financial
footing because of the dedicated
resources to the entire program an
exacerbate it right this is roughly what
his plan looks like let's just take a
full-screen to this transition us to a
single-payer system over four years no
premiums deductibles only minimal
co-pays cost estimate 28 to 32 trillion
dollars and he claims that twenty eight
thousand dollars is now spent for a
family of four for health care and that
32 children would be over ten years how
does that look well essentially what
this is is he's saying we're gonna
essentially just move all of these costs
to the government but that just means
higher and massive taxes for the
American people well again it is yes
higher taxes and bernie already led with
that so they're really having a tough
time figuring this out now Donald Trump
is uh was reporting the other day
spending a ton of money on Facebook
Facebook Ads geared towards old folks on
Facebook and this is gonna be what
they're gonna try and motivate they're
going to say that Medicare for all is
going to ruin your Medicare now Seema
Verma of course was a formerly a health
care consultant to states
how to get around Medicaid
implementation and how to set it up in
such a way that you could get a waiver
from the from the government so that you
could actually continue to increase the
profits of private insurance invisible
to the public I wrote Indy the Indy star
FEMA's work has included the design of
the healthy Indiana plan a consumer
driven insurance program for low-income
Hoosiers it's now being touted
nationally as an alternative to
Obamacare and Oliver vemma and her small
confirmed consulting firm has received
more than 3.5 million dollars in state
contracts at the same time FEMA has
worked for one of the state's largest
Medicaid vendors a division of Silicon
Valley
Dyan tech Hulett Packard that company
agreed to pay Vemma more than 1 million
dollars and has landed more than five
hundred million dollar in state
contracts ha imagine that synergy
synergy during your tenure as Indiana's
go-to healthcare consultant I wonder who
it was that brought her to the White
House Mike Pence and in and because you
know why because she understands how you
can both make money and make money as
long as you're taking it from both the
that's what is known as a pile of
public-private partnership and it all
ends up in her pocket the problem of
bureaucrats is they can't take a cut
like that that's right
but I'm sure she's gonna I'm sure it's
gonna enhance her consulting business
when she's done with this
