so Heather we've talked about the
Michael Cohen hearings we haven't even
gotten to the question of collusion yet
and and sort of the criminal stuff and
we frankly haven't even mentioned what
an amazing job some of these Democratic
Congress people did particularly frankly
AOC but before we get there I was struck
it was always my contention in the
run-up to the election that the Donald
Trump did not want to win the presidency
that he didn't think he was going to win
that he didn't want to be the president
that he wanted to basically use this as
a massive launching pad for maybe a
media outlet but also just brought
broadly his brand and here is Michael
Cohen confirming that during his opening
remarks
Donald Trump is a man who ran for office
to make his brand great not to make our
country great he had no desire or
intention to leave this nation only to
market himself and to build his wealth
and power mr. Trump would often say this
campaign was going to be the greatest
infomercial in political history he
never expected to win the primary he
never expected to win the general
election the campaign for him was always
a marketing opportunity now I'll tell
you why I think this is super relevant
because I've always had trouble buying
into the notion that Donald Trump was
some type of Manchurian Candidate or had
even contemplated I'm going to get into
office and this is the way I'm going to
leverage my you know my business but it
certainly makes sense if Donald Trump
thinks like he's doing this as a lark
and it's a twofer he can you know he can
go to Putin order to the you know
Russians and say like yeah I'm gonna do
this I'm gonna do that for you
no problem you know just help me out
with this several
100 million dollar building that we are
talking about you know up until the end
of the election as Cohen reiterated
during the testimony and you know I can
make all these promises I'm never gonna
have to fulfill them because I'm not
gonna get into office I mean I think
that's basically that to me makes the
idea of you know so-called collusion
which of course is not a crime it's the
underlying crime would be conspiracy to
defraud the United States and that we
don't need to get into the
technicalities at the moment but it
seems to me that context with that
understanding of what trumps perspective
was towards this whole campaign a lot of
the pieces fall into place when you when
you consider that absolutely and I you
know I'm not surprised by this at all
that that Cohen said that in fact
there's a quote from trump from back in
2000 when he was considering running on
the bridge actually was going to run on
the Reform Party ticket and he said at
the time he goes all the I I think I
will be the first politician in American
history to make money running for
president and he made it clear even back
then that this was up a marketing idea
for me it was a money-making concept now
you can interpret that in a lot of ways
but he said specifically running for
president so I think that that kind of
comports with what Cohen was saying what
you're saying here that this was really
an opportunity for him to raise his
profile the biggest infomercial in
history right and so that does cast a
different light on the collusion
question because what it says is that
there are two two possibilities here I
would suspect that the first part of it
was this mosque out the tower building
it's clear that that was happening that
he was very interested in it he had
people over there and he'd a were being
approached by others to remember it
wasn't just a seder Cohen Deal there
were other people coming and saying you
know hey we'd like to do a deal to after
Trump had announced we'd like to do deal
too and Cohen even brushed them off and
today we've already got something cooked
up cooking up over here so that was
definitely a big part of what it was and
the debt and the Russians were seeing an
opportunity there to sort of help with
their chaos campaign if you want to call
it that to try and
and you know mess with Hillary Clinton
but then the second part is that once he
got the nomination and they started to
sort of see that well on the one hand
it's unlikely this goofball is going to
actually win but he will you know he's a
Republican candidate I mean it's
possible and even if he doesn't let's
see what we can get out there about
sanctions and about Ukraine and about
you know just sort of boosting Putin and
doing all this stuff that Trump was
doing I can easily see that being a
second phase of the collusion none of
which contemplates Trump actually having
to deliver on the sanctions or anything
else and when he if this is new and it
was a surprise and he got in there
suddenly he's faced with a very very
serious problem that's leverage that is
the leverage that Putin and the Russian
the various Russians involved in this
had over him because they knew he'd been
colluding throughout the campaign they
knew that he'd been you know did taken
calls about WikiLeaks and you know did
trying to do this deal which he had lied
about and said I have no business in
Russia they knew very well that he did I
mean all that stuff they knew about him
and there he was stuck in the situation
kind of flailing because he's completely
incompetent trying to deliver on some
you know sanctions and and various other
things you know that trying to listen to
Putin and take his advice and do all
this job I mean it kind of explains this
bizarre sort of story as it unfolded in
a way that makes it much less necessary
that he was a or witting accomplice and
trying to collect the Russians you know
more and more this is like that movie
was Zero Mostel the producers but that
being the case Heather we got to take a
quick break we'll be back in the next
hour if you'll join me we got more to
talk about
