[Music]
let's move on to some real work ah
so it seems one was this from Brendan
April April April Wow
we were I'm not Brendan all right no I
mean I want to Brendan to let us know I
feel like we really dropped the ball
here Dennis Miller back when he was on
his tour and I think we did some other
stuff from his big tour at that time his
you know Dennis Miller 3.0 tour where he
had sort of shifted at 2.7 he was no
longer political and then he went back
to political when he realized like
nobody cares about me if I'm not
political at all and so he's a heroes
Rylee years yeah this is the post Riley
years he's in Lee he's in the he he said
he's really wandering in the desert and
in many respects and he found himself at
sitting down with ben shapiro let's take
this first clip i don't know we're just
gonna run that you guys have the clip so
let's just run these this is on aoc you
shouldn't see it that way so i'm about
where I should be at 65 I don't turn
this into sort of a nostalgia player you
grousing about the young but hey I look
at AOC in the same way that I look at
some of the comedians the that I see
working today your Z has no more skill
do you get that impression also - sorry
hey I look at ABC in the same way that I
look at some of the comedians the that I
see working today and that is enthusiasm
over skill do you get that impression
also did that there's a real draw toward
the enthusiastic and the authentic as
opposed to the craft like actually
working through things well I think
there's some guys are beautiful
technicians wait pause it pause it for a
second so he's trying to make this
argument about AOC and Miller of course
picks it up in terms of comedy what
would be the craft that AOC lacks when
she has just unseated one of the most
powerful Democrats in the house at this
point in April and continues to have she
is now like the number three fundraiser
I think in the Democratic
like what craft do you think that ben
shapiro thinks that AOC does well well
what she and what and she's doing this
while being funnier than dennis miller
just in those little videos that she
makes right she's more she has truly
funny and he's jealous of her
because of our humor alright let's see
her Dennis Miller's response well so the
craft I think is oh listen there's some
guys are beautiful technicians and they
with their syllable counts and peel it
back but something and Kay's right you
got to use K a lot right you do so some
guys did first of all everything he says
in this whole thing cuz I listened to
the whole hour Nate meant everything is
a lie including that there are guys who
count syllables not one comic count
syllables they maybe they'll do last per
minute or something like oh I already
totally Fredo once what do I do next
what's a good what is gonna rhyme Fredo
Joe Frank Joe okay so that's two I want
to do I want this in a land with like
forty seven syllables go fanta as
opposed to you the craft like actually
working through things
well the craft I think is oh listen
there's some guys are beautiful
technicians and they literally would do
syllable counts and peel it back but
something the main directive obviously
what companies always been getting
laughs now you can go out and do it in a
myriad of ways their physical comedians
are you know intellectual to see some
guys anything wow that's so smart but
for the most part it's all about the
prime directive of getting laughs I've
noticed the change is more tectonic in
that it's turned everybody's comedy act
almost into an impersonator act like
Impressionists used to do they go what
if Jack Nicholson was working at the
Burger King and I was always Bridal I
had that I lacked that gene where I
could go with that where I'd say time
out he's one of the highest-paid actor
well why is he working
there but they do it and then at the end
people applaud and that's sort of what
you were is now like people will make a
bold statement and get applause instead
of big laughs
that's weird to me it's sort of a
short-circuited the primal thing that
it's an involuntary gesture where
somebody says something funny and you
don't have to intellectualize it you
just find yourself and that's the cool
part wait a second wait a second posit
what other thing is that you are really
this next segment where Ben Shapiro on
comedies may be the greatest thing I've
ever heard before in the world to this
let me get this straight
Dennis Miller who built his entire
career on what people perceive to be
cleverness right like they're you know
got visceral laughter of like you know
yeah this guy had had more lint on him
then then a a battleship that had just
come back from picking up some tribbles
or something like his whole his whole
career was based on cleverness not gut
laughs count the syllables right all
right going right it's an involuntary
gesture where somebody says something
funny and you don't have to
intellectualize it you just find
yourself and that's the cool part of it
now it's people going hmm
they're not heard used about this is
clap dur that people are not actually
laughing anymore they're just they're
clapping and this is the Hannah Gatsby
version of comedy where you have think
pieces now about why for thousands of
years we've actually been getting the
entire concept of comedy wrong it's not
that we're supposed to laugh at things
it's supposed to if we laugh at things
that's actually bad we're supposed to
think about things and then the thinking
is the humor it seems to me that we are
reshift in the entire nature of humanity
around what a bunch of very politically
driven people want it to be because I
mean I'm old enough to remember when Jay
Leno was on television and trying to be
funny and now you've got people on TV in
late-night who I don't even know if
they're trying to be funny anymore
I mean legitimately I think the family
catalyst is even making an occasional
attempt to be funny I don't know what
you're
pi√±on is a bit of a great entertainer
and i like i think that you have to
understand if you want to it's awesome
wait a second so I just yeah yeah this
is I mean Andy I want you to go but he's
complaining about people doing political
comedy which is all that Dennis Miller
has been doing for 16 17 years now and
yummy sites
the one thing he cites to try and argue
that people used to be funny is Jay Leno
well that's the thing Ben Shapiro he
goes I'm old enough to remember when Jay
Leno was on television and trying to be
funny yeah I do too
when he took the show away from
Letterman and he wasn't funny for the
rest of his life
I mean he's using Leno as an example but
the other things he says it's very
quickly though this is the Hannah Gatsby
version of comedy where we get think
pieces we're not supposed to laughing
it's just a completely she does a show
where she talks about how she had this
she came to this part in her life where
she didn't want to do the stuff that she
was doing before and he's making it like
there's a Hannah Gatsby school of comedy
where all you do is think pieces I mean
it is literally is amazing how out of
touch both of them are great critique of
Hannah Gatsby in The New Yorker though I
will say that I have to just put my read
that yet but oh I know I did see that
that was it was very good it was a very
unfree dopey sandy don't start harassing
the person or what you call my work a
review would you call me portnoy keep
going great entertainer and I like that
about him I I think that you have to
understand if you want to at some point
you would lose those jobs if you look
look how good Jimmy is at it Jimmy
Fallon I had I've been on Jimmy we can't
really move in the next clip actually he
argues that Fallon got in trouble for
doing pro-trump material like the the
fluffing of his hair I mean it's like
it's in it's just incredible you think
that was that that that Jimmy would do
pro Trump material but he's afraid to
this is about
Trump's proletarian chops wow that's
fantastic
dad who's this you know the Boilermaker
who never got anywhere near that I
always think wow in an odd way the most
patrician of these guys I shouldn't say
Patricia but the billionaire guy comes
in and he has a stranglehold on what the
hoi polloi mean I'm fascinated by that I
think it was all those years of him in a
hard hat walking through construction
sites oh my the power tie on but he also
has to cohabitate with all these cats
were throwing the building out for he
has nothing something gave him these
proletariat chops which I admire about
him you know whenever they say just this
morning Tim I should let you ask
questions about him yeah ha ha I saw
again this morning that I mean you know
that that though look up the word
patrician welcome to the orbit region he
refers to dramas an aristocrat and they
takes it back well maybe I shouldn't say
he's a patrician right we do have some
Hitler talk coming up to here but I was
saw again this morning that a couple of
Democratic candidates Castro I forget
his name is it Julian Castro and Castro
and somebody else at Trump reminds them
of the Third Reich
yeah bait oh yeah bait on I always look
at this stuff and I think for God's
sakes do you not see that you're not
being clever about how you're playing
this guy if you do hate them if you do
hate what he wants if you want him if
you do to throw down the Hitler thing
and then here's even the back-up plan on
that they if you say well listen when
you say he's Hitler like obviously my
flash card in my head is the systematic
liquidation is 6 million of his fellow
human beings I haven't seen anything
like that from chop and they'll say oh
of course I didn't mean that and you'll
say well what other Hitler peccadillo
were you see you know the shitty
mustache yeah the bad housepainter
reviews on Angie's List of course when
you say so and again this morning even
today you've got a bait or works
positing himself as a young hipster a
young hipster does not come in and say
the man in the Oval Office right now to
me it's
it's an over awkward clumsy overplays is
like Islam 800 cases what is this
terrible comeback guys this is
unbelievable
this guy is this is of course before the
El Paso shooting and this is he's
talking about nobody nobody in camps
this guy is literally a who
doesn't even know what Trump is doing he
has no idea what's happening well it's
like it's embarrassing first of all he
also doesn't know how many people died
in the holocaust he's only talking about
the Jews there was a there was another
three million who were exterminated but
and he wants to wait till they're all
except us come me after they've killed
six million people that's like seems to
be what he's saying this is this is a
broad you know and for the for Dennis
Miller who I think at one point in his
career tried to sell himself as the
thinking man's comedian this is the
problem with our just our understanding
of what fascism is right like it's that
he was for cystic and that he had to go
through certain sort of thresholds to
bring about that kind of stuff and right
and you know who else are you going to
point to right like he you know jobs
like Franco nobody's gonna know you're
talking about yeah yeah yeah because
he's actually more like must he actually
looked similar to Mussolini he's never
actually look at Trump but the point of
him saying the point the fact is that
Dennis Miller literally does not want he
knows now this is his audience so he'll
lie he'll say anything to pretend that
this guy is good it's really sickening
he spends the whole hour basically
saying how great Trump is because I
think he's any saying the other comics
are afraid they're afraid to go against
Trump he's afraid to go he's afraid to
do anything because he's trapped in this
horrible unfunny character hole just
basically like I need I need one more
priming of the pump of my career and so
that's what this tour was about let's
keep rolling but we're gonna skip ahead
here to where Miller talking about
great Monday Night Football joke he did
no I wasn't long for that one because I
was trying to shoehorn what I do which
is weird Arcania I remember they get
bail like what would remind you that
earlier he was bemoaning the fact that
comedy is no longer about sort of
visceral laughs primal and primal and
he's talking about doing weird Arcania
yeah which is not exactly the huge
guffaw jokes but go ahead I remember
they'd get bail like I remember a cable
can you say that you said everyone yeah
I'll tell you a great story we're doing
a game one night and this receiver hurts
his ankle yeah coming funny police
bandage and on the air I try to make gal
laugh and the weird Arcania is what
makes him laugh because that was a
genius but if you throw him off his feet
he can't gather it and he's like a tipsy
air traffic controller it gets a little
weird so I spend all my time trying to
get him to laugh so they show wrapping
the ankle and I go you know how I
haven't seen that much fabric used since
the environment artist Christo wrapped
the Pont Neuf bridge in Paris and I
remember L it's just these buttons yeah
Al Michaels is autonomous as we all know
Al Michaels is an absolute genius I mean
this guy is like he thinks he thinks cuz
he got the crystal reference they're all
celebrating in the booth yeah but but
also this keeps cutting against exactly
everything he said in the first half of
the interview which is gonna get people
an hour just looking for a clap like
crystal references the crystal reference
oh my god you can see everybody just go
fine no it's like oh he's clever he knew
about that the bad art you know there
they art instillation
did you ever see him once a Monday Night
Football he was the absolute worst he
was though it made me hate words and
commentary for years
awful awful I think that's actually
where the term conversation ender was
coined it go what do we got next more of
that uh is that is that more of this
there's more of this little clip have
you Wow because I was a genius but if
you throw him off his feet he can't
gather it and he's like a tipsy air
traffic controller it gets a little
weird so I spend all my time trying to
get him to laugh so they show wrapping
the angry you know I haven't seen that
much fabric used since the environment
artist Christo wrapped the Pont Neuf
bridge in Paris and I remember how it's
just these button which cuts the voice
that's the home button he hits the
sneeze fire our producers died in the
truck and he fancies himself an art
aficionado I actually or him say Noel
Christo environmental artist good call
good call delighting in that but yeah
I'm not log you can't you know they're
watching football I would have whacked
me too there's like I heard Madden left
LA I called to comics today the comics
they don't if you laugh every time you
open up your mouth you are the biggest
hack in the history of the world
he literally laughs every sentence he
can't stop cracking himself up dragged
himself up like the environmental artist
Christo gets it he gets it
that's that story sounds an awful lot
like a story about producers like coming
to their wit's end and like yeah I mean
he kind of has some self-awareness about
that but I feel like if you were in the
room he but yeah everyone's sick of
Dennis Miller's crab six minutes later
you'd have to say the specifics later he
says I'm reading Atlas Shrugged again as
we speak and let's also let's also like
the the the wrapping of the point apart
nerve and I think this happened in the
sometime in the eighties because I think
I was in college at this time oh my god
but but i but that would have been I
think contemporaneous with his work but
you
it couldn't have been more than five or
six years earlier I mean it's not it
wasn't like that's a really arcane
reference it was just a really
inappropriate reference it was it wasn't
like you're taking people like wow you
really know your art history you're
aware of that massive outdoor
installation which got a lot of coverage
it's like you know the yeah I don't know
but no I'm just gonna say that this this
idea like you said the idea that people
get the reference in there therefore
that's the joke and that they're it's
like it's like people go oh you didn't
get my dust and I guess I've heard
comics do something like if they go dust
I have ski or you didn't get my dust I
have ski reference I didn't what are you
doing what are we living in where you
want people to be proud of you because
you can you could reference a Russian
author so I think you're tall store
reference Portnoy
oh one up one of my opening jokes back
in the day when I had a little more
facial hair was to do the old hey folks
I know you're looking at me and you're
saying what the hell is Andrei Prasad
doing up there who is that like him when
did horshack
marry someone who doesn't look like
horshack it was completely it was just I
was just mocking people who would do
that
no it's all I was like all of my comedy
was about my community hall it's just
tweeting again but it was subtweeting
other comedians know all of my comedy
was actually just subtweeting the
audience like how dare you good evening
I hate you and the other performance
exactly for the next 20 minutes I will
tell you how much I hate the word hate
will never cross my lips the heroes on
the Iran deal and Obama let's stick the
installation art all right guys do as I
got older it just didn't make sense to
me anymore some of that stuff and as I
get older yet it still doesn't make
sense to me listen they always say oh
commute Trump's
insane and I guess Obama's held up is
the avatar of you know wisdom in that an
elastic insanity who loads 1.8 billion
onto a pallet direct I mean I'm kind of
that people say that's so naive oh yeah
I can hear John Kerry's Lee and I will
you overthink it
I just know they live to kill the Jews I
dig the Jews I'm not even Jewish but I
dig the Jews just because they live in
the craziest called the sack in the
world and anytime you prepackaged 1.8
just the fact that they would ask for it
in cash I'd say why don't I just give
you a check and fill in the memo section
I killed Jews you know what I mean it's
Bobby
anytime you send that unmarked cash to
or read some of its gonna end up vomitus
to barrel pizza parlor that stuff
doesn't make sense to me I can't fake
like it does I have to stop me let me
guess it didn't make sense
is that what first off can I just say in
terms of style the the idea that you
would in in 92 2019 say without irony I
dig the Jews and then I know raising
someone's got to put that as a median
they live in the craziest coldest back
on earth man it's crazy over there is we
got put and I over here living in the
crazy cul de sac that guy's just trying
to jerk off and work out his mom issues
and the Iranians are trying to blow him
up so I dig them I dig the Jews look I
dig them I dig the Jews this cats this
is a Palestinian cat saying this is the
other one I say unless and here he is on
Obama spend that is funny though John
Kerry like let's fill out the memo line
go at the Jews all right deal side I
would say and he ignores that there's an
Iran deal he doesn't even mentioned it
as a nuclear deal right an optimal for
cat what was cash also that we owed them
frankly yeah they're good he has turned
out to be very concerned I mean he's led
I would say on most big issues you're
more conservative than me I'm I'm pretty
conservative but you know he's done
pretty well as far as
checking conservative maxes hasn't he
well certainly with regard to tax cuts
with cutting regulation with appointing
conservative judges moving the embassies
he's done a lot of great stuff I mean
though the one area where I think the
Republican Party continues to be a giant
fail is of course on spending and
entitlements and they will be a fail for
as long as anything I bailed on that
this is the reason stuff that I think
you can talk about where they should
talk about it with him
yeah we're spending our ass off I don't
think we're spending at the same speed
that we did under Obama but certainly
enough of a thing where you go he's not
back on that I I think that we are I
can't oh my god are we're spending more
unbelievable the didn't have a faction
event he literally is a stupid I'm sorry
I'm sorry this he's a profoundly stupid
man true and let me just make this clear
the deficit may have increased although
I don't think that's even the case
anymore but the deficit when it
increased was a function of tax revenues
going down and then the tax cuts that
came in the form of the stimulus package
the spending was only half of that and
we were spending far more now we just
added 10 years worth of Pentagon
spending at seven hundred billion
dollars yeah and yet how can you I mean
it is sad to me as I've said he's just
such a that he literally he
doesn't care enough he's too
self-absorbed
to care about what the actual facts are
of anything he's sort of like an on
Italian Fredo posing as a Portnoy he's
like he's like a friend I was like a
Fredo without a brother
