hi folks Sam cedar here with a rare live
YouTube stream I am just setting down to
start to watch the testimony from the
acting intelligence director Joseph
McGuire Michael will be hosting on
majority report today I'm sure he'll be
talking about this as well as all the
stories that are breaking in terms of
impeachment and specifically around the
the whistleblower complaint which they
have just released the unclassified
version of it and it seems to not just
involve the phone call but a
long-standing pattern of a relationship
with Ukraine which Donald Trump has
basically used all the levers of the
American government to for his own
personal ends which started apparently
with a way of somehow exonerating Paul
Manafort and then just over time
developed into a demand that essentially
Ukraine provides some type of material
that would hinder Joe Biden's election
chances we're waiting on the on the
acting DNI to come in to talk about the
whistleblower complaint I don't know if
they're going to release the or to what
extent I would imagine the Intel
committees will see the the classified
version of this the big question right
now in terms of impeachment I think that
they're debating in the Democratic
caucus is how limited will the
impeachment inquiry be in terms of what
issues it's hard to imagine right now
that they're just going to look at
Ukraine why would they not look at
emoluments why would they not look at a
whole range of things I mean frankly if
this was Donald Trump's disposition as
to
you could do in regard to Ukraine it's
hard to imagine that there aren't more
examples of this I knew a cop when I was
in Worcester who basically told me once
that like for every moving violation we
get you on we know that you've done 50
others I have a feeling that dynamic is
probably in play if Donald Trump had
what seems to be absolutely no
compunction about leveraging the entire
US government for his own personal gains
either monetarily or political it seems
unlikely that this is the only example
of that we'll be talking a lot more
about impeachment I'm gonna go on to as
you know almost Thursday's I'm off and
that's when I scheduled other things to
do dentist appointments and also going
on with Pete Dominick on Sirius XM so
I'm gonna do that and then I will be
clearing the Airways for the majority
report today tomorrow on the majority
report Mehdi Hasan will the Mehdi Hassan
will be with us to talk about
impeachment and I think this is just the
beginning I have a feeling we're gonna
be doing a lot of impeachment coverage
coming up and well we'll see on the
majority report they're turning up the
volume at least on c-span so yes my
voice sounds different it's because it's
uh it's early morning all right
the phone cameras better than the
studios stop it all right thank you
and like I say Michael will be hosting
majority report today I will be on Pete
dominic show on Sirius XM and back down
the majority report tomorrow with Mehdi
Hassan all right bye-bye
I don't know how to turn this off and I
don't know how do I know that's not it I
don't know how to turn it off well here
we go
