[Music]
so meanwhile at over at morning with
Maria on is this fox business yes a
Maria Bartiromo when she is not
genuflecting to power she is pretending
that she doesn't that she actually knows
what she's talking about and the
resident buzzkill Judge Napolitano was
sent on morning with Maria you'll recall
last seen on Fox and Friends basically
making Steve Doocy
and Brian Kilmeade cry while Ashley
Ainsley is that her name
Ainsley Aaron's Lea Earhart Ashley a
flea goddammit Ainsley Earhardt didn't
know necessarily what was going on I'm
not sure Ducey knew it was going on
either but kill me clearly was upset and
here is a Judge Napolitano to basically
tell Maria Bartiromo yeah no second
Street why I think was damning just what
do you think he says oh we did it this
way with Michael Flynn but we couldn't
have gotten away with doing it that was
it what what she's talking about is
Comey I think he was at the 92nd Y doing
an interview and he was explaining how
it is that they got in to sit down with
Michael Flynn in the Situation Room and
he said you know what the procedures and
other administration's would have
blockaded us but nobody stopped us and
you know I Got News for you
police officers of all stripes they will
go and do stuff that's not illegal but
if you don't exercise your rights to say
like they'll come and they'll say you
know can we open up your trunk and look
at it and if they have no probable cause
all they need is for you to say yes and
even if you think like oh I have to say
yes but you don't they'll go and open it
up and that's perfectly legal now every
single person on this set knows that not
set but on that set with Maria Bartiromo
if there was ever a story of like oh the
police came over and just by random said
hey can we look in your trunk and there
was a body in there or there was ten
kilos of coke or whatever it was and the
driver said you know what I didn't know
I could say no no one on that panel
would be like can you believe the
overreach by the police it'd be a good
game though you could just say yes look
in the trunk and then the cops look and
they see the body and they're like well
I
you weren't technically supposed to do
that so well yeah that that that no no
even if you say yes I am just sat down
and the big complaint is that the FBI
agents were friendly and he didn't know
because they were being so friendly that
they were like there for a reason they
just thought like oh they came to visit
me just to shoot the crap in my fantasy
life they entrapped Flynn the same way
they do like vulnerable middle eastern
teenagers like with the like there's a
lot of money and kidnapping this Turkey
right cleric right wah to do it what
particular hair braid scheme they don't
pretend like they're FBI agents anyways
here's here's a third we couldn't have
gotten away with doing it that way in
more organized administration I figured
because of they were so disorganized let
me just send a few agents over there it
is almost the way you want your FBI
driver I agree but it is almost
inconceivable that FBI agents would be
roaming the halls of the West Wing what
the hell are they doing there they
should have been asked to leave if they
didn't have a search warrant they had no
business there hey Mike can we talk to
you we want to ask you a question we
already know the answer right and then
it ends up in an indictment which is why
the journal called an entrapment like
there's actually about that I saw your
interview with general Mukasey
in my opinion he's absolutely correct
though they trapped him
it is not entrapment entrapment is when
you resist your resist you resist and
they push and they push and they push
but they but they did trap him I yeah I
did agree so in other words they did
something that has an actual legal
meaning and is a defense entrapment No
they didn't entrap him they they they
sort of just like sort of tricked him a
little bit like they used police
techniques right that's what I meant
they use police techniques so basically
yes
Michael Flynn lied and they all want us
to feel sympathy for this guy because
there was no way he could have known
that these FBI agents were we're going
to hold him to the truth I wonder what
JSOC units did in Iraq and Afghanistan
was that entrapment right exactly the
 out of here all right
