so Scott you have written a piece over
at the American Prospect as part of the
the day one agenda project really I
think it's it's fair to call it and if
folks have not gone and checked this out
I think it is one of the most important
journalistic tools or I should say piece
of journalism that is a tool for
activists and progressives because and
and you know we've talked about this on
the show in the past as to you know the
the the myth in many respects that a
president doesn't have that much power
if they don't have control a you know
it's or overwhelming control of their
party has in the the two houses of
Congress that they can't do anything and
the day one agenda lays out I think it's
about 30 off the top my head really
major initiatives that the next
president can take that we all talk
about in terms of legislation but can
actually be done with existing
legislation if they are so inclined
however they have asked you to step in
and be essentially you know talk about
the fly that's in this ointment if if I
understand it your piece is entitled
wait a minute could John John Roberts
block all of this so you have to go back
in many respects to I guess the what is
known as the Lochner era but we're
really talking about the beginning you
know the the early 20th century right
and maybe you know arguably a late late
19th century in terms of a Supreme Court
that is pretty well positioned in hell
bent from stopping any type of of
progressive legislation but tell us what
you know broadly speaking how much power
does John Roberts have to put the kibosh
and a lot of this stuff
yeah first of all let me echo you know I
really hope readers will check out you
know my editor Dave day in of course was
written a lot about these issues put
together this this terrific package um
you know and I think it is you know that
you know often you know these arguments
you don't have been doing this a long
time you know pointing out that
presidents are really constrained in
terms of their legislative agenda you
know even when their party does control
Congress you know that the the
difficulty of getting colleages put
together could be hard but a lot of
people infer from that that well then
well then what's the big deal who
controls the White House well the big
deal is it's you know the people who
work in the executive branch for a
Democratic administration are very
different that people work at the
executive branch for Republican
administration and that of course
judicial appointments as well but I
think the over you know the underlying
premise the project is that the
president already has the existing
statutory authority to do a lot of
things not to do everything you know
their problems like health care that
really do need legislation to solve but
there are a lot of other issues in which
you know presidents you know really can
do a lot you know and that's where like
you know I I fault
you know des Davis argued the Obama
administration you know not so much for
getting much better health care plan
which given the Senate bozos really
viable but you can fault them for not
doing a lot more about the foreclosure
crisis which was done with a lot of
systemic illegality and so the next
Democratic president really has to be
focused on that you know that that they
have to come in and and second term
Obama was better on this you know I
think that that he learned but you know
it still stood in some respects it was
too late
particularly given the way the
regulatory state works the next
Democratic president really you know we
hope obviously will be warned or Sanders
but you know where it is really needs to
to sort of hit the ground running and
really have this but instead much of
what Obama did he did in the last year
of his presidency and because I think
it's the CRA whatever the maybe it's
congressional resolution Act I can't
really quite remember what the
legislation is but it allows Congress
to reverse those some of those executive
orders and some of the sort of
directions to agencies that are not
quite executive orders but executive
actions and it makes it much harder to
reinstitute in the future so doing this
literally on day one or at least in year
one it's very crucial if if the
president has you know the house anyways
so but go ahead how can John Roberts put
the kibosh on this stuff it starts first
with the non delegation doctrine you're
talking about yeah so and as you say
that because you know the way the
Administrative Procedures Act works you
know the more lead time you have to
change regulations the better chance
they have so the one difficulty is that
and and what is the sort of hidden in
that last term was really quiet before
you know this term we're apparently
going to get the blockbuster abortion
and and and gay and lesbian rights cases
and trans rights cases and other big
ones but one of the sort of hidden cases
was a case called Gandhi versus United
States which dealt with you know the
Congress you know changed the you know
the sex offender registration act and
and said that it should be retroactive
but it left it to the Department of
Justice to determine you know what the
timeline should be I mean again this is
just an absolutely fog you know and
again I don't particularly like the
polls choice Congress made but that's
not Supreme Court or you know maybe
there's a due process issue but you know
this is completely fog standard and if
anything in this case Congress made a
more clear policy choice than usual and
simply left some details out to the
executive branch um and you know Elena
Kagan and her opinion upholding it you
know pointed out that if this is
unconstitutional like most of the United
States code is unconstitutional you know
it's just you know like the most
environmental regulation works for
example by yo setting really broad
objectives and having you know the
executive branch using the science the
EPA figure out you know like Congress
doesn't determine how much mercury can
be
the water or you know walking mission
should be that's done by the EPA and
these are policy choices that carry
consequences you know you're a company
and you violate these right you know
that you know the code effective federal
regulations we call them regulations but
they have the effect of laws you know
they can set criminal penalties you
could be fined or worse if you disobey
them it's not like they're suggestions
so this is just basically how the
federal government work and and has
always worked you know and I link to a
couple articles in my piece that you
know it's not you know obviously it
accelerated you know during the New Deal
era but you know legislators have always
deferred certain policy choices to the
executive branch to the courts that's
just it's not new but what was
disturbing about that case was you know
so Kavanaugh was not on the court to
hear it there are three dissenters
including Chief Justice Roberts who one
would assume as the swing vote and
Justice Alito filed a concurrence you
know without joining Kagan's opinion
basically saying you know that you know
that the way the court has interpreted
on delegation for 84 years this is
obviously constitutional but I'm open to
rethink this so pretty clearly the
signal is once Cavanaugh's on board and
there's a fifth vote will restore the
doctrine and I guess I should go back
and so non delegation doctrine actually
it literally at a five-month life in
1935 the Supreme Court struck down to
two pieces of Roosevelt's you know part
of the New Deal that had already sort of
fallen out of favor sort of not a core
of what we you know the industrial
coverage now where we consider a core
part of the New Deal now you know as you
know being an impermissible delegation
the idea is that you know Congress just
gave so much discretion to the executive
branch that essentially you served as
legislative authority um and again that
at least was a fairly extreme level of
delegation that wasn't just sort of an
ordinary but having said that the court
wisely abandoned it almost immediately
so as legal says literally in the 84
years since the Schechter poultry case
the Supreme Court has never held a
delegation
by Congress impermissible for the
obvious reason that there just be no way
of applying that coherently no Kagan's
right I guess if point longest adheres
common sense if if you have to defer to
the legislative power of Congress then
you have to accept that they can
legislate that we're going to delegate
this the the details to the experts yeah
and and it just no your Congress doesn't
have the expertise to deal with a lot of
these questions and it's not you know
the executive power here is not
completely unchecked either you know
they're supervised by the president who
despite our recent recent like you know
is the closest to being a national
accountable figure and Congress can
always go back you know if the executive
branch is doing things that Congress
really doesn't like it's free to modify
the legislation so it's you know it's
not like it gives executive branch some
kind of you know absolute power but
that's just basically how government
works I simply have to always work and
it always has to work but the problem is
is that but basically you know once the
doctrine is revived it'll it'll give a
sort of blank slate to the Supreme Court
to throw out any regulation it doesn't
like simply because you can make a non
delegation argument about virtually
anything and that's what makes it so
dangerous is that there's just no you
know it's almost impossible to come up
an example of regulation that you can't
claim you or that that you can always
define the relevant policy choice at a
level that Congress didn't make it yeah
and so the one thing I want to say is
that you know it's all of these sort of
interventions just also just willfully
misunderstand how the American political
process works that I would have less
objection than on delegation doctrine if
it was sort of a european-style
Constitutional Court where as part of
the legislative process you know the
legislature is considering something you
know somebody brings a challenge to the
court and the court says well you know
tighten up that language you know that's
fine
but in our system where you can't hear a
case until laws already been passed you
know what the core will try to argue is
well you know all we're saying is that
Congress can't do it this way but it's
always go
free to come back and make the choice
more specific but in our system gridlock
generally makes that impossible you know
that once the court establishes a new
policy bit you know baseline it's very
difficult for Congress to come back and
reassemble the same : Congress doesn't
even be able to come up with a new fix
for section 5 of the Voting Rights Act
in the six or seven years that has been
gutted by the the Supreme Court
yeah or think of you know the lilly
Ledbetter case in which you know the
Supreme Court basically you know issued
a really bad interpretation of the of
the you know the Civil Rights Act which
allowed you know made it much easier for
employers to engage in gender
discrimination to pay on the first act
obama sign was you know sort of you know
restoring you know the correct
interpretation but if the opinion had
come down two years later it would have
been impossible sex
there's been no you know that that is it
happened to come down at a time when you
had a unified democratic government but
most times you know Congress would not
have effectively been able to respond
because people who support it the courts
misinterpretation would control a veto
point so that's another important thing
is that you know basically there's very
good reason for the course to be
deferential on issues of inter branch
delegation because you know it's
impossible to sort of put things back in
the box that's not the way our system
works so basically the the 84 years in
which both liberals and conservatives
have largely ignored non delegation dr.
on the court is that was wise and
reviving it's going to be a disaster all
right Scott we only have three minutes
left
I mean brought abroad Lee give us a just
an explanation Chevron an hour these are
these are a slight derivation of that
non delegation doctrine yeah and it's
not quite as because it sort of whether
it's a good or a bad thing will sort of
depend more on who the courts are and
proposed executive branch but
traditionally you know for a while the
Supreme Court has said that you know the
court should defer to the
interpretations of executive agencies
that you know unless the the
interpretation is just completely
unreasonable or um permissible that
generally the core
should not interfere that as long as
what executive agencies are doing is is
dead you know sort of a rational
interpretation of the law then they
should defer on and it seems like the
Roberts Court is signaling that you know
they're going to do lots of pass that
essentially they're going to be more
willing to sort of replace their
interpretations of the law with that of
executive agencies and again when
Republic given that Republicans will
probably control the Supreme Court under
the next democratic administration I'm
is likely going to mean sort of you know
sort of replacing the interpretations of
more liberal executive agencies with
with more conservative calls abuse that
won't always be the case and but you
know so it's not as always disastrous
long term is reviving on delegation dr.
droopy but it's still it's still not a
great sign for how aggressive the next
court is likely to be under the next
democratic administration and and so
when we talk about these is there one
other we got about I don't know maybe am
in a minute left I mean what what I
let's put it this way what what
precludes them from doing this I mean
what what precludes them from moving the
court in this way well I want to end on
at least a half optimistic no enemies
and it should be kept in mind that even
during you know the worst periods of the
Supreme Court most progressive economic
regulation survived you know we remember
Walker because it was struck down but a
lot of other ano state regulation was
able to survive so the important thing
is you know don't you'll want to do it
make them do it
don't just preemptively tip up um you
know make you know so like you know to
enact the day what agenda you know do
everything you could do and see what the
courts will do and the other thing is
you'll really make sure that you know
the do the the I's are dotted the T's
are crossed you know that that Supreme
Court is a complicated mix of politics
and law on and on issues that the
justices feel super strongly about doing
everything as carefully as possible
probably won't matter but there's a lot
of other issues on which the Justice
don't
it's not necessarily the biggest deal so
don't give them an excuse you know make
you know follow the procedures as
carefully as you can you know do things
as you know as carefully as you can um
that won't always work on because the
Supreme Court is political but you know
don't give them don't don't give them a
plausible reason you know make it as
hard as possible um you know that you
know just because the court is likely to
interfere with some things doesn't mean
that it's going to interfere with
everything and you know even if the
court is going to issue bad rulings it's
better than you force them to make those
rulings than it is to just give up
preemptively that there are political
pet you know it's better if the
regulations are upheld but forcing them
to strike them down is better than just
not passing but also on day one the
president should make sure they have an
attorney in the room to guide them Scott
Lomu appreciate your time today
