I mean it is quite clear that there's so
much happening with this man afford or I
should say with this Muller
investigation that we really can't
possibly Devine I mean a you know Muller
could be for all we know Muller could be
just in a full-on panic that everything
is falling apart and and and from the
outside we're sort of projecting on to
Muller that you know he's you know he's
three steps ahead of where mana fort and
the others are but all the indications
sort of seem so I you know with that
caveat it does feel like all the
indications are that Muller has gamed
all of this out I don't mean just Muller
but the whole team has gamed all this
out and they have they knew that these
things were going to take one of two or
three or four different paths right and
so they don't seem to be terribly
worried about Paul Manafort lying to
them and the reason is and we don't know
yet is that they seem to know all the
things that man affords lying to them
about otherwise they wouldn't know that
he was lying with such a sure admit and
they've got a file with the court
they've got to show the judge and the
judges my understanding is has to make
some findings of fact right so the idea
is this Paul Manafort comes in he says
on Thursday at noon the Sun wasn't
shining in the middle of the day and
Muller's team goes out and they happen
to have pictures of the sun shining at
noon on Thursday and they go take it to
the judge and they say to the judge
here's pictures of the sun shining of
Thursday at noon here's a newspaper a
contemporaneous newspaper that says the
sun is shining at noon you know here is
testimony from somebody else who you
know looked up at the Sun and then the
judge makes a finding of fact the Sun
was shining Thursday at noon and then
they stay show here's Paul Manafort
saying the Sun was not shining Thursday
at noon I mean once they make those
findings of fact that's what will sink
Manafort and people are now saying that
this was or speculating that this is a
form of robert muller being able to
essentially submit his report assuming
he doesn't get the chance to do it
because of whitaker or whatever reason
that this is going to amount to in many
respects a report of what has happened
in terms of the things that he's
investigating and that it may be under
seal but at least it's out there what is
your sense of that I think that's
absolutely true I mean I think that when
you look at from everything I've heard
and I'm not a lawyer but you know from
everything I've read about this from
people who do work in the federal system
that you know the way that he has the
way that his team has laid out all of
the indictments so far from you know
Flynn to Flynn's plea agreement to to
the Russian you know intelligence
services and the hacking all of this
down the line for one thing that's sort
of been laying out a larger case right
which which has to do with the Russian
hacking the interference and what we're
coming to now is the is the American
side of that which was hinted at
shouldn't say hinted at it was it was
intentionally pointed at from the
earlier Russian indictment saying that
there were Americans involved that
actually said it didn't name who it was
but it did say that there were Americans
involved so it's leading from obviously
the theory of the case is that there was
Russian interference that some people in
the in the United States were aware of
it and it looks as though from this
point that perhaps they have some
evidence or believe anyway that some
Americans were actually helping to guide
the dissemination of the hacked emails
and any inferred the sabotage of the
campaign that was being sort of
facilitated by WikiLeaks so that seems
to be the way that they have sort of
laying out the case step by step by step
and each time they tell a story and what
they what these people call a speaking
indictment they don't have to do that in
an indictment you can just sort of lay
out a bare-bones sort of sort of story
that will suffice to indict and then you
you know you clear it up when you go to
trial you go and lay out all the actual
evidence these indictments actually are
very detailed in a way that is is
specifically called a speaking
indictment where you want to tell your
story ahead of time and that's why it
suggested that Muller is basically and
probably just as a backstop against the
idea that he won't be able to tell a
report or the it will be shut down
before they are able to get all of this
evidence out there and also implies that
there may be filled indictments from the
grand jury which has been active for
months on this that there may be sealed
indictments as there was in Watergate
they had a whole bunch of evidence that
was locked down we spoke about ice a
couple of weeks ago that it was more or
less revealed that that was the case
there was a whole roadmap and and this
had been laid out absolutely so there
you know there is a sense that that this
has been the you know a strategy to sort
of protect the evidence that they are
gathering in this investigation from
being hidden or a deep sixed by Trump
and his cronies in some way that make it
impossible for the American people to
ever know once it's in the judicial
system this way in the form of actual
documents submitted to the court they
can't do anything about that they exist
and and they're not going to be able to
actually get rid of them so that is what
is suspected as being part of this
sentencing memorandum which is a
different document nonetheless an
official court document that will lay
out what what Muller is what manna Ford
is said to have lied about now that may
be under seal as you mentioned which
means that there are other indictments
to follow that have some relevance to to
Manta Ford's lies so we may not see it
right away but the fact is is that they
promised the judge very explicitly last
Monday when they said that the plea
agreement had broken down and they and
it was no longer you know in effect that
they were going to do that that they
were going to lay out in detail
all of metaphors life so it was kind of
a you know everybody watching the case
going whoa okay this is exciting we're
going to see some evidence here about
what they think man if what they know
that manna fort is lying about and you
know and that brings us and I just want
to mention quickly because we're gonna
go to this Guardian story but I do want
to mention Jerome Corsi because I think
he is a very important part of this from
course he is that is a you know an
extremist outline he worked for Infowars
and he's the guy he was the guy who
pushed the the the swift boat attacks on
John Kerry back in 2004 this guy is
brilliant spirit and the berths are
conspiracy well look let's put a plug in
jerome corsi for a moment because we got
to take a quick break when we come back
let's talk about jerome corsi his
relationship to the mana for story but
also his relationship to the wikileaks
side of this and the the sort of the
potential bridge between weaken leaks
and metaphor we will talk about all that
when we return i'm sam cedar this is
wearing a fire radio
