[Music]
we're gonna change pace a little bit
talk about some consumer litigation I
guess this would fall into troy bout
troy bow with love and Papantonio
is joining me and Troy you're working on
a case and this is a little bit of I
should just you know tell our audience
there's a lot of dancing around here a
little bit in terms of going from topic
to topic this one not quite as dramatic
in some respects but it is more aligned
I think more typical of what we see in
cases that we're talking about at this
conference dealing with really what I
think probably constitutes corporate
malfeasance on some degree to some
degree yeah that's right Sam tell me
this is a case about 3m earplugs correct
yeah 3m basically the case originated
when a company called mold XO to
California brought a key tam action and
a key TM action is like a whistleblower
suit against 3m and in the gym just to
be clear is specifically deals with
fraud that has been committed against
the US government is that right that's
correct okay yeah so there is and just
explain to us because there's actually
sort of I guess private whistleblowers
are incentivized to blow the whistle on
private entities that are defrauding the
US government and they get a portion of
the recovery that's that's correct that
is correct Sam and in in this case the
the company that actually was a
competitor to 3m discovered some
evidence that 3m headed allegedly and
their predecessor Aero technologies had
falsified some of the original testing
of the combat arms version two ear plugs
that they were selling to the US
military and so they took that
information filed a key tam suit and how
does it competitor find out that their
competitor basically committed fraud in
terms of testing these things and well
that's a really interesting story Sam
because in this case 3m is quite
litigious and they want to protect their
market share for ear plugs and so what
they what they did was they brought a
suit against mold X out of California
because mold X had a competing brand of
ear plugs that was competing with their
with 3m and Aero technologies combat
arms version two ear plugs and when I
say 3m Aero technologies the reason why
I'm saying those two companies together
is because in 2007 3m bought out Aero
technologies and so so Aero technologies
was the company that originally invented
that combat arms version two ear plugs
so you have mold X was out there they
were going to start marketing to the
military and a head start marketing to
the military so 3m filed a lawsuit
against mold ax saying hey you guys are
infringing on our patent and so I don't
know what they were thinking at the time
but it later turned out that in fact
mold X wasn't infringing on their patent
at all
it it it almost appeared to be malicious
prosecution and that's in fact what mold
X had brought a charge or
claim against 3m saying hey you know we
don't believe we're infringing in fact
you guys are trying to maliciously
prosecute us to keep us from selling our
earplugs and so when that was pending
they started doing some depositions and
during those depositions to that initial
lawsuit they started discovering wait a
minute here something's not right you
know when we look at 3m you know Aero
technologies combat arms earplug it
doesn't look like it was ever tested
properly they only and when and what
they were alleging is is that ANSI
standards requires that you meet certain
specifications for testing
well 3m only tested it on eight people
even though they were going to sell it
later to millions of well millions of
them to the soldiers they only tested on
eight people and it turns out that those
eight people were soldiers I mean that
soldier I'm sorry there were employees
of 3m so it even looked stranger like
why not farm it out to an independent
lab to test their earplugs and have
people that are employees of 3m or Aero
technologies just you know so it's sort
of an independent test but they didn't
test it independently they instead ran
it through their own lab when they
didn't get the results that they wanted
they stopped the testing but the
allegation was is that they certified it
as being as meeting the specs that the
military wanted and so in the military
ended up by him and so they purchased
millions of them from 2003 all the way
through to 2015
Wow and those millions got assigned to
basically every service member going
through basic training in the US also if
you're in Iraq or Afghanistan you were
also being issued these combat arms
earplugs so these earplugs are
theoretically I mean III presume are so
that when they're firing their arms
obviously they're ibly loud we all see
images of people at a range wearing
major
head sets and obviously you can't do
that in in combat in the same fashion so
that's that's pretty stunning I mean I
there were a lot of stories of if I
remember correctly particularly during
the Iraq war of suppliers of military
gear that were cutting corners some
instances I think there were stories
about Kevlar vests and so is so so for
12 years 3m is selling these earplugs
based to - literally hundreds of
thousands if not millions of I mean I
guess hundreds of thousands of combat of
people who are either in combat or in
training which presumably is just as
problematic correct having tested it on
eight people eight employees you know
like and in what circumstances were
these test just like in out in the
backyard of the 3m plant you know and
that's what we don't know yet Sam we
don't know if it was done in sort of a
room in one of the offices at 3m or
arrow technologies we we simply don't
know and the reason why we don't know is
that all the documents in that initial
litigation have been sealed and so we've
just got bits and pieces and so but what
we do know however and there's no
mistake about it is that 3m ended up
paying nine point 1 million dollars to
settle that key team action ok and so
who is the plaintiffs in this situation
like who are your clients
the plaintiffs are service members who
served in the military in various
branches between 2003 and 2015 and
actually used the combat arms version to
earplug and in and you might think well
how would they on honestly know what ear
plug they were using well the ear plug
itself is such a unique looking ear plug
that it's really unmistakable it's the
only ear plug
double-ended dual-ended one half of the
earplug is yellow the other half is
olive green some people describe it as
black but it's actually an olive green
color and it's very short and and it's
made for you stick the yellow end in if
you were gonna basically be out on
patrol and you want to hear someone's
sneaking up behind you that's the end
with the little hole that runs down the
center or you stick the green end in if
you're let's say being transported in a
helicopter to a different part of the
desert and so because that end is what
they call steady-state so it's gonna
protect against that constant noise or
it's supposed to protect against that
constant noise but what we we see
statistically is that during that same
period of time the number of service
members that have got hearing loss or
tinnitus has has just escalated
astronomically right contentedness
is when you have like a ringing in your
ear right yeah if you think about it in
the old days where you would listen to a
record and after the song stopped
playing you'd make that sort of scratchy
noise and that's that sort of ringing or
scratchy noise that just doesn't stop is
it tinnitus or tinnitus you know and
that's a good question because I think
that the actual pronunciation is
tentative but almost universally people
pronounce it as tinnitus right so we use
it interchangeably and how did if this
is all sealed how did like tell me the
process of what happens here so you get
wind that there's a key tam case you
don't know the details but you see the
broad outlines yeah and that's a good
question Sam because in July 2018 the
Department of Justice they issue a press
release and the press release was you
know about a page and a half and it
really outlined sort of the overall gist
of hey you know what we are you know we
intervened in this case we're gonna
protect our milik our military service
members this shouldn't be happening and
and they basically listed all the
allegations that we're now pursuing and
and as a result of that the government
you know had three MP 9 point 1 million
dollars so that doesn't seem like very
much to be honest with you I mean how
much money did they make off of it is
not very much and we see that over and
do you know how much I honestly don't
because we Sam we haven't been able to
get the documents yet we have to go
through the whole legal process get into
discovery we're gonna ask to see all of
those things and then we'll have a
better idea later on and I got to
imagine a contract to provide that those
amount of earplugs for 15 years has got
a dwarf nine million dollars I mean yeah
it sounds to me like this is just this
is just like the cost of doing business
for them and it just sounds like it's
part of their overhead yeah and in fact
it probably did you know it'll be really
interesting when we see how much they
did make selling these defective or
allegedly defective ear plugs to the
military and but it it's also equally
interesting to me to see how many of our
service members actually still have
these combat arms version two ear plugs
just stuffed away in their in their
possessions at home and and so they've
been bringing them into it say yeah
these are the ones I wore and because at
the time the military they issued a
little plastic box and the little
plastic box attached to your sort of
lapel on your shirt and it was meant to
put your ear plugs in when you weren't
using them right so they're always
available to you and and that basically
kept them together and it's working out
do you know how many
military potential clients their army do
you have a sense of what the numbers are
of military personnel who are using
these devices ostensibly to protect
their ears and well we think the
potential pool could be up to 1.5
million servicemembers it's a lot of
people because when you think about it
the there were a lot of troops placed in
Iraq and Afghanistan during that period
of time and there was a big surge and so
all those service members over there and
back in our own country
were all issued these earplugs Wow so
what are the next steps you're trying to
you're going through the documents are
trying to establish some of these facts
yeah how do you access those documents
that have been sealed in a case like
this other like this key Tam case um
well what we this past week the latest
news was that the jpml though the sort
of panel of federal judges that decide
where the litigation this mass tort
litigation is going to be situated they
chose Pensacola Florida the home of
Levin Papantonio our firm and so it's
going to make you pretty happy nothing
yeah it makes us very happy you know
we've got a great judge judge Rogers and
and so but the MDL just got formed so we
are gonna have you know DL is the multi
district litigation that's correct yeah
and so and basically it's not just gonna
be our firm it's gonna be many firms
working together to pursue this case on
behalf of the American servicemembers we
just explained the dynamics of the multi
district litigation it just basically
means that the case that you're bringing
in and this is a federal case at a
federal court correct in Pensacola is
the there may be cases in Pennsylvania
there may be cases in Ohio in probably
every state country and they're just
going to be rolled up into this one case
yeah and they do that for judicial
efficiency because as you can imagine if
there were a hundred thousand cases all
over the United States and each judge in
those cases have had to decide the same
issues
you know you might as well have one
judge deciding the issues for
everybody's case regardless of where in
the u.s. they're situated so they group
them together in what's called an MDL
and basically a leadership group will be
formed from all the different plaintiffs
attorneys and and the judge will pick
who's in that leadership group and and
it'll obviously be very seasoned
attorneys that have done this many many
times and as a litigation progresses we
will go through the discovery stage that
we were talking about earlier where
we'll get to take depositions and we
will at some point ask to see those
documents that are currently sealed in
that other litigation well joy book
thank you so much for your time today
really appreciate it and is there a site
I mean if there are that's listening or
I guess active service I mean we're
talking to 2015 yeah if anyone's
interested in the in the case you know
they can always look at our site 411
Papantonio which is you know levin law
comm and we have a one of the web pages
on there deals with this litigation Troy
thanks so much for time today we
appreciate it
you're welcome Sam thank you all right
folks
I think we're probably going to take a
break and head into the fun half
obviously quite a mix of of what we had
today tomorrow on the program don't know
I'm basically what I do is I go out and
talk to different attorneys and see what
cases might have you know some broader
policy implications or give a better
understanding of the corporate mindset I
mean the idea that
we could have a private rating agency
that would rate the quality of earplugs
that 3m is presenting you know and/or
that hey look US government should learn
their lesson 15 years later not to buy
the the earplugs from 3m I mean one of
the things I mean the things that the
you know the reason why I keep coming
back to this conference is not merely to
lose money at the blackjack table or at
the craps table but it is because a you
can see the depths of of corporate
malfeasance here these are the people
who professionally expose it dig through
it every time I talk to an attorney here
the idea that we need severe regulation
on corporations in a myriad of ways is
reinforced also the function that these
lawyers play in our society is when you
are in and frankly you know it's during
the Obama administration obviously was
much better on this than the Trump
administration but still highly
problematic when you're in an era where
there is a sense that we need to
deregulate corporations these trial
lawyers end up being a second sort of
order bulwark against the against the
deregulation and they also in in many
respects they they function as a sort of
like a
you know deputies deputized Posse and
you you see this administration you know
has packed the courts with right-wingers
they're going to do so more the
implications of that directly impact
individuals ability to to just game over
in the middle of the broadcast to take
the coffee's away the ability of of
people to go to courts and get redress
against corporations so I think we're
gonna have an opportunity to talk to
more people about that tomorrow and some
other specific cases we'll be looking
around for but obviously a big news day
too so we're going to take a quick break
heading to the fun half talk about the
news and maybe you know update on how
I'm doing at the the update the my lack
of luck at the tables
