[Music]
us now is Steven a cook
he's a senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations Steve thanks a million
for doing this how you doing it's my
pleasure Michael great to be on with you
as always as always my friends we're
gonna do as we're want to do a sort of
broader regional tour of Menno we're
gonna touch specifically on Saudi Arabia
enter well that's the reason you region
you picked my all right right I didn't
force your hand as you know you could
have been doing much more fun things as
undergraduate I'm sure I studied a lot
of you right
was it fun getting a PhD it was actually
there was a lot of fun it was a blast
I mean people struggle through it and I
had my moments but of course you know
getting the opportunity to go and live
abroad for a period of time and delve
into intellectual questions that
fascinate you what could be bad right
well I guess until uh you know Donald
Trump is president and heir to one's
president mmm bs runs the Saudi monarchy
yeah el Sisi is in Egypt
Netanyahu's in Israel I don't know I
mean the boxes here in one sense that is
interesting another sense it's deeply
and profoundly depressing which is why I
said we really active but let's go let's
talk about it all well as people will
know from listening to your I don't know
if you want me to plug this but I listen
to all men quarter podcasts that you do
with our friend Brad and people know
that actually Steve is quite capable of
talking about a lot more than men uh
thanks for thanks for plugging your main
corner it's a lot of fun to do with with
our buddy Brad Rothschild there we go a
little less on the on the Middle East
politics and more on the just general
politics and pop culture stuff this more
yeah that's the like hey why aren't
there bands like The Clash Republic
anymore what happened the filter fish at
Zabar's isn't as good anymore my god is
Ted Cruz an it's a great show
oh no for real I want to talk I mean we
did the opening segment and the house is
just you know just this unbelievable
moral failure to pass the RO Cana bill
to stop funding the Saudi UAE war on
Yemen which I mean you know we could
keep spelling out is really one of the
greatest you know humanitarian abuses
and crises in the world today Paul Ryan
stuck it into a farm bill in this
incredibly cynical parliamentary
maneuver 18 Republicans actually crossed
sides to vote the right way and five
Democrats cross sides to vote the wrong
way and then of course there's the
Sanders Murphy Lee bill in the Senate
right I mean and in some ways I mean
we'll get to Khashoggi soon but I mean
there is the sort of I mean there's all
the terrifying implications of the
Khashoggi murder but there is I think
the very fair point that you know this
has been going on since 2015 with us
support and it's an undeniable just sort
of mass crime against humanity you know
deep in spite of the setback I mean D is
the politics of it shifting in DC with
the kind of broader frustration even
discussed with Saudi Arabia I'd like to
say that it is but I'm not convinced
that it a little bit yeah I think look
there's tremendous amount of moral
outrage over the show t murder which has
in turn focused more people's attention
on Yemen but as you light as you quite
rightly point out where were people in
2015 quite often where were people in
2006 when this Cataclysm really began so
you know the Saudis have only been there
for three years or so but it's been
going on for quite some time and we have
as you point out been supporting it I
think the Obama administration took a
look at this and said well we are go
shading with the Iranians and this has
freaked out our allies in the Gulf so
what can we do to reassure them that
we're on their side in in helping to in
helping to ensure their security and of
course we picked Yemen Yemen this is
craziness an argument to be made that
you have to have a robust approach to
al-qaeda of the Arabian Peninsula in
Yemen which is you know deeply embedded
in that country and and a threat but to
enable the Saudis in their kind of
ill-fated intervention which and at the
outset of it when they said what they
were fighting for and they basically
said this it would that they were
fighting to prevent the Hizbul ization
of Yemen and to ensure that the Iranians
didn't get it toehold in the Arabian
Peninsula and look at what they were
doing and said well this is all going to
become a self-fulfilling prophecy that
you're never going to be able to get out
of and of course that's what's come to
pass and in the in the in the crossfire
have been millions of Yemenis who are on
the verge of starvation
there's cholera it's it's terrible and
then of course so that was the the Obama
administration long one of the Obama
administration's hang on and then the
Trump administration comes into office
and who have this kind of you know
single-minded focus on confronting the
Iranians and that the focal point of
their policy is going to be Saudi Arabia
and in particular they're gonna put
Jared Kushner in charge of handling the
relationship with Saudi Arabia because
he's a 30-something and so is the the
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman I just
bizarre in the extreme that only has
made things worse um because what it did
its signal to the Saudis that they can
get around the the formal foreign policy
process go directly to the son-in-law go
directly to the president who really
doesn't know much about anything as
rehome know I mean just but the the
level of the president's ignorant upon
coming to office is actually greater
than many people suspect so this is
where we got that
so do you think and I want to just do a
real you know realist no no sort of you
know moral judgment about the houthis
one way or another but it does strike me
that even just okay that the Saudi
foreign policy of assuming that the
Houthis are just a sort of replica a
Yemeni Hezbollah he said Hezbollah
Hezbollah zation and and you know
Hezbollah is an organic group to Lebanon
but it's definitely it's it's things
exactly an Iranian proxy but the power
and capacity of Hezbollah is is is
dependent and reciprocal to the Iranian
government and so that is may be fair to
to look at Hezbollah and say you can't
understand has blah without
understanding the Islamic Republic when
the Houthis I read are a far more yes
they're Shia but they are an organic
group to Yemen whatever you think of
them one way or another and yes they've
taken some support from Iran sure but
plenty of groups take you know plenty of
support from various state actors it
doesn't mean that they are a creation of
them and it seems right so I guess would
you explain the Houthis on that axis
right organic to the place versus a
proxy so the the Saudis have been in
conflict with this group that we now
refer to as the Houthis for decades
Jackie I mean going back to you know the
1930s the Houthis are actually named
after a guy named Hussein al-houthi
who raised this militia and I had that
was based around the Solidarity of a
sect of Shiism called
big they're what's called they they are
Shia but they don't believe the same
things that the Iranians share they're
not Twelver Shia I'm no not not
necessary to get into all the details of
this but so this has been a conflict
that's been ongoing of course the Saudis
supported them during a previous Yemeni
civil war in the 1960s but it has been a
conflictual conflictual relationship we
see know who he had you know a variety
of worldviews that we would find to be
you know unpleasant he was a 9/11
truther he took up the Iranian
Revolutionary Creed death to America
death to the Jews victory for Islam but
this is the worldview was sort of a
mishmash of kind of Islamic state things
that are kind of indigenous to hootie
thinking but the conflict in Yemen began
as a conflict between the Houthis and
the central government and that was also
a long running conflict the Saudis from
their perspective the games that the
Houthi militia now who the army made in
forcing the legitimate government not
necessarily popular but legitimate
government out of Sanaa was to them how
could how could the Houthis possibly do
this there must be an Iranian hand in it
and that's done it's you know much of
what this a DC around them they
proceeded to be an Iranian hand at work
but you're spot on this is a group that
is indigenous their conflicts within
Yemen are local conflicts and when the
Saudis threw their forces in - into
Yemen in 2015 they had done it actually
once before in 2009 committed ground
troops and kind of got their butts
handed to them and they retreated so now
it's just been primarily an air campaign
the Iranians use the opportunity to to
support the Houthis so if you look at it
really from a geopolitical perspective
here you have the Saudis we're spending
millions and millions and billions and
millions of dollars on this quagmire and
you Ronnie ins need to spend very very
little and the Houthis only really have
to fight the Saudis to a standstill to
win and that's precisely what's happened
and you have been they have driven the
Houthis closer to the Iranians but
that's not the way it started
and that's not the way it had to be
right so I will get to get to MBS in a
second but you just want to touch so the
other dynamic here about Yemen and I and
so okay so it's one thing to say yes al
Qaeda and the Arabian Peninsula and the
presence in Yemen was you know
absolutely real and definitely I don't
know I mean I'm pretty skeptical I have
to say mostly of sort of like the
capacity of these groups to steadily and
consistently threaten the United States
certainly in terms of on the US homeland
in any type of systemic way but there's
no doubt that whether it's a but even as
an example the attacks that al Qaeda
started with in the late 90s like
embassy attack and right like the whole
the cold is are very serious very
harmful terrorist attacks that sort of
initially gave them their legs it's one
thing to recognize that that it's a real
threat and a real operative organization
and also but it does not mean obviously
that we endorse the drone policy there
which was very destructive to Union so
what's the dynamic between on one hand
you have this sort of weird dual
approach where on one hand okay there's
a there's an actual problem there but
let's just outsource it to drone warfare
which kills a lot of civilians and
causes instability I think that's been
very documented including even by
military sources I don't think this is a
controversial opinion at all at this
point
and then conversely to say oh the real
issue is the Saudi UAE perception of
Yemen and that's all about Iran and we
certainly know how the Saudis can be
quite willing to support you know rather
right-wing Salafist groups in their
proxy wars so how does the US I mean
both approaches are pretty disastrous
but how does that square get circled
here well this is the this is really you
know in Yemen you have a number of
different conflicts that are all going
on at one time uh and what what really
focused the American attention on Yemen
was in fact the underwear bomb
the underwear bomber was the guy who
came you know he was sent by AQAP the
intention was to blow up a flight
enroute to Detroit on Christmas Day and
I can't even remember the year we've
been at this was it a line she only
comes to doubt and sometime between 2006
and 2009 I cannot remember
maybe maybe 2006 was was the the guy
with the shoe bomber got yeah regardless
that's it was really that threat and
people sort of woke up to the fact that
although the United States had dealt
this extraordinary blow to al Qaeda
Central and Afghanistan that there were
these kind of affiliate organizations
essentially out there operating on their
own and that al Qaeda al Qaeda the
Arabian tension was a particularly
potent one and that certainly had the
means to try to put on these spectacular
attacks and I think that's with the the
drone warfare began and then of course
the Obama administration really ramped
it up uh it was a way of Obama proving
that he was going to be tough when
regard to American security but without
having to deploy American forces all
over the world which was you know the
theory of his 2008 run for office we
we're not gonna do stupid stuff but I
wouldn't I think his quote was I won't
be afraid to pull the trigger so you've
got that in it the Emiratis
are interesting because in fact their
primary focus in Yemen had been hOAT
they saw AQAP al Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula is a significant threat to
them and they were kind of in these
hit-and-run type military operations
against AQAP sometimes in cooperation
with the United States sometimes on
their own and then the Saudis launched
into into Yemen and the Emiratis
actually got really nervous believing
that the Saudis wouldn't win and that it
would destabilize the Arabian Peninsula
so they decided they needed to support
the the sudden they needed to support
the Saudis there but they do that
primarily through their own Yemeni
proxies uh and of course there are
conflicts between these different groups
and AQAP as well as Isis so one can
imagine
in some weird way there there is
actually you know who don't like Isis
the United States doesn't like Isis no
one likes Isis but of course the Iranian
issue overrides everything for the
Saudis and it's very very important for
the Emiratis and it's the junior partner
to the Saudis they want to be supportive
of they want to be supportive in fact
and I just always like to mention I was
obviously big critic of Obama's drone
policy and just the sort of structure of
drone policy in general but for those
who would draw false equivalencies drone
strikes have actually up tempo Tunder
trump and there's clearly you know any
any type of systemic analysis to try to
minimize civilian casualties is totally
out the window in the era you know from
the very beginning from the projects of
the Trump presidency basically said I'm
unleashing the military do whatever it
is that they want to do at least in the
Obama administration there was you know
you wanted to do these things it had to
go all the way up to to the White House
for then we get to go ahead to to
undertake some of these drone strikes
right that's just really important to
underline I think and and in a way that
justifies neither but makes very clear
legal right moral distinctions on so MBS
is I mean I I found yeah I mean I I
always thought this whole branding of
MBS was ludicrous you know I'm watching
him get his Starbucks with Mike
Bloomberg was one of the more it's like
a Venn diagram of almost everything I
don't like in politics so how did first
of all how did this how easy was it in a
way that is very not compliment let me
frame it this way there's obviously
major major human rights issues in Saudi
Arabia and most people are aware of them
everything from you know the more sort
of you know executing Shia civil rights
activist
people have no connection to any kind of
violence but it merely spoken out around
you know sort of civil space that a cent
that exists in Saudi Arabia to of course
you know very extreme forms of gender
segregation
it seems gender apartheid a hundred
percent thank you
gender apartheid it seemed to me and
correct me if I'm being too cynical here
that one of the reasons that MBS was
able to get so much currency was because
he was playing on a very narcissistic
conversation in the United States which
is that we would swoop in and find these
extreme examples all of which were true
but not do any systemic analysis around
them so oh my god can you believe women
can't drive there well that's obviously
appalling and there's no and that's not
because of Islam or anything that's
that's a human rights abuse you know
that's a decision made in a Saudi
context and he did these things like
give women the right to drive make some
you know nice noises about promoting a
different sort of flavor of Islam and
instead of looking at it and saying well
wait a second he's also actually
imprisoning these women activists at the
same time and he's saying to the kingdom
this is a gift from me it's not like a
reform in the sense if we're gonna have
a little bit more of a accountable to
the polity it's just that I'm an
enlightened young prince and you're
gonna thank me for this that the Western
press and media was so lost in their own
projections of you know privatizing the
oil industry in Saudi Arabia or even
just or even these things that they're
right about like the need for women to
drive but not looking in a more systemic
questions about how power actually works
there that this guy was able to make a
splashy good impression here really very
easily even as who he is was already
even reported in a place like The New
Yorker by Dexter Filkins right like you
didn't have to search that far and wide
right right I think I think that's
really close to what
it has happened but I will point out
it's not just a function of MBS and him
being the young prince every Saudi ruler
who has come to power the New York Times
has declared to be a reformer his yeah
King Abdullah was declared a reformer
before him head was declared a reformer
ISIL was cleared a reformer all these
people have been declared by the
newspapers of record in the West to be
reformers with Mohammed bin Salman and I
think it was accentuated because when he
came to power of course he's not the
King yet but we know that he will be but
we came to power he wasn't he wasn't
already half-dead
like many of the other shattered leaders
he did he he pressed every button that
there was women allowing women to drive
providing opportunity for women to be in
the workforce more openly theatres
sporting events reining in the religious
police was perhaps the most important
thing for him to do that was deeply
appealing to people looking at Saudi
Arabia from from the West or among
Saudis themselves then they deeply hated
religious police these things built were
intended to build a domestic
constituency for Mohammed bin Salman so
that when he did try to take on those
within the royal family who were opposed
to his ride and opposed to his plan he
would have he would have this is this
reservoir of support and I'll tell you I
spent two weeks in Saudi Arabia around
this time last year and I purposely
avoided talking to in reads about
Mohammed bin Salman in fact there were
virtually no beets on my on my itinerary
and kind of the average the powerless
Saudis really did have high hopes for
now you could say well you know looks at
ease like their leaders and and and sort
of oh you know i i'd like to studies a
little more credit than that so i think
that they did
they did think that there was something
new here I think things that have
happened since that time I one can
imagine people are questioning I'll you
know the wisdom of the of the contents
and I will say even at that time people
did question the wisdom of being at war
in Yemen given the real tight
connections between those between those
two countries but you're quite right
when it comes to the the rest I mean he
was in the United States and March April
of 2018 and he was received like a rock
star like a rock star and it was quite
frankly it was it was bizarre
yeah given who he is given the fact that
even his you know grand plan for reform
first of all big parts of this were were
nothing new I'm old enough that I
remember two previous grand plans for
reform in Saudi Arabia second what he
was trying to do was you know deeply
destabilizing 270 Arabia and I think
people kind of lost sight of it because
oh he's outward looking you know this is
a guy he never really been outside of
Saturday and that's one of the reasons
why he was the anointed one by his
father who was the family enforcer and
we know that apples don't fall that far
from the from the tree even if the Sun
is deny it so you know here's a big as
much as there's been you know as as
Secretary of State has said there's been
a media pile on now to be critical of
Mohammed bin Salman and cetera that I
think at a time there was this kind of
media kind of exhilaration around around
this guy and what he was likely with a
imputed to him what he might do right
and I think and I and I really underline
just that the total emission of the
grassroots energy forth of things like
women's rights activists in Saudi Arabia
that were totally obscured in that
conversation were like oh my god like
cool this guy is Minh and of course that
it fits into a much longer pattern as
you said of these relationships and you
know that was another I mean that's
another funding source of Tony Blair's
Institute that's been revealed recently
like some of his stuff is just yeah okay
there is bad aspect of it as well right
boy um what what though okay so your
piece in foreign policy Mohammed bin
Salman is worse than a criminal he's a
symbol you're focusing in that piece
though about how and and you know set it
up for us in terms of the kosugi murder
and the bigger fault lines that that's
starting to open up and you talk about
that but then we'll pivot to you know
the interference being run by for him by
Kushner Trump and Pompeyo right well you
know I had been I've been writing about
the Saudis quite a bit not just as a
result of the katoki murder but you know
my my real kind of uptick in writing
about Saudis it started actually with
his emergence in his vision 2030 and
then but really over the summer before
she showed to you was was murdered the
the freakout over Canada was something
that really that fascinated me me like
why if this guy is such a reformer and
he's so forward leaning and he is he's
caught he's changing the culture and
Saudi Arabia would he be freaking out
about some mild criticism from Canada I
think it really reveals what he and his
entourage were like that you know
obviously we didn't know at the time
that he freaked out at Canada at the
time he was freaking out of Canada over
a tweet that that he was actually
targeting democracy in and and others
like him and the Saudis it's it's really
interesting they have been when you
listen to them when you listen to Saudis
in the United States they're they have a
completely opposite perspective on the
way in which Mohammed bin Salman was
received initially in the United States
they think he's never gotten any good
press the Saudis never get a break
they're such good allies they're
relentlessly they're criticized
relentlessly and then this only proves
the the the murder of Kay Shoji and what
Secretary of Pompeo called caterwauling
on the hill and as I said before a media
pylon they say this just proves that the
American elite the media is is
reflexively opposed to Saturday and so
this
these was really actually focused on
explaining to Saudis why Americans would
be so outraged over over the murder of
Jamal Kazuki especially since you know
how many people knew the name Jumanji
before October 2nd 2018 but it's a point
out you know the place they go and pick
up my bagel these guys you know like
what's up with the Khashoggi thing well
my mom's bridge club people like they
were coil at this and so the point of
the piece was to say it's not
caterwauling it's not a media pylon
there are some real issues at stake here
and that's the symbol part so you know
right at pointed out first there is
there is an even though there's
bipartisan support for some of this
stuff going on on Capitol Hill there is
a partisan effort given the close
connection between the Trump family and
Mohammed bin Salman second look this is
unfinished business related to 9/11 I
think it's undeniable that people have
stored a gun sweeping really bad savvy
behavior under the rug and the fact that
you know the Saudis got really angry at
me for bringing this up but my my my
answer them is look if there are parts
of not the 9/11 report that have not
been made public and they have not been
made public in large part because you
don't want it to make it raising
suspicions about what what what your
actual role was in those attacks and
then do I think the the other things are
not have been someone has come to
symbolize a world that is out of control
look if you are a journalist these days
and I'm tempted to say if you're an
international correspondent but of
course there's a connection to domestic
politics here you have to live in abject
terror of what might happen to you if
you cross somebody's red line that you
have no idea that you cross their red
line even for someone like myself an
analyst with a academic training to go
abroad these days is to be is a very
scary prospect so it's a world where
there are no norms these are out of
control and Mohammed bin Salman has come
to really symbolize that
and um again I was trying to try to
explain the Saudis and just the
onslaught of criticism that have gotten
from Saudis for trying to explain to
them
American outrage over what happened you
know it's it's really really holy okay
so that that kind of blows my mind I
mean I have some bigger questions about
it but like whatever one thinks of the
Saudis and obviously we're talking
essentially about their their elites
their leadership right not they're not
everyday Saudis but like even if you're
a very fierce critic of the Saudi
monarchy which you know kind of I mean I
am incident and you know I guess I'm
saying is a blow the fact that it never
I mean these people are still in general
very sophisticated very capable of
operating a lot of different contexts
they didn't think that abducting
Washington Post journalist and hacking
him alive with a bone saw would freak
people out I mean even if they
calculated correctly that the Trump
administration would cover for them
which is the accurate assessment they
didn't think that this I mean I mean
that actually is awe-inspiring that they
didn't think that this would bother
people and free gray and I think it's a
function of a couple of things one and
they're connected and it this may sound
banal but you know the Saudis haven't
had an effective ambassador in
Washington DC in three or four years
since the now foreign minister al-jubeir
departed so there's no there's no flow
real flow of information about the way
in which Washington works in a going to
Riyadh secondly you know Mohammed didn't
someone not worldly unlike a lot of
other Saudi elites was not educated
abroad but people around him his closest
advisors the same thing and they
I had BK have become insulated by their
own kind of view of the world that is
impenetrable
and so yeah he's a journalist he has he
has offended the Saudi Arabia I defended
its leader and this is the way they were
gonna go about handling it and I think
for all reports I mean you know I think
one of the few Washington DC middle-east
ounces who's actually never met Mohammed
bin Salman um
but all reports are that he's been
stunned stunned by the reaction which is
absolutely as you point out absolutely
stunning that there is not only in the
stupidity of this operation but just the
idea that oh you know we can murder a
journalist and it would go unnoticed I
think that happens a lot but a number of
things have come together to make it a
focal point word way in which for the
for the world that we that we live in a
focal point for Americans who were tired
as I said before sweeping bad Saudi
behavior under the rug they're totally
unaware I just a minute think of
everything that we've learned about
Mohammed and someone in his his his
advisers since the Khashoggi story broke
these guys are isolated they look at the
world they have this kind of in this
puffed-up way Saudi Arabia is as
important as you know look the Russians
get away with stuff the Turks get away
with stuff these rallies get away with
stuff they're killing people we're gonna
eliminate our enemies as well without
understanding one they're not those
countries too there are nuances and
complexities of their position in the
world that makes it that runs against
their analysis that they could get away
with it like those other countries I
mean I'm all for the the project of
khashoggi should be a door to a much
wider critique you know why okay I think
it's a totally valid criticism you know
Lindsey Graham has a big meltdown about
khashoggi but has been
until very recently other you know very
supportive of any kind of Saudi atrocity
if possible there's a whole larger set
of questions that I are valid and vital
and important and then conversely people
that want to minimize the resetting of
the template of what is acceptable and
the new dangers that it opens that you
know of abducting a journalist like that
I mean I think of I mean the closest I
could think of was when the you know us
back Chilean regime in the seventies
planted a car bomb on a you know former
diplomat in DC and certainly Kissinger
helped cover it up for him that's a
matter of public record but I also no
doubt that there were back channels that
said hey we're gonna run interference
while you guys kill a ton of people in
Chile but you can't bring that here now
obviously I don't want either thing to
happen but it's still a vast escalation
or not a moral vast escalation but a a
escalation in terms of of where and of
extremes you're operating in and
conventions you're overturning to do
something like take a Washington Post
columnist in a istanbul embassy and cut
them alive with a hacksaw I mean it's
it's just I can't I'm genuinely stunned
cuz I don't think of the Saudis is dumb
right like III have problems but I don't
think of them as stupid yeah so as soon
as Jack showed she went missing I kind
of reached out to friends in in Saudi
and in a go kid what's going on I said
we can't imagine what's going on but we
know the Saudis aren't this stupid to
have done this right and you said no one
could imagine that and so this was again
again it's a it's a new leadership and
you know defenders people who wanted to
go away who want to sweepings right say
well he's young inexperienced come on
the drugs you did that's that right he's
young he's inexperienced he ordered a
journalist to be act alive right that's
like that's like what you know you know
that was like the excuse you know I was
trying to defend myself like when I took
the car out when I was fifteen
experience you know right this guy's out
getting
having journalists eliminating this is
the little belt son phenomenon large
adults uncommon right exactly so it's uh
it's it is stunning stunning that they
think that when they did it that they
think they could get away with it in
that there are offended by the outraged
by the outrage associated with it in it
and of course you do have the Trump
administration running heavy
interference well I want to get to that
