[Music]
the Red Sox are still under 500 however
Alex Cora and two members of the Sox
decided not to go that they will not be
going to the White House to celebrate
last year's World Series ring with
Donald Trump however one guy did decide
to go and that of course is Tiger Woods
he's back
his Republican through and through and
the Fox and Friends folks are really
excited that Donald Trump knows some
black guys Baltimore Sun headlines
plenty of athletes are refusing to stand
with Trump not Tiger Woods and they go
on to tell why they shouldn't in the
op-ed they said this we wish mr. Woods
would have taken the Senate stand
against hatred and declined the award
given the racial and ethnic rift mr.
Trump has widened and Exploited in the
country since taking office mr. Woods
has made his choice and part of his
legacy will be embracing a man who
incited bigotry and racism that is
totally inaccurate to the person in
Tiger Woods nose I also would say that
people would also think that's laughable
is Darryl Strawberry George Foreman
Herschel Walker ben Carson Mike Tyson
just some of the people who happen to be
black ha positive one second sir feels
like he's going to list off just a list
of athletes who are black and I can't
tell if it's like he's just going
through a comprehensive list of black
people who Donald Trump is acquainted
with in some fashion or if he thinks
that Ben Carson's surgery is sporty and
some days to play racquetball big but
it's beautiful you guys need me to make
something here I was a great squash
champion because God told me the rules
and I stabbed some it was at a
competition but then I want it and I got
a scholarship because of God I got you
whatever you need
I love the
variant the variants unlike some of my
good friends are black to some of his
good friends are black to some of the
acquaintances he has are black
none of the people I make appearances at
charity events with a black there you go
where's my black guy I think he was
famous for saying to where's my half
black half asian guy the person Tiger
Woods knows I also would say that people
would also think that's laughable is
Darryl Strawberry George Foreman
Herschel Walker ben Carson Mike Tyson
just some of the people who has a bike
Tyson you're bragging about your
friendship with Mike Tyson not exactly
the greatest of guys who have met with
the present and known for a couple of
decades and don't feel so that
description is accurate there you go
they don't feel like description isn't
my african-american is the politically
correct way to say that black people
excuse me you're supposed to say
african-american yeah you can't fit
anymore you can say wow look who says
black sam cedar this little bigoted this
is this story I found to be
