this is interesting one other note we'll
go to some phone calls
so Heidi Heitkamp voted against
confirming Brett Kavanaugh her polling
dropped in the weeks during the
Kavanaugh nomination now we should also
note that the Cavanaugh hearings started
in early September I think around
September 4th and pollsters always note
that in the fall is when you see
basically voters returned and engage
into the process and then generally
return to their party of favor in North
Dakota people are very Republican right
Matt that's correct
and they're also hugely supportive of
Donald Trump and so it's also possible
that those numbers closed or they're the
gap widened I should say between Kramer
and Heitkamp
as a function of that natural response
still don't know how fervent the the
energy is for people who would vote for
the Democrat versus the Republican but
one thing that's going on in North
Dakota does not get a lot of attention
and that is we saw this with Ford Ford
is cutting about 12 25,000 employees
about 12% of the workforce having lost a
million dollar billion dollars I should
say in profits because of the tariffs
that Trump placed on on Chinese steel
and other things in addition to that he
Trump placed tariffs on on China and
then China in return did not buy decided
to we're gonna pass on American Soybean
crops
and here is Judy Woodruff she is out in
North Dakota talking to farmers who
support hike camp because they're taking
a beating as a function of these tariffs
so the trucks come in down the driveway
Brian Park right here I'm right here but
Miss Coomer has an even stronger reason
to support Heitkamp her opposition to
president Trump's get tough trade policy
toward China which China responded to by
ending its purchase of US soybeans one
of North Dakota's main farm exports the
result has been drastic losses for
soybean farmers here well it's basically
been shut down for us Coomer is but one
of tens of thousands of soybean farmers
in North Dakota who are feeling the
effects of the trade war with China the
combine will come across and it will cut
it right here uh-huh
Sarah loved us and her husband oversee
8,000 acres in Hillsboro half of which
are soybeans we're really feeling the
effects here in North Dakota
soybeans has become a very big crop for
us here and in this jug or Fiat on our
own farm China major customer of ours we
miss having the opportunity to sell our
beans to them they've been great
customers over the years love us
estimates their losses alone could run
to almost 200 thousand dollars this year
meaning they can't grow their business
as they had planned we were actually
thinking about getting another combine
earlier this year Wow the soybean price
started plummeting and in May and June
and we did not do that so there you have
it I mean it's unclear how much that's
going to play in this race remember
North Dakota also has a situation where
they have they have basically the
Supreme Court has upheld the law that
will largely disenfranchised a lot of
Native American voters and
I have here actually there is a
something if you know anybody maybe we
should try and track this down native
vote North Dakota I don't know if this
was on Twitter or this what but if you
encounter anyone who says to you that
they do not have a residential street
address to provide to either the d-o-t
or the tribal government to obtain an ID
encourage them to reach out to the 9-1-1
coordinator in the county in which their
residents exist to start the simple
process to have the address assigned
North Dakota Association of counties
maintains a list of all 53 County 911
coordinators simple phone call to this
individual can start this no no charge
process that can be completed in an hour
or less when the individual can describe
the location of the home after the
address is assigned the office assigning
it will provide a letter upon request
that confirms this new address this
letter can be used to obtain an ID or as
supplemental documentation for voting
purposes so in other words the
Republicans in North Dakota know that a
lot of natives live on a reservation
that does not have an address a specific
street address that they get their mail
from p.o box same - of course of
students at universities and that's the
way that they've decided arbitrarily to
determine whether or not an ID is legit
even if it's a government issue ID
I don't remember showing any idea when I
voted in North Dakota I don't know if I
did like I and I certainly and I was
living on campus there's all sorts of
things like that that's clearly and I
should I'm gonna pull up the results
between Rick Berg and Heitkamp in 2012
because that was the one race that Nate
Silver got in correct that year and look
at the margin 3,000 votes that's about
how many people were disenfranchised on
reservations right right
so we'll see let's go to the phone
