with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
conference rooms of any ELISA
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Monday December 3rd 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Marcy
wheeler journalist blogger author
answering the question is this Muller's
endgame time meanwhile George Bush
senior's death not in vain as it spurs a
near two-week extension in budget
extension ago she ations honks the
Republicans and Democrats very hard to
sum up the achievement of one man's life
but that's pretty big CIA Michigan and
Wisconsin Republicans plot ways of
overturning their gubernatorial losses
and more info implicating mb/s and
khashoggi x' death meanwhile riots
continue in France and run offs with big
stakes happening this week tomorrow in
Georgia Thursday or Friday in Louisiana
Secretary of State seats are up
[Music]
meanwhile
Trump having trade talks and presumably
cake with Xi Jinping a major
international climate conference starts
in Poland and will a Democratic House
call for an Jeffrey Epstein
investigation uh maybe not
meanwhile Beck is back never Trump or no
more the blaze in CR TV to merge in
making one powerhouse al lado Mantha V
in a call for civility and shared
humanity it did that literally who did
not take a second thought there was a
new Beck album no no none of that sorry
Beck is now going to be Gavin mcginnises
Patriots and lastly over half of
Americans delay or altogether avoid
health care because of money making
America great again all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen a
lot of news a lot of news today and we
will try and get to some of it I imagine
by midweek we're going to hear even more
news on the Muller front but we have
almost like a almost a 48-hour lull in
in that information as far as I can tell
Donald Trump is in Argentina we will get
to that at the the what is it the g20 20
mutant g20 well I so men it's the great
one out of twenty it's so many so on a
day when I guess the CIA is leaking and
I can't quite this story just continues
to confound me a little bit
one gets the sense that these leaks from
the CIA if they're coming from the CIA
and presumably they are in some fashion
that there is this much and and so
detailed of information maybe it's
coming through the Turkish government
but it seems to be maybe through our
intelligence services the level of
specificity in terms of the information
that we have about MPs directing and
getting reports from the killers that
were sent to chop up a khashoggi to kill
this guy it's pretty extraordinary there
does not seem to be much consternation
in the Bush administration to these
leaks which is odd right I mean this is
around when you would start to hear
Trump administration yeah and they
excuse me the Trump administration you
would imagine the head of the CIA would
be troubled by these leaks if this
wasn't in some way a mechanism in which
to convince Donald Trump to to do
something well so I don't know but but
we'll see meanwhile one of the subjects
of those leaks of course Mohammed bin
Salman the crown prince of Saudi Arabia
he was at the g20 and I don't know how
to describe this I don't know that I've
ever seen two world leaders ever shake
hands like this never mind
I mean this is being cool it's called
having this welcome robbery there's a
handshake between Barack Obama and Kevin
Durant that looks a lot like this yeah I
guess our world leaders don't kill Oh
check this out
this is MBS and Vladimir Putin shaking
hands like they just I don't know like
they just bring the clip the couple of
journalists want to congratulate each
other you don't need to search to
explain that's crazy
[Music]
[Laughter]
we love it now wait I want to go back
and just slow it down a little bit
I want to go down and slow it down a
little bit because you can see Trump in
the background Trump is right there boom
oh those guys are so cool they'd
probably be giving me the same kind of
first you have but the problem is I
don't get to kill journalists wait fair
I'm telling dad guys you think we can we
hang out later maybe can I sit where am
I sitting
can I sit next to them later oh my god
they're so cool that's just bizarre it
really is a little bit bizarre isn't it
is it
nobody isn't it I mean isn't that just
sort of like a bizarre like we won't
unbridled excitement at seeing each
other I mean I don't know I think this
they're just living in the world with a
fascist they're just living in a world
where they can't even like contemplate
that what they're doing is even remotely
like over-the-top they're just like
that's the way we roll it's pretty crazy
people have also been sharing this about
MVS sort of being just walked past and
like a sort of handshake line just
nobody really wants to shake it yes is
like it's fine
literally has blood on his hands you
know he's looking at them and he's going
what is it I'm not here to make friends
let's meanwhile Trump is is at the g20
and really doesn't seem to enjoy it
there's been all sorts of reports that
world leaders are sort of mocking him
behind his back apparently he met with
with Putin sort of casually and yet the
next day Russian media has come out with
all sorts of stories about Trump being a
goof and unclear where he is
and completely lost and you know and and
sort of a clumsy oaf which I imagine
would upset him and so here is Donald
Trump and which one is this is this the
this is the Pena opinion eaten yet or
he's signing with pena nieto and Trudeau
and then the the Mochrie here yeah
mockery is the President of Argentina
okay well which one is okay yeah there's
just the my pick is that is the Trudeau
that's number six yeah okay all right
well let's look at this this is their
signing the the renamed NAFTA with
slight changes mostly just NAFTA again
with TRO a Trudeau and Pena Nieto and
Chris the France that's super funny over
Mr I guess Krista Freeland yeah she's
behind Justin Trudeau and here this is
one of Matt's pics because he likes how
awkward things get from Trump you can
get a sense of what he would be like in
the sort of a high school exam here
social poise who's going first
and then I like Trudeau here cuz he's
the most professional looks up to get
the photo shot and the rest of the guys
don't well it takes
Trump like ten minutes to sign his name
I like how Pena Nieto's looking at him
like wow I've like I'm doing this
version in a way they can't trace me as
if you mix up your signature they can't
trace it for bank fraud alright now here
is Trump and he's meeting who's this the
president of art the president of
Argentina and at the g20 they're hosting
this g20 Trump obviously feels
uncomfortable because he's around other
human beings particularly ones who do
not know longer it appears kiss his ass
they've all basically realized like it
doesn't matter anyways he can't deliver
even when you're buttering him up and so
here is Trump and unfortunately for him
with a hot mic which reveals which we
all know what he was thinking
went the wrong way
he's having anxiety attacks get me out
of here look I got a I got too many
steps my crease I'm alpha lose like
macri's like what's the problem like I'm
- ax stacks in Latinamerica selling off
my country's assets your campaign
contributors what are you can you get a
little bit afraid buy some stairs yeah
dude you're in Glenna sorry it's a very
nice City home of tango like just walk
up a step or two it's okay it's like a
horse if you care if you're a fascism
can't be comfortable in Argentina right
folks
they talked me down here big
corporations are getting rich from
selling your data and Congress has
completely failed to save net neutrality
to protect your privacy or protect your
privacy online now internet providers
and mobile carriers like Comcast and
Verizon are free to restrict websites
spy on your online activity or sell your
browsing history to advertisers but with
one-click expressvpn shields your online
activity from Internet and mobile
providers expressvpn has easy-to-use
apps that run seamlessly in the
background of your computer or phone and
tablet expressvpn secures and anonymizes
your internet browsing by encrypting
your data and hiding your public IP
address get expressvpn protection for
less than seven bucks a month expressvpn
is rated the number one VPN service by
TechRadar comes with a 30-day money-back
guarantee if you ever use public Wi-Fi
and want to keep hackers and spies from
seeing your data expressvpn is the
solution folks this is the way that well
when I'm running a sock puppet campaign
I would use Express VPN but also what
should I of course don't do that but it
there are sites that will not let you
access them because of regions right to
watch things buy things etc etc express
press VPN helps you out with that plus
it just keeps your stuff safe
and you never know it's completely
random people break into your Wi-Fi they
get on your public network on an
airplane wherever it is they can get in
and steal a ton of your data not to
mention the daily just barrage you don't
want to be chased around the internet
because you once looked at like I don't
know like a something on on Amazon like
contemplated buying like a sweater for
somebody and then all of a sudden all
sweater ads show up everywhere this is
the way you do it you can take back your
internet privacy today
find out how three months free simply go
to Express VPN dot-com slash majority
that's Express expr ESS VPN dot-com
slash majority for three months free
with the one-year package visit
expressvpn dot-com slash majority to
learn more folks it is that time of the
year Chanukah still may have time with
Chanukah still may have time but at the
very least you could say give a picture
for Chanukah and then definitely you're
good for Christmas right now gift
shopping for him can seem impossible yes
thankfully Harry's makes long lasting
quality products at a super reasonable
price was set starting at just ten bucks
I think I sent my dad his first Harry's
raver to raise her two years ago for
Chanukah I can't remember now if he
doesn't love it returns a quick and
hassle-free buy but Harry's been one of
our longest term sponsors now you all
heard might you know my favorite razor
is the chrome the molded chrome handle
features of Harry's I like the smaller
blade size and I mean I just like it the
I have to say that like the you know
when you when you hold a nice razor
No you feel this like fine cutlery
exactly as a special offer for fans of
this show we partnered with Harry's to
give you five bucks off any shave set
including our limited edition holiday
sets when you go to harrys.com slash
majority report plus you'll get free
shipping the offer is for new and
returning customers it's only available
for the holidays generally what they do
is is give a break on new customers but
this is for everybody
each Harry shaving set comes with an
ergonomic weighted handle with an option
to engrave that's a nice gift
german-engineered five blade cartridges
that provide a close comfortable shave
foaming shave gel for rich lather a
travel cover to protect your blades a
handsome holiday gift box or you can get
something for yourself redeem a Harry's
trial offer to experience the quality of
shave before committing get your holiday
shopping done early
free shipping ends on December 12th so
act now go to harrys.com slash majority
report to get five bucks off a shave set
while supplies last
that's harrys.com slash majority report
all right quick break when we come back
Marcy wheeler
you
we are back Sam cedar on the phone it is
a pleasure to welcome back to the
program journalist proprietor of empty
wheel net author of anatomy of deceit
how the Bush administration used the
media to sell the Iraq war and out a spy
Marcy wheeler welcome back to the
program thanks for having me alright so
a lot of activity last week let's start
first with the collapse of the mana Ford
plea deal Wow broadly characterized it
that that sort of collapse I guess and
what the implications are whoa collapse
I mean it was built by Muller what's
that if mana Ford continued to act like
he's been acting from the start he would
probably get some some advantages of it
in any case so there are two questions
why didn't mana fork cooperate and where
does that leave Muller the why didn't he
cooperate two possible answers one is
he's compulsive liar which he is
you know like remember that the whole
way through the prosecution both of
these prosecutions he was continuing to
reach out to his GRU contact or his his
constant n columnist has been accused of
having ties to GRU and that is according
to The Wall Street Journal one of the
things he's not telling the truth about
so he continues to act like he has been
acting it may also be that he is
continuing to pursue a pardon that you
know certainly Trump seems to think he's
continuing to float a pardon for him and
that part of getting a pardon is staying
in good with Trump and refusing to tell
the truth about Trump so that may be why
collapsed but what's interesting is
again Muller
seemed to expect that something like
this might happen and so on Friday he is
going Friday if not before he
is going to submit a report laying out
some of the lies that that mana foretold
which by definition are going to tell us
both what-what mana fort and possibly
even Trump finds to be the most
sensitive information and also at least
some hint of what kind of proof what
kind of proof that Muller has that he is
lying okay all right so let me just see
if I have this straight they they they
have a deal where mana Ford is supposed
to provide all sorts of information it
becomes clear to to Muller that mana
Ford is not providing that information
let's just start with the timing like it
what I mean presumably right it's not
we're not talking just mana for tells
one lie and it didn't just happen you
know last Sunday
mana Ford has been telling a series of
lies right about theoretically about
ongoing behavior or better past behavior
what does the timing of Muller saying
like okay now we've decided you've told
enough lies like I mean what yeah like
what what do you what do you think
triggered that yeah so mana four men
were entered this plea agreement on
September 14th so that basically the day
before tadeasi trial was about to begin
which meant that rather than have the
entire election pre-election period
focused on Trump's criminal campaign
manager instead that kind of disappeared
and went quiet for a while over the
course of the next several weeks
metaphoric met depending on which new
source you which you follow he met with
him either 9 or 12 times supposedly
sharing information right before so
right up for the election that's when
the first status report is due so from
the beginning the judge had said okay
let me hear back from you in two months
the night before that would
do both sides but it was Muller because
you know Muller was the one running
running the plea agreement both sides
said hey we need 10 more days and in
that 10-day period we know that the day
they asked for 10 days is a day that
trump was originally going to hand in
his open book test answers tomorrow and
that the 10-day period in that 10 day
period Trump actually did so Muller gets
the answers to Trump's up and book tests
and then says up mana Ford's been lying
and I've argued that it is possible I
mean I don't people have misinterpreted
what I have said I don't think that
Muller entered the plea agreement not
believing that Manafort could plead his
way cooperate his way out of these
criminal charges I'm sure he did that in
good faith but I'm sure you know but
it's clear that he'd built it so that he
had protection if mana fort continued to
act like manna fort had been the the
timing question that the short version
of the time in question is through that
entire period mana for and Trump
continued to compare notes and if Trump
filled out his open book test it's there
they're called interrogatories but I
call it an open book test because that's
really what it is if they compared notes
through that through the time the Trump
was doing his open book test and
believed that they had settled on a
cover story then by waiting until he had
Trump's answers then he may have both
metaphor and Trump telling the same lies
now Trump's lawyers didn't know and
Manta forts lawyers didn't know before
he finally turned in his open book test
that that Muller had had deemed metaphor
uncooperative but nevertheless there is
a for example somebody who's probably
Rudy Giuliani speaking off-the-record
has already said yeah Trump's answers
matched Manta forts on questions like
did trunk know about the June 9th
meeting ahead of time
so this might be something Sam that will
learn on Friday it might be that mullah
will submit this report on Friday and
said mana for claimed the Trump did not
know about the June 9th meeting either
ahead of time or even after it happened
and here are some emails that we have
that show that he did and that mana Ford
is lying and that oh by the way Trump
just lied in his open book test so that
could be something that happens on
Friday okay so did demented Muller know
that mana fort and Trump still had this
joint defense agreement during the time
where mana fort was supposedly you know
planning to cooperate and is that weird
like would you like wouldn't you as a
prosecutor be like oh and incidentally
yeah you can't you you have to end your
relationship with one of the guys we may
be investigating because I don't want
them to know what we know yeah so again
you know Moeller built this plea
agreement i assume very consciously the
guy is not flying off the handle here
and so unlike ricketts's defense unlike
rare cases plea agreement which included
a gag so rick gates is not allowed to go
blabbing about what he's telling to the
prosecutor mana ports did not include
that so technically he was not
prohibited from sharing that information
and at least one lawyer argues the DOJ
has a specific regulation saying you
can't force somebody out of a joint
defense agreement if they're entering
into a plea agreement and contrary to
what you might read in credulous
reporting in the New York Times that was
not discovered after the fact the day
that that metaphor 22 his plea agreement
Rudy Giuliani was out there saying hey
we know about this we're cool with it
he's not going to cooperate against
Trump
there was another Politico report about
midway through making it clear that that
that Kevin downing who is metaphors
lawyer continued to check in with Rudy
Giuliani so unless Muller and his all
his lawyers and his press staff
we're hiding under the bed or something
yeah they knew about it they knew this
was ongoing and I only assumed that they
were then being very careful about
showing man afford the evidence that
they had collected in other words you
know it may have been and I wrote this
post about halfway through saying you
know who's paying kevin downing who's
paying metaphore lawyers to be a mole
for for Donald Trump it may have been
that molars prosecutors were very
careful to say are you sure that Donald
Trump didn't know about that June 9th
meeting without saying by the way here's
your emails making it clear that he did
right that's hypothetical not saying I
know that that to be the case but we
know for example that that that the
Trump people avoided handing over emails
involving metaphor on the June 9th
meeting so it's one of the things that's
quite possible is is it possible that
man that Muller was also giving sort of
fake information to manna fort like
here's our map here's our plate hook
we're gonna do an end sweep against the
Patriots no not like that
no I mean it just um you know it'd be
cool to be that but that's completely
inconsistent with everything we know
about Mahler I mean okay so he's not
saying like he's not a cent giving
information that manna fort would tell
or that manna forts lawyer would then
tell the White House and the White House
would write that in there what you call
open book test it comes back to manna
for and he's like wow I can really see
this I just you know this was like
barium I just ran through the system to
see where it went you know I mean it
might be that I just I you know I have
been going back to you know 2004 I've
been critical of robert muller when he
deserves it but that's not the kind of
thing I expect out of robert muller i I
think it more likely that he would do
something like say like show you know
just
Oh mana for an email and say so you're
sure that this email doesn't indicate
any knowledge of the genius meeting and
not show you know this is not it is not
alive bye-bye silence if they you know
they're they're not obliged to say look
we've got seven pieces of evidence
showing that you did meet with Trump
about this meeting ahead of time he
doesn't have to show him that right and
presumably didn't that's that I think
falls short and this is why I'm trying
to be really clear about this because a
lot of right-wingers took what I argued
and said oh this is a trap it's not a
trap it's just you know Muller was under
no obligation to share everything he
knew with Paul Manafort
and given the response to the report
last week in the hearing last week I
suspect that's what happened that he
didn't share that he had I mean the same
thing happened to him back in June when
when Muller caught manna fort witness
tampering and he caught him back in
April right so it back in April he was
following as metaphor it was going out
to these people who were going to be
witnesses in this trial and saying you
know just so you know here's what the
cover story is I suspect it's very
similar to that that you know Muller
found the evidence collected the
evidence backed up the evidence and
didn't share it with manna fort until
such time as it was too late for manna
fork to get out of it and I suspect that
we're going to see something similar on
Friday if we don't see a charges in
between now and then okay and but no
like oh here here we have you know we
yeah okay so no fake stories that could
get communicated back as a way of
indicating that they were passing that
information no I wouldn't even need to
do that I mean I you know that my say
first of all if manna for has been so
obtuse about the many ways she's been
caught in ongoing law breaking since
he's been under indictment that I don't
think it would take it
you know and and and none of the people
around Donald Trump are at all
intelligent about this stuff
but I just I also there is ZERO
possibility that that Muller's team is
going to shade it all on the wrong side
of bad faith when you're dealing with
the president I don't think any
prosecutor would and so I I don't think
it would amount to an outright lies just
remind people who kill Nick is I mean
I'm not pronouncing his name right but
this is a man affords a friend contact
longtime business associate what a
longtime business associate so he is a
guy who Rick Gates is on the record told
the prosecutors that he knew was a
former GRU officer so GRU is the Russian
in Russian military intelligence they're
the guys who hacked the DNC so it just
so happens the Paul Manafort the guy who
was working for free that's in scare
quotes for Donald Trump during his
campaign one of his longest term
business associates also happened to be
a former geo gru officer the same
intelligence group that hacked Hillary
Clinton and they have maintained they
have continued to be in touch or at
least were through June throughout the
time that that manna fort was under
indictment and we know according to The
Wall Street Journal one of the questions
that manna for purportedly lied about is
whether after being fired by Trump in
August of 2016 he went on a yacht trip
with Tom Barak who's the guy who got him
hired in the first place and it's a huge
Trump donor and they met up with
Constance in clinics there and and
there's a bunch of reasons to believe
that constant constant in columbic it
was basically serving as a go-between
between manna for and Oleg Deripaska and
a bunch of other Russian oligarch
so so the the key Avenue of influence
between the people who hacked Larry
Clinton and the Trump campaign or one of
the key
would be right through that dude and
that is one of the things according the
Wall Street Journal that that metaphor
was lying about when if he lied he was
going to go to prison for maybe the rest
of his life um and so that's what he did
was according to I mean that's at least
what Muller claims he lied
so on Friday we're gonna hear or by
Friday we're gonna hear at least a lot
more to this story about manna fort this
is Muller basically saying to the judge
here's why
here's what he lied about the judge
makes essentially a finding of fact
right like that okay here are the facts
as you lay it out Muller and here is the
the deposition that or the interview
that you had with Manta for it so it is
clear that he's lying what are the
implications of what Muller is going to
say and the judge making some type of
finding of fact is that fact like what
what is the durability of those findings
or the is it just limited to this case
with man afford it well okay I talked
about how in June Muller caught manta
for witness tampering
there it was it was a similar kind of
event where he said whoa something's
going on and I'm gonna I'm gonna submit
a report to you on Friday and by the
time that Friday the Friday in June
rolled around he had indicted men of
work for those lies and I wouldn't rule
out that happening here because if he
means if he indict smen afford for those
lies and possibly for you know the
conspiracy and cheats the conspiracy
with Russians in chief if he indict
if the indictment afford for those then
the probable cause that a grand jury
would find the probable cause that he
committed those crimes would be far
beyond what the judge in this case has
to has to reach because the way the plea
agreement was set up again in
distinction from Rick gates where the
the standard of evidence to declare him
breaking the plea agreement there was
preponderance of evidence in in
man court case it's just good faith so
it's a really low bar that Muller has to
reach in this report on Friday to be
able to claim that that metaphor was
lying but I don't rule out the
possibility because he's done it in the
past that rather than give any berman
jackson the judge in this case the
headache of having to you know say okay
you lied and you're going to prison for
the rest your life they can just you
know indict it and then she doesn't have
to make that decision you know any any
judgment on her cases is done and there
are reasons they might want to do that
so i leave that as a possibility okay
I'm sorry
just to be clear the so the indictment
could be submitted to the judge and then
the judge says okay fair enough
he the indictment indicates that he he
breached his agreement right they would
still have to go through a court order
right they would still have to be some
process beyond the indictment but the
indictment would take care of all the
sort of like decision making process or
I guess assessment process right right
right in any case I mean the standard
here is really low if if they don't do
that then they'll submit a report man
forth lawyers will stall and hopes I
guess that that the president will
pardon him in the interim period or
something you know maybe that Muller
will get fired and interim who knows
and then they'll respond and eventually
and again because the standard is really
low here and I can't imagine that that
similar crowd doesn't have their ducks
in order eventually Jackson amy berman
jackson would would rule for muller and
then what happens then is i mean first
of all the stuff that's already in place
it continues so they made a plea
agreement and the plea agreement allowed
them to seize 46 million dollars of Paul
metaphores ill-gotten Goods and that's
all been processing well this has gone
on so and there's only a challenge to 13
million of that so so already what has
happened since mana port made that plea
agreement and failed to abide by it is
that some
thing in the order of 33 million dollars
of his property
is either already husband or as well
down the road of being taken away and
put in the US Treasury and oh by the way
that pretty much pays for the entire
Moeller investigation by itself does man
afford it huh does he have more you know
no he shouldn't
it took him it took him six months to
figure to find enough liquid and legal
assets to be able to get bail so he
can't have that much more in the United
States in legal form but there's you
know he is the this notion that he's
going to get a plea agreement and that's
better I mean he's going to get a
partner in that's better than whatever
he's got in front of him strongly
suggests yeah I mean that only makes
sense if he's got another option and you
know the other option may be that in but
I said I've been you know hypothetical
again one of the things that man afford
allegedly lied about prosecutors is
payments from lobbying and Ukraine so my
guess is one of the things that we're
going to learn on Friday if not before
is that he's been hiding say another
hundred million dollars of ill-gotten
Goods and Cyprus or something like that
and Muller is going to say here's all
the money that you've been hiding and
still is you know that you're not let me
charge you with another hundred million
dollars of tax evasion charges how about
that as a way to kind of read up the
pressure on on manifold I mean that's
one thing that could happen in the next
week or the next for awhile but if my
guess is yeah my guess is that he
continues to hide wealth outside of the
country and therefore by lying about it
that also means he's evaded taxes and
then could be charged again for those so
what do you think it's been the game
here with manna for me broadly speaking
like he just he thought he could get
away with this or do you think I mean
I've heard the theory that the idea is
like he didn't have to pay for
lawyer or I should say a lawyer
litigating these cases
he took the plea deal it falls apart but
it's basically a punt and the further
down the road he can get without
expending money he just waits for
Trump's pardon or is it just a just an
enormous amount of of hubris that I
suppose is you know not particularly
unwarranted these guys got away with
this stuff for decades it feels like and
you know never anticipated that they'd
be scrutinized in this way but which
what is it do you think both but I mean
there's no way you continue the DPA that
the JPA the joint the joint defense
agreement the JD a without expecting a
pardon I mean what you're doing through
that whole process is again I've used
this term serving as a mole inside the
Malheur investigation reporting back to
trump and that may have been useful for
Muller in that lead-up to the to the
elections to kind of get you know kind
of placate Trump and get him to turn
back in his open book test and start
moving forward on the resolution of this
whole thing but you know that the thing
is that you know 90% of the lawyers you
see on cable are talking about normal
legal proceedings probably 95 percent
probably 99% and normal legal
proceedings involve defense defendants
who maybe down the road might imagine
getting some kind of clemency but Paul
Manafort is a guy who every action he's
taken seems to be premise on his best
option being getting the presidential
partner I there are still questions
about that I mean he is liable to be
charged in Virginia and New York for tax
evasion because if you've evaded taxes
at federal level you've done so at the
state level as well and Trump can't
pardon those and those jails those
prisons state prisons are far less
accommodating to a guy with the
lifestyle of Paul metaphor right
and you know it may be that he avoids
Virginia it may be that he does he spent
the rest of his life in Club fed or in a
Virginia state prison if I weren't Paul
metaphor I would choose the former but
but again you know there are no there
doesn't he know that I mean doesn't it
doesn't he look at this and say doesn't
his attorneys say like look there are
all sorts of state charges that they can
bring that theoretically Donald Trump
can't touch you know Tish James in New
York is not going to be is not gonna you
know she's gonna build her career on the
opportunity to prosecute you or you know
I would imagine the same with all these
state AG's like this is this is not
something I've not Florida not Florida
yeah this James could build her career
by making sure that metaphor does the
rest of his life in prison and therefore
it is unreasonable to assume that a
pardon is gonna fix all of metaphors
ills but nevertheless you can you know
there's there's no good legal background
for these people and and most of these
people I mean it was funny and when
Michael Cohen submitted his sentencing
memorandum last week so many people
who've been following this case just led
up this collective sigh of relief
because finally we're seeing competent
lawyer but like all of these people
Trump especially but including I mean
metaphor doesn't have the best lawyers
in the world and and he's a terrible
client I mean I wouldn't want to work
for him which is why people don't want
to work for him or for Trump and so you
know it could be that if a really
confident defense attorney were advising
manna fort they would have cooperated
already is refused it right but but it's
this is the crazy thing about the story
is that you can't make reliable analysis
when the pardon is on the table and has
been from the start and when the lawyers
really aren't up to the job on you know
not it's not universally true but it's
it's true of a lot of these defendants
it's a little bit like trying to predict
monkeys
playing chess on some level they're just
not necessarily making rational
decisions because they don't they're not
gonna pick the moves that every every
skilled chess player knows because
they're monkeys playing chess
oh good I think so
so Cohen is he what that later in the
week Cohen goes in and says yeah I also
I lied to Congress what are the
implications of Cohen lying to Congress
the implications of Cohen lying to
Congress are that Muller used it as an
opportunity to write up nine pages
making it clear that the Trump Tower
deal that that Cohen allegedly stopped
pursuing in January of 2016
actually went through at least June of
2016 and according to BuzzFeed reporting
went through at least July of 2016 and
according to other reporting went
through the inauguration so in other
words for a legal standpoint it's
nothing I mean from a legal standpoint
charged with what Cohen was already
charged with in New York being charged
with an additional account of lying
really isn't going to add to his prison
time it's just not but what it did is it
means he's going to have two prosecutors
who sometime this week will say you know
what he's been pretty helpful going
after these criminal organizations that
all by the way name our names Trump he's
been pretty helpful for us and so you're
gonna have Muller say that as well as
the Manhattan prosecutors who helped who
charged him for helping Trump hide the
stormy Daniels story during the campaign
with the involvement of Trump
Organization right but but it you know
as I said like people keep talking about
this this kind of fantastic report that
Muller has been writing all this time
and I keep saying look the report is
right there out there in the open and
this is another example of it Muller has
just laid out evidence
at that Trump was considering working
with a GRU this is the same military
military intelligence again a GRU tide
bank to build the biggest hotel in
Moscow in the same period when his son
who by the way is an executive of Trump
Organization and was in the loop on
these negotiations took a meeting saying
this is part of the package that Russia
is offering your dad as part of election
year assistance and so that dramatically
changes the connotation of that email
that that Rob Goldstone sent to Don jr.
because given that Don Jr knew that
there was something to be gained in the
form of a you know of a big new
licensing agreement in Moscow that they
had been changing for a decade right
given the done jr. knew that that was on
the table him accepting that meeting
that June 9th meeting is dramatically
different even before you get into the
fact that Muller included in that in in
that story that he told about Cohen that
that asked for the June 9th meeting or
the day of the June 9th meeting Cohen
Cohen basically made plenty of
reservations to go to st. Petersburg as
if he was acting on having reached an
agreement and then on June 14 he
canceled this plane reservation as if
responding to the public news that the
the disclosure that got the DNC knew
that they had been hacked by the GRU so
so that's a dramatic part of the story
that that Muller used Cohen's
cooperation to tell and he still got
Cohen on I mean one of the things he
didn't do he's not doing is he's not yet
your cooperation has been substantial
enough we think that you should get no
time even though Cohen is asking for
that that we think you should get no
time for your for all your other crimes
Cohen's gonna have to keep going back to
Miller's office and telling in more the
store and and presumably there's a lot
more right I mean like maybe not
even like Cohen's been his lawyer for
over a dozen years and I gotta think
that it's not just I did illegal
payments for one one particular you know
adult actress and also just lied about
one real estate deal like presumably
Cohen did a lot of stuff right yeah yeah
the caller was involved in the loop
some other dodgy deals with people in
the neighborhood of the former Soviet
Union there's a Kazakh group that in
particular people had pointed to his
involvement is so he he's been involved
in these corrupt negotiations in the
past so that presumably is one of the
things he's been talking about he in
2011 is the guy who set up the dark
money group that basically funneled
Trump Organization money into a
presidential Investigative Committee for
Trump that was illegal but Don McGann
when he was an FEC Commissioner kind of
said we're not going to prosecute that
so but Cohen was involved in that which
was the moment by the way that that the
world's knew that Donald Trump wanted to
become president and included in that
world are the Russians right so so he
was involved there and he was also
involved in the 2013 meetings to set up
the Miss Universe contest in Moscow and
arasaka Lara meeting his people in the
aftermath of that becoming clear we're
sort of like whoa Michael Cohen knows us
and so there's a backstory there that
I'm sure he's explained smaller as well
and then Cohen was also you know what we
people don't talk enough about this man
but Cohen and Eliot variety who is about
to get a whole in a whole heap of legal
trouble with this money-laundering thing
tied to Malaysia
all right just clear Eliot Brody is the
other Republican big Republican donor
who
supposedly was Cohen's only other client
besides Sean Hannity who broidy had
Cohen supposedly pay off another
would-be mistress right on his behalf
supposed on his behalf but there's a lot
of reason to believe it might have been
a trump but they were cold fundraising
chairs for the RNC and remain such I
mean Cohen remains that's a really long
time and he was kind of self-healing as
part of that so calling is there through
the self-healing of the RNC Cullen is
there through the inauguration and he's
self-dealing off of that as well so you
know the inauguration is a giant
pay-to-play
and one of the things another plea
agreement makes clear is that this
Constantine clinic guy was buying
tickets from the inauguration through
straw donors so this isn't it this is an
instance after Trump has gotten elected
we're suspected gru the guys who hacked
Hillary Clinton is hiding the fact that
he's dumping money into Trump's pocket
after he's won the election so we got
before middle and after with this
relationship with the GRU and Cowan is
aware of all of that and theoretically
he's wetting his beak I felt like I had
to say that in the context of this right
I mean he's you know there's a lot he's
got to chat with and I mean in this
explains I mean one of the things that's
really important to remember so when he
was raided back in April
Trump flipped out Trump really flipped
out that's when he said I'm not going to
cooperate with Muller any more this is
beyond the pale you're going into my
business dealings what he knew and he
said that red line about Muller
investigating his business dealings to
start is that he was going to find stuff
like this including the Trump Tower deal
but what happened in April is that he
got to see what the Manhattan
prosecutors had seized from Cohen
so unlike manna for like he doesn't know
what prosecutors got from metaphores
condo back in July of 2017
but he does know what prosecutors got
from Cohen's condo in April of 2018 and
so at first he was
oh my gosh you're going after my
personal lawyer this is the worst thing
this is the worst thing about two weeks
into that process he was like he's dead
to me and that he's dead to me line
probably came around the time where he
discovered that Cohen had been recording
him in these conversations right and
that probably is when their relationship
started like he was gonna buy off poen
up until that point he was gonna pardon
town and it was all gonna blow over and
because Trump cares more about loyalty
than sanity as soon as he realized that
Cohen had protected himself then I think
Trump caught him off and that's why
we've got the plea deal with Cohen and
and things are beginning to spin out of
control for Trump because he he you know
he's the thing is he's not a competent
corrupt man right he's gotten away with
it up until now but he like I said
that's really early on pardoning or not
pardoning he didn't get a pardon until
Trump came along commuting scooter
Libby's sentence is how George Bush and
Dick Cheney managed to minimize the
damage of outing Valerie Plame's and it
really I mean and it was a very delicate
implementation of preventing him from
flipping on Dick Cheney and and and as
it became clear the Trump was trying to
do this I said you know I just don't
think there's anybody in his universe
that is competent enough to pull off
what George Bush and Dick Cheney pulled
up ain't going to happen and everything
we've seen thus far says that that's
true we'll see whether he can manage to
keep metaphoric quiet but it may be too
late I mean it may be that Muller
doesn't need metaphor might like him you
know might like him for the
counterintelligence investigation to
know more about the Russian intelligence
collection on Americans but but
certainly it didn't work with Cohen okay
let's talk about jerome corsi
drum course she seems to be sort of a
late entry right I mean we have it I
feel like his name just sort of came out
of nowhere like two or three weeks ago
way back when Muller's when the FBI
stopped this guy named ted mallet who's
who has worked with Corsi as he was
flying into the country into Logan
Airport back in March one of the first
things Malick did was call course and he
made it clear to Corsi that the FBI was
asking him about Corsi so if you were
paying really close attention you would
have known in March that course he was
going to be in in in Muller scope it
just took a long time for him to get
there you know he went and interviewed
every other Roger stone potential source
for ties to WikiLeaks and then in late
August served Corsa with the subpoena
and and of course there was a lot of
back-and-forth Corsi says that he and in
stone created a cover story back in
August 2015 right like I'm going to
write a post today or tomorrow laying
out how they've got like Russian dolls
set of cover stories that they are
protecting together course in stone but
that those those Russian dolls with
cover stories they start in August 2016
well before there's any investigation is
this stone did something Andy and after
he did that whatever he went to core
since of course you need to help me
build a cover story only they didn't do
it very competently and one of the
things of course he did before his
relationship with Muller blew up is
under immunity
testified to the grand jury that that he
and he and stone had been working on
cover story since August of 2016
about this source of information that
they knew and I've I've laid out why I
believe even the public record shows
that they not only knew that Podesta's
emails were going to come out but they
knew that the content of Podesta's
emails were going to support an attack
they were already making against Podesta
in August 20 2016 so that's where we're
gonna go I don't know when we get there
but that's where we're gonna go the
story that came out last week in The
Guardian it's been sort of even the
Guardian itself has sort of rewritten it
is to be a lot more conditioned and
qualified I guess but the story was that
man afford the is supposedly visited
Julian Assange in the Ecuadorian Embassy
starting I think in 2013 and as late as
March of 2000 or August of 2016
and so what what do you make of that
story and is that I mean what's your
assessment of that story and what would
be the implications if it's if if it's
true I'm what other like 20 people right
left and center Pro anti and neutral on
Assange who doesn't think that story
holds up there is a part of the story
that is documented and that is sometime
in May or June or July of 2017 mana fort
was in Ecuador allegedly setting up a
Chinese business deal but there's reason
to believe that he may have been trying
to intervene on behalf of Assange so
that's that's been out there for a long
time and that is confirmed what seems to
have happened is there's this whole
other allegation that mana fort was you
know bopping into for visits with Julian
Assange and there might be a nugget of
truth to that I mean one of the things
that is important for people to know is
that this guy named Adam Waldman who was
kind of a he's a lawyer but he was
mostly just doing lobbying for old
Deripaska who is one of the oligarchs
who owns Paul Manafort he also was doing
some work for Julian Assange in 2017
trying to get him up basically trying to
get him a pardon and so Oleg Deripaska
so old Deripaska has ties to both Pathan
and Manafort in interesting ways in ways
that may have to do with the Steele
dossier as well
Christopher Steele did some work for
Deripaska as well did Munich Deripaska
with a source for him so so that
universe of people all kind of comes
together so it's not unreasonable it's
just
that there might be ties it through that
network but the notion that Paul
Manafort was able to walk into the
Ecuadorian Embassy and visit Julian
Assange without getting picked up either
by the visitor logs which have already
been released or by some no longer
friendly to Julian Assange staffers who
we have leaked it long ago you know is
hard to believe yeah
yes I mean that's the thing is is
there's just so much so many kinds of
surveillance going on on the embassy and
man ports operational security stinks so
the the notion that he'd be able to kind
of clandestinely sneak into the embassy
and go visit with Julian Assange I don't
find that believable there was also a
line in that Guardian story that talked
about what man áfourá was wearing on one
day which I thought was very odd no the
implication being that we have a video
of him right I mean that's what that is
saying but who would have that video and
who would have leaked that information
was that is that more just sort of like
an Ecuadorian you know manna for being
used in the context of an Ecuadorian
fight or was there was that supposed to
be some type of rat F or a you know to
sort of say like oh look at how crazy
people are getting with all these crazy
ideas about manna for it or was it
supposed to be some type of metaphor I
think I think it's possible it's
disinformation it's possible a number of
people who are real close to the osorno
that part of the story goes back to
Ecuadorian intelligence and and the kind
of mainstream Ecuadorian intelligence
hates Assange they've got reason to want
to burn Assange so it could be that but
there is a big battle with in Ecuador
right now about whether or not Assange
is going to be booted from the embassy
and it it also wouldn't surprise me if
some of the people thinking that that
Ecuador needs to continue to respect the
aside
claim of julian assange it wouldn't
surprise me if they released that that
as disinformation to undermine you know
the case that hasan should be booted and
extradited to the united states the
funny thing about the claim about what
he was wearing is that you know this is
a guy who wears ostrich skin jackets
right he is not a sloppy dresser and
they described him as walking in and she
knows and it's like we've got Paul
Manafort you know it's not Paul Manafort
because he would not be caught dead in
London not wearing a full suit not going
to happen just on the sort of the
metaphorical standpoint do you what what
do you mean I'm asking you to speculate
here but what do you think the chances
are that that Assange was in direct
contact with someone like manna fort in
some fashion or I mean I guess stone and
course he maybe we already know they are
but what's your what's your Sonnen
course your indirectly in touch with
Assange there's still something about
the Moller story that is gonna be a big
reveal I don't know what it is but
because it's because it's simply not
against the law to speak to roots of her
2.0 tons of people did it right or to
Assange
tons of people did that to he's not yet
you know Muller is not yet indicted
Kennedy and Kennedy and I Canidae went
at a very interesting time by the way to
the embassy to go meet with Assange and
and I don't doubt that he served as a
cutout between Trump and Assange when he
did that but thus far we haven't heard
that Hannity is being investigated for
doing that so there has to be something
more and I suspect when we learn what it
is it's going to be a big reveal but but
but we don't know what it is and so it's
it's going to be more than just that
jerome corsi worked through go-betweens
to figure out when and as i said sam i
think the public record solidly backs
and
that they not only knew that nested
emails were coming they knew
specifically what some of the content
was because it's clear they anticipated
it and it's clear that on October 6 2016
your own course he knew that it was
coming and so so they had to have known
ahead of time the question is how and
whether that amount surprise okay so
going forward what which what should we
be looking for I mean obviously in the
next couple of days
Muller's gonna file something that will
or maybe roll out another indictment of
manna fort but either way it will be
some mechanism in which to present to
the court that man afford his lied he's
broken his plea agreement and now we're
gonna send him to jail for a long long
time what's the what's what's next do
you think one thing we know is next is
the sentencing submissions for Mike
Flynn are going to be submitted and what
are the implications of that I mean so
Flynn knows he's going to prison he
finds out how long he's going to prison
and what would present he may avoid for
them how would he do they may avoid
prison well because he was only charged
with false statements so he would have
the same range as Papadopoulos to begin
with
and unlike Papadopoulos we have every
reason to believe he did cooperate and
provide valuable information so I would
expect that unless there's gonna be
another surprise like there was with
Papadopoulos Advanta fort where we
learned he wasn't cooperating I would
suspect that what we're going to learn
is we're going to get a submission from
Muller scheme that says you know in
traditional fashion it would say he
provided substantial cooperation we
think that he should just do probation
and that's that maybe them that maybe
what that may be the default to expect
but Muller has never not used these
opportunities to tell a story so I would
expect at a minimum we're going to we're
going to get a story that says you know
when explained how in the transition
period Donald Trump worked with the
Russians to
to promise the Russians that he was
going to overturn sanctions and and
Flynn told us that that was part of a
payoff for a deal I mean that's the kind
of thing that we might get next week in
conjunction with with the Flint
sentencing memo so Muller is basically
like releasing chapters of his book as
essentially not necessarily in serial
form but you know here's Chapter three
here's chapter 27 here's chapter 17
basically just leaving it at different
courthouses yeah yeah and and and that's
what I mean you know there has been so
much conversation about this report that
Muller is eventually going to release
most of that came from Rudy Giuliani
Rudy Giuliani has fooled himself into
believing that this thing ends with a
report comes out and Melissa as well I
wanted to charge Don jr. but I really
couldn't get enough evidence and and I'm
you know I imagine that Miller allowed
him to believe that it is in fact the
case that Muller is required to submit a
report right now it'll go to Matt
Whittaker that kind of hatchet job ad
that that Trump installed but everything
we've seen over the course of this from
the very first plea agreement with
George papadopolis has made it clear
that Muller wants to tell his stories in
these charging documents and unless he's
fired tomorrow I would expect that to
continue interesting
and lastly Marcy do you think that the
idea of building that Trump Tower and
Russia is is enough does that provide
some type of like motive I mean is that
you know is that the do you think that's
the operative theory that the that to
the extent that Trump you know was was
looking for that was part of the quid
pro quo I guess it was part of it I
don't think I'm sure it was not all of
it and when you get to the special
meeting in January of 2017 there were
other things on offer so it wasn't just
the term power ever
around Trump was gonna get rich by
having sold out the country and you know
the place where the plan started falling
apart and the only place where the plan
started following part women Donald
Trump actually getting elected right so
Donald Trump probably assumed he signed
up in May of 2016 for yes I'm happy to
accept a Trump Tower deal in Moscow when
I've been chasing for ten years with the
understanding that I'm gonna beat up
relentlessly on Hillary Clinton which I
was going to do anyway but I'm going to
focus on the emails I'm gonna make the
emails that you are releasing into
something much bigger than they are I'm
gonna make them a cornerstone of my
campaign which of course she did right
and that was I think what Donald Trump
signed up for in May of 2016 in June of
2016 when they took that Trump Tower
meeting but the June 9th meeting right
and he was happy to make promises that
he would get rid of sanctions he was
happy to make promises we did work with
Russia in Syria and Ukraine because he
didn't think he was going to win right
so um anyone and that's when things
started going haywire because having won
all of a sudden there was a lot more
scrutiny on this and he thought it you
know he bought in the first two months
as president that he would be in a
position to kill the investigation into
how he got elected and thus far it
hasn't worked out that way so so if I
understand you correctly it's possible
that Trump thought the Hillary Clinton
you know Oppo research that he was
getting was not necessarily a get for
him that was a give that like yeah you
give me you give me that material and
I'm gonna broadcast it for you in return
we're all gonna make a ton of money and
I would imagine too that when we talk
about the sea sales that meeting was not
just about Russia was also about the
Saudis right in the UAE then and the
Israel so so I mean we're really looking
at you know just a you know sort of a at
some type of network deal where it's
just like ya know I'll broadcast this
material
for you he didn't think it was gonna
help him win necessarily he thought he
was doing them a favor by get by
weakening the next president for their
for them well I think he was willing to
do it because that's what he's always
done I mean you know that's that's what
he's been he's been a troll and that's
what a troll just won the presidency but
what's interesting one of the you know I
talked a lot about Muller's speaking
indictments when when mana for accepted
a plea deal more release forty pages of
evidence and the evidence all had to do
with how how mana fort worked with
Yanukovych the Ukrainian president right
and part of that was the campaign
against Timoshenko against his opponents
and the things he did against to beat
Timoshenko into and to kill to kill
Timoshenko's career afterwards all
parallel what mana part was doing for
Hillary Clinton doing against Hillary
Clinton down to accusing her upon like
the lock her up chant goes back to
Ukraine
when Manafort was working for Yanukovych
and so I suspect when the full story is
told molar wants to show that the 2016
election is just a repeat for metaphor
hoe stuff he did before and so to the
extent that Trump hired and bought into
the way that mana fort was going to run
the campaign he bought into running a
campaign the same way that a Ukrainian
Russian backed oligarch would which is
what he is he's a Russian back dollar
car right so that's the story that we're
eventually gonna get and so I think it
was you know like the biggest problem
with the story like I think you're right
did he think he was doing Russia a favor
did he think it was a gift from Russia I
think it's both and I think that I think
Muller certainly is moving towards a
conspiracy case where the terms of this
deal are laid out but but it's not a
traditional quid pro quo because they're
both in bed together I mean everyone's
benefiting if you the base American
democracy
by running a presidential campaign like
Trump did Trump was willing to do it but
that suit Trump is the Russians that was
a win-win-win for the Russians until
Trump proved unable to ditch the legal
investigation Marcy wheeler
always a pleasure the blog is empty Weil
dotnet thank you so much for your time
today fascinating stuff thank you take
care bye bye
there you go win win win win it's all
coming home now that's fascinating I
never really occurred to me to look at
it that way that it was like yeah I get
something to talk about this is when
wind I get you want me to weaken Hillary
Clinton and I had nothing to talk about
during the election anyway so now I get
through everybody except for Hillary
it's just like that time where those
girls who love to pee on guys came over
to came over to the hotel room and I was
like yeah you can pee on me and do that
you love to do and I want it it's also
like the guy who called Hillary a dog
who is just a great lioness who's
working for who here it doesn't matter
we're all getting paid it's not
voluntary anyway
do what you love and you'll never work a
day in your life there you're getting
called free association all right folks
speaking of which it is your support
that makes this show possible who's
getting paid here I don't know this is a
win-win-win for all of us as long as we
use the cops don't find out we're all
gonna be good you can become a member at
join the majority report dot-com join
the majority report calm when you become
a member for just a couple bucks a week
you support the free show every day and
then we say thank you by giving you the
fun half ladies and gentlemen also what
your membership dollars do they support
the upgrading of equipment working on a
system to get higher quality audio
interviews
we're working on a system where
occasionally we'll be able to do video
interviews as well pajama boys and now
have at least three shows that regularly
work out of this office so the the
higher production value cuts across all
multiple products and probably more in
the future and then of course it raises
the game for everybody in the entire
industry competition competition spread
yeah kick kick kick sin and you know I
ran into a listener at at a Brazil event
he came up and introduced himself to me
and and he said you guys are like the
wu-tang clan of left-wing
there you go that's how I think of
myself that's perfect that's a Matt
certainly thinks himself that way so go
to join the majority report com become a
member today also just coffee co-op like
in the next two weeks 30% off you don't
need in a coupon code or anything just
head over there 30% off just coffee cup
this is a great time for you to try all
sorts of just coffee see if you like the
mr blend see if you like the I can't
remember the name what's that one with
the women from from the Guatemalan
collective look loose los Dioses blend
is one of my favorites bike fuel another
one one of my favorites doesn't matter
majority report is really the one you
should get and also we're selling out
our January 13th live show Brenda told
me yesterday was the first day that we
sold under 10 tickets a day so at this
pace I can't do the math but you don't
have much luck we're not gonna probably
have tickets by the end of December at
this pace so Jesus by mid-december at
this pace it's gonna be like jingle all
the way
people trying to get the last ticket I'm
not familiar with Arnold Schwarzenegger
movie I didn't okay oh I did see that
movie that's a great point there's gonna
be hem our people know each other for
the bell house for the last thing it's a
little bit so ahead to majority dot F M
there you can see a link to our tickets
a link to Michael's live show in
February and speaking of Michael's show
in February tomorrow's not February so
tomorrow I want a tomorrow of course tmb
s will be live at 7 p.m. on way C time
on the Michael Brooks show YouTube
channel of course patreon.com slash t
MBS and on iTunes on Sunday the
patriotic content was on The Daily Show
generation and logic for the left which
is a really interesting case for the
left to actually embrace logic in facts
and win with them
of course I'm pretty allergic that kind
of argument but it was fascinating
patreon.com slash TPMS and jamie yeah so
this week on the anti Fattah Sean and I
do a recap of our trip to Mexico and all
the things we got up to there including
our visit to the Casa de leon trotsky as
well as the autonomous Zapatista
community of OV antique where we got to
see actually existing libertarian
socialism very very cool we got to speak
with the hunter there it was a really
amazing experience for us so we give a
little background on the Zapatista
uprising and the continuing struggle in
Chiapas we also tell a little love story
about how our good friend who was
traveling with us met a girl on tinder
in San Cristobal who ended up coming on
our psychedelic journey to Isla whole
Bush with us wow I didn't realize you
could do that internationally that stuff
mmm you can't do tinder Internet
I didn't even occur to me know the
language of love is universal
I guess breast VPN you can tell you can
match that bubble Express uh yeah my
podcast is called literary hangover
I would enjoy if you would download some
of those episodes listen to him sweetie
did you know well we'll talk about that
in a fun half but that read dead I
didn't realized that thing was came out
ten ten years ago the first verse first
one now I had no idea
yeah that's Christ a pretty fun
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
see you in the fun half
[Music]
it may have a disagreement yeah you
can't just say whatever you want about
people just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
frees up their buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive idiot we're just going
to get rid of you all right
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur I'm happy
now everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no all right a quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jaxa lastic I'm feeling more
chill already hurt Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling in to the
majority report them we'll be with you
shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is
the fun half of the program we mentioned
earlier that George Herbert Walker Bush
Bush Senior as we call him passed away
he was old yeah he had a good run had
oversaw at least one war where tens of
thousands were killed also all the
covert actions right not to mention all
the things he probably did in the CIA
had to go arrest Noriega
so that Noriega didn't spill the beans
or rat it out
no pipeline through slatton America
Rowan had the he had a rich life I mean
that both literally and metaphorically
he was extremely wealthy one of my
favorite quotes was from his sister
Nancy Ellis who in the 1998 and 1988
election was trying to make it sound
like George Bush Senior was an average
guy despite the fact that he was
mystified by the scanners of a
supermarket oh my god Sean just told me
about that
yeah arias imagine the erection of Bill
Clinton got when he saw that though
she's like the scanner
well this was gonna take this was during
Dukakis and it was I thought it was
during the 92 Wow
pretty sure are you serious Dukakis
couldn't even cap I'm pretty sure that
was during Clinton maybe and but the the
the quote where he's just an average guy
his sister said something to the effect
of and I tweeted it I couldn't find the
link but I'm quite sure that that was
the quote we were raised by strict
Midwestern parents if we left our tennis
racquets out in the rain
we got punished ah it was a 92 on top of
on top of which George Bush was able to
pardon a couple of guys who probably
would have implicated him in the
iran-contra deal more than a couple
right wasn't quite a few well to the
biggies like cap Weinberger and I can't
remember the second one off the top of
my head I probably should I know she's
definitely not pardon anybody that can
implicate him in a criminal conundrum
mining of normality and everybody
involved in the cocaine shipment papaya
to fund paramilitaries I'm just gonna
just gonna give them a nice little slew
of pardons before we have invasion of
Panama he also in an attempt to prove
his bona fides to his right-wing base
completely ignored the existence of HIV
and AIDS to the detriment of thousands
of people's of lives and ending of
arguably of ending of people's lives
haven't even mentioned the Horton aunt
can't welcome on the ground for racist
campaigns to this very day well he was
he he voted against the Civil Rights Act
first time around or said he would have
in his first race for Congress I think
it was in 64 of course Willie Horton and
he even even implied that there was
something really mysterious about
Dukakis for being Greek for being of
Greek Harry glee now what that means and
I did what the Greeks did up it yeah
weren't just the symposium wasn't just
an exploration of ideas but and my
understanding is a lot of people thought
that the the bushes were
actually contrary to the sort of the the
look that they have in public real
a-holes
and you know that they were more of the
elk of like Barbara when she went to
that Houston Astrodome and looked around
and said look at all these people here
who had been displaced from New Orleans
like they have a better lifestyle here
that's the Bourbon so I just want to say
that George Bush Senior has passed I
think to a certain extent there's a very
good argument that almost implicit in
being a necessary and being a president
United States that you are somewhat
sociopathic or you are a war criminal or
you know you have to but I would say
that and and and to the extent that
that's true or not I I don't know I'm
not capable of making that assessment
but if it is true Bush would be in the
sort of like I would say top twenty five
percent maybe top twenty percent of the
worst oh and don't forget he was a
prolific groper anyway David Copperfield
I was gonna ask a question about that
that was serious how many times do you
think he faked his own death so he could
grow up a nurse that's right
it's like I'm not breathing anymore
Oh David Copperfield right exactly so
I'd like to take this time to remember
him I'm not the least of which like you
know how about raising your family
better so that we don't get George jr.
but and I I left out his basically
telling the the Shia's to rise up the
clerk the Kurds and the she is telling
that she is too but the Kurds were yeah
the Kurds told what the Shia he said in
the South like rise up right and also
was very it's I don't know that we have
the real story about how a Saddam
thought he could invade Kuwait and that
it was okayed but we certainly do have
the real story as to the lies that were
sold to the American public as a way of
getting into that first Gulf War
I just them referring to people can can
look it up the story of the of the
babies in the incubators that were being
killed in Kuwait but with all that said
I want to just recognize that a former
president has passed and I know for me I
look back and this was one of those
memories I had of George Herbert Walker
Bush that I will never forget can we
roll that tape that was George HW Bush
okay here we go and this is this is of
course a famous clip aware Gorge bush I
think it was in 1991 I believe if I
remember correctly in fact I made one of
my first videos 92 I made one of my
first videos I cut it between two video
decks for cross comedy starring David
Cross about this incident and so it's
always stuck with me and so George
Herbert Walker Bush this is the way I
would like to salute you with the way
that you saluted
the Japanese Prime Minister kiichi
Miyazawa back in 1992 at a dinner in
January is 4x3 video he's not feeling so
great this is really not feeling great
slumps over and vomits on that's the
weirdest vomiting I've ever seen the
Prime Minister's little trick I learned
in CIA is go you just laid down and then
trickle out I needed to show the
Japanese that I wasn't gonna be a
pushover tariff negotiation so what you
do is you pretend you're ill and he came
out and and later with such great humor
he said something to the effect of like
I told Barbara just to roll me under the
table and continue on with dessert wow
that's funny yeah let me just indulge a
couple of requests I've got for five
seconds which is uh Jeb stop being such
hobo dad die stop crying
you are no bad wait I don't understand
you don't remember Barbara Bush throw
momma from a train from the primary I do
but he's like it mutated into like a
Japanese samurai version of that I
didn't hear that but I guess Japan on
the mind subliminal influence you were
yeah it all became arigato jab I am fat
Gemma right now jab you dis other family
you might throw brother from train it
sounds like one of those like is it it
and you won't beat governor Florida then
national disgrace after you are caught
my real estate developer
let's go to the phones you're calling
from a 9-5 to area code who's this where
you come from it is who's this Jack from
Minnesota what's on your mind hey so I
just wanted to call about the idea I
mean less wing ideas from a right-wing
perspective the idea of wait wait the
signing did you say Oh framing like it
okay
framing Brennan yeah so I was talking to
a right-wing friend of mine about
universal basic income which I actually
don't really support but I was just
talking to him about it and we were kind
of having a discussion about it and it
wasn't interested in the idea until I
kind of framed it from like a
libertarian perspective but that expense
sense so I don't know I was talking to
him and I said well it's kind of just
like a tax break for everyone and you
never don't get the money and then it's
possible to have a if you're at the
bottom of the rung you can pay negative
taxes and he sort of was interested in
the idea after it was framed like that
so I don't know yeah well I mean value
yeah well look the I mean that's a tough
one to crack because actually
libertarians do support I mean it's not
let me put this way it's not rare to
find libertarians who support a
universal basic income because they
perceive it as a way of essentially
getting rid of the welfare state and
that's what's actually problematic in my
mind about a ubi is that from a
political standpoint not so much a
policy standpoint from a political
standpoint it makes vulnerable things
that I don't want to make vulnerable and
programs that like like social programs
it'd be an excuse to cut social programs
right in favor of just doing a basic
income right right and so in that that's
that's eight so that that that
particular policy prescription is not
exactly the best example but I think you
know more importantly you know I think
it's there's value in reframing things
to to persuade people and to sell to a
wider audience but it might i think
what's even better is just offering real
sort of more material benefits and using
those material benefits to get people
who are less engaged more engaged in the
process but I appreciate the college
shocker
thanks man another quick call
next up come from a four seven eight
area code who's this where you come from
slam I do believe this is Georgia how
are you Jeff in Georgia what's on your
mind Jeff say my thirty today cuz just
recently had birthday and a cool present
man what you know I do a little
something for you I convened a little
focus group for you a great personal
expense wait to myself to test the
waters on cedar 2022
oh and I have some important data there
are really more serious you've got a
long time I have I have a little bit of
time 20:22 seems far off at this point
and my as does the entire concept okay
they say sneak up on man so so I'm not
gonna for you guys like a good news bad
news situation you know on the good news
side you strong strong in a laptop post
them on the issues seem that's good but
there's a real strong feeling that
you're a little soft is one participant
called you a punk-ass I'm not sure
who that was are from Washington or
something sama we got a dynamic explain
here since Isis your core competencies
to compensate for your marketing
liabilities in the parlance of our times
I'm going to go through build punch for
you stamp simply nationalized in the big
banks considered personally robbing a
bank that will probably play really low
let's maybe cut smash you advocating for
socialized
health care that includes the dental
work on the Nazi you were in the middle
of curb stomping in the face that'd be
real nice all right
Heil Sam it pal Sam if you could just if
you could just a soldier's wife it
would do a lot for your numbers a really
way that would that would really pick it
up for me real listen I want you to
think of them figuration of course yeah
I'm not on the clock right now you don't
need to you need to send me a check
nothing yeah importance be long started
off by saying is what a great president
but okay well hey it's pro bono for you
know few months now but of course my
services are incredibly high ain't man
and I've got several comptroller's
looking to you know swing a few
elections down in rural Alabama where
apparently comptroller's a whole
dictatorial power in a feudal society
it's weird down here but anyway
management wish you a happy week thanks
everyone
come remember immature airport yes folks
just a reminder before I forget I
appreciate the call Jeff Georgia has a
special election is it tomorrow December
4th for the Secretary of State super
important if you're in Georgia you got
to get out and vote and you got to get
five other people to vote five other
people to vote tomorrow in Georgia and
then two days or three days later I feel
like it's the eighth in Louisiana so
check that out what's what's Jeff's a
podcast name again isn't it passive so
check that out as well ladies and
gentlemen all right one more quick phone
call calling from a to10 area code who's
this we come from good afternoon Santa's
job in San Antonio John from San Antonio
what's on your mind
yeah this weekend you know my my media
ritually out consists of listening to
ring a fire which you're the host of if
she choose direction and interviewing
skills and addition this week
can able to watch many of the excellent
panel that was featured at the gathering
at the since Andrews Institute which
took place Thursday through Saturday I
highly recommend going to their Facebook
page where all the panels are listed and
you can stream them all I want to talk
about two panels on the medicare-for-all
the first panel talked about promoting
Medicare for all featuring Joe beards
more co-founder of UK Uncut and he
talked about a nationwide push for
Medicare for all that which is being
promoted by our volution groups across
the country part of a door-knocking
strategy which where you listen to
people to hear what their health care
experiences are and go from there and
don't bombard them with numbers when i
agree with the health care should be a
human right is the most effective
argument to promoting medicare for all a
lot of people will want to know about
how to pay for it and that was addressed
in the second panel on friday featuring
michael pollan
butt out a 200 page peer-reviewed study
which is 18 months in the making common
dreams org publish an excellent article
called easy to pay for something that
cost less new study shows medicare for
all would say five point one trillion
over 10 years it features a Michael
Pollan and Michael IT interview from The
Gathering and as links to the 200 page
study and criticism right now taxpayers
provide 60% of all health care
expenditures with over 2.2 trillion
dollars a year to cover Medicare care
Medicaid VA and community health centers
see the amount require would only be one
point zero five trillion in additional
revenues households in private
businesses we able to pay for the system
with an average of nine point six less
percent than they are contributing to
the US health care system now
Poland's funding mechanism is different
than Bernie's white paper Poland has a
3.75 tax sales tax on non-nasa settees
Bernie's plan raises the individual rate
from 1 point 4 5 % individually to 4
percent per household unless you are
currently in poverty or close to prop
in both plans essentially you don't have
to pay anything for the plan that you're
if you're in that area Ernie raises the
intent tax you're saying the income tax
e raises said well he raises that the
the Medicare rate that everybody pays
all right now so the payroll tax for
five ok the payroll yeah it's a four
percent she raises it from right and so
raising the cap as well I'm sorry does
that call for raising the cap I mean I
guess the your Medicare tax is paid
there is no cap on the Medicare part of
the flirtin right there is no cap that
was that was actually changed there
there used to be a cap I believe was in
92 that was taken out so you know multi
millionaires are paying one point four
or five on every penny that they earned
so yeah so also them so the employers
pay 7.5 on Bernie's plan and ponens plan
they play eight point two or one point
seven eight percent gross and and also
the small businesses they're there to
the first two million dollars are exempt
in payroll taxes for Bernie's plan and
the similar exemptions and the Poland
plan so you know the basic difference is
the three point four five you know tax
on non assess ADIZ or a four point 4.0
increase of per household and I think
Bernie's plan is actually better I think
that that that I mean what do you what
do you feel because I mean everybody
he's gonna have to pay that 3.5 to where
you know if you in the Bernie plan if
you're you know really struggling and
you're you know you don't have much
money you're not going to have that pay
that 3.45 you're just gonna get
everything you know essentially as you
do now like I think it's a Medicaid the
problem with with with making this with
like I guess a federal sales tax is what
with the guys suggesting is that what
yet that Poland to get yeah I mean a
federal sales tax I think what becomes
problematic is then you're tied into how
the economy is doing you know what I
mean and I I just and then you also
new apparatus to collect a federal sales
tax it strikes me I mean I think the
simply raising the the Medicare tax
makes it a lot more straightforward
remember how much you used to pay for
your health insurance now you're not
going to now it's just going to be an
addition additional bump on your you
know on your payroll tax and I just
don't think that two to three percent
sounds that much to your average person
in that instance and it's not you know
buy so I don't know I mean III think
that is without just my top my head
that's my reaction in terms of like the
taxing but it's a good question I'll
look around to see what people different
people's assessment of that is but I
don't know I tend to just sort of like
shy away a little bit for sales taxes
for something like that now I agree with
you completely I think this is much
better Bernie's plan is much better and
he also has his plan has more taxes on
the rich now the Pollin plan also has
taxes on the rich but not quite as many
and so you know theoretically non you
know like non-essential items right is
would be considered you know there might
be an argument that that's a progressive
tax but I appreciate the call John
becomes all right Thank You Santa fine
it what's that how you define essential
and non-essential and that type of stuff
food I'm clothing under a certain amount
I don't know maybe home heating oil
under a certain amount no I don't know
how you would do that isn't that more
like like something like the chain CPI
stuff comes in though with like them
sort of starting to dispute what
essentials are and what's the kind of
price point on things and that like
becomes a Trojan horse for austerity how
you assess what is in like a category I
mean that's what the yeah the chain CPI
is the the the controversy around that
is what products do you measure when you
measure right when you measure inflation
for old people you know their set of
products that they're
they're buying is different than what it
is for young people right all not here
I'm clearing up I get a lot of Russian I
always get these Russian yeah the first
the first wave of IMS from Russia it's
very weird maybe they're all like they
always want to be first st. Petersburg
Phil and it's just like I thought
Marcy's point was interesting but
notably funny they're all actual content
I just can't read it
let's go to Dan bond Jeanne no dawn lead
Bongbong Dan Banga Banga in bond do you
know this guy's really about the First
Amendment shooting up the charts really
yeah he's heavily subsidized this guy
and he did he write this op-ed or did he
is he just talking about it here he is
he's gonna drop a truth bomb on us about
the asylum seekers and that is that our
Asylum rules are far too narrow and we
are sending people who are living lives
of misery away but that somehow is
problematic for him but not in the way
you would think the Roy's idea is gonna
expose mass hypocrisy on the left and
here's why Steve we know now just from
interviews of people on the ground and
from historical results of asylum
seekers that most of the people coming
here are not in fact coming here for
asylum some are but not all we know that
because a lot of people's Asylum
rejection our claims are rejected matter
of fact the overwhelming majority are
most people are coming I just understand
what that logic is all those people who
let's say start playing baseball at the
beginning of the year and say they want
to win the World Series
they're not really cuz they don't all
win it yeah then what are those baseball
players up to mostly they're not honest
frankly well they just want to be
subsidized to play during the year with
no intention of winning that's right
when anybody goes in for a job interview
they say they want the job interview
well we know they don't really want the
job interview because they don't all get
it in fact the vast majority of people
who go into a job interview don't get
the job interview don't get the job
therefore the numbers are I mean
probably more so than asylum seekers
like me I don't know if it's if it's ten
percent but I mean you go in for one job
the number of people who we interviewed
just for a job at the majority report
who did not get it suggests that really
almost 87 percent of the people who came
in for this job
didn't really want it probably you have
to wonder what their motives were them
yeah it's very interesting a lot of ways
one of the ways a lot of hypocrisy
economic opportunist yeah let's see what
this economic opportunity now how does
that lead into the apocrypha on the Left
well the left I'm not talking about all
Democrats I'm talking about the far left
has done nothing over the past 30 or 40
years but bash capitalism as a means for
economic prosperity so you can't have it
both ways either people in countries
that don't practice capitalism are
coming here for capitalism's
opportunities or they're not so when you
say to them well why are they coming
here oh they're coming in from Economic
Opportunity why because we're the freest
country on earth then why are you
bashing our economic system this is the
kind of piece that exposes them if you
get them on the record and answer the
roy's right if it's about economic
opportunity Panama is closer and
probably has some opportunities there as
well but the left won't admit that
that's why Steve they constantly focus
on all they're coming here for asylum
some are most of them are not wait what
like I would challenge I would like to
ask every single one of those people on
the Fox and Friends couch right now do
you know what he was talking about and
see what they have completely pretzel
logic they don't practice capitalism in
Mexico apparently Mexico's
non-capitalist what economic system do
they have in Honduras freedom
internationalist around here Honduras
practice is something that we're super
fond of
is narco capitalism back right the
United States I don't know what the
problem is how the doors like that
people in Honduras and El Salvador she
but no it's highly free societies its
Dan Pont Gino saying that Panama has
more opportunity than America he doesn't
think America is the best I think he got
confused there because I think what he
meant is they couldn't get Economic
Opportunity in Panama but they can get
refuge there if they just want that I do
like I like to think I think he got
confused there could be a summary of
danwon she knows career Dan bongos Dan
bongos bongos got confused brah in fact
some of the only people who have not
been forced to migrate to cities and
sometimes the US are the ones living in
the autonomous Zapatista communities at
least in Mexico so very possibly I mean
but are not capitalist so so if I
understand what Dan Bunge knows point is
is that we should we what what is the
point like I'm trying to figure out the
point is they want to come here because
capitalism so awesome points one they're
mostly law but they only come here
trying to get asylum but it's awesome
here cuz we have capital and the
ultra-left
are a bunch of hypocrites yeah because
of one hand they want them all to come
here but they won't admit it's a little
reason they want to come here is because
of Catholic yeah bung Bungie no saying
they're not leaving because of the
terrible circumstances worth it from
where they had believed they're leaving
because they they saw shark tank well I
propose a third I propose a third way
which is we eliminate all regressive
policies aimed at immigrants eliminate
them completely then we implement
socialism in this country and see
because presumably they'll all get the
hell out through an experiment that's
how we go to Panama let's yeah dokkan
let's see how that works out I will
totally take that bet
because isn't the other the key point
that they have in the back of their mind
that if we do socialism more these
people are gonna come here yeah because
I thought it was that they come here to
leech off of her welfare systems all
over the place
meanwhile earlier on Fox and Friends
stuart varney
showed up speaking of people who
actually can't get the out of my
country right here's stuart varney and
talking about the french and i don't
know i'm not sure what the england this
is just that you know how europe is here
is stuart varney talking about the riots
that have been ongoing in paris 26
percent approval inside france and this
is the worst riot since the 1960s look
what's happening in france and what's
happening tomorrow is a lesson for the
left in america the democrats in america
and a lesson for all democracies number
one he's putting up taxes on gasoline
and diesel fuel he is defending the
welfare the cradle-to-grave
welfare state they need money the
economy there is slowing down
he needs Monica wants to impose these
taxes the people riot lesson to the
American Left watch out
you can't fund all these social programs
by endlessly raising taxes number two
he's part of the Paris climate Accord
he's got to defend his position on
climate so he raises taxes on gas so you
loot use less gas
so you conform to the Paris climate
Accord lesson to the left in America you
keep raising taxes like this for global
warming and you can have a problem on
your hands
yeah no no three Hollanders there's
another one here this movement is you
let Jean is it's called Yellow Jackets
it started about six weeks ago so it
seemed to come out of nowhere in fact it
came out of social networks in rural
France the rapid organization rapid
development of these protests
there's the lesson social networks play
a very important role in modern politics
indeed and it's a way of getting
movements going really really fast
Wow that last one was really insightful
that I almost felt like I was in
nineteen ninety eight right out of Clay
Shirky seminars
brilliant very timely social networks
mobilised protests let's welcome
hopefully splatter harvoni doesn't hear
about what happened in Egypt that's
gonna blow his mind anyway but with that
said Makran is in trouble for raising
taxes and did so by basically looking
for funding at in the wrong source let
the the wealthiest go out in protest
because their taxes are raised that's
right I mean he's you need to soak the
rich period for climate proposals and
he's already been hacking at the welfare
state raising tuitions and really
hurting people the third thing I would
say though for the left and melon Sean's
been kind of interesting with this
because he sort of embraced the protests
he's intimated that they should be a
reason to call another election but
these are the grievances are right but
this is a very right-wing oriented
protest that people need to be a lot
more like savvy than just like oh it's a
protest that's great
McCrone is garbage but this is a rural
National Front style protest and just
like in Brazil when it started as a
small anti austerity movement and an
advocacy of free public transportation
morphed into a far-right Street movement
which backed the coup and led to where
we are today right I mean I think the
lesson for the left is that we need to
be as aggressive as the right like we
can't let networks of rural
conservatives take up all the you know
the good riot porn that goes on TV we
need to burn some cars - there you go
the French do not put up with anything
though I gotta say that's uh yeah I'm
divided on this because it's not really
the things that I would like to see
being protested but they they really are
a good model like you try to raise the
retirement age one year it's like riots
everywhere students you know well that's
the great things are charging five
dollars a semester for
for higher education and people are in
the streets well they take that lineand
seriously but I've you know like the
best deal but I think I also though
think that you know more broadly I'm
seeing people like libertarians on
social media run with this because what
macron associating harming people with
addressing climate is not only the wrong
policy it's also destructive for a
long-term action and also for idiots who
stand from a Crone and will say like
he's being brave on Climate without and
disregard the austerity just a note
macrons environment minister who was by
far the most progressive member of his
cabinet quit in August in a live radio
interview and essentially said I can't
take lying about this administration's
record anymore
they're terrible on these issues and
they're not fulfilling their commitments
I'm gonna quote or well again as I often
do from the lion in the unicorn is
talking about how you deal with sort of
austerity in a wartime situation but he
says it cannot but lower the general
standard of living because the essential
act of war and I think war is a climate
change you know replacement here is to
manufacture armaments instead of
consumable goods the working class will
have to suffer terrible things and they
will suffer almost indefinitely provided
that they know what they're fighting for
they are not cowards they're not even
internationally minded they can stand
all the Spanish workers stood and more
but they will want some kind of proof of
a better life as a head of for
themselves and their children the one
sure earnest of that is that when they
are taxed and overworked they shall see
that the rich are being hit even harder
and if the rich will audibly so much the
better
Kandra points just released a good video
on climate change on this topic and it's
very dangerous to portray this as
something that is either caused or can
be solved by individual consumer choices
when about 70 percent of the pollution
in the atmosphere comes from a small
handful of giant corporations meanwhile
this is uh this is pretty stunning
what's-his-face Seth Moulton was on a
this guy you know sometimes you screw up
and you really try and start to
backpedal and this I think happens a lot
if you if you mess up in politics one of
the tax that you can take is you go you
go home and you lick your wounds the
other tack you can take is you try and
attack someone who has less power than
the person that you just failed to
attack and you just sort of move down in
your mind you know the the the pecking
order as to who might be vulnerable
right I tried to go after this person I
got faced and so now I'm gonna go after
someone else I perceive as vulnerable of
all the people I want you to think of
all the people who defended Nancy Pelosi
from the the insurgency to keep her from
being Speaker of the House there was 15
people who as you know signed a letter
to defeat her there was also the No
Labels people who were trying to
leverage her but everybody else who was
defending her think of all the people
right like the David Axelrod's like the
Clintons like the centrists and people
on the left to a certain extent because
of of where the politics of Seth Moe I
want you to think of all those people if
you're Seth Moulton and you want to come
out in an attack one or one subset of
those people who defended Pelosi who
would you choose who would be the most
obvious person you attack well of course
it's Alexandra Acacio Cortez obviously
from masters speaking of new generation
of leadership and speaking of women you
as you know even at your town hall
meeting you've been accused of being a
sexist the highest profile person of the
new generation of leadership Ocasio
Cortez tweets all the challenges to
leader Pelosi are coming from her right
and an apparent effort to make the party
more conservative and bent toward
corporate interests are you worried
about the impact of this challenge both
on your constituents and on you sets
Multan no I'm not because I believe I'm
doing the right thing for the party in
the country and I'm always going to do
that and people who know me know that
about me
you know they may not even always agree
with my perspective on things but they
should know that I will always fight for
what's right and I'm not going to just
bend with the political winds I mean
again this is a position I've had for
two years so just because there are some
people on the far left I'm complaining
about it right now doesn't mean that I'm
suddenly going to change my position and
frankly you know that that tweet is I
think pretty obsessives if someone like
Linda Sanchez the congresswoman from
California who's been at the forefront
of this effort for a long time it's a
sense of because she's in the
Progressive Caucus so she is a very very
progressive member of Congress she is
knocked to the right of Nancy Pelosi by
any means and it's also offensive
because she could win it what exactly
Bernie bro AOC at it again like I just
really do not want women in leadership
so I will stay in the house I will not
run for the Sentry's not ready okay she
is not ready like I can represent the
Bronx and queens I cannot do statewide
obviously woman
which is why I support Nancy Pelosi like
my little son Seth Moulton is gonna get
primary and without a doubt and I'm
telling you right now I am committed to
helping raise money for Seth Moulton
primary bazaar I mean he could I mean
look the
saying he's sexist because he wants the
challenge Pelosi is ludicrous do of
course there's such a way of just being
like but where did that come from
no I mean that in that Congress he
didn't mention no he went from like a
ludicrous accusation against him to all
of a sudden like do you have an issue
with women speak to the house because
that Mike Birbiglia a Rob Riggle a lot
of rebels a lot cooler hey dude very
very similar that's very odd I would
like to run Rob Riggle against Seth mole
and I think wriggles from from the
Boston area rigor would toast impressive
guy he's a progressive it I I don't know
what it is exact pallet exile but he's
also a vet so it'll smoke molten there
you go is molten of course let's go to
the AIIMS vapp rizvi presume
virginia prison guard man afford drinks
pruno from champagne flute and is the
gayest i ever seen everyone do in
jail ever pj from montreal hey guys over
the weekend i watched the latest
appearance of Jordan Pederson on Rogen
in French we have a word that perfectly
represents what Peterson does
intellectual masturbation left is best
its visa I think I missed out you
mentioned something about debating a
libertarian could you fill me in please
also can I get it ask the moms drop in
honor of the arrival of my new t-shirt
from Reagan's to redirect podcast
left is best when is the libertarian
debate like the 12th ask the moms you're
having a libertarian yeah yeah no you
know the kokeshi you didn't hear about
that no oh so when I was out announced
when I was for Thanksgiving week
yeah yeah when you were absent yeah that
late right uh these actly
reclaiming my fridge during the Crowley
thing a Crowder somehow somehow
coquettes got tagged that sounded and he
he he I am to me or he tweeted at me
said I understand that you debate
libertarians and it I have I don't have
like notification set up on my phone or
anything like that I do have one
notification set up like whenever a
libertarian answers my challenge and
tweets like my whole phone shuts down
and the only thing that you can see is
that that I've been tweeted by a
libertarian who wants to have a debate
so we set it up it's happening let's see
the anti Fattah my own show is I am
enough there you go that's weird so when
his card ace Subcomandante cedar Jamie
and I were watching narcos Mexico last
night on Netflix is this true Jaime true
oh there you go and the series
surprisingly portrayed the explicit role
the CIA played in cocaine trafficking
amid the atrocity that became known as
the iran-contra scandal with poppy
kicking the bucket on Friday and you
being an old as f do you have any
thoughts on how implicated Bush might
have been illegally funding the Central
American death squads in the 1980s more
money shots of that twonk snack Matlack
please III think he's heavily involved I
mean I I mean I think there's without a
doubt why would you want a CIA guide to
take over the executive position in this
country at that point of course I mean I
think III think he look he pardoned all
those guys for a reason and I think it
was to protect himself from being
implicated implicated probably as VP but
certainly in the context of him being
CIA and I think there's more I think
there was more to so yes
bull Prag professional projectionist
weird mic Tsarevich was working with
Dershowitz to silence and Epstein
accuser and protect a pedophile ring
well more material for that doc who's
laughing now yeah we gotta look into
obviously I'm Miami Herald you saw the
Miami Herald what Alan Dershowitz and in
2006 Mike Serna vich wrote a blog post
called
dersu its envy in which he said that he
found out what they're so it's asks for
speaking engagements and then says yeah
I wish I was Alan Dershowitz oh that's
okay I it says I was just totally i
provoked nothing I was gonna say
Dershowitz Envy and I was gonna make a
pass the bar slash pedophile joke but
that's okay F secret night any products
F Bush senior for his 1992 Family Values
speech in which he famously stated that
American families should be more like
the Waltons and less like The Simpsons
resulting in councilís children of
conservative parents across the country
being unable to watch The Simpsons for
unknown reasons also causes tremendous
confusion when they went to their
friends houses and found out there
wasn't really anything wrong with the
show at all boink boink hey Sam you are
beautiful I wish you were gay at the
same time on the same comfortable Casper
mattress pajama boys forever thank you
that's very very sweet train boy how
much of Paul man affords erratic actions
can be blamed on him being terrified of
being killed in or out of prison by his
former business associates I you know
that's always been my theory when he
decided to cooperate I was like I guess
he's not afraid but I I'm not convinced
that that isn't a big part of it you see
the UH absolute Eastern Promises it's
like an interesting take on the Mad Men
theory but the is he gonna get killed
man Theory the lust of the was caught up
in a steam room a little bit but it's
also possible that he has a bunch of
money stashed away too it's also
possible it's come from a six five one
area code who's this where you come from
my name is Dee Chris lopaka yes Dee
Krystal Paco huh and let me say first
off yeah can I get a hotline bling'
dance did you do that yet or
George Bush not get one George HW Bush
died no hotline bling' dance hey you
know I don't know if it's quite as
joyful as Scalia though no it's not it's
not nearly as I mean because when Scalia
passed away
it had it wasn't just a question of like
oh is this guy a bad guy or what is my
opinion of him Scalia's death actually
helped people like George Bush passing
away that didn't do anything for anybody
it's just it is what it is but Scalia's
death actively that doesn't happen that
often Chris it's one thing to say oh
this guy I don't particularly appreciate
him or he was bad for Humanity or he
killed a lot of people and so he passed
away he got what you know that was
coming from him you know George Bush as
far as I can tell did not relative to
the suffering that he caused I don't
think he seemed to have suffered at all
I think we maybe we saw the worst of it
that time he passed out and vomited but
when Scalia died it actively helped
people I mean just imagine your own
death makes life better materially
better for people well my sons can
finally individuate now well I bet the
nerve
I bet the nurse he was copping feels on
is doing a hotline bling' dance right
now I'm Gracie Oh doing the hotline
bling' because I'm not doing the old
corpse David Copperfield trick I know
you don't pay attention to these kind I
know you don't pay attention to these
kinds of things Sam but I want to just
bring up and congratulate you you passed
jimmy dore in subscriptions on youtube
okay and i want to say really
new and interesting news had no idea
who's laughing now Sam had no idea I had
no idea who's the failed comedian now
Sam that's not a failed comedian now say
that's right all right that's all I love
you have a good day congratulate Chris
lapaki oh thank you well we Ellie Horton
Willie Horton George Bush did Willie
Horton Horton yeah just don't forget
that all right okay Bruce yeah god bless
you thank you for Jimmy door bye and
also get him he appointed Souter but
that was just a function of you know
sort of the some of the New Hampshire
folks in his White House
Thomas Clarence Thomas gave us so wow
that's uh interesting information
regarding I had no absolutely no idea
didn't even realize we kept track of how
many subscribers we were is that a new
thing that you're doing are you doing
that
was that part of a YouTube no I guess
I'll start paying attention now all
right let's go to the phones call them
from a 5-1 to area code who's this where
he come from five one two five one two
oh hi hi hi this is Hallie from Texas
hello Hallie from Texas what's on your
mind Wow I'm so surprised I got through
I wanted to talk about liberals taking
an anti-war stance in his next election
is it going to happen you know I voted
for Obama way back when I was 18 years
old you know he ran on enging military
intervention in the Middle East and
obviously it didn't happen well wait a
second how old about Korea let me
correct you for one second yeah he ran
on ending the war in Iraq he
specifically specifically talked about I
believe he specifically talked about
bringing more troops to to Afghanistan
we mean to fight the right war they're a
bunch of Sunni
we need the shoe to rise but but you
were not alone in projecting something
down to him and his rhetoric I was naive
I mean I was 18 you know it was it was a
crazy time and it just um sorry I'm a
little nervous I I went to some better
or work rallies and he specifically
mentioned all seven countries that we
are dropping bombs on right now and you
know he didn't take a strong sense
stance on it necessarily he said you
know maybe we shouldn't be there and to
me that was like impressive but I don't
know if this is something any other you
know Democrats are using in their
campaign speeches I just haven't heard
it really during this last election I
mean I think like look at this point the
most obvious to the extent I don't think
that it's possible in this day and age
to have an American president who's
going to be what you and I would call
anti-war okay I think the best that we
can do with a someone who's gonna win
someone who has a sort of a a broad
sense that America should not be
intervening but for an extremely narrow
set of circumstances and who has
expressed enough who understands the
connection between domestic politics and
foreign policy and the forces in
domestic politics that drive very often
our foreign policy that tends to be
money and concentrations of wealth and
in and in people who are looking to to
get resources so really I mean at this
point
we don't know who's gonna run but like
someone like Bernie Sanders obviously I
think his policies would be let's
instead of saying anti-war the least
Warfel he awesome I would say in
addition to that the this launch of this
progressive international the Chapman
this weekend points to exactly what
you're saying in terms of not only being
more anti-war but Bernie's actually
started to structure basically just the
the global version of his ante oligarchy
politics and that's synchronizing with
Corbin it's obviously connected to
Brazil and AMLO his whole inaugural
speech was neoliberal ization in Mexico
is over which is structural violence
we'll see what happens so if you want to
I mean I'm not saying that Bernie's
where you might want him to be but there
he is
head shoulders leagues every way above
any other potential can even warn the
only one by far has a slight has a not
slightly but it has a sort of different
structural sense of foreign poverty was
the only one that will criticize Israel
he's ahead of the curve on Yemen he's
connected with the Latin American
movements there's just no comparison
yeah uh you know but I think like Chris
Murphy could be better than most he's
the second um and but he's a human
rights he doesn't have that which is
really important but he doesn't have the
economic connections and who's seeing
it's not a turns which Bernie has it's
not as tied into domestic okay a
structural critique that is similar to
the domestic politics but Menino we we
could have more we could we could see
more of it
so I just see it as a moral issue at
this point now you know where we're
gaining moral clarity and I mean you
also have to you also have to realize
that it's it's not you're not going to
be satisfied you know until you're you
know at the very least until you're my
age you're not going to be says probably
even
and you're gonna still be unsatisfied
but you can the trajectory can head in
the right direction and I think like the
idea that we have a candidate who is you
know if you just look at the numbers I
mean I don't know if he's gonna even run
but would be considered a presumptive
favorite maybe not thee but a
presumptive favorite who's getting on
the stage and it's going to be
articulating this I can tell you that is
a huge leap forward as to where we are
in in in our politics so I was moving in
the right direction
he Pope 1916 but I mean it does look a
little bit of like hey I actually am NOT
friends with Henry Kissinger cuz he's a
war criminal
maybe we should he developed or
something yeah I'm saying is that it's
gotten so much more I mean yeah starting
in the summer of 2017 with the Iran and
Saudi Arabia stuff through Latin America
I mean he's in a completely different
place and it's it's very good you're
gonna talk about opposition to war from
a moral perspective which i think is
really important but it's also important
to make the economic connections like
you were just talking about Michael
because throughout history war has been
used by the international ruling class
to divide the workers of the world from
one another
keep them from working together and keep
them oppressed and I think Bernie
understands that yeah this is gonna be
she eight to call long term strategy
cause I read Stephen Kinzer the most
recent book we had him on the show for
this the one about sort of Teddy
Roosevelt and also like Mark Twain and
like the a hundred years ago basically
was the last time that abolishing war
was a serious project that like a lot of
people thought they could actually
accomplish and then you know you had
World War one and World War two but like
if we ever want to get to that
conversation again it's gonna need to be
like where Chris Murphy is a centrist on
this hundred percent lessons from the
German Social Democratic Party never
vote for the war it does not go well for
the Left guidan Nora Manafort thinks
he's smarter than Muller Trump thinks
he's smarter than everyone those who
think they're smarter than everyone
usually they see usually turn out to be
a
a room full of mirrors oh this guy was
pretty good
he's on Fox and Friends sheriff Grady
Judd where - uh well sheriff Grady Judd
come from do we know from Florida right
and look ladies and gentlemen you're not
gonna believe this down in Florida a 12
year old brought pot gummies gym class
now listen that is a sign of a bad
parent but I will tell you that's the
sign of a cool kid who knows how to
relax his muscles after a hard work I
can tell you that in my daughter's
middle school which is attached to a
high school somebody brought in one of
those pre-mixed like rum drinks or
something so other cool kids yes high
school in other high schools you can
find people who get who bring in Jules
those you know vaping cigarettes they're
cool with teens for some reason or
slightly less they're all flavored than
the ramen because they're awfully I
think they banned the flavors where
they're going to I think what they want
it's gonna be upon your cotton candy
Jules everybody there you go and also
there are kids who bring in weapons into
school and all those cool races material
I mean everything under the Sun can be
brought in there and but here is uh
here's sheriff Grady Judd to tell us how
we're gonna take care of this no one
talks about this TC is addicting people
that guy I know so many people they say
they were told one thing they had to get
addicted to it and that's an addicting
substance there there is a a price to
pay for pot there absolutely is a price
to pay for pot you know I spent my
entire adult life in law enforcement and
a lot of it investigating traffickers of
drugs and it's not online now now this
promise can cut a couple of different
ways I've dedicated my whole life to a
project that seems to have actually been
for absolutely no reason whatsoever
because the fact on top of it actually
probably extremely detrimental to the
health of society so I am NOT
backing down off of this I'm going to
deny deny deny and continue to exclaim
in such a way that makes me feel like my
life's work has meant something
otherwise what am I gonna do that's not
what's gonna you're about to hear but
just go back we'll listen to us in law
enforcement and a lot of it
investigating traffickers of drugs and
it's not a minor nonviolent felony it's
ruining families and killing people
every day across the United States and
we stand here in denial thinking that
it's not a gateway drug the drugs don't
start on cocaine you probably start with
marijuana and it leads to other things
right that's absolutely right and still
today we have a meth problem across this
state and country if someone's in
possession of meth you're in possession
of marijuana because it kind of cuts the
edge of the meth and then they use the
marijuana and the meth and they go out
and kill themselves or overdose or kill
someone else right well nonetheless
these particular gummies and the edibles
are legal in other states but you know
obviously in the state of Florida it is
not can there you go I think I saw a
documentary on what he was talking about
I think it's called reefer madness yeah
exactly I love to smoke some meth and
then follow that with a little bit of
weed and then go out and I hope you know
what I do is first of the Beth gets you
really aggressive high that you doubt it
that a little bit so you could focus
with the week on the death and either
what's good for myself or others what is
the word on that huge uptick in Colorado
now that we have a data over the past
couple years on the enormous surge in
meth murders do we have that look of
marijuana I think there L is keeping
those yes been suppressed suppressed
information I mean this is where it's
just like they they might as well just
also put under the the crawl like
everyone who watches Fox News is over
the age of 65 should know about pot I
mean imagine the I mean the the effect
it would have on you as a human being
now if you locked if you spent like 20
years just locking
people up for this and then you
realize like turns out that actually
this was the wrong thing well that mean
that bunny review of that clip though is
it's like yes marijuana has ruined
plenty of people's life cause of the law
you're poor and you get caught by this
idiot it could ruin your life I mean
literally even also just be clear that
Grady Judd is the host of the Polk
County Sheriff podcast entitled not in
my County no and we got a place um you
got it we got to get some clips of that
40 mb/s post game last tomorrow night
not in Polk County not in my County with
sheriff Grady Judd and for instance this
week let's see I'll tell you what's on
on not in my County Sheriff Grady judge
speaks with the greatest investigative
mind in the United States WJ Martin
America sheriff answers your questions
and tells the tales of a woman
shoplifting Poligrip and glasses now
remember it's brought to you by Bart out
Ford and paying air-conditioning and
hearing oh yeah oh yeah go to you by
narcs who don't want you to have fun I
mean you think about how many families
have been sort of like have struggled
with like hey the parent is very afraid
of a kid doing drugs not because of the
drug but because of the effect of the
you know the criminal justice system on
yeah absolutely the prospect of being
murdered by the police like alienating
parents from kids for like and that's
the lightest
you know problem oh yeah that's the most
gentle problem Grady judge so yeah
marijuana can definitely get you in
trouble because of Grady Judd and Grady
Judd like things don't mix it with meth
oh you miss it with math you are gonna
kill people yeah we'll play the I will
go label a song tomorrow
I will I will be stuffy for a second ago
I met is probably not healthy for you
don't should not be crying I get time
for one more phone call I'm sorry we've
had people hanging on
for all right so what's the last phone
caller I'm sorry folks come from a two
five six area code who's this where you
come from
hi Sam yeah Sam yes this is Sam
who is this all right my name is
Jonathan from Alabama Jonathan from
Alabama and I was wondering if you might
be able to change my mind about
something sure
well I was I have yet to be fully
convinced about the effectiveness in the
political discourse about public debates
and I know that you hold a lot of public
debates and I was just wondering if you
happen to have any opinions on that
because frankly it doesn't really seem
to me like it's really going to do any
good when it comes to a political
discussion I you know I think the value
is limited and without a doubt is
limited all right and and really on some
level it is Edie I mean I look I think
the value from my perspective well let
me just tell you in terms of my
participation in these things okay I
don't know how to necessarily make a a
broad assessment but the reason why I
started having libertarians on to debate
them was because the libertarian
movement was sort of like becoming a
little bit more fashionable after the
the Bush years because they were
conservatives didn't want to associate
themselves with it it's not happening
during the Trump years I'm not exactly
sure why because I think maybe just the
Republican Party has just been
overwhelmed but the idea was basically
to give people who listen to this show
it was a way of providing them more
information about ideology that they do
believe in and more information on how
to in the course of having conversations
with
at work or acquaintances you know how to
rhetorically talk about politics and so
in that sense I think there's value in
it I don't think it converts anybody's
mind I don't think any of these
libertarians who came on decided that
they're going to be you know you know
not subscribe to that ideology but I do
think that there are people who and
we've had libertarians who called into
the show and say you know I watched I
watched a bunch of your debates and I'm
actually note I don't subscribe to
libertarianism anymore I think that
happens but I think that's a I think
that's I think that's that's not the
primary reason to do it the primary
reason is to give people in this
audience sort of a deeper understanding
of left values and and how rhetorically
to address some of the rights claims
when I do something like I go and debate
charlie Kirk in public like that for me
the idea is that like he's got a huge
budget I mean he has I think is the
annual operating budget of his you know
advocacy group is something like four or
five million dollars and so his message
is getting out there and the only thing
that occurs to me that that can puncture
that is if somebody's online and I'm
talking by somebody I mean usually young
people and they google charlie Kirk I
just want that debate to come up in
their stream and hopefully you know poke
holes in his ideology for them so that
they you know their self there you no
doubt starts to creep in so I I think on
balance that's why I do it and I believe
me the idea of going to politican I'm
not I'm not enthralled at the idea I
really just I find it you know it's like
I think it it contributes to making
politics like a game and like a sport
and I think that's really probably
already I think
YouTube does that too but you know what
it's like I don't have the ability to
reform the game the the system as it was
I don't have the ability to do that so I
have a choice I can either not
participate which does nothing and seeds
the ground for these people or I can
participate and try and beat them in the
context of that that that system I mean
this is the dilemma it's honestly it's a
dilemma
I mean I I I can see that it there may
be a better answer I just I don't know
what it is and I feel like I can maybe
keep myself from getting sullied in some
way but that doesn't really help with my
project that just makes me feel better
about myself and you know I just I don't
think that that had that helps with my
project all right that does make a lot
of sense I do fully agree with that when
it comes to the situation of you know
your debate or someone was a good debate
over a particular person you were
talking about if that happens to pull up
in the YouTube recommendations that does
make a lot of sense yeah I mean that's
the best I got for you I I am but you
know you don't need to sell me on the
skepticism because I'm definitely
skeptical I can I can assure you that
appreciate the call Jonathan oh yeah
thanks man all right thanks Mike all
right that is the final call for the day
we'll take a couple IMS we'll get going
JJ cool it's hard to argue that every
Bush okay her irrational international
it was in Oliver North that bush senior
reinstated his full rank and benefits as
an officer I think that's possible
congressional baseball fan I'd like to
apologize to Gabe McGinnis for the
baseball bat comment it received that
forced him to resign as leader and
founder of his club instead I simply
want to ask if he would like to go out
on the ball field and practice playing
catch Shaun MD haven't heard from Doug
in a while did he drown in the blue wave
classless yeah didn't he say wait a
second didn't Doug like
promise me the Democrats were gonna lose
seats that sounds familiar right in
everywhere that Doug lives without a
doubt his congressman is now a our
Congress person is now a Democrat class
is creative but not sure if you've
covered this but it's worth noticing
going forward that Tribune has made a
deal to a four billion dollar deal to
next star I work for Tribune by
reputation the term Deathstar is being
thrown around it's maybe better than
Sinclair but it's still not fun look
into it
basement dweller Sam how do you address
someone that is concerned about Medicare
for all proposals and the impacts on
various medical professional wages what
are the various options for negotiating
compensation from various surgeon
specialists and professionals in the
health care industry smash the fash
there will be I would imagine there
certainly needs to be a reduction in the
wages that some of the highest earning
doctors are making without a doubt the
upside is it won't cost you two hundred
thousand dollars to go get a medical
degree pressure downward pressure will
happen on those institutions and I
imagine at one point part of it will
probably be some fully subsidized but
yes
doctors overcharging will go will I mean
compensation will drop now their jobs
are also going to get significantly
better because you know you ask a doctor
the concerns that they have like one of
the primary concerns is like getting
paid because the insurance crap that
they have to do that's no longer going
to be part of their practice and if you
look at who
in favor of single-payer healthcare and
who is opposed there is definitely a
class division within the medical
profession right because most of the big
nurses unions are in favor of
single-payer whereas the AMA is still
against it so they have been the the
favors er propaganda campaigns to kill
it back in the 30s and 40s come ma no
sympathy for the AMA but I mean putting
aside the AMA in terms of doctors I
think the most doctors will not be
severely impacted there'll be some who
will lose you know will not get as
compensated but they also have the
option I guess theoretically of you know
doing a concierge for just super wealthy
people a square
get ready Wednesday will be a complete
revision of spectacle not unexpected to
him that we would get this convention of
neocons parade over the weekend more
disconcerting see MSNBC host follow suit
Andy card and others including Darklord
Cheney on the tube so recasting a bush
was joined by many in the Bush 43 cabal
oh I know gross t MBS is my jam Sam what
did you take on the North Carolina State
Board of Elections voting not to certify
the ninth I mentioned this the other day
something's going on something's going
on there was a Democrat who resigned
from the board just to make sure that he
didn't become a distraction but there
was something severe happened in a
district in North Carolina a 9th
district is that the one where it looks
like they sent people to go collect
absentee ballots and stuff mm-hmm
is that what it was there the the the
Republican won by 900 votes and the this
will see about this it's gonna be
interesting a lawn musty sometimes I
think leftists that are are like that
low self-esteem person in a bad
relationships we are always eulogizing
far-right politicians when they would
never do the same for Obama or
well I don't think the lazy leftists are
doing that but I don't think the reason
why you should do it or not do it is a
function of like that that's just the
wrong thing it's just like you know
let's just even in death public people
should be responsible for what they did
and how they interact with the public
period I don't he could be a very nice
guy at home I don't think he is but it
doesn't matter or he could be a tyrant
at home what I'm really mad about what
really matters is what they did in terms
of the public and and this is this is
just like this is sad like we need daddy
to be a nice guy even in death you know
we'll use for your own body save it for
your own what are you talking what are
you complaining about just say thank you
please double dies all double dies Chris
from Taiwan hello hi Obama gets ex
community I let me do these five I'm
gonna get a geek going here Chris from
from Taiwan tinder is most definitely
international in fact in my experience
it works way better in East Asia
old-school new rules social networks
mobilize protest is like popular ideas
are popular crazy stuff st. Louis
socialists can we agree that Stuart
Varney has a mediocre British accent
just whereas British accent I've
ever heard
I think he's Australian Dan bang sing go
no Samantha I don't really want to go
out with you I practice capitalism I'll
just patronize a trafficked economic
opportunities and support growth because
I love the freedom and determinism of
choice I'm not a communist and Banaras
Saddam's main Kuwait issue was their
slant drilling under Iraq's border to
get it Iraqi oil my belief he used an
idiot and when the US signaled its
nonchalance about the exact border
dispute The thought he could
occupy all Kuwait without devastating
consequences isn't indeed rush Bell
progressive janked at a live video over
the weekend praising President Bush
luckily I knew Mr oh god stop it's the
gating drama save it Sam sender profile
hey watch that video or I'll do an
impression hey a OC swipe right help me
lower the age of social security to 40
fada buenas tardes segoe yeah where II
read that one and the final I am of the
day I say I'm my favorite quote from
daddy Bush while referring to the John
Birch Society members as the double X
chromosome gang
all right folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
no son
I'm gonna get there I was late I just
got caught
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
kick
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
