[Music]
let's do this segment where Kamala
Harris basically began the beginning of
the end which I this is my assessment
and and and it could be wrong but again
Joe Biden is Joe Biden in this race
because he is perceived as being rock
solid and here is where he's not and
we've also heard and I'm gonna now
direct this at Vice President Biden I do
not believe you are a racist and I agree
with you when you commit yourself to the
importance of finding common ground but
I also believe and it is personal and I
was actually very it was hurtful to hear
you talk about the reputations of two
United States senators who built their
reputations and career on the
segregation of race in this country and
it was not only that but you also worked
with them to oppose busing and you know
there was a little girl in California
who was part of the second class to
integrate her public schools and she was
bused to school every day and that
little girl was me so I will tell you
that on this subject
it cannot be an intellectual debate
among Democrats we have to take it
seriously
we have to act swiftly as Attorney
General of California I was very proud
to put in place a requirement that all
my special agents would wear body
cameras and keep those cameras on
we are going to give you a chance to
respond
[Applause]
once I'm gonna put posit before we get
to his response because here he is this
is this is the moment right where first
of all she helps herself in this
instance oh because she's basically
saying like I'm not afraid to go out you
straight on I've done it well I waited i
bided my time my BIDIN my time excuse me
and and and she goes at him and you can
see you know Biden was doing the thing
like where you do not look that's what
they tell you from a communication
standpoint but the way that she dropped
that that was me it compelled him to
look which is a little bit problematic
so how do you come back at this moment
and the way that you come back at this
moment is you well basically it's like
an old improv thing you don't deny right
I mean because there's nothing she said
that didn't comport with everyone's
understanding of what happened but Biden
chickens out
he says yes and but you're a cop no he
chickens out he says no I didn't say
that
watch what he says here this character
raised my position across the board I
did not praise racist that is not true
number one number two if we want to have
this campaign litigated on who supports
civil rights and whether I did or not
I'm happy to do that I was a public
defender
I didn't become a prosecutor I cannot I
left a good law firm to become a public
defender when in fact when in fact
when in fact my city was in flames
because of the assassination of dr. King
number one not number two as the US now
you know he is first of all he was on
number two already I don't know if you
caught that number one was you
mischaracterized me number two I didn't
become a prosecutor and I'm willing to
put my civil rights you know so and then
he comes back to number one and then
goes to number two so here he is he's
completely off track first off he denies
what everybody heard him say he denied
what he bragged about and that's where
he lost this the comment about the
prosecutor there's none of his people
who care that she's a prosecutor right
yeah right
her people that's what impresses them of
the hey about us right and so do line
though yeah I mean it was a good line
but not for anybody who cares burn your
bus bill of do exactly as the US as
excuse me as the vice president knighted
States I work with a man who in fact we
work very hard to see to it we dealt
with these issues in a major major way
the fact is that in terms of busing the
busing I never you would have been able
to go to school the same exact way
because it was a local decision made by
your City Council that's fine that's one
of things argued for that we should not
be we should be breaking down these
lines but so the bottom line here is
look everything I have done in my career
I ran because of civil rights I
continued to think we have to make
fundamental changes in civil rights and
those civil rights by the way include
not just only African Americans but the
LGBT community
[Applause]
do you agree today that you were wrong
to oppose busing in America though do
you agree I did not oppose busing in
America what I opposed is busing ordered
by the Department of Education that's
what I opposed well you're not a failure
of states to into normal public schools
in America I was part of the second
class to integrate Berkeley California
public schools almost two decades after
brown v board of education because your
City Council made that decision history
four states fail to preserve the civil
rights of rfg porta de all right from
the very beginning when I read about 30
seconds do I want to bring other people
in supported by Nara from the very
beginning
I'm the guy that extended the Voting
Rights Act for 25 years I did that I
said place where we got 98 of the 98
votes in the United States Senate doing
it
I've also argued very strongly that we
in fact deal with the notion of the nine
people access to the ballot box I agreed
that everybody once day in faddish my
time well now that was sad what's really
bad and we're seeing this today and we
said it last night he is using states
rights as a defense
I mean he's using municipalities rights
as a defense but this is exactly exactly
what the civil rights fight was about
Barry Goldwater 64
it also low-key highlights how much
older than her he is right if he was
trying to deny her integration when she
was a kid yeah I mean I think what's
what's like the only path for him and
this must just be his egotism is to just
say frankly like this is just no values
just political advice I was totally
wrong I've done X Y & Z and I was a
Senator in the 70s from Delaware and
that was politically untenable there you
could totally say that and what would be
a legit thing to say I think he could
have just said like look at the time I
had to do
that and today I look back on it I have
regrets that's what I'm saying yeah
that's exactly saying you explained the
political reality the idea that you're
gonna I mean look we'll get him like
okay you weren't a brave leader you
didn't have a conscience you weren't
willing to risk your neck we already
know that what's the second step you
apologize talk about the history and
Centerton today the third step is that
was jerusem San Francisco baby yeah but
other places maybe they didn't want it
but look I was friends with Barack
anyways I can't even forgot what the
original reason why he brought that
stuff up was right like he should have
said like look I wanted to get to a win
and if I hadn't done that we wouldn't
have even had the busing you wouldn't
even had the opportunity to but she did
which would have been a lot I would have
been alive I just want everybody to
remind her buddy the letter that the
Washington Post that he wrote to
Eastland in 77 saying thank you for
working with me on busing I mean this is
appalling everyone knows what it means
when someone invoke states rights right
all right
