[Music]
and then somehow that turned into Robert
moly troller tchotchke art and we're all
exhausted this one is refreshingly
simple refreshingly simple Joe Biden's
son is on the sits on the board of a
Ukrainian energy company that's that is
the swamp Internet itself but of course
it's metastasized into a broader
conspiracy that is not true which
includes actually literally something
that Joe Biden said at a meeting of the
Council on Foreign Relations while it
was being taped that somehow Trump
thinks is like basically Trump thinks to
Joe Biden publicly admitted to like a
significant crime in Ukraine at like a
Q&A at the Council on Foreign Relations
and it's and it ties into a broader
conspiracy theory about I think another
thing that's happening here is that
Trump is confusing the CrowdStrike
investigation with Hillary's private
email server so I'm trying to tease all
this together but the bottom line is is
that he basically thinks that those
Nicolas Cage movies about like the
secret treasure map and the Constitution
are real except they're in Ukraine and
they're gonna put Joe Biden in jail just
like a map reloaded and so I I pointed
out yesterday that you know what the
Trump administration is gonna do for
their spin is they're gonna say hey I
got my buddy the president Ukraine right
here does he say that he's being
threatened or asked to cooperate in our
political campaign in order to get the
funds that Congress already allocated
for him I don't think so and of course
because the president of Ukraine is in
the world's periphery dealing with
Russian influence and does not want to
piss the United States off obviously
he's not gonna contradict it and lo and
behold I believe this was this morning
this was yesterday yesterday after the
show look what happened here
I think you read everything so I think
you read text I I'm sorry but I don't
want to be enroll Mazel I'm really sorry
I know this is obnoxious of me but this
is literally my impression coming to
life yeah I have like this is exactly
the bit we did yesterday yeah I saw it
after the shows like last Matt Michael
and Sam are the Nostradamus of two hours
from now
yeah I've been you you see what you read
no chumps is like wow what a smart
cookie I love this comedian
this guy's a former comedic actor who
starred in a Ukrainian television show
about a schoolteacher I believe who
became president and then leverage that
popularity to become president he's also
doing oh yeah
he's kind of an interesting guy actually
I don't know enough about him but you
know and I don't know he might be on the
Pro austerity side of things but he's at
least biography wise he's interesting I
appreciate the post modernist of that
story yeah that's like hyper
normalization yeah this is he's
basically a gnat what actually happened
is Adam Curtis engineer to Ukrainian
Kuhn and installed a crisis actor for
his next BBC Doc okay let's go
I'm sorry but I don't want to be
involved to democratic often I think
good phone call it was normal we spoke
about many things and I so I think and
you ready that nobody push it pushed me
yes
you know there was literally he
literally said he's having a normal one
yes yes that's exactly what he just did
just watch the majority report just in
case you want to skip a Trump press
conference we've got you a couple hours
in advance also once he really gets into
his answer that trumps been waiting for
he Trump does not break eye contact
within the entire time it's just no
Trump
normal we talk about many things so I
think you ready that nobody push it do
that nobody pushed me is definitely a
sound drop so did I hit my lines yes you
did very good you can tell he was an
actor right it sadly wasn't an actor he
was a comedian that's the other part of
my bit as that Trump is confused with
him being a stand-up and all of his
bribes involved maybe we could get you a
Netflix special
