[Music]
this was sort of nuts and it started to
travel around on on Twitter and social
media I mean I mean I'm not terribly
surprised by any of this I mean CNBC is
specifically for you know aged wealthy
oleg archetype and aspiring all the
conspiring and the but it's there's some
times where it's just like the veneer
gets completely ripped off and they are
literally just some type of tool of the
elite to beat up anybody who who in any
way steps you know on their their
narrative and in this one it's
particularly interesting because the
heiress to the Disney fortune and I
don't know if she has any job in Disney
I think she just I'm not sure to be
honest with you yes well she's the
heiress to the Disney fortune and that's
the way that they they identify her
Abigail Disney and it says on Wikipedia
she's a documentary filmmaker
philanthropist and activist known for
her documentary films focused on social
themes yeah okay so she's an heiress
yeah she's an heiress she well I mean
you could be an heiress and also be
running the company in this instance
she's just you know an heiress and I
would imagine also it's not just she's
already gotten a significant portion of
that wealth and she is I'm not sure what
organization she's with or how she ended
up in this situation but she's on CNBC
arguing for wholesale changes in the
structure of our tax code across the
board and
here she is getting really browbeaten I
guess is really the the best word by
Andrew Ross Sorkin Bertha Coombs and Joe
Kernan who I think on some level there's
a certain amount of resentment that they
are are exhibiting that they wouldn't
it's very difficult because these people
worship wealth right and implicit in
their worship of wealth is this sense
that if you are wealthy regardless of
how you got there
there is some moral superiority that is
associated it's better than them and yes
so like when Alex Perrine let's say goes
on CNBC they will they will talk to him
with the st. with a with a different
type of drippy condensate condescension
then they can with a Disney heiress with
the Disney heiress it's just sort of
more anger than condescension and so
it's fascinating we we could have played
the entire well I don't know 10 minute
clip but we're gonna end up playing
about I think four or five minutes of it
but here is um here is a where they are
now shifting it's it's like they're
trying to find where they're gonna
penetrate this force field and now it's
that she doesn't know what patriotism
really is about if someone masses a lot
of money and and then leaves it to
charity
are they unpatriotic no absolutely not
they're not paying taxes we have all
agreed as a country we have laws that
lever okay
then by definition it's not necessarily
patriotic to pay higher taxes posi do
you understand that formulation there is
is like somebody who took logic class
and completely did not quite get it like
he thinks he's say he's doing like one
of those you know theorems right like if
a it is to be diligent let me tell you I
remember he's getting it wrong I
remember
Rajic or greek philosophy in college and
I shouldn't say this publicly but it was
not an easy subject and he was not only
a person who took the class he was the
guy when you're in finals and no one has
any sleep and you're like alright we
just got to meet and have a study group
and figure this out before the test and
he ruins the whole study group because
not only does he he you don't know
enough to kill the test but you know
enough to did that he's totally wrong
but he won't he shot instead he's right
and he's wrong here but here is with its
clever calculation so you're not
unpatriotic to give to God to to charity
I rest my care for you are patriotic do
you have that buddy good it's not
necessarily patriotic to pay higher
taxes no of course it's not unless the
tax rates are unfair the problem is that
there's a systematic favoring of people
who have accumulated an enormous amount
of wealth the problem is people should
be maybe it's a mistake tax issue then
because the people don't really in a
state of true wealth in their own
lifetime do it out of hard work and
paying ordinary income then they're able
to own assets which are then taxed them
too but many of the people in the Forbes
400 inherited money due to the estate
tax well with the estate tax I would
certainly you have to raise the
exemption a little bit and you have to
index the current exemptions eleven
point two million dollars right I think
it where it is right now I think it's
good and and and that whole mythology
about how the family farm gets broken up
and everybody is that it affects maybe
four or five families in any given year
so so that needs to be that narrative
needs to be eliminated
what happens if you lower the estate tax
or you reduce as many people say the
estate tax you get a concentration of
wealth in families and you are I mean
already we have a no Kernan went to the
estate tax right as a dig on her like
his whole thing about like people earn
you know they start with nothing in some
cases and then they make all this money
and then they invest in assets and
that's why the income from those assets
treated differently because
theoretically the money that they saved
the first time in their wage job was
what provided them with the money for
these assets well first off we know
because of the complete reduction in
mobility that more often than not that's
not the case that it all derived from
like he was a waiter and he saved all
his money and then he invested in it in
our apartment and he flipped that and
then turned it into a huge building that
story does happen but here's the other
point who cares who cares because the
context in which someone can even place
that bet assuming that every single
person who owns a billion dollars or
hundreds of millions of dollars did it
because they worked as a waiter or a
janitor and they saved up their pennies
and they placed a bet on something that
worked out the context in which that bet
happens and pays off is a function of
society allowing for that to happen
right because there are plenty of
societies out there where you can't just
place a bet and get lucky and flip it
and make all this money you need to pay
off different corrupt entities or you
need to provide you know services for
specific areas I mean this doesn't occur
in nature
idea that you can make these bets that
that in nature you could bet this money
that you made as a janitor and it would
it would inflate it never Bronx of
society they do that continue and you
are I mean already we have an education
system that favors the wealthy we have a
segregated population of wealthy people
who are further segregating themselves
by living in gated communities and so
forth we are creating a two-tiered
Society which we should fear make up the
argument that in a that we're in a much
more mobile world than ever before
that if you look at what happens in
Connecticut for example and then people
have been fleeing Connecticut obviously
for other states in the United States
but yeah if you actually raise the
federal taxes in a remarkably meaningful
way I mean back to this sort of 70
percent kinds of numbers you gave me a
bandage about
not people would be on airplanes yeah
moving to other countries yeah you know
my feeling about that is the ones who
leave because the tax rates to go up
here are welcome to leave frankly we
don't want them here because what they
don't want to participate in is a
society that is structured around
fairness we do not have a society
structured around fairness right now and
the proof is in the pudding look at the
lives of working-class people in America
I talked to workers at Disneyland who
can't afford their insulin because
they're working at minimum wage
this is unacceptable and I can't sit
back and in and accumulate wealth
because I simply a inherited it and B
have the good sense to simply own it
whatever gets the expensive title you're
talking about a lot of different things
I'm talking about a lot of different
minimum wage being raised whatever state
taxes the exemption get brought down
whether the the basic wages are basic
tax rates go up and then also taste is
taking a look at capital gains alright
there's two things one is let's work
backwards she's talking about a broad
base of things but every single one of
those issues are completely implicated
by the wealth inequality we have in this
country every single one of those issues
are a function of what happens when you
go from a plutocracy autonomy to a
plutocracy where you have a
concentration of wealth that then begins
to concentrate political power so every
one of those issues are implicated by
everything she's saying and the other
thing I would add is the idea that this
is about fairness is too narrow of a
construct because the fact of the matter
is it's completely about the stability
of our society yes it may be the case
that it's unfair but you don't need to
show that it's unfair to say that we
cannot continue in this way that it
provides it's anti-democratic it is
destabilizing all those people that
Andrew Ross Sorkin knows who are going
to get on their plane again or leave
this country because they don't like the
federal tax rates not only is it a you
know a question of fairness we'll find
we don't want people like that the
absence of their ability to impact the
political structure in this country
right because they're foreigner
now and they're subject to a different
set of laws theoretically anyways in
terms of how they influence our politics
and they also we should you want to
leave the United States and renounce
your citizenship to avoid taxes great
you can't invest here yeah you got to
keep all of your cash outside of this
country good luck you're gonna
understand the value or your heirs will
understand the value of the benefits you
had that are designed for that right
like Singapore is pretty much designed
that way the Emirates are designed that
way and look if you have citizenship and
you have certain access that's an
incredibly nice lifestyle those are also
undemocratic places that are built in
some cases unlike literal indentured
servitude
so not only in the prices in the housing
incidentally in Connecticut they're
gonna flatten a little bit of land also
just that yeah and that and that that
too though a deeper point would be to
say to these people like do you want
America to be Singapore I mean okay but
then you shouldn't keep talking about
like apple pie and elections and freedom
because that's not what's going on here
people do Singapore and Singapore's in
some ways a very for what it is it's a
super successful place but people should
be transparent about what it is and then
they start getting really sort of pissy
about it Joe Kernan in particular he is
really mad he is really mad he was so
mad that he actually even brought up the
estate tax and that that's a really
funny thing about the segment is that
they actually starts splitting their own
talking points yes and then the other
question was gasps she was there's a
Disney shareholder meeting today as it
happens and Bob iger's pay has been
reduced by about 13.5 million dollars I
believe how much of this is about taxes
in your mind or do you say to yourself
you know what maybe corporate America is
being paid too much how do you balance
those issues well I do believe as I say
it's hard to separate these things out
because they've been woven together in a
system that you know it's systematically
favored do you think that Bob iger's
overpaid I think you know in general I'm
asking you a lot of difference to come
out and say that but I will say that if
you're CEO salary is is at the 700 600
500
your median workers paid then there is
nobody on earth Jesus Christ himself
isn't worth 500 times his median so what
does he think of this pay I really I
don't know I've never heard a good
answer this but why don't you just
voluntarily write a check you're worth a
half a billion dollars oh the one good
answer to that what is it it is a
ridiculous to say that in fact okay
that's your answer
ridiculous no it's not my answer making
it free to write to check that the
problems are structural my measly few
hundred million dollars will do nothing
to address
neither will neither will the four
hundred either one or four hundred
hospital either will taxing the four
hundred richest families as a drop in
the bucket to the tax structure so that
our fifty percent of Americans are not
living at negative debt or paying taxes
paying taxes they will be about income
tax until I don't come payroll every
joke says what is what I mean this guy
but first off let me just say this if
you get your pay cut by thirteen million
dollars and you're still doing okay
you're being paid too much
look if thirteen million dollars is not
debilitating to you to be cut that way
like if that doesn't throw you into debt
but you did to be able to get your pay
cut that way there's a real problem and
the thing that Joe Kernan either doesn't
understand or doesn't want to understand
is that the reason why you tax those
four hundred uh you know a billionaire's
or whatever that class of people is in
this country is not exclusively to raise
money to spend it is to keep them from
having that money it's not about
fairness it's about it is about
stability of society it is about having
a a society that can function and it's
fair in is serving the function of why
we organize into society so it doesn't
matter what an individual does whether
they're whether they they can raise as
much money whether it's one person who
has as much as the other 399 or not the
bottom line is is that you need a policy
to address the instability that's being
created in our society and the way you
do that is not by one person deciding
one off I'm gonna donate and he knows
this it's just him being pissy I also
want to apologize the fabric
Disney is watching this clip because I
feel like she might be but I can't help
but say that if Walt Disney were around
today he might say something like when
did my granddaughters start hanging yeah
with so many Jews getting these goddamn
socialist notions yeah she's a good
class trader I mean it's about democracy
- right because money is power in our
society therefore if you don't want one
class of people to have an inordinate
amount of influence you should take away
some of their power by taking away some
of their money I mean obviously I don't
think it goes far enough but it's
certainly better than the alternative
though also with a Schmidt when he had
his little hissy fit on his podcast
about doing the the whole Howard Schultz
scam he kept saying this phrase that's
his word as confess Kotori can Fisk
Ettore and that's really gonna be their
new frame actually amazingly enough it
and is to flip the notion of who's in an
exploited relationship because as um
what's-her-name who wrote democracy in
Chains which is still like one man see
McLean Nancy MacLaine which read that
book it's a rich people identity
politics its knowledge that rich people
identity politics they actually she
points out the some of these original
libertarian crackpots basically just
they tell the Marxist story they just
invert the working-class or just the
labor class period the functionality and
then they just flip it to the capital
class that the capital class is
endlessly exploited by everybody else by
sucking their resources so it's a very
so let's abolish class Society then I
don't think that's direction they take
it in but I think that that you'll hear
that amazingly you will hear a lot more
appeals to fairness and what's right and
what's interesting in addition our
ridiculous it is it clearly is the
emotional truth of like you know this is
why Howard Schultz is having this
prolonged national tantrum is he's like
personally aggrieved and offended that
he might actually have to contribute
nothing and and and the problem that
they're having is that 10-15 years ago
20 years ago Frank Luntz could get out
there and call it the death tax instead
of the estate tax and make it about and
then they would go to like sort of the
second
sort of the the second read out I guess
which was oh this is about family farms
we don't want to destroy family farms
and Abigail didn't see Disney misstated
there's not four or five farms they have
trouble finding one in the history of
the estate tax a family farm that had to
go under into this scenario and that's
one of the problems they have is the the
flow of information and things like
social media makes it that much harder
to sell these type of memes and so and I
think they're gonna have they're moving
to like you know the third or fourth
retreat when they start going like it's
really unfair to to me you know to lose
my thirteen million dollars like at one
point they're gonna realize like that
doesn't sound so good to people who are
not normal CNBC right this is the sound
of people who are either work for a
living and or are saying it's funny this
whole like family farm image because
last week I majority report I had on the
great Milton al-ahmadi and we were
talking about among other things the
South African elections and the need for
land reform there and I did with you
know mindful that this is like an all
right me my said when you talk about
land reform you know it's talking about
literally like a small Afrikaner family
form and he goes of course not in fact
there might be more room for them to
have a little bit more property when we
take can reclaim democratically like
massive like expanses of basically white
corporate farmland that has been stolen
from people it is never it's never about
the family farmer should be like a
hashtag it's an awkward one but it's
true
