jaudy report joining us now is Ava
Gallinger she is the former legal
adviser
- oh gosh Ava's she's a journalist
television host investigative reporter
author of confidante of quote-unquote
tyrants which is a memoir of her
political work in Venezuela how she came
to play that role and her meeting with
many other people including Fidel Castro
Gaddafi and others
Ava thanks so much for being here thanks
for having me on the show so Ava just I
mean to the extent it's possible where
are we right now in and by the way I
mean I've been calling it an attempted
coup would you use that same terminology
and Venezuela yawned an attempted coup I
mean it well it it's a coup that's still
developing it's an coup in development
because there's still no final outcome
you know it's not a coup that's been yet
sorted it's not a coup that was
successful it's still playing out in
real time and there's really no clear
end game at this stage and I think that
goes to show even further the level of
improvisation that we're dealing with
here with this particular government in
the United States that of course has
been backing this and encouraging it now
for a while but particularly over the
past few weeks as things have developed
in in Venezuela that have given way to
this as well open the doors to it but
it's really the improvisation that
that's terrifying because we're you know
we have that in the United States we
were seeing we're living that daily with
with the Trump administration and
everything all their policies and what
they're trying to do what he's
particularly doing the way he operates
and now we're seeing it play out with an
incredibly volatile dangerous foreign
policy issue and so you know and the
opposition in Venezuela has a history of
improvisation I mean this it's also part
of the culture I'm Venezuela but you
know they did this in 2002 when they
tried to overthrow go Chavez in a coup
that was briefly successful and then was
defeated by a popular uprising of the
majority of Venezuelans and also loyal
military forces but at that time the
opposition had done the same thing they
had convinced Washington that they could
do it and so Washington backed them in
every way possible funneling millions of
dollars and all the political and
diplomatic support and even military
support they sent in you know there were
ships there there a Black Hawk Blackhawk
helicopter I mean they were all in for
this and then at the last minute they
realized oh man these people they're not
gonna be able to do it so the u.s. tried
to back out and it was too late you know
they went forward they failed so now
we're seeing it once again although this
time the stakes are higher and the
situation is is different there's you
know at that time I think it Java's was
also more fresh in his role as president
and people were just horrified that that
was happening in the country it was you
know outrageous and and but now it's
been a prolonged period of crisis in the
country Nicolas Maduro is not Chavez he
doesn't enjoy the same level of
admiration from his supporters they
basically put up with him because he's
the guy that Chavez asked them to elect
and so they did and he's the one the
only one so far who's shown the
leadership to carry forward you know
that particular project the Bulevar in
revolution even though it's been
disastrous under his rule but at the
same time and you know it's different
the the level of morality is low people
are suffering a severe economic crisis
the number one problem is corruption in
his government
you know he's constantly making promises
that he can't keep can't follow through
on nothing's gotten better the economy
is is really just completely devastated
and so I think there's much more support
for change in the country and when this
guy Juan why though who's completely was
a relatively unknown faith piece of the
opposition took on this very charismatic
stance and doesn't have that same
tarnished history as other opposition
leaders do as participating in in past
coos and violence and you know just
corruption corrupt political parties
this guy is very young fresh-faced
charismatic making also big promises of
you know stability and
and transition and and reconciliation so
I think there's more openness to hearing
him out but at the same time we have a
change in the region you know just a few
years ago a majority of countries would
never have backed a situation like this
they would never have endorsed any kind
of regime change in a neighboring
country and that has the tables have
turned entirely it's it's really
astonishing to see how the
transformation in Latin America just a
few years ago was a unified front
against foreign intervention it was you
know proclaiming their independence and
sovereignty and as a regional power
unified and now of course it's
completely divided on ideological lines
and a majority of countries in South
America come out against Maduro and our
support bring this coup and so that
combined with with the Trump
administration's unwavering and very
enthusiastic support that could include
some kind of military intervention is
what could push this over the edge but I
would just add you know before
concluding this summary of events is
that you know the major game changer
here of course is the Venezuelan
military and at this very moment they're
backing Maduro and they would be it
would be hard to see them cross the line
to back an opposition that's supported
by the United States because that would
clearly be seen as treasonous and it's
not you know most of these military they
may not support what Maduro is doing but
they certainly support the defense and
sovereignty of their nation so there
would have to be a different sort of way
out that wouldn't be seen as aligning
with the United States and then of
course we have to factor in Russia and
China's support for Maduro which creates
Venezuela or it turns Venezuela into a
geopolitical battlefield that's a
struggle then between the west and you
know Russia and China over this country
with the largest oil reserves on the
planet how would the second-largest oil
reserves in the planet the largest or
the largest oil reserves in the planet
so so okay well I want to just for a
minute deal with the like that basically
the Bulevar own project and the social
formation around it and I like that you
outlines it and again I keep saying like
you know if ever there was a time to be
able to hold multiple thoughts in your
head at once it would be now obviously
right so of course there are failings of
Nicolas Maduro and of this present
government and there's also massive
accomplishments of particularly
Yugoslavia's which we have no discussion
of in the United States right and
obviously during an attempted coup the
primary responsibility of those of us
the United States is to actively and
vehemently oppose a coup and so all of
that being said in terms of like the
social formation around Maduro you
talked about obviously the popular surge
that protected Chavez from the bush 2002
coup I've heard and you know I I'm
talking to you because you're a source I
trust right there's a lot of sources I I
don't even know enough to trust or not
trust frankly but one of the things I've
heard is that unlike in previous efforts
there are poorer parts of Caracas as an
example places where the traditional
social base of this pala of Bolivarian
politics have rallied before to defend
this project from foreign intervention
and domestic oligarchs but that there's
actually like some of those demographics
are rising up as well because things
have been so bad and I guess my quote I
have a two-part question one I mean is
that true and secondly what is the
combination here of internal failings
versus just like the relentless US
pressure of sanctions and an investment
in opposition as well like what's the
kind of fusion of innate failings versus
ongoing relentless US interference this
is really a type of what you would call
low intensity warfare or asymmetric
warfare it's been going on for a long
time it doesn't that does not discount
the role that the government itself has
played in their own dysfunctional
policies and they're you know allowing
corruption to basically become a
malignant force within the government
but at the same time
you know the there's no question I mean
the particularly the us through their
different funding agencies like USA
international now for democracy even
just directly through State Department
think tanks like Freedom House others
that are used as fronts to channel funds
to you know and even in some cases
creating NGOs that work to undermine
governments that aren't favorable to us
agenda that this overtime is a way it
just tires out the people you know it
becomes an independent rates so deeply
into civil society that it's
unrecognizable as being something
imposed from external you know interest
so I mean that is that does play a huge
role in what's gone on in the poor
neighborhoods but the same time I mean
the primary reason that you know a
majority of lower income areas supported
Chavez in the first place was because of
his policies oh yeah he was a
charismatic guy he cared about people
but you know it they wouldn't have
supported him for so long and put their
lives on the line to defend him for so
many years in the face of so much
destabilization and you know different
attempted coos and aggressions against
them if it wasn't for the fact that his
policies were servicing their basic
needs people were the quality of life
improved dramatically under Chavez so
all of that now has been rolled back
under Maduro in part because of
sanctions and economic warfare from
private enterprises and abroad but I
mean I have to say no I mean I know
what's going on there you know there's a
lot of corruption
they've been embezzling a lot of money
out and it's mismanagement you know so
there there are bad people in place in
charge of a lot of the finances of the
country and they've been stealing money
I mean that just straight out so you
know that's also a combination of what's
been going on and so yes this the
support from the traditional grassroots
community bases in Venezuela for the
government has dramatically eroded over
the past couple years because of the
economic crisis primarily because of
that because in general people don't
care as much if their president has
Authority and tendencies or not so long
as they can eat and earn a decent wage
and you know pay their for all their
expenses I mean it comes down to that
most people are not highly politicized
and aren't thinking about that on an
everyday basis they're thinking about
how much money do they have and can they
afford everything that they need in
their lives so once that start the
tables start to turn on that you know
you think with your stomach that was
always something said in Venezuela
before Chavez and afterward is people
think first with their stomach if you
can't eat you know you're gonna get
angry yeah so you're gonna blame who's
in charge who's preventing that you know
you from being able to meet your basic
needs and in this case it is Maduro so I
mean I think that that is absolutely
true and I mean I've been talking
nonstop to people on the ground in in
different areas around the country and
last night was a night full of protest
bullets you know people got killed there
was a lot of commotion and in in all
over Caracas particularly and in in the
poorer neighborhoods as well in popular
sectors and then at the same time Maduro
as people call it and he himself called
for his supporters to rally around the
presidential palace and protect him
nobody was out there at midnight it was
empty so that would never have happened
during Chavez people would have slept
out there if they needed to so I think
that's a huge news we're not seeing kind
of support for a Maduro I mean is that
do you think that might change just as
the United States continues this and
there's like an actual threat of
military action like does that logic
start to shift back of wait a second
whatever like the same logic that you
said the military officers might have
that whatever else we say about him we
can't have a coup here and incidentally
what opposition realistically in any way
is going to you know my sense is that
the people that oppose Maduro that would
be backed by the united states all of
the same problems whether they be
corruption or embezzlement or you know
cartel connections whatever sure
there'll be all of that and there'll be
a complete
elimination of the social advances and
autonomy that this government has
delivered well and let's not kid
ourselves though I mean the opposition
is comprised of political parties
primarily that ruled before are some
kind of hybrid of those that had power
before the Bolivarian revolution
extremely corrupt you know embezzled
billions of dollars out of the country
were responsible for the skyrocketing
poverty in Venezuela and the
marginalization of a majority of
Venezuelans so I mean that is obviously
an concern but at this stage people feel
as though well we don't you know if we
can get food on our plates then it may
not matter who's in power and so I think
it'll come down to that there certainly
is a hard core base of supporters you
know Chavistas I would say they're not
necessarily mad Ortiz doesn't you know
like Maduro hardcore supporters but they
believe they're following through on on
that project which is really about
Venezuela's sovereignty and a you know a
project of social justice and they would
fight to the death so you know there and
there are people there are civilian
militias that are trained and armed I
mean it's not a country that's
defenseless and you know they do have
the backing of Russia they do have
powerful equipment doesn't mean they
could come up against the US military in
any sense but they wouldn't go out with
you know like their heads between their
knees I mean there are a lot who would
fight that said I think that hopefully
it won't come to that and there could be
some kind of negotiated process out of
this situation
but what's happening now is completely
unprecedented violates every concept of
international law sovereignty you know
rights to self-determination I mean
essentially the legislative branch the
head of the legislative branch has has
declared himself the head of the
executive branch is being recognized by
you know powerful foreign nations and is
somehow is working presently out of the
Colombian embassy in Caracas to set up a
government I mean he has no control over
anything in the country he doesn't have
control over institutions he doesn't
have control over the finances you know
so it he doesn't have control over the
oil industry so that it comes down to
what is the next step here this is all
developing in real time and seems highly
improve eyes and it doesn't seem as
though they really have a clear path
forward if they think that Maduro is
gonna just walk out of the presidential
palace I would say I mean I could be
wrong things could change but as it
stands right now I just do not see that
happening I mean obviously they've been
trying to instigate something for quite
some time right I mean in going back of
course I mean Bush through Obama you
told it to like load the into high
intensity and you know the economic
warfare against Venezuela but
specifically with Trump I mean that was
one of the reasons that you know that
ridiculous John Oliver commentary on
Venezuela that was such you know
nonsense from a year or two ago because
he was you know dismissing the idea that
the Venezuelan government was putting
forward of us interference literally at
the same time that Mike Pompeo when he
was head to the CIA was actually
publicly saying this and of course Trump
has said any number of things
threatening Maduro in Venezuela publicly
and I think on some level I mean
obviously there's a bigger history
behind this but I'm like I mean this
might be the time to Institute instigate
this because the government shutdown
strategy is totally failing right like
that really is the level of just total
nonsense we're dealing with in terms of
Trump in addition to like the
traditional US interest that would you
know and have instigated like over 40
something coos in Latin America in the
last you know couple of dozen years so
like if you were back there advising
what would like I mean first I guess
before we get to like your your
potential solution space I mean do you
actually think that it could get as bad
as some type of military invasion and
does that specifically have to do with
Maduro expelling diplomats and then
refusing to leave well there could be a
standoff that certainly seems like a
provocation on the part of the United
States to you know refuse to obey the I
mean that that's international law
that's the you know the Vienna
Convention on diplomatic and consular
relations that every country
the right to make that kind of decision
that's a sovereign right at the same
time you know the US Embassy in Caracas
the US residents in in Caracas for its
diplomats those are sovereign
territories of the United States that's
how it works so like Venezuelan forces
can't go into those spaces and forcibly
remove them I don't think that they
would do that anyway I think it would
just be a very you know volatile
standoff however if were if they were to
be provoked and something were to happen
I foresee a like a Grenada type
situation where the US would then say we
have to go in and rescue our people so
we're bringing in the Marines you know
and then and that could open the door or
they could do it with special forces I
mean that Colombia is right on the other
side of Venice Maas border that they
have a massive military presence
particularly of Special Forces in
Colombia a US military bases so you know
this has been the US has been preparing
for a regime change in Venezuela now
from from the time pretty much the coup
failed against Chavez in 2002 it's a
state policy it's not partisan
you know it's by him so this is just a
culmination I think that as we're seeing
with most of the the Trump
administration Trump particularly
himself he's just sloppy with his you
know agenda he just blurts it out I mean
most of them would have kept it sort of
under wraps this is what we're doing
they've just been open and notorious
about you know we want a regime change
you know and he's a trump himself has
said now at least three times publicly
that that he's considering a military
option in Venezuela so there's really no
clear indication of how that would play
out except for the fact that it would be
extraordinarily dangerous and messy and
it would probably result in a bloodbath
I mean what else is gonna happen
what good home event the US intervention
anywhere in the world you know and then
if the Maduro if Maduro and his inner
circle decide to bunker down as they're
doing so far I mean then we're looking
at a similar you know like an Assad
situation like in Syria and it wouldn't
be the first time Venezuela has already
been mapped out by who knows how many
military strategists particularly in the
US but
also in Colombia and around the world to
divide the country because the oil
reserves are in are in certain areas
they're not you know all over the
country they've mapped it out they could
take it it's by Brazil it's by Colombia
you know they could take control of
those areas and carve it out and and
into pieces just like has happened in in
other countries where there have been
similar situations Libya you know for
example I mean where they go in they
create a disaster because there's really
no plan and and unexpected things happen
that they didn't account for and that
could be the case in Venezuela I do
think that if there's not some kind of
like pause put on this as soon as
possible and some more measured voices
involved as we're seeing are like the UN
secretary-general is making statements
saying you know this needs to slow down
we need to have dialogue to prevent
disaster in Venezuela we're hearing it
you know there what we're hearing more
in the media are the more sort of death
Eliquis the more aggressive voices like
the Trump administration and and the OAS
secretary general who's like salivating
over a military intervention in
Venezuela for regime change but you know
we need more measured voices Mexico is
playing that role of trying to calm the
situation and encourage dialogue even
Spain even France macaronis has not
endorsed the opposition he's calling her
you know dialogue and negotiated
transition or something of the sort
Spain specifically said no we don't
recognize the opposition if I understand
correctly I think it was more a call to
dialogue cause it wasn't a sort of
assertive no but it was more you know
we're not going down the path right now
and I mean I think that that's
respectable at this stage it's not as
it's it's not a solid position but
that's because they don't have you know
a fantastic relationship at the moment
the Spain as a more right-wing
government in place it you know so you
know there's the there are countries
that are taking a more measured stance
and there are those that are taking a
more aggressive one and so I we just
need to look at the interest behind
those countries the US has a direct
interest they want Venezuela's oil
you know Venezuela is a geostrategic
nation they want control of it again
like they had before you know Russia's
there Iran is there China's there they
want the US wants them out so they have
a very specific and direct interest in
regime change and other countries are
more measured Mexico you know even
Bolivia that backs Maduro but you know
even more Dallas just wants peace in the
region I mean they want stability and
and the same I think would go for you
know even China China didn't come out
and say we back Nicolas Maduro they just
said we do not back extern you know
foreign interference and Venezuela
spares right well Ava Gallinger I really
appreciate your time as always I
recommend that everybody who uses
Twitter as an example be following Ava
because this is a main source for
understanding what goes on we're gonna
talk more about this in
