[Music]
there's the potential for that and then
you know we can talk about the electoral
college Elizabeth Warren brought it up
and and I don't think it was I mean I
think what do you make of that because
obviously that's not going to happen
right the the national vote a popular
vote compact that's off the table at
least for 2020 may be off the table
forever but it doesn't make it so yeah I
think about it the compact I what is I
actually think there's a strong area to
me that it is unconstitutional right
even if every individual step you know
scans like that's every individual cept
is acceptable the overall thing is
unconstitutional is what if you are for
this to work for this to make sense you
would need swing states what our swing
states now to sign on to it right would
they want to dilute their influence
right of course and why would it not
only would they want to dilute their
influence but they're also they're more
likely to be dominated by Republicans or
at least have Republicans who have
enough power to say like wait a second I
don't want to lose right right I mean
maybe you'd like the next time there's
the Democrats you know control
everything in Pennsylvania by a wide
margin they can be strong-armed into
doing it but the other point is you know
a few candidates are talking about
abolishing the electoral college but
it's it's it's a process thing nobody
cares about a process thing but is it
doesn't it signify though to a certain
extent a certain amount of partisanship
or a certain amount of like I mean to me
III think it's I think it's like a it's
just a signifier I mean I think I read
it right now as a you know as a
partisanship thing I don't read it as a
willingness to actually want to
transform the structure of our
governance right
which obviously there's but there is a
conversation happening about that so I
don't know maybe you know what like what
what all of this boils down to all the
stuff when we talk about pact in the
courts we'll be talking about you know
limiting Supreme Court justice terms
when we talk about abolishing the
filibuster these are all means to an end
and the Democratic Party hasn't like
fundamentally embraced this notion and
certainly the the you know the
establishment the stakeholders do not
want to embrace this notion that yes the
the fundamental the these structures of
governance right now have to be either
reformed or destroyed in order to get
what we want right well there's gonna be
two possible flashpoints it seems to me
that that convention depending on who
ends up getting the the majority of the
delegates on the third vote that they
take a third round of voting or second
round of voting that could get that's
also why I say Bernie has to win cleanly
because if you know he gets 33% of the
vote while a Harris is 33% of own
federal work is 33% of the boat okay
that goes to a contested convention well
anyone can walk out of there and the
party can more or less stay unified but
if Bernie has you know 150 percent of
the popular vote but still loses on the
first ballot and then gets screwed by
the super-delegates like that's it
for the Democratic Party yes I agree I
mean the question is what if it's in
between they're like like I agree with
you and I think it's much harder for
them to do it if he gets 50 percent of
the vote exactly or even 49 percent or
even 47 percent like you know maybe 48
percent but but if you start getting
into like you got 40 percent of the vote
as opposed to 33 percent of like now
we're in this territory where it's like
that's where it seems to me could be the
even the ugliest because at 50 percent
of the vote you're gonna have a lot of
people even do people who are just like
I want the Democratic Party to be
unified to defeat Donald Trump even if
he gets 49% and I'm not a you know and
somebody says I'm not a Sanders fan but
49 percent that's close enough let's
keep the Democratic Party unified but
when you get to 40 percent that's like
yet to me is like what do you do well I
mean the thing is if he's still standing
at the end of it and he has a plurality
of the pledged delegates it's gonna be
hard to deny him the nomination even if
you can make you know some some credible
argument we're all just discussing
arguments and spin that people will be
doing right but if
he you know if he has the most pledged
delegates at the end of this even
without a majority a substantial number
of his support base will be Bernie or
bust right I agree
Billy is gonna come into play right that
seems like that's gonna be a major
argument that they're gonna be making
like on both sides there's gonna be like
it's at that point it's not gonna it's
just going to be insanity no it's just
like I think that I hate it there I
think that there should be if there is
the organizational capacity to do this
that there should be a left ballot line
in all 50 states for a presidential
candidate that is left open pending the
results of the Democratic convention
nature's name so here's a question you
said you said that most people don't
vote based on ideology they vote based
unlike other dumber factors like how the
person seems to them and their vibe but
a lot of the Democratic candidates this
time around seemed to be making it part
of their strategy to move to the left
and take up a lot of the things that
Bernie was talking about the last time
around like are they are they wrong are
they partly wrong like how does that
track what the thing is most people are
not gonna make up their minds until a
week before Election Day
most people don't know who like
virtually all of these candidates are so
that's why you know the the the primary
polling data is just you know it's it's
it's irrelevant it's at this point it's
always been irrelevant right now if
you're polling at 2% or you have these
obvious liabilities you've got to start
somewhere you have to do the basic work
of politics which means you know putting
together a coalition getting people on
your side and there's plenty of people
who are single issue voters who are part
of organizations like the DSA for
instance or who have just one you know
priority whether that's reproductive
rights or gun control or something like
that you know it's a fair play to say
you know well okay I want to be the gun
control candidate I want to be the
climate change candidate and those those
potential voters are really the only
ones who are listening great yeah it's
not just potential voters know their
voters but they're potentially using
potential those but also organization in
this way of organizational capacity and
money right right yeah those people who
yeah those those sort of the the
low-hanging or the low-hanging fruit I
guess in terms of like we're you know
they're out there they're shopping
themselves around they want to give in
some fashion to a campaign this is the
time when you start to scoop those
people up are you also what the and you
also want people with credibility in
certain fields to be on your side you
want the people who have been agitating
for something like a green new deal for
for cutting carbon emissions for several
years now and have a lot money behind
that and have a lot of credentials to
that front to be on your side and give
you cover for these things Kamala Harris
wants people who have been criminal
justice reform advocates for their
entire lives to be on our side and give
her cover
these are endorsements that the general
public is not aware of but people who
are interested in that that that that
topic area would it would have an impact
all right well listen we're going to
take
