[Music]
as we said on September 12 at 8 p.m. on
ABC News and Univision and the majority
report probably on twitch twitch we will
have Amy Klobuchar Cory Booker Peabody
Judge Bernie Sanders Joe Biden Elizabeth
Warren Kamala Harris Andrew yang better
o'rourke Julian Castro will be on the
debate stage absent from that stage will
be Tulsi Gabbard among 11 other people
or ten other people still in the race
god bless we don't have John Delaney to
kick around anymore so glad that dude's
not there and there have been people who
have been claiming that the system is
rigged against Tulsi Gabbard but they
were willing to take out all those other
moderates I guess to keep her off the
stage was the idea or you know it's
worth getting rid of Bullock it's worth
getting rid of Tom Styer it's worth
getting rid of John Delaney it's worth
getting rid of who else is Seth Moulton
I think he dropped out slaw well the
whole that it's worth getting rid of all
those people if we can get rid of gab
right now of course they made these
rules I think a lot of people assumed
that she would make it frankly I
certainly was one who thought that she
would she has no life but but she is not
dropping out and good I think that's
fine there's a couple of points that she
makes that I think are decent to be made
I hope she doesn't speak up too much
about Kashmir but because I'm not sure I
would like what she would say
but here's Tulsi Gabbard laughing the
other day when I started hearing from a
lot of people in in the media when they
said
didn't make the third debate are you
quitting
[Applause]
had been listening to what I've been
saying about what this movement is about
and why I'm running for president and
what is at stake they would understand
why we are here and why we will never
quit that's good I mean I I think I
would much rather her staying in the
race than John Delaney I mean no kidding
and frankly like I'm all for fewer
debates with fewer people but I'm from
your claim your PA miquel fewer and
fewer sir
but Amy Klobuchar and not Tulsi Gabbard
Kimmy a break well it's just a high
numbers it's just I mean I know but I
were to go down that rabbit hole there's
a whole dispute about which numbers
you're looking at and I'm I'll just say
it's like you with brexit although I
will say brexit is far more important
than this I I don't know and I don't
know they just they have no idea this
process they picked a bunch of poles
that were gonna be poles that they used
to to assess and they were gonna look at
donation numbers and how is Clovis shot
I mean clover has 1% well that's a
different criteria they didn't say that
no no I'm saying that's what I think
explains her poll numbers but she's got
1% in the polls I'm saying there's polls
she her polling averages literally at 1%
well I don't like soda soda entirely
locked down that map was purple certain
polls it was certain polls so it's not
just the poll number if they said these
are polls that are not frankly I would
preferred eight people so that you would
lose Klobuchar and frankly you would
probably lose Castro it looks like in
terms of know you yeah you wouldn't you
you wouldn't lose yang frankly no yang
has gotten himself right to the mid-tier
I mean that's he's done that yeah but I
just you know to me it's like if we're
having Castro and Clovis are as a
qualitative assessment have cult Tulsa
game well that's the whole point it's
not a qualitative well it's quantitative
right which is yes I guess they'd be big
it's I mean it's it's quantitative in
the sense that the Washington Post
fact checkers are quantitative I mean no
it's not I don't know about that look I
know more you more trust in it than I do
I'm not sure trust it was announced we
knew this six month six weekend if you
go into this rabbit hole there's a
reason some people are whining about it
I don't care I know I know there's a
reason why people are whining about it
well they say there's different polls
there's different but this was all pre
tired before hands but they're still you
they're still deciding there's still
it's something like somebody deciding
what is and isn't gonna make it through
of course
right everybody but the rules are set
six to eight weeks ago yeah I guess what
those people are way more threatened by
Bernice I know this is a court photo
Samantha like those people that are
fixing all this allegedly are way more
threatened by Bernie Sanders he's still
beaten it so you know yeah I mean this
is this is what I think is problematic
it's one thing because this is we're
getting into this sort of the rigged
thing again which was incredibly
destructive but also incredibly
inaccurate six weeks ago they say if you
score above a certain threshold in these
whatever twelve polls or three of these
twelve polls because we're just we're
choosing which polls we're gonna go by
because you can't start your own polling
outfit and say look I got I got six
percent so they've got to decide which
polls it is that what they're going to
say are legit everybody nobody knows six
to eight weeks ago where people were in
these polls anyways and you've got a hit
it was a hundred thirty thousand donors
right mean basically those are Gabbard
and Mary Ann hit the donor requirements
but they didn't hit the polling
requirements from the polls they used I
think you could argue that like look you
should allow twelve people on stage or
you should allow eight people on stage
but that's just as arbitrary to
basically what you can see from this
whole exchanges that Sam gets even more
money from the DNC them yeah well it's
also the sort of thing like if you have
them cease manner attack if your
movement relies on the rules
being in your favor on crisis you gave
your life your whole argument rests on
how come the you know how come the ref
didn't call to play that way I mean yeah
he will say especially to Brazil world I
do find the rhetoric I have no problem
complaining about things and talking
about bias but the rhetoric of like
rigging and Stalin in a Brazil world
guys you know also incredibly
disempowering because there is no
solution to this this is this is you
start getting into Alex Jones territory
where like the Bilderberger group is
controlling everything so it doesn't
matter what we do and that might be if
anybody out there thinks that the
Democratic Party was more interested in
getting rid of Tulsi Gabbard from that
stage versus keeping John Delaney okay
because if anything if there's any
impetus they want to protect Joe Biden
and John Delaney is the only one who is
gonna be about it at the end this is
really gonna piss Tulsi people off not
only they want to protect Joe Biden and
actually Tulsi was protecting show by if
they watch I mean it I mean so like it's
just just a great job on comma though
this is that yeah this stuff is I'm
happy she's not dropping out of the race
like I said I would rather seen eight
people in the debate than 10 I for all I
care I don't have to hear anything that
Amy Klobuchar says for as long as I live
I mean I you know it's all right down
the middle and boring stuff and it's not
moving the ball forward only interesting
I miss her staff abuse we all know this
but but the the talk of rigging in this
and that is just is grifters its
grifters honestly god damn e well it's
just I because that stuff I thought well
was also just sort of it was lame last
time it's even lamer this time
