so John what is really old is new again
I guess there's a video going around of
a documentary that was made about the
2000 election and one of the people they
had interviewed at the time was I guess
a student government president and a
local Florida University and that guy
turns out to be Andrew Gilliam and and
and here he is returning to in many
respects I have a feeling you'll agree
with me the scene of the crime and they
don't seem to have cleaned anything up
since then of course we're talking about
the Florida recount John tell us where
what where are we at in terms of what's
going on in Florida just walk us through
this timeline for at least the Senate
and the the governor's race and let me
also just tell you I appreciate your
talking to us while you're traveling
well I'm honored to be talking to you
it's an urgent discussion and so it's
one that that we should have wherever
we're at what's going on in Florida is
the chaos that occurs when officials and
frankly people sometimes in both parties
don't take seriously enough the basic
demand that you establish a system where
it's a easy to vote and be easy to count
the votes Florida as we know has failed
on both fronts you have terrible long
lines down there
just to cast a ballot all sorts of
complexities with that and now we're
seeing you know how very very hard in
this state it is to get all the votes
counted so what's happening in Florida
right now is that elections that on
election night appeared to have gone to
the Republicans for governor and Senator
and potentially you know also some down
ballot officers when all the votes are
counted or at least as we get closer to
a full count those contests have
narrowed incredibly and so we have ended
up in a situation now
we're the race for US Senate in Florida
and this is a critical contest because
if Democrats hold the Florida seat then
really they've gotten themselves into a
position of at least some viability in
the Senate I won't go into all the
details of that except to say this is a
really important competition because in
the Senate right now you are going to
have you know obviously a Republican
majority but you have people like Lisa
Murkowski incoming senator Mitt Romney
still potentially Susan Collins which is
often very disappointing as folks who
might on some issues break with the
Republicans so each additional Democrat
is a very big deal as regards how many
you might have to get across the line to
stop something that was really egregious
and if I could just add if I could just
add on that it is not only from a
legislative perspective does it makes a
difference but also politically I mean
Susan Collins is going to come up for
re-election and if she if if you have a
razor-thin margin it places her on the
hook as opposed to getting some free
votes she'll actually have to decide
something she'll have to choose which
side she's on we've already seen her do
that in the cabinet race and she is a
potential pick up for her and it when
she has to run again so well said Sam
that's exactly right in it and it's
important tab sizes up front because
sometimes it much of our media when we
talk about these close battles you know
it might leave folks saying oh yeah well
that that's just a fight down there in
that one state know what's going on in
Florida is a national fight it is a huge
significance as regards the ability to
check and balance the Trump
administration and also frankly the
ability to advance some elements of
legislation even in this time so what
happened is the Nelson race against
Republican Rick Scott the governor down
there it has become razor thin you're
looking at a margin you know in the
range of 12,000
votes and you have a large number of
votes yet to be assessed and when I say
assess I use the word carefully that
means it would have thing is there are
some votes that have yet to be counted
because they are in any number of sort
of limos it may just be literally some
things that that still have to be
counted other things that may be
provisional ballots and then finally you
have a in some of these counties because
of frankly bad machinery and maybe bad
ballot design um an excessive number of
under votes now under votes if you know
anything about politics are not you know
a crisis they are it's a problem that
for some reason the ballot was marked
but it when you put it through the
machine when you do a machine count of
this marked ballot it doesn't record the
vote it doesn't show any vote so you're
gonna have to go over those under votes
when you do you're very likely because
it happens to counties that we're
talking about very democratic counties
very likely you gonna find a lot of
votes for Nelson and now we should say
that there's at least quote there's at
least thirty there's at least thirty
thousand votes extant or I should say
under votes relative I mean this is the
estimation right the relative to the
other races because it would be very
strange for you just don't generally see
in elections of a variant between the
governor's race let's say in the Senate
is the Senators race of thirty thousand
unless there was something very unique
about that race and you know Bill Nelson
and Rick Scott that's about is you know
it's it's a fairly typical race it's not
that high an incumbent senator excite
wasn't favorables yeah go ahead yeah but
let me for one day do that actually it's
precisely the kind of raises because you
do have two high profile people a
governor and a senator right it's high
profile as you can get in in such a race
running against each other you know also
at a time where obviously the divisions
in the United States are very clear and
very demanding it's the kind of race
where usually you would see the highest
vote and for a variety of reasons and so
something's weird there I don't say that
everybody says that and so what this
suggests is the possibility not a
certainty we must always be careful
about you know making assumptions on
these things for the possibility the
bill Nelson could be reelected to the
United States Senate a nationally
significant result at the same time the
governor's race which on election night
had seemed to be close but relatively
clear for Republican Ron de Santos is
now moving into a similarly narrow
divide it's you know I would say this
your figures in the range of around
30,000 again you have it narrowing it
has been steadily narrowing and it has a
potential to narrow more because of all
the reasons we're talking about finally
you have down-ballot race for Secretary
of Agriculture which in Florida is
actually a quite important position
where the Democrat is actually it is
narrowly ahead but only by about roughly
5,000 votes and so we end up in a
situation we've got three important
tests and each of them could very
possibly produce an unexpected result I
think that egg the egg Commission race
or the egg secretary race is one that's
likely to go to the D because at this
point the ballots that are out look to
be good more good for the DS than for
the R's more good for the Democrats and
Republicans the Senate race I think is
is if we're honest about it it really is
on a Razors Edge I could go either way
but could well go to the Democrat the
governor's race is a little harder but
to his immense credit Andrew Gilliam who
as you noted has been involved in voting
rights for a very long time I covered it
back in nineteen or in 2002 when he was
a young activist coming off the floor to
fights and fighting for voting rights
and all the
issues so we've we've known he's been at
this for a long time he's done an
incredibly noble thing and a very
important thing in our politics and that
is he has withdrawn his concession and
are effectively withdrawn his concession
and said he's going to fight on he is
not suggesting that he's fighting on
necessarily to win although he'd like to
win and I think the possibility exists
he is fighting on to make sure that
every vote is counted effectively he is
doing events in churches and union halls
and other places across the state
organizing people for a count every vote
campaign this is what should have
happened in 2000 in the presidential
recount the Bush v Gore recount so what
Gilliam is doing is a necessary
important in a moment like this the be
off of thrilling it's a we should not
underestimate the deep resonance and
important to this a guy campaigning who
did campaign to become the first
african-american governor of Florida
going on a trail with a count every vote
message so it's really epic I daresay
and I don't think it's unreasonable
almost poetic a character to what's
going on there unfortunately
the poetic side is with gillum's
campaigning what's happening with the
actual count in the the chaos around it
is hardly poetic all right well let's
take a quick break and when we come back
I want to get a sense of sort of like
historically where should we place this
and what are we learning about the
failure of dealing with this I I can't
get over well we will talk about that in
a moment
I'm Sam cedar I'm talking to the great
John Nichols we'll be right back on
during a fire radio
