[Music]
all right now of course at the g20
summit what is this one on the right is
that the one with Ivanka okay yeah so at
the g20 summit Ivanka Trump was was
brought as a senior advisor like an
official title yeah Global CEO Vasa turf
or daughters you'd like to bone now I
don't think that's the official also
senior strategic advisor whatever it
doesn't matter
um advisor to the president kind of
haughty to other dads am i right
III guess I'm sensitive to this because
I have a lot of times where I bring my
children to a place they've never been
before and they feel somewhat
intimidated they go to camp like
Brendan's a young enough that he
remembers the anxiety associated with
that go to camp for the first day be
look around you're like I don't know
anybody everybody seems to be smarter or
cooler hey I call that way right now
yeah I don't I just feel uncomfortable
and and I don't know what to do and
maybe I'll just go throw myself into
this conversation that is those moments
of uncomfortability I tell my kids are
perfectly fine anybody who holds it
against you as a jerk and you don't need
to deal with jerks and it's a good way
of weeding out the jerks and we can go
through life with your own jerkweed
outer device however the calculation
gets a little different when you're an
adult
and you know it's one thing to go to
let's say a conference of biologists and
walk in there and they're all talking
about biology you want to jump in go
yeah all right how about yeah protoplasm
I'm getting a little fat around here
biologist you know you just throw in
because you don't know anything
you don't know anything right you're
just like yeah well what's good what's
going on here with this hair growing out
of my ears right am i right anybody
well Ivanka Trump had one of those
moments she is in a room full of world
leaders she is not a world leader she
was appointed whatever she is by her dad
and none of these people really respect
her dad you can imagine the disdain that
they have with Ivanka and here it is
they're all basically trying to I mean
this is like a scene from Heather's
except for you they're all Heather's
there's no no one here you feel
sympathetic about all really bad people
these are all really bad people the only
thing that's enjoyable about this is
watching the lack of honor amongst bad
people in terms of letting one into
their club
I have enough Christine look is very
thin woman she's not your friend she's
not your the real reason really cuz you
know in real coolness is stilted hand
movements so just for people who
couldn't see it like McCrone is there oh
is that true doe right with us yes and
may and the head of the EU mmm and in
Ivanka is like doing that thing but
worse like where you tell a joke and
you're like oh and they fell on their
face and people go like and laughs but
she's doing that for people are not
doing laugh lines she's literally just
repeating what they're saying and you
can hear her throughout we got to play
this again and the best is lekars look
on her face so she's just like very
French believe I gotta even be a rarely
French
yeah a lot of people start listening
least otherwise this
it looks like Ivanka is like a ghost and
nobody else can see I'm so scared that
it's gonna be me a commie camp guys you
know what the second most funny thing
about this book is know is that Theresa
May and Christine Lagarde and McCrone
are discussing social justice and she's
going yeah and it's very male-dominated
yeah man anybody's biggest idiot
commendable discourse tell them yeah
exactly it's super male-dominated you
got here a nice little girl now go away
oh yeah you're gonna wear the 19th
century girl in trouble oh my god I have
a theory that this was like I gotta get
up there and get some pictures taken to
me hand gestures because we want to be
able to see that you were the one doing
the talking and holding court with all
of these world leaders he did make a lot
of hand gestures III think that was I
honestly think that she has a
photographer who's like do some hand
gestures so it looks like you're talking
and she wore the big sleeves as if to
accentuate the hand gestures deep
conversations with important people
wow you really are really really taking
no prisoners sweetie
real smart good stuff I'm taking you on
the next trip I love that they have like
the to like it's so amazing though when
you think about like the sick
projections his kids are of him because
it's like she's the like the part of him
that wants to pretend that's like I want
to be invited to the Royal Castle and
we'll all have tea and like like that
kind of delusion and then like the idiot
son on Twitter like George oh cobbler
super bored here is like how he actually
gets things done this David failed there
I guess done in sympathy for this was a
bit earlier but Ivanka Trump on the town
having the time of my life with a budget
that is an evergreen evergreen to eat
there were so many scenarios good
