but as we speak
the votes are being counted recounted in
Florida very close in the Senate race a
little bit less so in the governor's
race but obviously close enough for a
recount it's unclear to me how it's
going to work in terms of the recount
with the Senate at this point I can't
quite tell if it's going to be a machine
recount and if the machine recount
brings it down to a certain level then
it becomes a hand recount conceivably
that could happen in the governor's race
too seems unlikely but there is a
certain amount of under votes for the
Senate race in Broward County and I have
seen two forms of speculation one is
that it was the flaw and the ballot
design so people missed voting for the
Senate the second was that there was a
flaw in the ballot design and the
Machine missed recording that people had
voted for so we'll see I mean it it
feels at the very least it feels that
the Democrats are slightly more prepared
for this it's absurd that there could
ever be any voting problems in Florida
again after 2000 right I mean this would
be like we're gonna build another badly
levy in New Orleans
that's up next okay so people went back
and there was a documentary called
unprecedented not to be confused with
cliff schecter podcast and it was the
2000 presidential election documentary
that looked at the voting irregularities
West Palm Beach Palm Beach and somebody
went back watched it saw a recognizable
individual
who was interviewed at the time at that
time he was involved in student
government this is Wow there's only 18
years ago yes but when Election Day came
there were unexpected obstacles as the
precincts closed
later that evening we begin to get
reports here in the Student Government
Association from just different students
about either not having their voter
registration car going to the precinct
that they voted at before and now being
told that they weren't on the roster
that their names have been purged many
more irregularities were confirmed when
the NAACP held hearings a few days yeah
I'll say
but there it is Andrew Gilliam at the
time involved in student government
that's crazy
not a single word about single payer
there you Goit see the route loss right
there single word about free college
tuition there it is Andrew Gilliam full
circle right ignoring the key issues
back then and today it is whining about
voter suppression but it is ignoring you
can have autonomy it is stunning that we
still have election that we could
possibly have election problems in
Florida in the same areas that the laws
have not have been amended in any way
that if you're up against the deadline
you haven't finished counting votes
because there's been screw-ups that
those votes don't count it's absurd it's
absolutely absurd well and clearly it's
working for some people it well did you
indeed and I the let me just finish here
the the Democrats have announced their
legislative agenda at least they're
early one and they will be introducing
legislation to do some things that I
actually also mentioned would be a good
idea to do so I may even give myself a
little bit
would do a little bit of a DAB here the
bill would establish automatic voter
registration and ving reinvigorate the
Voting Rights Acts I think you'll recall
I was hoping that the Democrats would do
that so this right there if you make it
a little more enthusiastic there we got
a little upper look whoa wait so wait
till they throw it away you throw it
away sure whatever you say it would take
a redistricting power away from state
legislatures and give it to independent
Commission's it would go on other
provisions overturn Supreme Court's
Citizens United ruling not quite sure
how they could go about doing that but
they could mandate more disclosure of
outside money and establish public
financing match for small contributions
that to me seems to be fine but I think
basically you know they understand and
then there's some ethics issues too that
seem to be focused on Donald Trump but
you would imagine no one would have a
problem with expanding anti-bribery laws
one would imagine one would probably be
wrong but we'll see the bottom line
though however is that the Democrats are
stepping forward with an agenda that
does two things one because this is not
going to pass right the the Senate is
not going to pass this it's controlled
by the Republicans but it does two
things one if it was to be passed it
would make structural reforms that would
enhance the power of Democrats and their
ability to get elected and neutralized
at least to some extent the ability of
Republicans from disenfranchising tens
to hundreds of thousands to millions of
people across the country and keeping
them from voting that's a B what if it
does not pass it's going to force
Republican senators to vote against
things like fixing the Voting Rights Act
like making it easier to vote like
anti-bribery statue
it's going to draw some clear lines as
to what the Republicans are for and
against and what the Democrats are for
and against so it's a smart piece of
legislation I might break it up
personally but I don't know how they're
going to to introduce it but they have a
large package they may do it as an
omnibus bill which it makes some votes
more difficult for the Republicans they
may not so we'll see five on them haters
[Applause]
