[Music]
let's go to the phone to come from a 786
area code who's this where you calling
from
who is it
try to uh like back off your phone a
little bit I don't know what you're
talking on but it is not clear how about
no it is better much better
all right I'm just calling I'm one of
the you know famous daca Olivo and I'm
going to college here in Florida for
about ten years now about to finish here
with a veterinary degree and a PJ and
thank you I'm planning on leaving and
I've been having a lot of conversations
with my friends that are really really
surprised to hear like oh man you've
been here for so long why are you
leaving now why don't you wait till the
next election well everything's gonna be
better and these same people that I have
been talking to before that like hearing
don't vote for Trump it's gonna ruin my
last you serious and you know get a good
job somewhere else where are you gonna
go a lot of people have really shitty
lives on this where are you gonna go
probably the Netherlands that's uh I'm
learning from you know one of the better
Mexico's Uruguay is known to be somebody
take it so Mexico countries so if I
understand you correctly you have
friends who voted for Trump who did not
understand the implications do they
understand the implications now I mean
it sounds like they don't yeah they
still don't it I mean I've been friends
with them for about three four years
before that's cool and um yeah I had one
of them approached me
don't open a clinic outing in Texas and
he was kind of offended by me saying
like man I can't stay here this sucks
like you know you can't live left like
this okay and just to be clear wait just
to be clear it's because you're you're
constantly waiting for this sort of
sword of Damocles to drop because you
just don't know what the what the
findings of a court case is going to be
as to whether you have to uproot your
life within a couple of days or months
right exactly
we have to renew every two years time
you send in your paperwork to renew
you're just there waiting and degree
that was supposed to be a PhD and a new
BM degree together and as soon as Trump
won the election I had to change my
plans and put the PhD on hold because
you know in case I get kicked out I need
to get degrees quickly so that was
immediately after the election yeah and
big consequences what what were the
circumstances in which you ended up in
the States
okay I came here with my family that had
a butt that was in prison for two years
in my waiting for trial big family
problems with my grandfather I was a
nice guy
who's paying off a judge to keep my dad
in jail finally when when the kids get
to the Supreme Court Rule I he got let
out because it was okay there was no
trial and so we came here play for
asylum
she had a desperate and maybe 10 years
process that was already my junior year
of university here we got a letter
saying that you need to leave your
Asylum case is not approved since then
my thanks one of my uh one of my
sister's was married to somebody and she
became a citizen my parents are citizens
they're here
there's
I've been actually lucky because they
they have kind of figured out their
lives they're making you know two
hundred thousand dollars a year over so
they support me a lot I don't know how
other people do it that's probably the
main reason I'd be able to get so far to
date they kind of made it but uh it's
not easy man it's not easy
Wow well I I don't know what to say my
heart goes out to you I'm sorry you're
going through this and I'm sorry it you
know I'm sorry for all of it
I can tell you is I wish you the best
went in and so you you're about to
finish this degree is that right yeah
Jiki within another year and that's
that's also kind of you know 2021 when
things hopefully will change but yeah
the plan is to leave around there Wow
alright well you know check back in with
us hopefully things will get I'll turn
better quicker but I don't know how that
would happen but I just wanted to say
also before I go I'm uh I'm a student I
live off of loans
I make no money but I was able to cancel
my Spotify account a couple months ago
so I can start giving you guys money cuz
you guys do a great job and if I can do
it a lot of people can and they should
you guys do a great job well I
appreciate that but I want to remind
people and you too
people should not put themselves in any
type of like financial stress over it
happy to let people in all right there
so there's always there's always
expenses that are superfluous so we can
you know make it work all right well I
appreciate it thank you very much that
really I appreciate that a lot
all right man good luck all right thanks
a lot right thank you
