[Music]
this actually I enjoyed its on MSNBC and
Eddie cloud was going in Sunday morning
to talk about this I'd say notice on
Twitter he had said like he wasn't sure
what he was gonna say Eddie's in him
pretty impressive guy I think and we
need him is a has a very good sense of
sort of like a moral conscience and can
articulate this and apparently Eddie
Glaude had said on the program that Mick
Mulvaney can barely acknowledge it now
you'll note today on Monday we're
devoted two days later right Donald
Trump comes out and addresses the nation
first thing now to be fair he was stuck
in his Golf Resort and he was playing
golf and so he couldn't get back but
they know they had to do something they
knew this was a political liability and
I think largely it was because of what
people on the press were doing and
saying at the end of the day I don't
know if that's you know that's just the
way that politics works he's not gonna
do anything about it
he's not gonna do anything about it just
covered my ass I'm gonna be really
robotic when I say the parts about white
supremacy and so all my peeps will know
I had to say it and I guarantee you if
wherever these cretins have gone if
they're not @hn anymore they're on storm
front or whatever did storm daily front
whatever it is now and they're saying he
had to say that he did but apparently
Mick Mulvaney had seen Eddie Glaude I
guess earlier in the broadcast of this
show and it tweeted out something and
Chuck Todd says what do you what do you
say back to Mick Mulvaney to Eddie
Glaude and it we had a unique situation
here in that Mick Mulvaney ended up
hearing a panel discussion that actually
might not have heard had our satellite
worked on time that time but he clearly
Eddie Glaude was reacting to you in
particular in that interview what did
you hear from him first of all I can
give less than a damn what make no vain
he thinks about what I say to be honest
with you he can't even acknowledge that
it was a domestic terrorist act how many
times did you use the phrase and he
wouldn't he wouldn't acknowledge it What
did he say he said it was a person who
was crazy a nut with guns right and
that's always the case right when we
when we have if it was a Muslim it would
have been a terrorist act Donald Trump
would have already been on television
not a tweet he would have already done a
press conference right but when it's
white men engaging in this sort of
action we get this sort of account right
that we want to go to their mental
health let's just stipulate that they're
crazy let's stipulate that they're crazy
everybody who kills people are crazy
something's wrong let's the startling to
that but but there's an ideology at work
here when you used what about the troops
but I digress everybody who kills people
are crazy something's wrong
let's this start late to that but but
there's an ideology at work here when
you use the same language that we've
heard the same language that we heard in
the clip and let me say this for a lot
of folk in this country who are black
and brown for a lot of folk in this
country war not white men it feels as if
some white may have lost their damn
minds Chuck and we have to bear the
burden of I mean hard to argue I just I
think I want to just add to that it is
important because Matt and I have been
trying to emphasize this though that and
I have no doubt that the reason Trump
came out and was so for him unequivocal
is clearly there's there must be some
bad polling there's something there
responding I don't believe for a second
that there's any conscience in this at
all there has to be something they're
responding to that's my 100 percent
assumption and that means that outside
of a incredibly dangerous and empowered
base that a lot of people including
people who might not be so woke or
whatever are the very least objecting to
this extreme grotesque
they want the nollette deniability and
but also that most people genuinely
didn't like go back to where you come
from comments they actually got it and
understood it and I think that that
sense of a broad set of normal people
having a reaction to this is something
that we really should capitalize on and
think about and I and I also I think and
I'm sure Eddie you know I would be
really interested to hear what he
thought about this as well is that like
where is the balance between that
undoubtedly this is talked about and
treated differently because it's white
supremists terrorism versus Islamic
terrorism and I don't want to adopt the
same failings in their response to
Islamic terrorism so no like we've
always been making the argument from the
beginning like yeah if you want to deal
with Islamic terrorism you do have to
deal with alienation and foreign policy
and all of these other factors as well
as a toxic ideology so I would just say
that should be applying here as well the
first step is to be honest about what it
is but we don't want to just securitize
this either because that's also it's bad
policy frankly well also I think you
need to you need to contextualize like
what exactly is the what are those
material things that are in contextual
things that are driving it I don't think
that it's the ideology of white
supremacy that is that is I that is new
right it's not obviously all this stuff
has been there and there are certain
there are certain there's certain
material things that are driving this in
some way but I think with a lot of these
people they are marginal figures and you
have the president basically giving a
validation and saying here's the world
that here's the scenario and this is
what is is right about it I mean I think
like that's a hundred percent right and
ie is weaponizing that in a way that it
has not been weaponized in this country
for a long and the analogy in some way
still holds because you know the Saudis
weaponized a group how they fund it but
so but as an example like we Fang who
you know triggers people for whatever
reason I think he's actually I don't
agree with all of his takes but he's a
very good reporter he tweeted out that
something that we have to consider is as
an example the record levels of like
loneliness and alienation that young men
are experiencing right and some people
jump to that's a justification which it
absolutely is not know that I understand
it is not the same thing as justifying
Benjamin barber had a great line after
the September 11th attacks in that fair
isle environment and he said he said I'm
paraphrasing but it was understanding
causes is not a justification and so and
I and I think that Scott at Rijn who's
done a lot of ethnographic work on
terrorism he's starting to write about
the alt right now and he's talking about
some of the same patterns that he finds
in terms of lack of group identity lack
of meaning and cohesion in life and
actually when I say material I think
something like the Saudis funding
ideology or Donald Trump condoning it
that's amazing material right right
right right
and mimouna ng things like the what pic
aleni
is is doing i mean these are all part of
a whole we also have to be able to
prioritize the material factors in a way
that is good and just right because you
know the advancements made by minorities
they're a factor in the backlash
immigration is a factor in the backlash
to immigration but that doesn't mean
that you should do what hillary clinton
says and restrict immigration in order
to decrease right populist reaction
right i don't think that i don't think
that the capitulating with the hopes of
like you know getting a reasonable
response there's no negotiation here no
you can only dunk them with superior
power right and i think i think there
are mitigating things that can be done
you know and we've talked about some of
them we really really do need to regrow
the social bonds in our society right
because when you get rid of old
institutions like church family
patriarchy i don't like these things but
they did provide some sort of social
cohesion and people are right when they
say that neoliberal capitalism is
intensely alienating to live under but
what do we do with that we can't go
backwards we have to go forwards to some
kind of like secular new version of
community that is
good for everyone's mental health
majority report community centers all
across the country third place for
people it's certainly obviously
exacerbated and when you hear people
justifying this stuff I wouldn't be
surprised if you got a guy who's making
I mean like for instance look I don't
think there's any question that what
happened in El Paso by any by any
definition would be considered to be
political terrorism I mean I just don't
know how more xsplit achill terrorism
exists then that's political terrorism
if if it's if that was not political
terrorism then I don't know how you
define political terrorism I don't know
that that was the case in Dayton it
seems to me that what could be going on
is you have a guy who clearly clearly
had some deep-seated problems that were
quite obvious if you're making rape and
kill lists in high school and they
suspend you for it because it's going on
there that's a problem and assuming and
I think it's a fairly safe assumption
that at the very least he had that type
of mentality there are people I want to
kill there are people I want to rape for
the for the next ten years or whatever
it was eight years of his life and then
and he's clearly planning someday I'm
gonna do something about it
I've bought weapons I've bought body
armor and then he sees this guy go in
maybe he's just inspired by the bravery
or maybe he's inspired by the bravery
and the ideology on some level we don't
know but he clearly was inspired by that
and he does it the next night
the idea that he was though you know
bullied and I think you know in in the
retrospective like Columbine I think
they found there was a lot different
things going on with Columbine then we
first hear that it's like you know
alienated bullied kids he maybe
alienated he may have had problems but
it turns out he was more of the bully
there was a whole series of people
claiming to know him and using their and
as far as I can tell the AP has has
vetted at least most of these it'll be
pretty ballsy to use your own name in
your your your Facebook account whatnot
to come out and say this bullies can
certainly be alienated too though yes
like that's probably why they're bullies
it's very possible Bryan sites writes
this Connor Betts was a classmate of
mine a real scumbag who threatened to
kill women and attacked the school he
was not bullied in school he was a
classic glorify er of violence and an
all-around unpleasant person it would
threaten many of my friends in the past
you can blame bullying which would be
lying
you can blame media which would be
extremely untruthful you can blame a
society where threats against women are
bad enough to get you kicked out of high
school or simply forgotten and allowed
to firm ate for almost a decade so he
can kill nine people his violence was
simply ignored as a quote boys will be
boys rhetorically willfully ignorant
cop-out to protect that status quo that
makes me so mad a lot of blame all
around he had access to guns he was
toxically masks masculine the
cops did nothing about his threats the
list goes on bottom line if he had no
access to guns less people would be dead
and or in the hospital after you Connor
Betsy put my friends and peers life in
danger multiple times in the past I hope
you rot in a body bag they carried you
out of this morning yeah a lot of anger
let's another one I don't know who the
person is but the news says he was
remembered as being bullied which is
interesting because I just remember him
as someone who enjoyed making people
afraid Conner seriously threatened to
hurt women who rejected him myself
included channel says they are avoiding
saying his name but I think we need to
talk about how Connor Brett's has been
openly talking about doing this for a
decade and no one could do anything
about it
and he couldn't in fact well in Texas
nobody could do anything to that guy
until he started shooting at people I
don't know what it is in Ohio to is Ohio
up and carry it is same that makes
me so mad by the way that boys will be
boys oh there or this one he
probably just has a crush on you right
like I was told that a number of times
by a kid who was psychologically abusing
me when I was in school as if like the
fact that there's some like sexual
feelings mixed in with it makes it okay
for someone to be abusing you right well
but they're doing it because they like
you like oh okay right take it Harley
Alison Connor Betts is nothing but a
case study on how consistently our
society fails to call it perpetrator for
what they are he was not bullied he was
a bully bully towards women including
myself a bully toward anyone he deemed
below him I knew Connor for over ten
years and to pretend that he's ever been
any other way to pretend that he wasn't
capable of this level of violence is
nothing but willful ignorance does a
disservice to those he finally had the
opportunity to exercise his unearned
power over to believe you as ever
otherwise I mean so there's a lot of
people saying like yeah that typical
like I would have never imagined seems
to be like this is exactly what you
would imagine but the bottom line it
comes down to the guy's got easy access
to guns and in terms of the number dead
you still have a sickness in society you
still have all these maladies that need
to be addressed but they're not going to
get any more or less addressed now I can
tell you that right now first order is
how do you how do you make these attacks
less lethal there's been tons of studies
over the years over decades
about crime levels in the United States
not necessarily particularly higher or
lower than anywhere else but they're
more lethal so the first thing you deal
with is the lethality of our of this
stuff and then you got a deal with the
underlying issues that are driving this
