[Music]
all right before we get to the fun if I
want to talk about Elizabeth Warren's
Matt the student debt plan because this
is this is pretty great and this is a
program she goes even further than than
Bernie Sanders I mean let's be honest
here
regardless of there are people out there
like I can understand are nervous about
the government you know actually coming
to the material aid of its citizens I'm
not sure why this would be a concern for
people but it is a lot of us are very
used to people sort of just like you
know whispering that like that's sort of
like a second part of the program you
know some type of notion of fiscal
responsibility which is just really it's
it's a nothing term it doesn't mean
moral hazard moral hazard whatnot but
there are really only two people who are
presenting any type of plans in this
race that are in any way moving things
forward away from what trumpism and
republicanism is I think everybody is on
the same page we should be very strongly
anti Nazis we should be very strongly
anti bigotry I don't think there's
anybody in the the Democratic Party who
wouldn't agree with that statement I
think some are better than others on
things particularly sexism but broadly
speaking the only thing that's left is
who who is thinking about the problems
that Americans face and offering
solutions and really Bernie and Warren
are the only two who are doing it I have
to say that Warren is outstripping
everybody in terms of what she's
proposing both in terms of the scope and
the number of things that she's thinking
about she has come out with
plan that not only calls for one free or
a system of free university college in
every state public college they exist
already it's just a matter of funding
them some of them are bigger systems
than others spending on the state and
whatnot but and certainly there were
more or less in existence 35 years ago
forty years ago at least in many states
but what this plan would do is it would
cancel fifty thousand dollars in student
loan debt
for every person with a household income
under one hundred thousand dollars and
then it's basically like a sliding scale
it would give substantial debt
cancellation to every person with
household income between one hundred and
two hundred and fifty thousand and
anybody making over two hundred fifty
thousand dollars it would not relieve
their student debt so it would basically
basically take care of ninety to
ninety-five percent of student debt in
this country the existing student debt
which everyone from like the president
of the homeowners association of America
says it's the greatest inhibition to
starter homes to any economist Alitalia
out there it is a huge drag on the
economy just yearly from productive
Productivity standpoint but also from
the perspective of like of innovation of
entrepreneurship of starting small
businesses and then if you don't even
want to look at it from such lura crass
economic terms people going out and
pursuing the lives that they want to
pursue like we don't get the teachers
that we should be getting because people
are afraid of the debt that they have
and they have to go do something that's
gonna make them more money on a
consistent basis and yet we could talk
about any types of professions or we
talk about entrepreneurship or whatever
it is and it's changing also the nature
of why people go to get an education and
here's the thing it's not working it's
not giving the return on investment
in part because a lot of training has
been offloaded the expensive trainings
have been offloaded by corporations onto
basically the students and their future
workers so it will give debt relief to
about 95 percent of Americans who have
student loan 75% it would be entirely
forgiven
it would make public - and four-year
institutions tuition for free it would
expand Pell Grant funding to go toward
additional college costs like housing
transportation food and books and this
is really big it would cut for-profit
colleges from receiving any federal
funds that includes federal student
loans or military benefits but will do
so much to undermine that whole thing it
will make it disappear overnight they
disappear that's amazing if you know
anything and you can go back to listen
to the interview I did with Tracy cotton
millencolin McMillan cotton something
like 90 to 95 percent of the for-profit
universities get there or should say
something like ninety percent of the
revenue that for-profit universities get
come from taxpayer-funded student loans
but then these students rarely see a
return on their investment end up
dropping out of the program these
programs are geared towards just holding
them through their second payment which
is the largest you know which which then
is the majority of their student loan
payment and that's when the return on
investment in terms of holding the
students starts to drop for these
institutions institutions businesses and
that's why under the Obama
administration when they started
cracking down on the accreditation
companies that would accredit these
these other companies as being colleges
and universities
you saw like ITT go out of business
overnight because once the accreditation
which allows you to get a student loan
gets revoked student loans can't be
spent on that university they go out of
business because they're they're
completely funded by the government in
that respect and there's very very
little data and all they do is collect
data at these schools believe me that
shows that there's a significant return
on investment and a lot of these people
who are going to these schools are
basically like 25 to 45 year old
african-american women in addition and
they make the point of saying that the
majority of students who attend
for-profit colleges default within three
to five years after they begin repaying
what they owe the majority of students
within three to five years it would also
create a 50 billion dollar fund for
historically black colleges and
universities and minority serving
institutions and add more money to it
over time why because if you are not
aware and maybe you haven't listened to
this program over the past four or five
years we have had in this country well
after the end of the Civil War I should
remind people at the end of slavery a
government sponsored paulson problems in
the private sector obviously as well but
even the government has been involved in
systemically denying black people the
greatest source of intergenerational
wealth through real estate through home
ownership because loans were backed with
covenants that said he couldn't sell to
black people I mean people didn't have
the vote right the vote you didn't have
civil rights until 1965 that there is
less wealth in the black community
and as such there's less money to be
spent on giving back to universities for
endowment so the idea is shore up the
endowments and the operating budgets of
these of these colleges by the way if
you're a white person and want to go to
a HBCU you can just do that yes they
allow it's true yes because very true
it's available to white people too
you could maybe with the help of this
program get some financial aid from that
University from one of those
historically black colleges provided by
the government now understand you'd
still have financial aid you'd still
have just as many private colleges as
you have now I would contend that you
would see prices begin to flatten I
don't know if they would drop but the
rate of increase would stop because if
people have an option a solid option
that is going to be no cost you're gonna
start to see a lot more low cost options
- it's going to decrease the pressure
you still may have some Pell grants and
this and that to go to other
universities if you want you still
probably would have college loans that
might be available in some fashion or
another
maybe government rolls maybe private
ones I'm not sure if you want to go to a
university that is not free or whatnot
there'll be options now where does the
money come from well we could just print
it but Elizabeth Warren understands that
there are people who are concerned that
we need to have pay-fors she has a
proposed tax on America's ultra
millionaires and billionaires which
includes the 75,000 wealthiest families
in the country
seventy-five thousand those making over
fifty million dollars
that's nuts
that's nuts it would put an annual 2%
tax on the wealth about 50 million and a
1% tax on wealth above 1 billion now I
know I hear everybody bitching now it's
like what are you kidding me
I gotta pay a million dollars a year and
I'm left with only 49 million dollars
and wealth as I'm generating god knows
how much money it's like what's the
point I might as well just go on
vacation stop working so much like I had
all of the planned I was gonna do all
that
I think the max NBA contract is
something like 35 million a year I mean
it's just I don't even know why I like
this is even the idea that we don't
already do this it's just obscene the
warren campaign estimates this would
raise 2.75 trillion dollars in revenue
over 10 years meaning her debt
forgiveness and universal education
would cost less than half of the total
revenue raised and that tax she proposes
is so that she has created a fund to
fund the many proposals that she's
offering the best argument I heard and
best as in the most laughable was like
it's a slap in the face the people
who've paid off their loans you recall
all the people who were upset during the
Great Depression when the FDR supported
mortgage payments
slap slap in the face and let this be a
slap in the face
for all those in financially responsible
here's suckas here's a slap in the face
when I went to college it was like 15
grand a year right how about the slap in
the face that's coming to me when I
gotta send my kid to college and it's
fifty five grand a year it was 75
thousand dollars to go to NYU
yeah well that believe that yeah and why
he was you know the upper reaches of
that rack
I was having this conversation with
somebody and I was like wait what what
welcome I'll up in a swellow dad what is
it you're not going in why you not just
don't god damn singing I'm already
training salt offense that's what I like
I read somewhere that like you get a
fencing scholar a good obscure one
exactly you got to find something narrow
he likes I relearned
he likes pirates fencing and like
Ukranian or something alternatively
Elizabeth Warren becomes president and
she convinces the Senate I mean the
beauty of these proposals and obviously
you know anybody can come up with any
proposals as a presidential candidate
and they can't guarantee delivery but it
certainly enhances the chances that
they'll get the delivery and there's a
lot of political scientific research
actually it shows that a lot that
presidential candidates deliver on most
of their promises and you know we have
seen what a Republican congressman
willing to bend themselves into a
pretzel to provide for Donald Trump's
you know everybody's gonna wear their
underwear on the outside and only white
people can drive you know pronouncements
essentially but this is also this is
also in the words of Bill Bart and
Burton forcing us to to dare to
something the imagination and maybe we
need a solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
actually I was thinking of the whole
time you're explaining that excellent
policy set of how upsetting it was gonna
be for Howard Schultz of course not to
read it like he'll just read the
headlines but that's probably sent him
into his own like emotional lather there
were a couple of days himself I feel
like the one under examined part about
Biden entering the race is where does
where does Howard Schultz do now Howard
Schultz is going to I think he is
this close to officially saying look
remember that piece that came out on
Politico a couple of months ago The Wall
Street guys said in that piece they said
the people that are not acceptable to
them are Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren everybody else is doable
I think Schultz is right on the verge of
formally making that I mean that's
obviously what his position yes yes
