all right let's jump right into this we
have some let's first we're talking
about the the shutdown yesterday we had
two bills Emma in the Senate that we're
basically test votes right they were
they were ways I think for both parties
to sort of say this let's get a clearer
sense of where this is trending it's
trending against the president and the
the real question is how much our
Republican senator is gonna feel like
they're getting chewed up by this and if
you look at the list of people who voted
well if it was a test vote Joe Manchin
failed that test right so he was the one
Democrat that sided with the Republican
oh did he side with Republicans yeah I
didn't know that no did he vote he voted
YES on both bills yes okay so he didn't
vote against the Democratic bill and I
think the Republicans who jumped did the
same thing they you know yeah you had
the opportunity to vote for both
political theater I mean that's what's
frustrating about all of it was that
yeah what you were saying it's a test
vote but it's it's what mansions doing
is just kind of signaling to his home
state what he's done his entire career
which is I will be a Republican but just
be a little bit nicer about it
yeah he's covering his his his arse as
it were he drinks he was on Jake I in
never forget that he called him Jenks
all the time that was awesome he made me
like Joe Manchin all I think I'll tell
you what's sick I don't know about
killing innocent civilians and babies
but I think we've got to come together
it's interesting when you look at all
six Republicans who voted right it's a
Susan Collins no surprise Lamar
Alexander also no surprise but you get a
sense of like Johnny Isaacson's he's up
for re-election in Georgia Stacey Abrams
we that's exactly right and and and we
had mentioned Johnny Isakson like weeks
ago because if you look at what's going
on in Georgia it is trending blue and so
they're nervous and and in those
instances they vote for both the plans
so
turn around and say I want the
government functioning but this clip
with Michael Bennett who I don't know in
Bennett's been in the Senate for how
many years now at least well close to I
don't know when he got elected in but
sat for four years I don't know his
entirety in the Senate I don't know that
I've ever said his name more than like
three times when the Shona
Oh nine so he's been in there for Wow so
he's been in here the entirety of this
show and I have never ever had an
instance to quote him or to play a clip
of him he's even managed to avoid like
being castigated he's just never come up
I think like maybe we've mentioned him
in the course of probably the the year
that he ran which was probably I think
12 or something I'm not sure but here he
is apparently and this is a twofer for
him because he gets to speak against a
shutdown and he also gets to crap on me
at all speak at all and crap on Ted Cruz
and apparently everybody hates Ted Cruz
only thing that is necessary to pass a
clean bill paying the salaries of every
man and woman in the Coast Guard is for
the Democratic senators to withdraw
their objection is that correct that's
correct
Thank You Sheldon
as you know rise on this floor to
contradict somebody on the other side
I've worked very hard over the years to
work in a bipartisan way with the
presiding officer with my Republican
colleagues but these crocodile tears
that the senator from Texas is crying
for first responders are too hard for me
to take they're too hard for me to take
because when you should when the senator
from Texas shut this government down in
2013 my state was flooded it was under
water people were killed
people's houses were destroyed their
small businesses were ruined forever
and because of the senator from Texas
this government was shut down for
politics that he served to a
second-place finish in the Iowa caucuses
but were of no help to the first
responders to the teachers to the
students whose schools were closed with
a federal government that was shut down
because of the junior senator from Texas
pretty powerful stuff no that was great
I mean he's gonna probably announce him
in a week right exactly but III mean I
think like you know the it is it's the
first time in a long time it feels like
where you have these protracted battles
where the Democrats not only appear to
be winning but appear to be confident
about their in their wins yes they're
politically emboldened for the first
time in you know ten years eight years
and that's what's exciting about it I
think that their poll watching which
they never do on policy but when it
comes to you know right like it takes
now two-thirds of America wants
marijuana legalization and you still
have Democratic senators saying it's
pie-in-the-sky but when it comes to
President Trump they're holding their
ground and their poll watching and its
successful his numbers are dropping and
it allows someone like a no-name guy
like Bennett to take to the Senate floor
and go all in it sort of feels like
there must be some polling in Colorado
that is not necessarily public because
Cory Gardner was one of the first
Republicans to defect right and hit a
big op-ed and the Denver Post about how
it's the right thing to do to reopen the
government yeah I mean it's a it's
interesting in it and it's helpful
insofar as I feel like you know the you
want other on some level there's you
want other lessons to come from these
you know that they get into the
bloodstream of the narrative that like
government workers are not these sort of
faceless bureaucrats who are you know
you know live in the life that their
average Americans who are trying to make
ends meet and can't survive without a
provide essential services exactly the
whole context relies on if he wants to
keep speaking like that he's gonna need
to figure out what to do with his hands
though who's that bad at it going on
well I don't think he I mean he seemed
you know I lecture genuinely like that
you like you know he was genuine yeah
you look so like you're so mad you don't
care you look uncomfortable
right right well yeah he's probably
uncomfortable expressing that level of
rage if you Ted Cruz though is that's
amazing
she's amazing just even just that that
distinct personality and physical
profile got elected to the Senate even
with his politics he came in second as
was pointed out by Bennett twice in
instances I mean he has a real finger on
the pulse of a certain brand of
Republican I think it's a dying brand of
Republican I think it's the same if
there's a weird crossover with Trump
even though he's a complete philanderer
and vulgar person but there's an
evangelical base that doesn't move that
will always support a complete freak
show like Ted Cruz do you remember when
the bikers got in his face in Indiana
the bikers who supported Trump that is
was my favorite most cognitively
dissonant clip of the whole 2016 primary
and they're like in his face with
leather jackets they're like lyin Ted
lyin Ted
and he's like well actually alright and
then you know he's trying to debate them
and all this nonsense and they're just
bullying them and then out of nowhere
they're like yeah and you know what else
you promised to like just light up the
sand of Syria that's gonna kill a lot of
innocent people
[Laughter]
the New York Times reported the whole
thing that's a total lie you are the
problem
the property location you are the profit
can I ask you something you know out of
all of the candidates name one who had a
million dollar judgment against him for
hiring either going a 1 Donald Trump
healthy younger so you like rich people
that is your goldman sachs jacket at we
know your wife works there
supported by 1.3 million contributions
all over the country our average
contribution is $60 on immigration you
know Donald Trump had a million dollar
judgment against Ben for hiring a legal
aliens you know what he's doing right
now in Florida he brings in hundreds of
foreign workers instead of hiring
Americans sir with all respect Donald
Trump is deceiving he is playing you for
a chump why is it that the mainstream
media so desperately Trump to be the
Republican and why is it that John
Boehner supports Donald Trump do you
agree with John Boehner do you agree
with Nancy Pelosi
the thing is they agree with everybody
but I believe in Trump he's the only one
that's gonna put us where we need to be
what are you gonna do about our Second
Amendment okay okay great all right I
have defended Second Amendment in front
of the Supreme Court of the United
States do you know that Donald Trump
supported Bill Clinton's national ban on
some of the most popular firearms in
America and that is a fact
you know read his book where he said I
agree with Bill Flynn in fact he said I
hate guns that's a quote from Donald
Trump I've spent 20 years fighting to
defend the secular and I'll tell you
this sir coughing if Donald Trump ever
becomes president
but the amazing library and crazy I
don't like what a liberal on the Supreme
Court is gonna take away your Second
Amendment right there is a reason why
Gun Owners of America has endorsed me in
this campaign because I've defended the
second month Oh while Donald Trump is a
New York liberal he will take away your
Second Amendment right this man is lying
to you
and he's taking advantage of you and I
wouldn't have shown you that fuzzed
approach at all right we never get that
it was they do get to Syria and the guys
just look you're gonna you kill a lot of
innocent women and children if you do
that and he literally looking at the guy
like what I went leading up to 2018 so I
think eight Trump rallies or something
along those lines and spoke to
supporters I was kind of the work that
like I got most attention for me last
year and you really there is that
populist fervor that guy was more
articulate than a lot of the people I
spoke to but there they were focused on
campaign donations and the fact that
Trump was a self-made businessman that
made a lot of supporters feel
comfortable because anti corruption is a
widespread sentiment throughout the
country no matter what kind of person
you're talking to you know we
interviewed someone who had done a
history of the concept of mesmerism in
this in the country and the snake oil
salesman and the thing that she said was
that Trump was indicative of that
tradition was that people know the guy
is a liar it's just they feel that he's
on their side and lying on their on
their behalf and that that idea of like
that he's self-funded and is not taking
other people's money led them to believe
that he was in their corner which of
course he wasn't but and I don't you
know like and that's not I don't even
think they have to get that much more
sophisticated beyond that you know small
campaign donations or just the idea of
like he's rich he does he's just doing
us a favor by row doesn't need these
sugar daddies of Goldman Sachs or cetera
I mean they hate that guy hates the
financial institutions just as much as
progressives do and
so we just have to remember that in our
strategy no doubt yeah I don't know I I
I think that's true the question is is
that on the list of things that will
motivate that guy to vote absolutely how
high up is it you know protecting
dodd-frank or a 21st century glad Frank
F to Syria yeah you have a really weak
position of the Dodd Frank rule but I
think I don't doubt it I don't doubt it
but I also might by program he probably
does support more rapid stuff than that
but my point is is that how motivating
is that versus protect my guns how
motivating is that or yeah well and
that's keeping our country white and
that's the problem and that's also the
big a problem with just anti-corruption
politics generally right because the way
it's been deployed whether it's with
Trump or balsan ro or Modi it
fascists win elections using generic
anti-corruption campaigns so unless
you're really specific about what you're
actually talking about it becomes like a
stand-in for everything and has actually
been used to deal again oh my some
really good leaders
