ah folks on the phone it is a I don't
know we'll find out I guess possibly
potentially a pleasure to welcome back
to the program the host and proprietor
of the David Feldman show I believe it
is that runs both on a Pacifica station
out in in LA is my understanding and
also is available as a podcast David
Feldman welcome to the program
hey thank you for having me on Sam and I
want to compliment you very brave to
have a truth-teller like me on the show
so well I tell the truth you do you tell
the truth and I like to think that we've
had other people who come on the show
who tell the truth but if you want to
feel like you're the first one that's
your prerogative well I'm a little
different from the other truth tellers
because I see the slippery slopes that
are out there and I also recognize the
existential threats unlike the other
truth tellers you have on your show so
well what would you like to start with
what truth would you like to lay on us
that is that much more truthful than the
other truth tellers that we've had on
the program I mean you're you're clearly
implying that you're both more truthful
and more courageous is that it is that
the sense I'm getting be because brave
enough to recognize slippery slopes and
existential threats they're out there
for example their D monetizing louder
with Crowder and that that is an
existential threat to new New Journalism
and it's a slippery slope
it's an existential threat to New
Journalism so you're suggesting that
that steven crowder is a journalist I'm
suggesting
first they came for louder with
Crowder's and they come for Jimmy door
and when they come to me I won't be able
to say anything because they got rid of
the First Amendment that's why but why
wouldn't you be able to say anything if
you've been demonetised you'll still be
able to speak yes yeah what's the point
if you can't get paid to speak that's
the whole point I want to get paid for
my opinions and once they take my my
money away why bother to opine on things
I have no right to be talking about it's
actually that's actually I mean I mean I
think that I understand the point you're
making but I thought that the the point
for you to opine was to speak out on
behalf of the truth I mean you start off
by saying you were a truth-teller okay
yeah well that doesn't it doesn't seem
like you've qualified that truth-telling
with having to get paid like but I guess
you're saying like I you are you are you
truth teller for hire are you just a
professional truth teller like you don't
do it you're not an amateur truth teller
hey I I read a book two years ago okay
and I repurpose that book every day on
my show I just regurgitate this book
that I read in different ways like and I
layer on emotion and it's very
compelling and I should be paid for that
because I believe what I'm saying and I
want to get paid for that and
occasionally you know I cross the line
and reveal how misogynistic and racist
and homophobic
I truly am deep down inside but hey I'm
a comedian sometimes I don't know where
the line is and I want to get paid
trying to negotiate that line because
it's an existential threat and a
slippery slope to de monetize these guys
and you know you're glib you're glib
well all right wait a sec before we get
to my glibness totally I have to ask you
what what was the book that you read
listen liberal by Thomas Frank I read it
two years ago that's all I need to know
hey I read that book two years ago and I
can go on five days a week and just
repurpose that just with a little
screaming and yelling sometimes I cry
you know I make it about me like Jon
Stewart testifying by the House
Judiciary Committee standing ovations
did you see that yes standing oh now
wait a second Andy now do you take this
with Jon Stewart's testimony because he
wasn't paid he wasn't paid but it was a
it was really good PR good exposure to
explain salvation and he told Congress
to do its job which was very brave to
tell Congress how the House Judiciary
Committee to do its job I mean who talks
to the House Judiciary Committee's like
that other than Candace always all right
so go it yeah you have you've mentioned
the idea and I guess the slippery slope
here so you're worried basically that
they're coming for your money
oh no no I love this this country I love
this country and I you know I'm not
gonna tell you how to do your show
because I watch it you know that I
watched this show III picked up on that
yeah okay and you were talking about the
debates you're upset about the lineup
for the Democratic debates well I'm not
upset about it I'm I'm assessing it yeah
because you're not a truth teller and
you don't see slippery slopes don't you
think the debates are an existential
threat to the Democratic Party
well I in what respect
well why are they having debates why do
the Democrats have to have this circular
firing squad and shoot themselves in the
foot by debating this is exactly what
Trump wants they want us to divide it
and arguing and fighting among ourselves
we should be we should be having I'm a
jet you know you know I'm a Democrat
wait wait hold on I have a there are two
particular types of absolute
personas that you seamlessly move in
between David Feldman and I feel like
now you're going we're going from
certain web person a certain MSNBC
personalities all of a sudden where are
we which direction are we going in I do
not like ad hominem attacks when you
just called me Feldman
yes why bring why bring my religion into
this can't I have a conversation without
you calling me Feldman well it sounds
like you have a strong case for YouTube
