[Music]
let's talk about this housing for all
packaged so right now just to be very
clear about this and he started with the
right order first you start a movement
you can't even have a prayer of passing
anything like this without mobilizing
millions of people Bernie Sanders has
that and now he's putting out policies
that people really should actually read
I mean green New Deal workplace
democracy clear unequivocal single-payer
health care this is the most
transformative agenda anybody has put on
the table I mean since the New Deal I
couldn't I there's no other historical
analog um and this housing plan is
incredible and aggressive and it's one
of the biggest crises in America these
always correlate they just correlated
with the I would say but I would say the
social cleansing comments of Donald
Trump which are followed informally by
Democratic mayor's in many blue cities
who have not done a damn thing about
gentrifying or homelessness and and I'm
talking about basic meaty things you
need Universal rent control period case
closed
nothing else to be said this is personal
to me I don't you know I don't like to
sort of bring it in a lot I grew up in a
family that struggled financially we had
it much easier than most I'm not gonna
you know then or not that most but most
certainly plenty of other people I'm not
gonna over dramatize I had plenty of
other advantages but we were
cash-strapped
I know what an eviction notice looks
like on a house I know what housing
insecurity feels like it's elemental and
terrorizing it's horrifying
it also creates an enormous amount of
shame and it has a massive spillover
effect you think kids can study do their
homework when they have you know being
homeless lorded over them keep the
record player on yeah it's difficult to
keep the regular player on if you don't
have it something to plug into so you
know the idea that you would have
anything other
this is the most basic stuff a society
that doesn't have full complete free at
the point of entrance governmental
health care and a rock-solid commitment
that every single human being has a
house and a clear clean safe lighted
heated air-conditioned roof over their
heads is disgusting it's morally
unacceptable it's grotesque
and there's no complexity about those
propositions there isn't even much
complexity about how to implement them
and I just want to well play Bernie in a
second but I'm gonna read a little bit
from his housing for all proposal for
more than 40 years we've had an
affordable housing prices in America
that has only gotten worse in America
today over 18 million families are
paying more than 50% of their income in
housing well last year alone the five
largest banks on Wall Street made a
record-breaking 111 billion dollars in
profits how our families in America is
supposed to pay for food transportation
health care prescription drugs education
and health care when over there how half
of their income is going to pay for a
rent or mortgage the painful and sad
reality is that many of them cannot and
millions of Americans are deeply in debt
just to make ends meet so what does he
propose build millions more of
affordable housing units there's a
shortage of 7.4 million units he's gonna
invest in those he's gonna build those
revitalize public housing stock for
decades our nation has failed to provide
adequate funding for public housing
causing our public housing stock to fall
into a state of complete disrepair most
public housing is in desperate need of
Reconstruction and rehabilitation as a
result of this chronic underinvestment
residents lose heat the winner need
kitchen repairs to cook their meals and
do not have adequate accommodations for
residents with disabilities public
housing residents should not be forced
to live in unhealthy and unsafe
conditions because of a massive under
investment in these facilities
he'll invest 17 billion dollars to
repair and modernize modernized public
housing and make it accessible and also
with high-speed broadband and Internet
make rent
afford
we need to fully fund section 8 rental
assurance assistance that's reason my
family wasn't homeless several times we
need a strengthened Fair Housing Act
implement section 8 non-discrimination
laws people are discriminated against
regularly because of that we need to
protect tenants enact a national cap on
annual rent increases at no more than 3
percent or 1.5 times the price of the
Consumer Price Index allow states and
cities to pass even stronger rent
controls implement a Just Cause
requirement for evictions combat
gentrification exclusionary zoning
segregation and spec and speculation
create an office in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development to
coordinate and works with States
municipalities to strengthen rent
control and tenant protections implement
fair and exclusive inclusive zoning
ordinances streamline review process and
direct funding where these changes are
made goes on to talk in detail about
fighting redlining housing
discrimination restrictive zoning
ordinances are racist legacy of Jim Crow
ever efforts through enforced
segregation we need to make federal
housing and transportation funds
contingent on remedying these zoning
ordinances and coordinate with state
local officials to ensure equitable
zoning and homelessness in America
prioritize 25,000 affordable housing
trust fund trust fund sites in the first
years to house the homeless housing for
all expand sustainable homeownership
when Bernie was mayor of Burlington
Vermont he took a lead and establishing
the first municipality funded land trust
to provide affordable homeownership to
opportunities to work in families now
called the Champlain Housing Trust it
manages over 600 shared equity homes and
has helped over a thousand families
become first-time homebuyers I have
talked personally to working-class
people in Burlington who still cannot
believe their good fortune and their
lives have been utterly transformed by
that policy
and it goes on and on and on and then a
moat and then of course there's a huge
section on ending predatory lending and
modern-day redlining and the mast cell
of mortgages to Wall Street to vulture
funds and thoroughly investigate and
regulate the practice of large rental
housing investors and owners make data
such as in Vick shion's and Rankin
increases in safety violations for
landlords available to the public and
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development increased enforcement to
protect families against fraudulent
deceptive and abusive lending practices
now and this is key because these are
all fundamental necessary policies that
will help every single person in this
country that needs it and of course
there is significant gender and racial
disparities at work here as well which
this covers while raising the baseline
of social justice for all and there's a
green section which includes
weatherizing homes Energy Assistance
which is incredibly important and of
another thing that I've dealt with
personally growing up and decarbonizing
housing through a green new deal and
this is on top of an incredible plan to
get restitution to families who were
defrauded by various fraudulent payday
lenders and so on this bill is
unparalleled
now it's depressing that it's unparallel
it's depressing that it's the best thing
on on tap but it is and this is another
thing that's been put on the table here
which is that if you actually care about
these things if you're actually serious
about ending homelessness putting
everybody in a home having a national
rent control there's one candidate for
that and here's Bernie Sanders
distilling it in Las Vegas I think for
the first time are going to set
standards in terms of how much landlords
can raise rents because what you're
seeing in communities all across this
country not every community but
communities all over this country
is a process of gentrification where
wealthy real estate developments are
coming in and they are buying out
housing and making it into very
expensive housing and in the process
forcing working-class people to leave
the homes and communities they have
lived in for their entire lives so we're
going to have standards with some
flexibility in it for cities and states
but standards that say to landlords all
over this country that in the midst of a
major national housing crisis where so
many of our people cannot afford the
housing that they need you just kind of
raise your rents to any level you want
time to get serious time to get serious
there's a generational opportunity and
if you've had some elemental
interactions with these types of issues
he's talking about I've also lived for
many years without health insurance I
mean that look that's part of the reason
that I take this really seriously and
I'm really passionate about this and
there's still implications for people
that are very close to me
as elemental stuff it shouldn't be
elemental stuff this should be a
baseline that everybody shares but even
the other candidates who are closest to
him in terms of you know being not as
bad as you know Abidin or whatever are
not touching this stuff this is a
totally do it's not just a question of
bests it's a question of kinds and I
hope people get serious if they care
about ending homelessness giving
everybody health care and other really
clear basic ambitious and obvious things
that are beyond necessary
