[Music]
welcome my as I said up upfront we're
gonna hope hopefully hear from my
daughter who is somewhere downtown New
York City at the climate protest or at
least I think making her way there from
her school she goes to school in
Brooklyn and my son already apparently
this morning his first-grade class
marched around the school went back in
quickly
they made a show of it so New York City
the the students are protesting all
around in the schools and the schools
find it a good opportunity to talk about
something that is real climate change is
real it's 2019 all sane human beings who
are not either insane or lying for money
know that climate change is real and
anyone who knows anything about
education knows the best way to teach
kids are to get them involved and in
meshed in a subject so they're not just
reading it out of book to try and make
it three-dimensional so this is a great
opportunity for educators and I think
everyone would agree with that unless
you belong to one of the two categories
of people I just referenced and of
course I bring you Fox News Channel
today thousands of kids across the
country will be walking out of school
today to demand action on climate change
let's bring back our a team Juan
Williams at Henry and Jenna Ellis Reeves
right obviously you know I don't want to
get I don't wanna get too pedantic here
on this day but if this is the a-team I
would be very very nervous
to see the B team but go ahead he um
said Henry and Jenna Ellis Reeves all
right Jenna I'll start with you when I
hear kids partaking in protests I just
think okay whose idea was that
whose idea was this right and you know
obviously I think
that kids can have their own opinions I
mean my little brother has been very
politically active and you know has been
a consumer of the news since he was
probably 12 and so you know we can't say
that kids are always just informed by
adults but I think it's a valid question
to say whose idea was this and on school
time right because this is also
something that if you're going to make a
you know political move here is this
something that is being led by the
school administration is it compelled is
it something you know all of these
questions are very important and
especially when we're talking about
something like climate change I mean
this is something that you know if you
look at the Democratic Left and you look
at everyone on stage they had a
seven-hour debate over this I mean who
even watch the head watched all oh my
god pause it now for one second I'm
gonna walk through some of this here now
I remember the extended piece that the a
team did on all the children in church
that they see and who is responsible for
that
I mean sure I've known some kids who
pick up the Bible on their own but I
mean who's how are all these kids
getting to church
who's putting that idea in their head
and then of course maybe she doesn't
have a child who goes to school but they
take field trips all the time they leave
to things like historical places where
maybe they'll learn about slavery now I
know that's also a political issue or
they will go to places like you know
they go down to museums I mean the idea
that somehow there's something
particularly toxic politically toxic
about teaching kids and making kids
aware of their ability to to push back
on something that threatens their very
future is is pretty bizarre and then of
course like they talked about it for
seven hours
it's it's just stunning that that's
actually like they cut away from her
saying that to a shot where you see
America's newsroom right underneath
there and they talk about it for seven
hours that's crazy
but let's here at Henry who comes in
with tries to have some like semblance
of like the self respect that he's still
on this network something like climate
change I mean this is something that if
you look at the Democratic Left and you
look at everyone on stage they had a
seven-hour debate over this I mean who
even watch the head watched all my
daughter's 15 interior point about your
family I mean she's very serious on
climate change he's been talking to me
about it she's following it I think it's
awesome I think that young people being
not just active but engaged caring about
these big issues in all-seer
I think that's great and we shouldn't
dismiss it but I think when they start
walking out of class over it just like
they did that I saw the same at my
daughter's school it was last year about
gun control again I think it's very
important it's great for kids young
people really not kids anymore young
adults to be active on these issues to
be educated about them know the actual
facts but to just say hey you can be
politically active you don't have to go
to class I mean they should be in school
doing what they're doing to learn right
and I think it's great they're learning
about all these things but just this
here XenApp or add here is like I I need
to be able to go home and look at my kid
in the face and not say that I
denigrated you for actually doing
something that I secretly think is
correct but I do need to come up with
something that is going to allow me to
come on to the next episode of the
a-team so I have to sort of mitigate
this by saying like it's great that
they're learning but they should be in
class because they're supposed to be
learning so you keep going unbelievable
really threaded the needle on that one
dad as ed Henry comes home and hey Dad
I'm so sorry that you had to watch all
of the climate forums what a tough job
you have yeah that's
isn't it weird how your workplace
colleague couldn't watch all of them but
I did as a teenager it's exactly and the
thing is look can we go back just to
look on her face after she says that
because I actually think I think for
most of this like you know a guy I
posited up front that you need to be
sort of out of your mind
to not take climate change seriously or
you just need to be a paid lying shill I
think for most of what she was talking
there she was the paid lying shell but I
think in this moment where she actually
reacts to the idea of like seven whole
hours of talking about climate sees
genuine echo logical collapse the people
are predicting literally the deaths by
the end of the century of billions of
people possibly and it's just like
you're gonna dedicate seven whole hours
that she is literally if you guys have
seen contra points climate change video
the character that Contra boys plays it
just wants to like drink champagne in
the bathtub but she's like I don't want
to know about this you nerd it's this is
watch this something you know all of
these questions are very important and
especially when we're talking about
something like climate change I mean
this is something that if you look at
the Democratic left and you look at
everyone on stage they had a seven-hour
debate over this I mean who even watch
that watched all just gives you like
staring into the abyss what do you think
about that do you even care there you go
but you know we should say this the
these protests are taking place across
the globe
millions of people participating in this
so you say this whoever's organizing
this has global reach of course the
global Democratic Left actually is has
promoted these these marches in a
hundred and fifty six countries around
the world including Nepal Senegal Quebec
Rome Kyrgyzstan Sweden Bolivia Peru I
think they were playing some footage
from Poland
so there's 1.1 million school students
in New York City who are going to be
participating so it's a lot of good
matt'll who want to put off the rapture
and God's judgement I know it I can't
believe they would spend seven hours
though like what are they so afraid of
it's crazy all right
