[Music]
all right and then let's talk about this
too because this was interesting there's
been a lot of back-and-forth online at
the moment about mmm tea this is the
modern monetary theory which argues that
the government does not need to tax for
the sake of spending specifically the US
government I think they would carry this
theory out to other countries that have
sovereignty over their own currency to
some degree but in the context of the
United States that their argument is
that there's a role for taxes but it
isn't to allow the government to spend
that spending happens first taxation
happens second and here is Larry Summers
and this is interesting he's on CNBC
arguing that that mmt theory is just
it's just bunk and dangerous yes fiscal
policy is a very important tool whenever
the next recession comes we're going to
need a lot of fiscal stimulus but this
modern monetary theory idea where we can
guarantee jobs for everybody or I've
Medicare for all and just rely on money
printing to finance it I think that's
quite a dangerous approach and I'm sorry
to see that it's gaining more adherence
what my column points out is that it's
sort of the new voodoo economics that
there was a valid idea 40 years ago the
taxes had incentive effects which got
transmuted into the invalid idea that
you could cut taxes in order to raise
revenue the Laffer curve supply-side
economics all of that that turned out to
be very costly and it had to be reversed
when the United States tried it and I
think something very similar is
true with respect to modern monetary
theory well first off I I don't think
it's been reversed that it has had quite
a bit of durability that idea based upon
the last set of tax cuts we just got
what I think the value of modern
monetary theory is that Larry Summers is
afraid that it's going to bring about
these social benefits and that worst
case scenario I guess they'll have to
figure out a way of paying for it but
here's stephanie kelton one of the
adherence to mmt where she says Larry
says it's dangerous to say that the
government can just print the money was
a dangerous win and Alan Greenspan said
it in August of of 2011 when mourned
buffett said it when joe stiglitz said
it or when larry summers apparently said
it she goes on to say no one is saying
that because the US can print the money
that we can spend on Medicare for all
job guaranteed greenio deal without ever
raising taxes that's not mmt I don't
know where you got that impression but
it's not mmt we were simply noting that
the federal government is not revenue
constrained and that the way we
currently approach the federal budgeting
processes we're stickering our potential
in other words she's saying taxes in the
context of of mm-mm t play a economic
role insofar as it the intention is to
limit possible inflation if the economy
gets overheated you take some money off
the the board essentially by taxing a
significant number of mm tears also
support confiscatory taxing you know to
deal with things like inequality but
from an from an eek that's it more of a
political decision I think rather than
an economic one although I think you
could probably argue that from an
economic perspective it makes the more
efficient there's been a lot of
attacks on MMT I am not necessarily a
strict adherent although I've yet to see
a critique that I think is that tackles
it head-on
Doug Henwood had one in Jacobin and I
was a little disappointed in frankly
because most of it was about the the
intellectual history of the theory and
the pedigree of the people who support
it and not a terribly robust like
analysis of it from an economic
perspective I don't pretend to
understand you know monetary theory that
well but I can sort of read and
understand when someone is addressing a
specific theory and I just didn't see it
happen there and I was a little
disappointed frankly because I'm curious
about that I mean I think you should
have a mind to talk about I mean I
frankly like I just I was just assessing
the piece and I don't like I say I don't
feel like I know enough about monetary
policy to refute assertions but I just
just like ask him whatever questions you
had reading the article or whatever you
thought was missing well they were
assertions and there was no evidence
behind that as far as I could tell and
3/4 of the piece I mean are literally
about the people who proposed this stuff
