[Music]
speaking of gavels ladies and gentlemen
there are reports that donald trump was
mad that the economy is not hitting the
growth marks that it was they had
projected following the tax cuts and
apparently his chief economic adviser
who has been really really beset with a
lot of health issues apparently Laurence
Kudlow rolled out of bed saw Stephen
Moore on television saying that well the
reason why there's not growth is because
the Fed it's not dropping rates went to
Donald Trump and said you should think
about Steven Moore that's my best
impression of and apparently Donald
Trump is thinking about Steven Moore who
has been a longtime TV economist there
you go and semi pundit that's the best
kind who is and you can really I think
you could probably turn on any cable
news outlet to see an example of him
being completely wrong and not just
completely wrong in projection and
conjecture but like just making up facts
just telling lies and getting called out
on it and yet he continues to return and
he gets fired from one place gets hired
again and then he ends up at the
Heritage Foundation which is sort of
basically a genuine welfare job and here
he is let's just add to that that the
pantheon of things that Steven Moore got
horribly wrong he was brought in as one
of the consultants for the Kansas
miracle the one true experiment of the
Laffer curve in fact they even brought
in Arthur Laffer Sam Brownback did
here's an interview that he's giving
back in 20
14 on the Kevin price show talking in
2014 about the Kansas miracle that is
about to be unleashed
they have just cut taxes in fact the tax
cut was very similar to some of the
things particularly when it came to s
corpse that that was passed on a federal
level but in Kansas of course you can't
deficit spend so their whole idea is
we're going to cut taxes so much that
economic activity is going to explode
and so we're gonna cut taxes but on a
volume level we're gonna make more in
tax revenue that's what growth does and
so here he is on this is clip number 6
where he talks about Brownback this is
all from the same same weight which one
is the first one in the Brenden is six
the earlier of the two okay so this is a
number six and Brownback is you know you
don't want to make Kansas look like New
York you want to make Kansas look like
you wanna make Kansas look like Texas
yeah so Sam Brownback cut tax rates
they've got some growth going on there
but the left he is under complete
assault from the left and they're
creating this fairy tale that it's
ruling in a state you know and we cut
taxes quote for rich people and you know
we're defunding the schools there is no
truth to any of that but you know what's
really interesting about this is that
the unions are just pouring money into
this race because there's a big election
as you know in in 10 days but Sam
Brownback has been one of the top
governor's I think he's going to win
he's going to defeat these left wing
interest groups that are trying to run
him out of town
yeah well that's interesting of course
that is our posit let's take a look at
that assessment this is in 2014 and his
true Brownback went on to win by three
point six nine percent within twelve
months and on to 24 months of that
election his
approval rating was 23% why was that the
case because after passing those tax
cuts Moody's downgraded the state bond
rating in 2014 the SP downgraded its
credit rating from AAA plus the AAA in
August 2014 due to budget that analysts
described as structurally unbalanced
again in 2017 from AAA to AAA - by 2018
overall growth and job creation and
Kansas had underperformed the national
economy neighboring states and even
Kansas's own previous growth years
Kansas jobs growth lagged behind at
neighboring Missouri Colorado in
Nebraska the by early 2017 Kansas has
had nine rounds of budget cuts over four
years three credit downgrades missed
state payments basically a rolling
fiscal crisis that started 30 seconds
after more was done talking on that
radio program so not enough tax cuts to
make up on the budget shortfall despite
the fact that all the tax cuts were
gonna create growth and increase the
revenue that came in lawmakers had to
tap into state reserves that were set
aside for future spending construction
projects were postponed pension
contributions and Medicaid would cut and
since approximately half the state's
budget went to school funding education
was particularly hard hit the the state
university which used to be pride of
Kansas severe cuts Kansas is still
roiling so much so that in 2018
lawmakers reverse those tax cuts they
gave up on the whole thing and Sam
Brownback knowing that he couldn't rerun
for election knowing that his political
future in Kansas was over got a job with
the Trump administration as the
Ambassador are you ready to this
of faith or to faith to literally an
ambassadorship positioned somewhere
hovering over the planet I guess he's
securing thoughts and prayers securing
thoughts and prayers floating in a
bubble hovering above amongst us as like
an ethereal object but let's hear more
of Stephen more talk about the great
Kansas miracle that was happening his
entire economic paradigm falling apart
as he's speaking on there all those lies
that he was talking about lies our
friend Governor Walker in Wisconsin is
fighting for his beliefs next number
seven yeah let's go to number seven oh
yes even more also said that the Scott
Walker this foxconn deal is really gonna
help him with re-election incidentally
oh no in the presidential election
that's where he thought yeah I should
remind you Scott Walker first guy to
drop out in the 2016 election year what
you know what are you seeing in the
numbers that should make people excited
about what's happening in Kansas yeah
this well they are starting to create
jobs again in campus you know and that's
a big deal you know they're starting to
see jobs come back and they're starting
to economize on their services they're
trying to visit you know economize on
their services do you know that sounds
very good you know what that is like
they're having to cut their budget
because the revenues not coming in
they're trying to make you know allow
taxpayers to get a bang for their buck
you know not the Union cause happen is
do a bang for their buck means we've cut
the prices of services so that if
they're more cost effective yeah I want
to give you know bucks for no bang right
exactly you know not that unions hate
that Kevin is you know they aged that
idea they want government to be as
wasteful and bloated as possible you
know so that more money goes into their
coffers and puns the big labor bosses
that's what this fight is all about yeah
I'm looking at some of the numbers and
they're pretty startling actually and
you know and they look small but on the
other hand you got to look at it
contextually you know for example
Illinois's four times larger than than
Kansas yeah
you know meanwhile Kansas has created
more private-sector jobs in the entire
state of Illinois that to me as a
startling statistic yeah because you
know I raised their income taxes you
know I'm from Illinois I think that you
know coming and you know I'm from the
Chicago area and Illinois does all the
wrong things when I was growing up there
the income tax rate was 3% then Governor
Quinn raised it to 5% and now they're
gonna raise it up to the union's want to
raise it to 7 or 8 percent it's
unbelievable there's never enough money
for these unions never enough money
never enough money and never enough
money these numbers are startling and
it's very important when you're talking
about the Kansas miracle to talk about a
different state and to talk about unions
who are not involved in any of that
these unions get their money they get it
from some type of secret well and then
we funnel it to the government they want
modern modern math that's how they do
really and if you had bigger tax cuts
then you would have bigger jobs and that
dude may be sitting on the Fed Stephen
more straight guys literally get their
money from the dues people pay real big
