yeah I want to get back to why we're
seeing a renewed interest I mean
obviously Millennials have a I mean
every generation has a different
perspective on things but I'm curious as
to what is it was driving Millennials
too I guess
answer the questions of our time with
the answers that they're providing
particularly in terms of unionization
but Kayla before we get to that I know
you're from Wisconsin so you probably
have a well you've had a upfront and
close perspective on the attack on
unions I mean I think to a large extent
Scott Walker definitely well I mean so
tell us I mean it give us your
perspective on and I you know we opened
up this segment by the introduction we
have been talking about the assault on
unions for 15 years frankly just as long
as we've been on but that assault has
been bigger than that and longer than
that what what just outline Italy from
the perspective of a millennial like
what has been well how do they see that
assault on unions yes
so I'm from Wisconsin I'm a fifth
generation Wisconsin ight I didn't
really grow up with any type of
understanding of unions I went to a
public high school and those teachers
were unionized I had assumed but I
didn't really know much about it and
then in 2011 during my junior year of
college Scott Walker signed act 10 which
stripped away the collective bargaining
rights from public sector workers in my
home state and people were protesting in
the streets and I learned so much about
how the labor movement had actually a
lot of it had actually started in
Wisconsin where the first public sector
union asked me was actually formed so
that kind of started my interest in the
labor movement so I actually do have
Scott Walker to thank for me being a
union leader at this time but I think
that Millennials see kind of they see
through the narrative that teachers are
the problem public sector workers are
the problem I mean the decline in
unionization has caused
wages to stagnate it stripped away
people's retirement to access to health
care to retirement and so I think they
see unions as a way to have a voice on
the job and to get get these things such
as higher wages and have a more stable
life that we've been promised but
haven't been able to get without these
Union Drive you know it's interesting I
and I think I've told the story on the
majority report but the back in 2009 I
believe it was Jeannine Groff and I
hosted some show out in Aspen that
involved Grover Norquist and it wasn't
televised or anything like that and
Grover Norquist for every answer kept
saying the problem is the pension size
of the public sector unions I mean it
was almost bizarre his fixation on it
but it turns out that what we saw from
Scott Walker was the culmination of a
plan that had been going around for a
long time to attack public sector unions
it was a almost a proof of concept if
you could do it in Wisconsin you could
do it almost anywhere I mean in fact we
did see multiple states and ultimately
we have now seen a full frontal assault
on public sector unions by the Supreme
Court in in the form of the Janus
decision so we have in on one hand we
have unions in their least structurally
I guess safe a position that they have
been in in the history of the country we
have virtually or even a right to work
law so-called right to work laws
federally a you know as a function of
the Janus ruling and we have this in
many states so how is it Katie do you
explain this sort of dichotomy where on
one hand unions if you look at them on
paper structurally are in their weakest
position but oddly enough seem to be
like in their strongest position that
we've seen in a couple of decades
well I would say that you know as as
wages have stagnated and the you know
the American workers been kind of
neglected that unions have become all
the more appealing and so we've seen
with you know our members that that
we're living expensive cities like
Washington DC and that it's appealing to
be able to negotiate for a minimum
salary and annual raises and so you know
one of our units the employees of the
Center for American Progress in their
first contract you know negotiated for
raises and minimum earnings that raise
salaries in a unit by almost 10 percent
but we're also seeing this among other
groups of new newly organized workers
like digital journalists who negotiated
for salary floors of $50,000 they also
live in expensive cities like New York
and then annual rate raises every year
so I think that that workers are seen
the only way to kind of make their
situation better is by joining together
and having a seat at the table to
negotiate with their employer Ethan what
do you think it is I mean I mean what
was Kayla's told us that the her sort of
almost like awakening moment was those
strikes in largely in Madison where we
had for at least I think three or four
months we had people marching into the
Capitol occupying the Capitol marching
around the Capitol I was there and I
think it was March of 2011 which may
have been the last one of the last
weekend's that this is taking place they
were they were tractors farmers have
been driving in there was a just an
incredible mix of of workers who were
were protesting but broadly speaking
whoa
Ethan what what defined I guess the
perspective of Millennials what events
do
and the perspective of millenials would
you say based on your experience or just
Millennials you have spoken to yeah well
I think first it's important to remember
that right Millennials like every other
you know group and generation in the
u.s. workforce ultimately want to be
able to you know pay their rent put food
on the table support what are now many
growing families for many Millennials
and right now we're about thirty five
percent of all working adults but I
think if you go back you know five ten
years and you look at the the financial
crisis which you know wiped out the the
wealth and the incomes for many many
Americans and yet the people who caused
the crisis many of the the CEOs at major
corporations and banks were not held to
account you look at the rising levels of
student debt that many generations
before us you know I think our parents
generation had to deal with a little bit
but definitely not anywhere close to the
scale that that our generation is facing
where people are graduating college with
six figures of debt and then facing a
job market where they're being expected
to be full-time freelancers forfor a
piecemeal rate in living in New York
City so I think all these factors
combined together with you know quite
frankly the the political climate that
we're in I think the the election of
Donald Trump
I think motivated a lot of people to
think about ways that they can make
changes in their own communities whether
that's the local organizing that we're
seeing across the country on issues from
you know you know the minimum wage to
making sure that in New York that
economic development incentives aren't
only going to the super-rich and then
even to workplaces and people like being
able to make a difference and actually
make changes that directly impact
I think many people don't don't know
what they're missing when it comes to
their jobs and being actually being able
to negotiate sit down with their
employer and their manager instead of
being just coming in and saying you know
I want a raise I'll take whatever you're
offering well let's take a quick break
here and when we come back I want to
talk more about this and about
Millennials exerting their power we'll
be right back after this
