[Music]
maybe I want to get into what Sanders is
doing that no one else is doing but
first I do want to play this ad this is
something that you know you released for
the Sanders campaign released form you
and I think this actually very
eloquently distills this in in a you
know in in the language of an end so
let's play this in all throw to you
Bhaskar drop in 2020 but I'm afraid that
after Trump a right populism might exist
in the US for a long time to come
Sanders didn't see opportunity about
this win one election but it scrape the
past progressive majority that could win
election after election this isn't a
four-year project this is Nate your
project this is a project to remake
America and remake America process spent
ten fifteen twenty years for decades
working people in the United States have
been told over and over again and it's
their fault lost her job
it's your fault maybe you should
reformat your CV maybe should pick a
coding class you're a griffon deeper and
deeper in met effect it's your fault
maybe you should have seen the doctor
more maybe she could start doing yoga
exercising a bit more all these messages
have been telling keeps that the
problems of society were individual
failings that's why I was so inspired by
the Sanders campaign the president 2016
and again now knowing that people are
realizing that it's not their fault in
fact they should be expecting and
demanding more and that collectively we
should buy presents and Medicare for all
we could collect things like the safe
and sustainable environmental policy
will keep the planet going for our
future generations what we need is a
return to shared prosperity and justice
for all people
for example I like the little look off
you do at the end like it was a are we
still rolling yeah I'm embarrassed I
kept that but I love the music behind me
but clearly the soundtrack to NBA Live
1999 kind of felt a little bit like
almost a little not know they were more
mellow but I thought of almost like
diggable planet sort like it had a very
like it did have a good 90s vibe to it
yes I'm a throwback and yeah I'm still
living in the past until until the next
game cadiz and I'm ready to embrace 2019
until then I'm living in 99 and then
after a couple of months when Katie like
hurts his ankle or something you'll be
back tonight million well I mean I feel
like that would just remind me of why
I'm an expense offering as part of it
you know we happen we have to pay the
pennant the beautiful struggle actually
okay well I have a I have a ridiculous
question to ask you but first go well no
let me just do this parenthetically if
Bill Bradley who was a legendary Nick
and of and probably like I would say
Barack Obama and Bill Bradley are like
the best neoliberalism had to offer no
Bradley you with if Bradley was the qiat
Bradley Bradley versus Sanders who are
you picking alright but I would I would
say yeah Bradley you know Obama even
Adam silver NBA Commissioner Adam Silver
ID seems like the type of neoliberal so
you could have like a quick lunch with
you know quick like they wouldn't drive
you absolutely crazy we just want to cut
everything off of my yeah 35 minute mark
I think you're I think you're exactly
right so what what does Sanders bring to
the table that is is distinct in terms
of activating people and also for that
much longer term struggle because I I
agree with you I've been saying for a
really long time you know I don't agree
with framing the election on only this
or that candidate can be
Trump I think a lot of them could be
Trump or horrifyingly we might be in a
position where maybe very few of them
can be Trump right but the point is is
that Joe Biden could could definitely be
Trump I think people on our side of the
equation of steadily underestimated his
appeal unfortunately but what happens in
2022
I mean if you have yet another cycle of
unresponsive mediocrity while all of the
crises of society are untreated granted
the emergency of the white supremists
corrupt Trump administration of course
needs to be removed period but that's
just getting back to a basic baseline
where we're not fighting savagery like
kidnapping children which is absolutely
essential but it is not long-term
durable for inequality for the climate
for police for all of these other issues
that are structural in long term what is
Sanders bringing to this that no one
else has for at least the potential of
getting out of a broader predicament yes
not just defeating Trump it's about
defeating Trump ISM right and I think we
have to think about what was the appeal
of Trump
now obviously hardcore Trump supporters
are the racists or the Xena folks that
that we can't win over under any
circumstance then a big chunk of his
base of just traditional you know
wealthier Republican voters that we
don't want in our coalition right well
let's find that 25% of the Trump is so
let's think about you know what
motivated these people I think part of
it was anger part of it was I'm gonna do
the thing to be a staff of political
thousand doesn't want me to do
and for me what spoke to them from Trump
was but speaking to the anger and that's
something that Sanders can summon but
these other Democratic candidates aren't
really meaningfully domini the idea that
you know what I want people to blame and
that's why he keep saying millionaires
and billionaires you know he's naming
some names he's saying stop just there
are Bezos he's saying all these these
he's these things that I think are
summoning kind of a passion and anger
that's just out there you know people
are set up and either they're going to
vote with their anger or they're going
to vote out of here I think
not P Michael you're right by the way
enough people would vote out of fear and
say you know we don't want you know
Trump the size like too much yeah so you
will get it to turn out this legend I
think even I'll probably be beat Trump
yes but then there's gonna be I think in
terms of people that are potentially
gonna stay at home maybe not in this
election but in the next election if it
doesn't seem like things are changing if
it doesn't seem like the Democrats are
trustworthy if all they have to offer is
we're not Republicans you know it's not
a very strong appeal it's not a strong
message and that's something that that
you know really Hillary Clinton didn't
motivate people to vote it was Latino
voters not showing up who's black voters
not showing up it wasn't just you know
white working-class voters switching
over in a few swing states there was
more just the people getting set up and
just not wanting to show up and who
could really blame them on a especially
if you're you're working 8:00 to 6:00 on
election day you have kids at home you
have all going dressed you don't get the
day off
are you gonna stand in line for an hour
to vote for someone who doesn't inspire
you you know it's a tough out well right
and that's actually why I'm the best
thing the Democrats have actually done
in the house is introduced a really good
voting rights package which is essential
and shocking that morally and
strategically they haven't been pushing
for decades but you know that the yeah I
mean I think and again whether it's 25%
of Trump voters I might think it's 2 or
3% frankly but that 2 or 3 percent is
geographically they're located in the in
the map that you need to win and I and
just you know and just to put a fine
point on it because I do think that this
distinction is arising and I've you know
my position for a long time and I don't
have to go in a minute has definitely
been look even even candidates that I
don't you know have any trust for at all
you know in terms of their commitment to
these things like beta O'Rourke or
Christian Gillibrand or whoever if
people are coming on board for a
single-payer postal banking or whatever
that's great let's give them praise but
now we're in an election and now it's
like I think it's even important to
start in a you know collegial respectful
way because again I I do draw a red line
I do think it's Bernie dents and Warren
uh you know I think it's I think it's
Bernie on his own
in terms of distinct contribution but I
do think it's Bernie and Warren verse
the rest of the field in the sense that
Warren is clearly infinitely preferable
to I mean it goes without saying Biden
but certainly any of the other you know
centrist center-right candidates yeah
what is the big gap between Bernie and
mourn but I think there's no one we pick
it's not bigger gap between more than
everyone else right I agree I think
that's exactly how I put it but what is
that distinction between this broader
strategic argument and just putting out
a lot of really good policy proposals
which is great and essential but it
feeds in my view the same kind of
failings of a certain belief and
technocracy versus power that's at least
how I'd frame it but what do you think
well I think that that Warren at heart
as a regulator right she wants a fairer
better
capitalism she wants capitalism where
the rules are clear and it's not rigged
against working people Sanders I think
is more fundamentally questioning the
system right I think he's been a far
more resolute defender of Medicare for
all yep I think in that that's probably
the most most radical part of his his
program just the way he wants to take on
the health insurance industry through a
full-frontal you know you know I thought
now looking at her response of Medicare
for all makes me worried that Warren
would would choose maybe the path of
preemptive compromise where Sanders will
at least try to tackle these interests
and name names a little bit more but
more importantly I think is the fact
that Sanders is actually galvanizing a
grassroots and millions of people in a
way that that Warren isn't so we have to
think about who just won't be the better
President to pass some policy over the
next four years or eight years we have
to think about who sent current the
opposition movement or there's a
foundation of a long term opposition
movement for 5 10 15 20 years so if your
progressive if your socialist we have to
be thinking about how do we remake
American politics and expose to 20 years
our job won't be done in 2020 it won't
be done even in 2024 and it seems to me
the Sanders is the one capable of really
galvanizing passions and
you know pushing in that direction yeah
I I I mean that's precisely my take and
I also recommend always Meghan de who
I've interviewed plenty of times and is
another great writer the Jacobin she
really put this very well recently the
book is the socialist manifesto the case
for radical politics in age of extreme
income in extreme inequality we didn't
even talk about the ecological collapse
that were on the verge of I will say
that Bhaskar is also a regular on T MBS
and be talking with him again soon but
definitely buy this book get your
subscription to the Jacobin help forward
these visions these ideas and also you
know these movements Bhaskar thanks so
much for doing this yep that's great
thanks for having me appreciate it
