[Music]
this is also fascinating steny hoyer is
getting a a challenge I support her yeah
so steny hoyer exactly second second
most powerful Democrat in the House
often at odds with Nancy Pelosi on some
issues which you know tells you
something this is a guy if you thought
Joe Biden represented credit card
interests in corporate interest let me
introduce you to standing Hoyer and he
is in Maryland's fifth congressional
district and you know one of the things
that I think Digby made the point it is
the case there is a there is a big
deficit of leadership in the Democratic
Party
it seems to me amongst my generation in
particular and Steny Hoyer is almost 80
and look I'm all in favor of 80 year
olds 7 year olds and this and that I
tend to you know many of them are stuck
in politics in the past but it's quite
clear the future of the party lies in
people who are in their 20s and you know
their 30s to a certain extent but but
for some reason there's a huge deficit
for of people in their 40s and 50s I
have theories about that but
nevertheless people in their twenties
seems to be the only ones who feel like
who actually you know it's almost like
they they actually have that audacity of
hope' like they took it seriously a lot
of people who took Obama's words
seriously and didn't like his policies
well I think and they could have gone
one of two directions
they've could have gotten completely
cynical about it or they could have said
like we're gonna take the rhetoric and
actually put it into action here's a
woman
Kaela Wilkie's and I and I don't know
much about her I gotta tell you but this
is a pretty brave way to start your
campaign and I guess maybe from her
perspective it was the only way but she
was not she's not going to let that stop
her listen to this ad
I didn't think Kansas are that I should
be unemployed in general or probably the
words I'm running for Congress for
Maryland's fifth District but getting
here has definitely not been easy when I
was fifteen I was placed in juvenile
detention facilities for running away
from home there was even one instance
where a guard threatened to hold me down
and cut my brains out if I didn't cut
them out myself I was even jailed for
driving on a suspended license I was
seven months pregnant living paycheck to
paycheck
I couldn't afford to pay all my tickets
in court fees and I had no choice but to
drive or I lose my job
we need a criminal justice system that
offers rehabilitation instead of an
exploitation this is why I want to in
cash bail I want to end the failed war
on drugs and I want to make sure that
pregnant women are treated fairly in
prison and I also want to get rid of the
predatory rates that prisoners and their
families are forced to pay in order to
speak to their loved one family
shouldn't have to choose between putting
food on the table and making a phone
call to talk to one of their life
our representation is so out of touch
with the people's needs even burst
they're funded by those who profit off
our most vulnerable check out the rest
of my platform online because we've got
a lot of work to do I'm Michaela Wilks
and I'm running as Who I am for who we
are that is a brilliant and good for her
that is so clean so direct yeah so
OnPoint so honest I mean I got to learn
more but that's amazing yeah that's
pretty impressive stuff Steny Hoyer
couldn't be a better person to primary
frankly he said some phony cameras like
I've been working closely with Agra and
oil and energy lobbyists for decades I'm
glad about ending cash bail because I
wanted to make it possible also to use
your credit card and we'll pay yeah why
is the reason we can't use venmo money
out of breath working with Jack Dorsey
he's got a new proposal fear part of the
problem is that we only allow 30% our
interest rates on on bail so what I want
to do is Jack it up to 65% oh I'm gonna
introduce a segment a program called a
positive tweets about moderate Democrats
for bail and it's thinking where is such
trash
