[Music]
go to go to the phones come from a
five-10 area code who's this where you
come from me ion yes you are who's this
where you come from okay this is James
I'm from Hudson New Yorker that's where
I'm living now okay Hudson New York I
know it well and oh great yeah so I was
calling I'm a watch a lot of the show
and sort of tuned into the tenor that
the kind of sort of itchiness of the
Warren Sanders difference is happening
and I'm kind of like I want one of them
to win the primary basically I'm like I
just need so I guess my question is
because I had summers to defend Warren a
little against Mike but I think that my
my main feeling is I wanted to know like
there is this difference between the
Warren Sanders voters and like if it
comes down to
Warren Sanders Harris or Warren Sanders
bye-bye then
is there a coalition or is there a way
that a coalition can be formed either
behind Sanders are behind Warren and
like I don't know like what is the
little blazer feeling about the strategy
there I my guess is that in the event
that it comes down to three people like
that we're gonna see it play out in the
convention I mean it really depends on
who the three people are to a certain
extent I don't know how that gets
resolved between Warren and Sanders
voters because I definitely think that
they the the the polling shows that they
are distinct entities and there's not as
much crossover as you would imagine
based upon their policy sets I I would I
would guess you know I think it's just
too early to sort of
say how people are gonna react and it's
also too early I think because I think
you need to see more in the debates to
see if Warren or Sanders can convince
the other voters that they are their
number to get right can i I just want to
just say I mean you know look I I don't
I'm gonna you know I I think that I
treat Warren fairly and I obviously am
NOT gonna pretend that I again to me it
is I I just think it's it's not even a
difference of one being better than the
other it's just a different kind of
candidate repperton Bernie represents a
certain kind of class politics and then
if you include you know foreign and
military policy which I think yes we can
say all day people don't care about it
but it's utterly reckless and
narcissistic for Americans not to care
about it on some level frankly and I'll
make that as a hard stop statement but
yeah so I think it I think what's been
interesting to me those I think in any
narrower conversations of people who are
like very high information news
consumers like like you're you that this
debate is pretty relevant and there are
people bouncing in between Warren and
Sanders but I think as Sam is saying you
know a lot of the polling indicates that
there's a lot more like Sanders to Biden
or Biden to Sanders as an example and I
don't read that necessarily as people
not caring about ideology to the same
degree that Sam might I also read it as
basically in some respects a
manifestation that as an example that
you know Sanders support right now is
much more frankly of a much broadcast
base and I think the simplicity of the
message and the clarity of it is very
distinct and very beneficial but I I
mean I but I guess the bigger point is I
listen I don't think criticizing
candidates one way or another is is
something you need to worry about right
now the I guess my might just let me
just comment on what Michael said then
you can go the to the
that that there is a a you may be making
a class but it's a cultural thing that
it to the extent that Sanders and Biden
share voters from the same class they're
not doing a Marxist critique and it's
bringing them to Biden no I
Marxist there are cultural there are
what cultural things do you think those
are I don't think it's just oh I think
it's not I think it's there I think it
has to do is sort of like maleness you
think that but you oh wait so wait wait
but that doesn't make any sense
because we both know that if you cut it
I think we're a slot class line no cuz
as a matter of fact Bernie's coalition
is significantly more diverse than why i
understand but i don't know i don't i
agree why don't you I'm saying the
crossover the people who share who want
Biden number two they who and it's not
it's not even the majority of Bernie
voters but is the plurality of Bernie
voters I think that they are responding
to cultural cues the Joe Biden
you know Amtrak Joe that will those
Montague's overlap with classic who use
frankly if you want to use that language
no but look I'll just be anecdotal cuz
this is what I think what's going on
so my grandmother is an example she's
Bernie or Biden she supports universal
health care she has a labor union
background and Bernie has gotten through
to her as somebody who actually
represents more of a continuation of
good solid labor politics and then she
just happens to like Biden and doesn't
by the way perceive him to be as bad on
those issues as I'm telling her but it's
not because she's like oh well you know
he's a dude and she's not drawn that
Warren dude it's because she's not just
you he he has all the cultural cues of
someone who is labor - I mean yeah right
okay but then we're sort of saying a
similar thing then I wouldn't
necessarily frame that as just quote
unquote cultural right
like you know just those with because
the cultural cues are queuing for cares
about working people and has a labor
agenda whereas you know in in Warren's
case she and I think it's important for
people to reference this outside of
these circles she doesn't find all of
the like endless Wong curry to be
interesting or impressive and I think
the irony is that Elizabeth Warren cares
a lot more about working-class usual men
and by absolutely but that but I doubt
when I completely agree with you on but
it's not a you know it's not a social
conservatism or maleness that is driving
her well I am not convinced that those
things are are not also these things are
all bound up in ways you know in part on
how like they're represented within the
context of American society people when
they think about unions I think broadly
speaking Americans when they think about
a typical union member they look at they
picture in their mind a guy even though
the case of the matter the fact of the
matter is that like a union member whole
life who I Hillary Clinton yes I mean I
don't know if I want to you know go ask
psychobabble it's great grandma to
describe a typical Union member I'd be
curious as to what gender they they here
they call him okay
call her either
yeah it's crying I don't know see she
might I don't think so I my god
yes go ahead anyway well I think I'll
take the rest of my stuff off there but
I think it's funny because my family is
sort of the opposite where you know I
was on vacation and I was convincing my
aunt my mom and telling them all about
the Hyde Amendment and kind of biting
campaigning for these sort of very he's
like you know basically kind of
anti-abortion or you know
all right pro-life you know Democrats
and all this and and I could sort of
move the needle to Warren but I could
never you know they when I said blah
blah Sanders they kind of would bring up
you know he said about Nicaragua in
the 80s or something you know they that
stench still hung around and so I would
need to quell me partially it wouldn't
call that a still look good well that
let the scholar just finish point Oh
anyway I just feel like the you know the
way Michael says about there's people
that just they don't like they don't
like Sanders and they're not really
convinced about I mean certainly like my
family with this kind of ideally
background though they're exactly the
demographic of like Warren condensable
where they will move left from from
Harris or Biden to warrant but I can't
uh preferred exactly this culture of
reasons I don't know if I can get them
to move to Sanders and I just wonder you
know what is them you know I guess I'm
just asking like what is the map of like
how many you know there's like people
that are sort of standard invincibles
that are and and there's people that are
worn convinced the Bulls and of course
then there's the candidate that you
actually approve of but not oh no I just
what I'm wondering all of that it's
anyway I think okay I appreciate the
call let me just all I answer it off the
affair I mean the the polling shows that
the there is a greater number of people
like your family who who will discount
Bernie than Warren Warren at least a
month or two ago had a slightly higher
ceiling and a but also a lower floor
than Bernie
it remains to be seen because the other
thing that may be driving like sort of
Bernie and Biden supporters to be shared
is that people may perceive that Bernie
has a better chance of winning and
certainly I imagine that is why you know
Bernie support amongst African Americans
is like three times that of Warren
and I imagine that comes into play but I
also imagine the idea of like of just
the the the movement building that
Bernie is doing and the involvement that
Bernie had in civil rights movement that
Warren did not have I mean and so I
think you're gonna be able to find
people who can move from Biden to Bernie
and people who could move from Biden to
Warren and I think the campaign is going
to sort out to a certain extent three
quarters of of the people who will move
to one candidate or another when that
time comes because it's very conceivable
I think if I had to predict right now I
would say that there's gonna be three or
four people who are gonna be in this
race well into the spring and I would
imagine that Warren maybe one of them
Bernie certainly gonna be one of them
and but I think I just I would also just
really encourage people that if you dig
into these polls and I and you know and
again talk to like normal people that I
will use my grandmother in this instance
that the strengths that he had the that
exactly the dynamic were articulating
outside of very narrow but highly
over-represented confines and academia
and media are his strengths and they're
gonna be big strengths for normal people
you have to appeal to to actually win
things well what do you mean by like
specifically like a simple clear message
like we're gonna just do this without
means-testing it a lot of the kind of
elevation of technocracy and wong curry
doesn't necessarily translate as well to
a broader set of people and I also think
that the history of movement politics is
a significant distinction as well yeah I
agree I mean it I mean I think the
movement thing is is a big deal but I
think I think you know
extent her the details of the plans I
don't think people is what moves people
to to what I think it's perception that
she says I have a plan right but I'm
saying we're in the phase now where
there's a lot of people engaging who
fancy themselves sort of like in the
process in a certain way I'm just saying
when you talk to normal people and you
say one point okay almost candidates
plans do nothing about student loans
right one candidate's plans just
eliminates them no no
complications no form no nonsense let's
just do it and the other one it's like
well sort of yes but then you have to
fill out a bunch of paperwork there that
outside of a pretty narrow set of people
their eyes glaze over and they're less
excited about that general type of
approach well alright I mean I think I
happen to agree that we should get rid
of every one student debt but saying
we're gonna get rid of every one student
debt who makes under a hundred thousand
dollars a year is a fairly
straightforward pitch I happen to think
that we should just we should get rid of
student debt but I don't think it's I
think there's a lot of evidence about
was easier to communicate we'll see I
hope I hope you're right about that
