[Music]
joining us now on the majority report is
Ronan Burtenshaw he is the editor of the
Tribune and he's also author recently of
a piece in the Jackman magazine only
Corbin ISM can defeat Boras Ronan thanks
so much for being here divided to be on
with you so before we get into why
Corbin ISM is the path forward what's
the state of play I mean we we do a lot
of jokes on this show like the latest
news is that you know at naught point
for 100 hours the Queen will wink at
Boris Johnson if he does not wink back
then there'll be an early election you
know my point being there's a lot of
Mecca nations there's a lot of different
bureaucratic hurdles the fact that the
UK does not have a written constitution
I think might be playing a role in all
of this Boris Johnson is still Prime
Minister but he does not have a majority
what's actually going on what is the
state of play were in are we headed to
elections give us a kind of lay of the
land eventually we will get to a general
election the question of how we get
there is pretty complicated obviously
there's been a lot of parliamentary
imaginations over the last few days I
don't think it's great terrain for
socialists to be honest because it's
kind of disempowering thing right away
people are reduced to being spectators
to this drama that's going on in
Westminster Westminster of course being
deeply unpopular as well as everything
else with with the mass of the
population and what's going on at the
moment is basically this battle over
whether Parliament can stop a No Deal so
virus Johnson lost two big votes in the
last couple of days over whether he can
push through a No Deal brexit Parliament
both obviously the vast majority of
Labour MPs in addition to the Lib Dems
green MP and a number of Tory rebels
voted against him which meant that he
lost decisively by 25 or so votes twice
over that question he then responded by
putting a what's called a fixed-term
Parliament act motion down this fixed
term Parliament act which was agreed on
a David Cameron's government complicates
everything further because in the past
it used to be the case in the House of
Commons that when a government would be
losing votes on significant issues the
government would fall and there would
have to be an election the in a kind of
fits of liberal peak Cameron and and the
Lib Dems introduced a piece of
legislation that said all this is just
too inappropriate away for our
governments to to fall and so instead we
need some kind of more rational decision
making whether we'd only get an election
when the Parliament actually voted for
it but of course that leaves the
completely ridiculous scenario where a
government can have no majority lose its
first four votes under a new prime
minister and still there'll be no
election so you can go on with this kind
of zombie government for a very very
long time because of this piece of
legislation that likes so much of the
rationalism liberals try to impose on
politics doesn't actually work when it
meets reality so this is this is one of
the reasons we're stuck in this
situation I happen to think it's a it's
a complicated one for labour too
obviously there's been a lot of beat
commentary from parts of that after over
recent days because you've got a new
prime minister in who's being defeated
in Parliament so things things look good
for Colin it's a very complicated
position for labour to be in because
labor having for two years demanded an
immediate general election has just
basically turned up the opportunity of
doing an election and the stated reason
for that is well we don't want to vote
for an election because it would be
possible for Boris Johnson to simply
wait out the clock on a No Deal brexit
using this using the election so he
would be able of course to to set the
time which would mean that an audio
breaks it could happen and so the Labour
Party is insisting that this piece of
legislation that's been passed the
Gangstar No Deal
has to go through get the Queen's assent
and be put into place before any such
election happens Boris Johnson is taking
advantage of that to claim that Labour
is running away from an election and
he's up in Wakefield today doing a
pretty incredible beginning I think of
an election campaign effectively that's
what today is where he's about to make a
speech in front of a backdrop of
uniformed police letting in to Jeremy
Corbyn and this is what we're gonna find
in the election once it comes it's going
to be white-knuckle Boris Johnson and
his team are going to try to run a
populist campaign their desired framing
of the entire election is the Parliament
versus the people the people want Briggs
in the parliament and the political
establishment is is denying them breaks
it is cabal frustrating the popular will
then it's a dangerous terrain for labour
to be on and I think it's increasingly
important important that labour comes
out fighting hard from the left in the
coming days to prevent Boris Johnson
from being able to present himself as
the champion of the people against the
political establishment let's talk a
little bit about Boris Johnson and then
get to what would be a good terrain for
socialists and how that leads to what
labour can do and maybe also the
delusions and dangers of the of the
Liberal Democrats as I always say
friends don't let friends vote the real
Democrat but what Boris Johnson built
his whole brand and some I mean he's
very different than Trump obviously the
lot of the kind of superficial
comparisons actually don't really work
he's a lifelong we're not a lifelong but
he's a veteran politician he's mayor of
London he's not sort of completely
coming out of nowhere as an elected
official but they both are you know they
both have these hard right mmm pop not
populist in the proper understanding of
the word but they're they're both
television candidates Boris Johnson
built his whole brand as sort of playing
this kind of ridiculous foppish kind of
character on UK TV
sort of you know forgetting where his
keys are kind of bumbling rich guy sort
of thing as Prime Minister so far it's
actually really seemed to me at least
presentational e to not work that his
whole brand was built on an ability to
be kind of entertaining and rebellious
in really relatively easy television and
public speaking gigs and now when he's
got protesters shouting him down he's
got a parliament defying him every step
of the way he looks smaller and smaller
in that role and I could see why he
wants to get back on an election footing
as quickly as possible but what's your
sort of read of the of the Boris Johnson
personality maybe you could also explain
to people who Dominique Cummings is
who's his sort of political offenders
creating so much agitation there as well
yeah so Boris Johnson I mean I agree
with their characterization of him he is
a media attic figure he's one of these
new 21st century political animals who
has very much built his persona outside
of the political system even as he has
served as a politician you know he is
not renowned across the country
predominantly because of what he did as
mayor or whatever else he's he's
renowned because of the persona that he
created around himself by appearing on
things like comedy shows have I got news
for you on the BBC and so on and that
was that that for today is a smart way
to develop a political career I agree as
well that he's not been able to use the
kind of parliamentary structures as well
as he would have wanted his his PM cues
as they're called over Harris Prime
Minister's Questions in which many
people expected because of his supposed
rhetorical abilities he would use to you
know defeat Corbin resoundingly has
actually not worked that way at all I
would say yesterday and Jeremy call them
was far more
a performer at the despatch-box and
Boris Johnson was the problem though is
that I think he's trying to make an
adjustment at the moment led by Dominic
Cummings and his a team of advisors
which is away from some of the far pitch
stuff but towards somebody who better
suits I know this is a loose term but
that kind of populist framing and the
thing to understand with populism in
this cases I think populism can can be
pulled forward as a way of doing
politics in which you know the primary
oratorical tool is defining the enemy
and in this case and saying you know
you've got the people against this enemy
this is actually quite a good way of
understanding and seeing populism as
it's used at the moment this is what
Boris Johnson that wants to do he wants
to say we've got the people who voted
for brexit against the enemy which is
the Parliament the political
establishment the media establishment so
on it's a smart framing I think it's a
potentially useful framing for him and
so what they want to do is refit his
persona to make into that space and in
the early stages you know you started
getting things like they would throw out
a line in a speech that you know he
wanted people to fixate on and discuss
and debate instead of some of the more
yeah politically tricky and complex
parts of it so in his opening speeches
Prime Minister he you know referring to
the country as dudes and so on and I
think in terms of why is he doing this
well actually the reason he's doing it I
think he's straightforward enough that
when you looked at the headlines of all
the papers the next day particularly the
right-wing ones you picked up that term
as a way of bringing people in to read
about what was in the speech because
it's an interesting left-field so hung
bizarre framing to use and is this thing
which is often been talked about in
terms of Cummings idea of how you do
political communication and it's
actually I think it comes from in the
first instance it comes from
Linton Crosby which is their dead cat on
 right which is if stings are not
going well for you and everyone's
talking about an issue don't want them
to talk about then you take out a dead
cat and you throw it on the table
and all of a sudden everyone's asking
why is there a dead cat on the table
instead of what they were talking about
before and this is something Boris
Johnson uses and uses quite well in
terms of you know the way in which he
wants to put himself forward as I just
said today's speech I think is a perfect
way of exemplifying that the way the way
his coalition makes sense that this
brexit coalition and requires a
fundamental realignment to British
politics his camp feel that it's already
underway along the brakes at versus
remain lines and so he's going up to the
north of England today to speak in a
traditional working-class area in
Wakefield in which he is flanked by
police officers talking about law and
order putting more bodies at the beat
those kind of culture war issues where
he feels he can break away a part of
Labour's base in the north of England
who may have an interest economically
speaking and voting for Labour Party but
who are much more conservative on social
issues okay and unlike and another thing
that he's doing I've noticed and this is
actually very different than Trump and
maybe more analogous actually do some of
the things that someone like marine
lepen would put forward in France at
least superficially is he's been making
him he's been bragging a lot that his
first budget and I think this is the
this is the you know centering in on the
on the chunk of labour he wants to break
off he's got the anti-immigrant
xenophobia brexit stuff but then he is
promising the highest investment levels
in public services not even before the
you know immense austerity that's just
been pounding the UK under Cameron and
Clegg and then May so that's like ten
years but actually going back to 2002
I saw him last night and I think on sky
bragging that his budget matches the
first second term Blair budget where in
fact the Blair government did
significantly increased spending on the
NHS and education that's what Boris is
putting forward to so he's making that
play and unlike a trump where there's a
lot of rhetoric about some sort of
economic stuff but it's all just been
doctrine Republican policies pretty much
99% even even some of the tariff stuff
actually has deeper roots and Republican
policies Boris seems to be putting
forward at least some talking points
that he could say hey I'm actually you
know ending austerity yeah I mean look I
think it's very important with all these
things with these kind of right-wing
populist figures you look under the hood
yep because on the NHS commitments for
instance he this is one of his big areas
right that he wants to to break from
conservative orthodoxy is to say we will
be a government that invests in the NHS
because it is the most popular issue in
the entirety of British politics and
it's one that without any doubt wins you
votes in traditional working-class areas
so he made this commitment to great
increase in NHS spending but actually
when you looked under the hood of it the
almost the entirety of the money that he
was pledging to put forward had already
been committed in various ways so he was
just moving the money around rather than
paying forward new new investments this
will be what he does and also yesterday
spending review was a part of that and
it's very important to at this point
about it I think it's very important he
put in place a spending review where he
got to foreground a lot of these new
policy announcements but he did it in
such a way that the office for budgetary
review statistics was not able to assess
beforehand the impact of these
commitments so usually when a spending
review comes out the official body looks
over the commitments that are being made
puts them in the context of previous
commitments
where the money is coming from says what
the impact is like you'd be on the
deficit and so on you know all of those
kind of things that was that didn't
happen so he did it in a way because of
the brakes of crisis that he could make
all these announcements and that did not
be costed it not be put in context of
previous governments again and smart but
it is part of a much broader change that
Boris Johnson and Dominic Cummings want
to make the British politics which is
that they basically want to throw out
the conventions or the norms and Dominic
Cummings just so people know is a very
and and you always got to be very
careful with these figures in my view
because they're incredible
self-promoters there's a lot of BS
there's a lot of nonsense however unlike
a Steve Bannon who primarily seems like
his primary talent seems to be in
getting you know very disturbed rich
people who have bank accounts to buy
into his you know his horrific vision
Donny Cummings is somebody who has as
him as well he was the political head a
head of communications for the brexit
campaign that's a significant win he is
somebody who again if you read his blogs
and I've tried to read his blogs there's
a lot of techno gobbledygook there's a
lot of maybe if I throw an Aristotle
quote in here will seem more you know
I'll be making a statement that sounds
significantly more important than it is
or more profound than it is but that
being said unlike some of these other
kind of self-promoting sort of Svengali
wannabe characters he does have actual
political success behind him he does
have a capacity to operate and that's an
important distinction I would agree I
mean Dominic Cummings is one of these
guys right who very much fits into the
DES Silicon Valley ideology with all of
its contradictions and yes it's
self-promotion but also a degree of
basis and empiricism and the thing that
I I think makes Cummings an interest
and threatening opponent for us without
overemphasizing right the degree to
which he can shift the political terrain
is that when after the vote leave
campaign he was going around the country
giving various speeches and one of the
most interesting ones which which came
upon on YouTube was when he was speaking
to a group of computer scientists and he
was talking about people's ideas of
polling and politics and he was saying
the thing that the political center gets
wrong is they believe that the middle
ground of politics is some kind of
balance between the right and the left
so you know if you're a moderate so to
speak of the Tories or moderate of the
labour you represent the center ground
he said that's completely wrong the
center ground if you look at polling in
politics is somewhere between left-wing
economics and right-wing social
conservatism so hazard that is
unfortunately a much more astute
understanding of how politics works and
that the political system doesn't really
represent the the popular opinion it
never has in the middle ground and
Westminster has little to do with the
middle ground with the population but
the death particular understanding of
like the fact that the vast majority of
people in Britain would simultaneously
vote for huge redistribution of wealth
from the rich would vote for increase in
spending in public services would vote
for nationalizations there's no doubt
about it but also would you know quite
possibly vote for every introduction of
capital punishments and so forth right
and this this is this is something he
gets and that does make him dangerous
and you know I know a lot of people talk
about not wanting to overemphasize the
roles of these figures but when you have
somebody with that understanding then
you get what we're seeing now with with
Boris Johnson which is announcements on
on the economy which sound a lot more
left-wing than what the Tories are
traditionally done and are trying
consciously to take away what labor
strength was in the 2017 election when
the Tories came out with their kind
of tax proposals right not in the
American sense but the social care thing
and where they talked about people
having to pay exorbitant amounts for
elderly people to get access to social
care and and it just went down like a
lead balloon and they had to walk away
from it the this has been a consistent
weakness of the Tories for a long time
that they're considered to be against
popular public services against
investment against taxing the rich you
know and a kind of elite project
representing class interests of the the
millionaires and so on even as they were
considered to be more capable and
sensible stewards of the economy the
labor
this is all now flips and it's very
important that we come up with a way of
doing labor politics in the new
environment where the Tories are now you
know by any mainstream economists view
in terms of No Deal breaks it driving
the economy off a cliff I saw that they
can no longer be seen as the sensible
stewards of the economy they've conceded
one of the big ideological weapons they
used to have against the left and that
you know the left will bankrupt you but
we're going to you know run the economy
well but at the same time they picked up
some of our clothes which is they've
started talking about investment in
public services and supporting the NHS
and all this much as we all know they
won't do it we all know right so let me
just I want to get to korban ISM and the
socialist opportunity in a minute and
maybe the the thread to get there is
that even as we have this in some ways I
mean I don't want to overemphasize it
either I mean this has been really
symbolic and there's been a huge amount
of failure in the last couple of days
and even Dominique Cummings had a kind
of unflattering article written about
him that supposedly they thought he was
just some random drunk guy in Parliament
and he went up slurring his words to
korban saying how about we have an
election come on and you know I don't
know so you know I want to as always
sort of balance the significance of the
threat and the strategic insight that
they represent and the fact that in fact
it isn't going that well at least as of
this moment but then we have this
resurgent centrist delusion you know of
the Lib Dems the Lib Dems who should
have lost all of their credibility after
being in coalition with with the Tories
from in the first Cameron term and they
are representing you know they they they
are the politics of the cable news
greenroom basically and obviously it's
better you know obviously we're not
talking about the same types of racist
and xenophobic appeals though as always
I would check under the hood with
centrist as well because you know going
back to the Blair government at least in
the UK David Blunkett who was Tony
Blair's Home Minister talked about
dumping he used with the phrase with
regards to migrants to the UK and Bill
Clinton in the United States signed some
of the most vicious immigration policies
imaginable and Obama certainly did not
reign in ice now as I always say what
Trump and people like Boris Johnson and
Trump represent is a different order of
magnitude however it would be delusional
and wrong to let centrist politicians
present themselves as being socially
tolerant and open that is a real
give-and-take in terms of what is
actually there on the merits their
policies but we have this kind of we
have the Lib Dem cable news
you know banker coalition which is we
should have some you know we should we
should have you know citibike programs
we shouldn't be mean to gay people and
then we should continue austerity and
not have brexit what is you know that
dimension emerging right now as well
well when you talk about the Epocrates
up actually it was a very good example
of an all the madness of the recent days
which was Phillip Lee a Tory MP who is a
remainer
and quit the Tory party in the middle of
the vote over no deal breaks it to join
the Lib Dems and but Phillip Lee had
also when the Tories were
Bastin government suggested that
migrants coming into the country should
be screened for hepatitis and HIV before
they were allowed in voted against gay
marriage and he's now a liberal so you
know this is these are the limits I'm
afraid of the of this centering all the
politics around the question of brags in
his you end up in bed with some real
monsters but yeah there is a resurgence
and it's it's difficult because look
what's happening in with brags in in
Britain is a part of a phenomenon that's
going on internationally which is that
in the absence of left-wing governments
and of governments that can really deal
with the underlying economic frustration
by redistribution by empowerment and so
on you're getting a realignment so
politics that are cutting across class
basis on the you know on the ground so
brags at obviously it's remain versus
leave but really it's things like the
big cities cosmopolitanism younger
voters people who are more so-called
open to globalization and so on versus
larger towns smaller cities regionally
deprived areas places that have lost out
from globalization and this realignment
is very complicated for all of us on the
left because I think in the longer term
you know it looks more like reshaping
politics and countries like Britain
which have a historic left-right divide
with a strong labor movement and so on
around debates that are more similar to
where you guys were at least for a long
time in the states liberal versus
conservative and marching together to
the beat of Wall Street right and I
don't think that is to our benefit and
so there's been a great attempt for you
know by the carbon project to tried to
hold back the tide of that realignment
of British politics I don't think it has
been successful unfortunately and that
leads us in
difficult position because it's not to
say that there are no left/right
questions obviously involves and the
brakes at debate but if you are putting
together a coalition for instance to try
to reshape British politics break with
the legacy of tourism and rebuild a kind
of socialist project in Britain and
you're doing it without the votes of
millions of people in the north of
England and Wales particularly who were
the ones to lose out most profoundly
from Thatcher's reorganisation of the
economy in post-industrial areas in the
most deprived areas of the country with
the worst public services the highest
levels of unemployment so on it becomes
a very difficult coalition so you know
you're relying more on socially
progressive people and more affluent
parts of the country than you are on
people who really can be described as
left behind so fact Corbin's own
district is quite you know socially
progressive affluent I mean fortunately
also on board with his much broader
vision as well so it's you know it's a
they're voting well but I mean that's
really underlines the point he doesn't
represent the north or a blue-collar
district he represents quite a affluent
yes no this is the complication oh yes I
know okay tell me so the other side of
Islington is that isn't conducive a lot
of decoration I mean obviously I live in
London at the moment and it's this these
are these are the difficulties of it yes
London it's a very affluent city
property prices are extraordinarily high
and if you're in that bracket who owns
property in this city you're doing
exceptionally well wages are much higher
than the rest of the country and so on
but then the flip side of that is if
you're living in this city and you don't
have a high paying job and you don't
have wealth independently well then the
development of the London economy over
the last twenty thirty years has really
screwed you and so you get high very
high levels of social deprivation even
in pockets that when you look at on
average Islington what carbon represents
is a wealthy area but then huge
proportions of
people who are doing very badly can't
afford the rent in low paid work in zero
hour contracts you know dealing with
cuts in in benefits and social services
and so you've got both and this is not
really the pattern I mean that's it
that's everywhere that's New York that's
San Francisco that's London that's this
way of doing capitalism and that's what
you know to the real series credit of
Jeremy Corbyn in the leadership of the
current Labor Party they're actually
centering and of course Bernie Sanders
here there's great momentum of Bernie
Sanders centering that here but what I
mean I get all of the you know I mean
the dangers are great the the ominous
signs are clear from a Tory Party that
under you know Boris Johnson and
Dominique Cummings actually understand
where the electorate's at that's
dangerous then we have the resurgence of
the neoliberal delusion of the Lib Dems
but what is the opportunity for
socialism and in your words why can or
in your great article and I know editors
do title these things but why is Corman
ism still the path here what does it
offer and what's the potential positive
scenario here from a perspective of
redistribution social openness and and
labor power well we have laid out most
of what Boris Johnson wants to do and
it's very important that we say wants to
do because of course what we've just
discussed is his vision of our an
election is whether he can take this
Tory party of you know age dude
millionaires who have spent their entire
lives in the pockets of the filthiest
financial interest in this country and
turn them into a gang of populist
remains to be seen and bought this is
what he wants to do and then the
question is how do you defeat them and
there are pretty much two pads on the
table the first which is the path that I
think is a mistake but is the one that
the majority of the left-of-centre
interest wants the Labour Party to go
down the likes to the Guardian I would
say even the mirror at this stage is
that you kind of coalesce I would say
congeal around the liberal center and
you try to put together an argument
against Boris Johnson that presents him
as you know on British
disrespecting these you know hallowed
institutions eyes so they're learning
from the amazing success of the Clinton
campaign and against Donald Trump I
think there's a huge amount of
similarities there people who have a
nostalgia I mean in Britain it's the
kind of nostalgia for Britain at the
time at the 2012 Olympics when
everything was was good and moderate and
sensible and we were proud of the
country where it's actually that was
smack bang in the middle of some of the
most devastating austerity for huge
parts of this country so you have this
kind of idea which is we're going to go
in and a broad alliance with the
political center against Boris Johnson
and we will put forward the idea that
we're upholding democratic norms
we're upholding the value of Parliament
and we're upholding moderate sensible
politics against this yahooo
and that in my view will lose because
I've seen a player so many countries now
you know there are always the exception
there's the exception of France where
you are literally against a post fascist
party and micromanage to get himself
over the line but then was has been
ludicrously unpopular in office but most
of the examples that we've seen this
strategy has failed and it fails for a
reason which is it's all well and good
to defend the status quo er in this case
status quo wanted just a few years ago
at a time when you've got a majority of
people who are broadly speaking happy
with the direction of the economy who
have access they feel to some degree of
prosperity in the next five or ten years
who those aspirations for their lives
can be met by the kind of economic model
or at least they feel it can when you've
got a country where 60 70 percent of
people think everything is going the
wrong way the economy is getting worse
jobs are getting worse wages are
stagnating the political system doesn't
respond to me you know this country
feels like I don't have a stake in it
anymore well then it's very very hard to
win election it's trying to rally around
the flag of of moderation so I think
that the like
she has pretty quickly to get itself on
a footing where it tries to take Boris
Johnson on from the left and I think
that that is the way to expose the kind
of weakness of his populism that I just
outlined that actually he's trying to be
a populist defending the people against
the political establishment when he
represents the party of the political
establishment for centuries in this
country where the vast majority of his
MPs are extremely wealthy privately
educated landlords who have interests in
the very most predatory aspects of
British capitalism who are totally
divorced from the day-to-day lives of
working people in this country and that
you tried to put pressure on his
populist project and make it break apart
by attacking it from the left by going
at some of these things where he's going
to be forced to defend parts of his
coalition in the same way that we would
for instance if they came after the
trade unions well at least we start
going after the interests of the
financial sector if we start going after
the private school system in this
country if we start going after the
interests of landlords for instance in
in Britain and we do it hard as we saw
with the Financial Times from page the
other day they will respond and
eventually Boris Johnson will have to
respond on their behalf because he at
the end of the day is the leader of the
Conservative Party he's not the leader
of some new force that's come from
nowhere and he represents constituencies
that put him into it into power and so
he will be forced to represent deeply
unpopular interests and then we can
realign the political system and as I've
just said one of the great advantages of
this moment in my view for the Labour
Party and for socialists is that the
Tories have taken one of their great
ideological weapons to get that they've
used against the left for decades I mean
I represent a magazine has been around
since 1937 if you go back and you read
through all of those copies talk from
the left of the Labour Party over
decades talking about what the Tories
were saying about socialists whether it
be
I better and Michael Florida Tony banner
whomever over the years was always the
same these wild socialists with their
spending plans are going to tank the
economy they're gonna cause a run on the
pound they're going to lead to capital
flight they're going to do whatever well
all of that can now be said about Boris
Johnson has no idea proposals so we
should take that on and we should run
with it and say they've given up one of
their great ideological weapons against
us so let's use it we now can make fire
bold policy proposals that we did at the
2017 manifesto we can go so much further
than we did two years ago in offering to
transform people's lives yes much more
investment in the NHS commitment to end
privatisation and new privatizations but
let's get more bold about the immediate
end of all private interests in the NHS
let's go back to some of the things that
night Bevin was fighting for an end to
prescription charges and a genuine Leedy
commodified health system where people
know that from the moment that they
enter to the moment they leave it's free
it's public it's universal let's do that
for the education system as well
tackling the vestiges of privilege and
wealth that have produced the likes of
Boris Johnson and so much political
power in this country let's take them
apart let's take apart the network of
private schools let's take apart the
Academy system let's return a genuinely
democratic and public education system
let's take them on with much bolder
proposals about taxing the rich much
bolder proposes about nationalization we
shouldn't be waiting in the rail for the
the franchises to expire before we take
them back in we shouldn't be saying
committing ourselves to a future of
competitive tendering in the rail we
should go now and say we want a general
public rail system under a single
unitary body where we remove private
interests and we have a public monopoly
and we should be going and I'm fighting
on all of these bases further than we
did in the 2017 manifesto with more bold
spending commitments and we should put
it up to the Tories and say well listen
every mainstream economist in the
country already says you guys are
planning to drive the economy off a
cliff you think you can turn that
argument around on us now but we're
planning to improve the economic outlook
for the vast majority of the people and
see then what they say with their
populism so that would be my proposal on
how to take them on I don't know if
that's where the party is going I think
that a huge amount of institutional
power is being leveraged now against
Corbin and the left leadership to force
them to coalesce with the center so we
shall see well there's a scenario under
under which if they run the right kind
of campaign that you've outlined they
could just use Boris Johnson as the
perfect foil like we are going to
reinvent democratize this economy bring
it up to speed for the 21st century lift
millions of people out of poverty and
also ensure that not only do we beat
Boris Johnson this time that there won't
be another Boris Johnson created in this
bizarre incestuous wealth perpetuation
cycle that global capitalism and British
reactionary politics have created so I
hope they go that path yeah I agree
we shall see what happens in the in the
coming weeks because I do think a lot is
going to be determined by how how Labour
Party responds to this no deal
controversy in the Parliament at the
moment the party has turned down the
opportunity for a general election
saying that it wants to wait until after
Boris Johnson's proposal for a No Deal
gets ruled out formally at least until
after the election so that they would
want whether it be late October or early
November for the general election
instead of his proposed date but I do
worry about that
because I think you know arguing that
you want No Deal ruled out or you know
ruled off the court effectively in the
Parliament when the polls indicate that
the polarization on this issue has
created a huge constituency of
popularity for No Deal a significant one
whether it be a third of the country or
45% in whichever poll you believe it
I think it does set him up nicely to say
they don't want you to even be allowed
to choose this they don't want this
option to be on the table I'm you know
this is one of those moments to be brave
for the Labour Party and the left
internationally because the easy thing
for us to do now is to yield to the
column pages of the Guardian and the
sensible opinions of whichever moderate
Labour MP appears on BBC News and say
you know we don't want them to demonize
us we want to you know be seen as
respectable and sensible and whatever
and and and accepted as part of the
political class the hard thing to do is
to treat this moment of history for what
it is which is a really unique threat of
recent decades of a resurgent right that
is born out of a decade of economic
stagnation of deep dissatisfaction with
the the direction of society amongst the
majority of people which can't be
overcome by simply returning to some
status quo ante of a few years ago but
that has to be faced with a bold plan to
make a new model of the economy in which
the you know working-class interests the
majority interests are reflected in a
far greater extent than they are today
if we don't do that if we're not bold at
this moment in history we will regret it
because even if in the next election in
our various different countries say for
instance in Britain and although it
won't happen here but you can imagine
very easily some probably main centrist
coalition it you know in charge the
problem won't be you know winning one
election 2019 the problem is if they
don't do anything to reshape the economy
then the election afterwards will
produce something even worse otherwise
when we're seeing today absolutely this
is the same dynamic in the United States
I mean this is another really key reason
that we need to nominate Sanders because
frankly you know for years
of look you need to stop the crisis of
Trump you need to stop the crisis of all
of these I mean very pernicious
disgusting leaders but if you don't deal
with the underlying conditions then the
underlying conditions will keep
producing the same symptoms
Rodan and Burtenshaw editor of the
Tribune and the UK author of only Corbin
ISM can defeat Boris in the Jacobin I
really appreciate your time thank you so
much all right folks
