the big story this week is that Donald
Trump served fast food to the to a
football team in the White House or at
least that's what you would you would
think if you watched enough cable news
this week but the reality is that we are
now in the longest shutdown in the
history of government shutdown in
history of the United States it is an
illegal one based upon labor law that
people are supposed to get paid for the
work that they do and you know having
passed the deadline for the first
paycheck
that government workers were set to
receive we have you know now a
considerable violation of statute I wish
that was relevant in this day and age
it's not but I you know the latest I
guess this week was Nancy Pelosi said
challenged Donald Trump don't don't give
a State of the Union address because you
know the government shutdown which is I
think a you know from a political
standpoint a pretty smart move the
Republicans are already being blamed for
this Donald Trump was already being
blamed for this largely in part because
Donald Trump said blame me for this it's
gonna be my fault but this is a you know
it's an interesting period of time right
now because there are literally hundreds
of thousands of Americans who are
directly suffering from this probably
millions at this point not just federal
workers but people who were anticipating
you know people who work in shelters to
help battered women and in around the
country people who are anticipating
maybe they won't get there there's snap
payments I mean around the country
there's a lot of problems that are
starting to build up but yet it hasn't
quite permeated it it seems that sort of
the the the consciousness of the
American public
well that's true it's you know 800,000
people are not being paid a bunch of
them are
forced to work anyway as you point out
which is illegal and immoral and awful
but there you know it's not just you
know there are a lot of people who
depend on those federal workers I mean I
think we all know how the economy works
it's one of the reasons you know the
whole sort of underpinning of the cane
of Keynesian economics which says that
you know the demand it's a ripple effect
right I mean if you if you have people
who are out of work would happen in a
recession I mean this is as if 800,000
people were all laid off on the same day
in America and all the people and then
there are a bunch of contractors who
aren't guaranteed work anyway and so
they were expecting it because they work
but they are not on the payroll so those
people are being counted and then there
are all the people like who runs a
luncheonette down the street from the
you know from the federal office where
people normally come in and buy lunch
every day those people are also not
making any money there are you know
there's there's a ripple effect
throughout the economy at a time when
you know things were a little dicey
anyway I mean we saw the stock market
crashed not that that means anything but
it did it dropped substantially before
the end of the year last year yeah
there's a lot of weakness and weirdness
they you've got people like the farmers
out in the Midwest who were already
reeling from the trade war that Trump
caused for no apparent reason or
whatever his reasons were were sort of
random and abstract and not very and not
thought through properly and you know
there's all those people as well so
there's a you know this is just
suffering that's starting to happen and
I think I read a thing last week what
one is I think it was Senator Kennedy
from Louisiana was flying on Air Force
One and he said there was absolutely no
way that Trump was going to do anything
but the wall and people were telling
reporters Republicans high-level members
of the administration and Republican
officials that the only way that this
was going to end would be if the
airports shut down and there and there
are millions of Americans who are unable
to travel and then maybe the president
would listen I mean and you talk about
cowardly right I mean these are
Republicans they could override the
President's veto they could do this they
could do it tomorrow
that's right do it you know they could
have done it and we talked about this I
think we talked about this last week you
know that Mitch McConnell was and we're
starting to hear some you know from the
you know the the some grumbling with the
Republicans we've been hearing it for a
while if you live in a state which has a
significant number of farmers you're a
little bit concerned because the farmers
aren't going to necessarily get their
payments they're not going to get the
opportunity to get loans if you live in
a state where there is a large segment
of your population who rely on things
like food stamps and and other programs
you're gonna start to worry about it and
basically if you're running for
re-election as a Republican senator
you're gonna be worried about it unless
you're Mitch McConnell because Mitch
McConnell and we mentioned this last
week he was a villain in 2016 for the
Republican Party he is very worried
about a primary and so he is very afraid
of going against Donald Trump and on
some level like you know it is amazing
that you could see such a divergence in
the caucus where Mitch McConnell is
deathly afraid of going against Donald
Trump and there's a half a dozen other
Republicans who are running in states
you know even states that are red states
who are deathly afraid of not of not
ending this government shutdown I think
it was last Friday Stacey Abrams was on
Capitol Hill talking to folks like Chuck
Schumer about a potential run for the
Senate and I don't know how real that
come those conversations were but the
message was pretty clear to the two
Republican senators from Georgia and
that is you you better get on the ball
because George is turning a blue state
and in two years you're gonna be in big
trouble because this could really
resonate and the the the the the planed
the shutdown of the plains I think is
fascinating and there's a fascinating
dynamic around that
and I want to talk more about that but
the the interesting thing is is that
that's where it has the the government
shutdown
oddly enough which is a national
phenomenon plane travels one of the few
things that is shared nationally right
like like like these the the the
interesting thing about the the
government shutdown in terms of the way
that it impacts Americans is that it
impacts them on a local level the local
program that that deals with domestic
abuse that is understaffed people get
caught in that but it is all it all
comes in the form of grants and
localized plane travel or something like
the FDA frankly or you you know the the
food inspections those really things
that hit nationally in some way and
it'll be interesting to see but let's
take a break when we come back let's
talk a little bit more about this and
Nancy Pelosi calls that Trump I mention
it during the State of the Union address
and where we go from here we got to take
a quick break I'm Sam cedar this is
bring a fire radio I'm talking to the
great Digby and we'll be back in just a
moment
