[Music]
what you always talked about earlier
with the like Hillary Clinton
I mean 2016 election 2018 election and
like the amount of people who voted you
know how the votes went up how many
people voted in 2018 in compare and 2016
things you know and I want to simply
talk about in the black community about
the way you know I want to generalize
for a second you know I know
it's not that great of a thing you do
right just to talk a little bit about
what I think a lot of like white
liberals get mixed up about like the
black community because I hear you all
talk a lot about like the barber shop
and the people who put the New York
Times article right I mean interview
with the black guys in the barber shop
and yeah that article doesn't I just
work but go ahead I just think that I
think that people think that if you went
back to that barber shop there would be
like this there's a Great Awakening of
like hey the people will be in the bus I
would be like yeah I can't believe how
you know horrible Donald Trump is and
yeah we need to do something about it
but I just don't I mean just from my
experiences I just don't see that
happening
because and I'll do it for a few Reid
I'm in I'll tell you a few reasons at
least and I could start off with like
huh go ahead and I mean I would start
with like a - in 2016 with Hillary
Clinton running I would say that me as a
millennial I was born in 1987 the first
president that I can remember in my life
is Bill Clinton you know I didn't pay
attention when when George HW Bush was
to present anything you know I didn't I
didn't know anything about that and
right my father was obviously a Democrat
so I knew Bill Clinton that's the
president my very first president and
the only things that the 90s represented
to me as a black man in the United
States that the Clintons represented to
me was a system of like persecution of I
mean I I don't want to use that word
lightly
since you know was like globally it's as
much worse things happen but but I
remember the 19th is like a like a
system of persecution with with what was
going on in welfare system and the crime
bill and how many black men were being
put in jail and and just you know
growing up I had on my mother's side I
have two uncles who get over 20 years in
prison I have an older cousin who did
over 20 years in prison I have two on
teens who were addicted to crack cocaine
and heroin for over 20 years so I mean I
think that a lot of people miss the
emotional like representation that the
Clintons brought when they were running
when Hillary Clinton was running because
it it was uh I don't know it was it was
I just think that him credit card needs
to do a lot more with the emotional
appeal to black people in general
because the policies I mean everybody's
not like a political junkie and really
knows a lot of things that are going on
and commentary policies and I think a
lot of liberals miss understand that a
lot of black people vote for Democrats
totally because they're the party of
seeing it's like not racist you know in
comparing comparison that's like right
like because of us cuz I think a lot of
black folks have a more conservative
views even when you're talking about
things like the Supreme Court in the
things that we might lose like abortion
rights or equality for the LGBTQ
community or gun rights I think there
are way more black folks in this country
who believe in those ideas why do you
think they making abortion illegal
making guns making gun making letting
you have any gun you want you know I
think there are more black people who
believe those suits then people say I I
think they're definitely yeah I don't
know what the the date is but I think
there's definitely more than the people
think it tracks with the data that we've
had on this show before of the general
population that shows that there is not
a constituency
for fiscally conservative socially
liberal out there I think I just want to
say the reason I mean I'm think
malaika's pieces are really important
but I think you know the reason the the
Wisconsin piece does some work is I
think it sort of speaks to some of the
things you're talking about and it
doesn't I mean I'll say Tim for me
anecdotally amongst a lot of
conversations with just sort of more
normal less politically obsessive people
generally yeah there's a huge amount of
hatred of Trump but not necessarily the
same sense of total disc juncture
between what's happening now and what
came before and the same level of
personalized freaked out about Trump
that you get in more sort of you know
whatever liberal educated circles that's
totally true that tracks completely and
I also think it you know yeah I I mean
it would probably be helpful to if
people got a little bit more serious
about understanding the specifics of
different electorates and the diversity
and differences inside them versus these
sort of big broad strokes yeah so let me
ask you this so I mean that being the
case that there is a portion of the
african-american community that it has a
a an earned cynicism about the about any
you know political party being able to
being you know delivering on whatever
that promise should be and even with an
awareness of you know the Democratic
Party is at least not actively you know
almost like promoting its racism what
what is how do you break through that I
mean if there is a if there is a sense
of like you know and we go back to that
barber shop and people are like yeah
whatever he's not doing anything that we
didn't anticipate him doing
you know we're not surprised I mean what
I mean IIIi just believe that that all
goes into this like what change they
said it's more about the general public
and I think black people suffer from the
same things that the general public does
it like it's a Mis you know it's a
misinformation it's a it's just not
understanding the policies in the
legislation because it's like the
argument that we're having with Bernie
Sanders in comparison to the other
candidates when it comes to reparation
like the you know the facts are that
Bernie Sanders has been progressively
pushing for her you know black rights
and justice and equality his entire you
know his almost his entire life but when
it comes down to the emotional appeal
that he has to the black community I
feel like that's where people think he's
lacking because he and and I think it
might just be a Bernie thing you know
he's not that I mean he's not as
charismatic as people are so it's a it's
a little hard to get that emotional
appeal but like I said I think it's just
more of the educating the system I mean
educating people about the system and I
think why the Clintons were so like
polarizing to black people cuz that was
like more than a few times that we could
just see it on a daily basis you know
just just it was just like you know you
you remember when your when your aunt's
boyfriend was hiding in the closet
because he couldn't live in the house
which I'd see and you remember you know
as a 10 year old being connived out of
five six dollars but you remember these
things so it creates this emotional oh
well I mean I understand that horse on
the Clinton my my my question is how do
you well how do you do the opposite like
what is that emotional I mean because I
think frankly you know if you call in
and you are you know telling me that
you're a
55 year-old woman living in the suburbs
the emotional I think a strategy to to
get you to vote would be to talk about
you know the the sort of the more
discussing elements of Donald Trump
immoral repugnance right yeah and so my
question to you mo is what what is what
what do you think if it could be boiled
down to reach that subsection of of
people what is the the emotional appeal
that you think would be effective well I
mean I would say something that that I
think could be done that I don't that I
think Barack Obama did a bad job at
doing is when there are these
opportunities to to play politics
basically like like doing when we were
having this this national conversation
about policing and you know black men
and young black men being shied without
guns and things went even though he had
a Republican Congress there he could
have done things for the motional killed
by like advocating for national
investigation into the institution of
police in this country and and these
things probably wouldn't never happen
but it but I think those I think
constantly pushing for idea that you
know black justice use the bullet is
just just just putting it out there over
and over again that you are constantly
thinking about it because I think that's
where the emotional the like the
unsettling comes from is like I think
black people a lot of times feel
forgotten especially I mean is it it's a
it's like the site how you always come
as a zero so I'm getting and at some
points like when Barack Obama passes a
marriage equality it's like thank you
it's like we I love you know I love it
and lot of people love it when it has
rights
I mean when he's talking so much about
women equality and work and he's talking
about you know these different things
that they're solely affect like a
certain marginalized community but at
the same time you never push things that
was solely affect the black community so
I think you yeah well those those types
of things lead to the emotions being you
know leads to the emotional stress well
cuz you're not you know you're not being
heard at all and I mean I think you know
Obama's defenders
would argue in fact I think we had I
can't remember his name professor from
girls Kennedy yes Kennedy from from
Harvard came on and I think it well I
cannot remember the name of his book now
but oranges but it was the his argument
was and I think there was something to
this at least as far as it goes his
argument was that Obama was very afraid
to to talk about the black experience in
this country because he was afraid of of
you know he felt hemmed in and that he
couldn't govern in that way because he
would be pegged as you know being there
just to help black people I think sadly
the lot of the population the white
population on some level came to that
conclusion who were going to help black
people you know that's I think a lot of
things that yeah a lot of the data that
we have seen you know we had the sides
on to talk about that book identity
crisis which i think is just sort of him
amazing you know where Barack Obama's
winning the presidency for 50% of
uneducated college-educated whites was
the first time that they realized that
Democrats were to the left of
Republicans on race it was a tough deal
and and so
you know he was inhabited or at least
felt like he was inhibited or supposedly
felt like he was inhibited I think there
was some of that and for everything we
got from him in terms of the black
community was all respectability
politics it's all you got to be your
brother's keeper and you know it's
basically you know we you know the same
argument that Bill Cosby would have
given essentially watch yourself double
and and so then the irony is of course
that Hillary Clinton had to talk a lot
more about race because in part of of
the the history you're talking about in
in some respect
and in part because she needed to make
that back that sell and I think that cut
against her with some of those white
voters but I think you know eventually
hopefully we can get to the point where
where a politician will feel confident
and there'll be a electorate that has
been fashioned that will where we're
talking in addressing those concerns not
just in the course of a candidacy but in
the course of a presidency will be of
net political value or at least they'll
perceive it to be the case but
appreciate the call because yeah I mean
III see that I see that on I mean you
know you actually realize that every day
in life would you know you when someone
said something at work and you you know
you don't press them because you don't
want the rest of the office to you don't
want to be that guy to the rest of the
office you know how many so things like
I understand that perspective that he
had and I mean I would expect somebody
like a bunny fence or some definitely be
able to make more progress with
african-american justice and equality
than Barack Obama could have ever done
so I mean I understand that point it was
just I think that he did a big
disservice in the emotional appeal to
the black folks for them for the future
Democrats not just you know not just
about for himself there was more about
Democrats to come right and then I don't
think I want to
as you all a quick question uh that was
not related I mean it's kind of related
but not really oh do you all think that
Barack Obama will campaign for Bernie
Sanders if you want to climb it that's a
good question I'm gonna let you go and
we'll answer it appreciate the call if
Barack Obama will campaign for him I
can't imagine that he wouldn't if you
will if he's the general I I think
Obama's going to campaign for whoever
wins the but I thought Obama's been
sending I did not - you know Obama just
undermined the New Deal the other day we
know Obama's politics but that being
said he has gone out of his way on
multiple occasions to express personal
appreciation and like of Bernie sin
