Democrats passed another piece of
legislation and that is the for the
people act this is a great piece of
legislation as far as I'm concerned both
from the perspective of it's good policy
and it's good politics and one of the
things that we were talking about you
know as the Democrats take over the
house was they need to start passing
things that also help them maintain
power but and it just so happens that
there's a cross-section in that Venn
diagram of things that are helped keep
them maintained power and also are based
on democratic values and just simply
justice and that of course is voting
reform so the bill includes a
requirement that all states
automatically registered voters who
submit paperwork to a state government
agency unless the person opts out so
that's you know motor voter registration
that it's I mean it expands it whatever
business you would have with the state
Medicaid anything good stuff provide
same-day voter registration in every
state allow 15 days of early voting with
sites located near public transportation
use nonpartisan redistricting
Commission's to draw new congressional
maps this is like the whole thing they
like greg sargent called for the other
day an able online voter registration
count provisional ballots from eligible
voters filed at wrong polling place and
use paper ballots in addition to
electronic voting systems it would ban
post release felon disenfranchisement so
that's 5 million americans would regain
their voting rights bill however would
still allow states to disenfranchise
people while they're in prison states
would be banned from engaging in voter
caging which
is that stuff like cross-check it would
be impermissible for states to remove
someone from the voting rolls for
failing to vote in a previous election
which is often used if you haven't voted
in the past election you got a letter
and you didn't return it you get kicked
off the rolls Election Day would be a
federal holiday for two million plus
federal workers and non-government
employers would be encouraged to give
the day off to private sector employees
that doesn't go far enough in my own
mind it should be a national holiday but
colleges and universities would to be
designated as voter registration
agencies absentee ballots would no
longer require postage so you wouldn't
get votes thrown out or be any more
difficult to vote that way it would
increase funding to help States update
and secure election infrastructure the
election assistant commission would
oversee these updates and mandated
reports on its progress so we get a
sense of what's going on around the
country the election systems would be
deemed critical infrastructure it went
on to say to resolve some declarations
and findings which will basically be the
premise for future legislation that will
be introduced soon including fixing the
Voting Rights Act section 5 we've been
talking about this for four years since
the Supreme Court rolled it back in 2013
that representative Terry Sowell Sewell
from Alabama will introduce its
legislation which will move on a
separate track during the committee's
there's also the bill also asserts
support for statehood for District of
Columbia protects Native American voting
rights and the right to vote in US
territories it also addresses campaign
finance reform and this is the most
interesting part it creates a public
financing system for house elections
that provide six dollars in public funds
for every $1 in funds raised from
donations up to $200 so people
understand that now New York City has a
very similar program in fact that
reminds
no Mickey Kant's is running for public
advocate in the next eight days I think
it is your donation of up to I think it
is two hundred and fifty dollars will be
matched by the city by eight times so if
you donate ten bucks to her or twenty
five bucks to her if you vote if you
donate ten bucks to her it's gonna be
worth eighty if you vote a hundred
dollars it's gonna be worth $800 to her
and I believe this goes until the next
eight days so we've got a link at
majority dot F M to uh to her site go
and do that no pitch for membership
today just go do that but this but aside
from that the New York City one is a is
a great program and this would be great
to have nationally in addition it also
includes the disclose Act which mandates
that nonprofits and other group groups
disclose their sources when they
contribute to election campaigns a lot
of these 503 C ones now that purport to
be nonpartisan this is the way that they
get dark money into campaigns the
packaged honest ads require act requires
the disclosure of digital political ads
on tech platforms the FEC would be
reconfigured from six members to five to
prevent deadlocks on important issues
it's more often than not they just they
deadlock and nothing happens
coordination between super PACs and
candidates would be more clearly defined
and banned
there's also assertions and findings
that would implicate future legislation
including a declaration that the
Constitution should be amended to
overturn not just Citizens United but
also Buckley v Valeo the bill states an
intent to ban anonymous shell companies
from funding campaigns to prevent the
potential for secret foreign money to
seep into elections
and then there's some ethics reforms as
well and the Supreme Court would be
covered under that ethics code so Ginni
Thomas might have to find a different
job rather than being a conduit to her
husband and right wing money so this is
all good stuff and here is Nancy Pelosi
basically gaveling in and expressing
what they intend to deal with in the
democratically controlled Congress this
Congress must accelerate a future that
advances America's preeminence in the
world and opens up opportunities for all
building an economy that gives all
Americans the tools they need to succeed
in the 21st century public education
workforce development good-paying jobs
and secure pensions we have heard from
too many families who one during this
time of innovation and globalization if
they have a place in the economy of the
future we must remove all doubt that
they do and say to them individually we
will have an economy that works for you
[Applause]
to address the disparity of income in
America which is at the root of the
crisis of confidence felt by so many
Americans as Justice Brandeis said we
may have democracy or we may have wealth
concentrated in the hands of the few
but we cannot have both we must end that
injustice and restore the public's faith
in a better future for themselves and
their children there you have it so that
is day one for the Democrats in the
house
