[Music]
now folks this is important this is
important stuff as you know Dave Rubin
consider has joined the conservative
online conservative network that
launched such people as Gavin McGinnis
that promotes the homophobia of Stephen
Crowley a crowder steven crowder Crowder
and he is here is Dave Rubin returning
to the grid after 33 days haven't been
paying attention to anything at all no
he does not look relaxed and he is
talking about this new technology that
he's developed that is basically patreon
but just for himself and how he is going
to open up and now folks the the gist
here is for for Dave Rubin is that well
you know the that he's going to keep the
trolls out and we're gonna address that
but here's David well if they draw and
all that so the big debate which
philosophically which we've hit on here
a couple times for me has been do you
get the government involved or not so
without rehashing that whole
conversation and you know my preference
is that I would not want that right I
did what I thought was the right thing
which is I started tech company about
six months ago and we got I went to
literally one investor one investor I
got investment I started it with a with
a really great startup guy that I know
and we are building a seriously awesome
what will first be a Rubin report app so
we're building it because what I thought
was I can't solve everyone's problems
first I want to solve my problem first I
want to make sure I can always
communicate with my audience I want to
make sure my audience can communicate
with me I want my show what do you need
is some form
like a communication that goes back and
forth but I am NOT going to cut it
neither phones there's gonna be
something like a like a forum a forum
we're gonna develop something like a
forum but it's gonna be better than I
it's gonna be like up like a private
forum like almost like a it's gonna be
discordant in some way it's gonna be
like a discord this is literally
listening to him talk is like is like a
conversation about like the founding of
like the well community in the 1980s if
it was done by an incredibly stupid
person it's it's like ecology being
envisioned that doesn't exist yet by an
idiot I think it's because his reddit
looks something like this
with things oh wait wait wait wait they
keep that you keep don't don't step on
this let's start with this so here he is
this is like imagine this is like what
you're about to hear now and it's he
describes his new technology that he's
developed he's literally like me showing
up one day and going folks I've got a
new idea what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
get a backdrop behind me and I'm gonna
get a microphone and I'm going to opine
about various different things and I'm
gonna do it every day at the same time
we're gonna stream it live through video
and that's what we've developed but here
you guys can't solve everyone's problems
first I want to solve my problem first I
want to make sure I can always
communicate with my audience I want to
make sure my audience can we communicate
with me I want to make sure my videos
can be posted and if people actually
subscribe they can see them and not be
manipulated I wanna figure out ways to
have real community building where
audience members can communicate with
each other like without fear of
censorship or be incorrectly I want to
figure out how to anonymize that
properly so that subscribers because you
know if you have a subscription service
you've eliminated 99 positive things you
can say now he said I want to learn how
to monetize that properly I'm not
exactly sure what that means I mean the
membership models pretty swell set I
mean is he talking about he wants a
smaller processing fees or but we find
out what it monetizing it properly
means may figure a price point that will
make it hard for people who want to
troll me but because look at let's go to
his reddit thing this is the problem
this is really the problem that Dave
Rubin has in his own reddit it's not he
doesn't own it but it was one that was
supposedly built to promote him people
are mocking him constantly which is
really rude things like lol how can a
grown adult working in media current
events go off the grid
you could truly tell how much Dave Rubin
cares about what's going on in the world
that he goes off the grid and doesn't
watch the news once what an effing
steven crowder still thinks Hitler was a
liberal socialist Rubin panders to his
boomer Mogga audience with the lame
plastic straw joke let's see what else
he's got
definitely not staged yes I was truly
off the grid with no phone or news for
33 days right okay I mean this is his
fans but let's go back and we need to
hold on let's let this run a little bit
scribe they can see them and not be
manipulated I want to figure out ways to
have real community building where
audience members can communicate with
each other without fear of censorship or
being currently I want to figure out how
to monetize that properly so that
subscribers because you know if you have
a subscription service you've eliminated
99% of the trolls because you can say a
lot of things about the trans control
chief and the trolls are now nobody's
gonna pay me to troll me but if you
subscribe to me they will well if you
didn't that's what I'm not creating a
platform for everyone where I'm gonna be
hurting your free speech I just won't
take your money and bye-bye you're gone
so I think okay pause no wait a second
didn't he just say 15-20 seconds earlier
that we're gonna have a way of
communicating without any censorship or
anything like that I mean didn't he just
say that and so now he's saying that
well I'm gonna weed out the trolls now
look
folks I'm not gonna promise anything
right now because I want to see what
these price points are but I think it's
very possible that what we're going to
do because look I feel somewhat
responsible because I think you know we
here at this show and you've used this
platform in some way to to at the very
least forced Dave to come clean with the
fact that he's actually you know a
conservative or at the very least his
show I don't know what he is in his
personal life I don't know if he has any
I'm married to the man there ya know
without getting into identity politics
I'm gay marry without getting into
identity politics
he definitely shares some libertarian
philosophies but his show is geared
towards presenting primarily
conservative views I mean that's why
he's on the blaze and if that in any way
inhibited his financial growth I feel
horrible about it and so what we are
probably going to do and we need to wait
until the app is rolled out is I think
every week where maybe we'll do a little
contest or something where someone wins
a six-month membership to the Dave
Robicheaux competition would start
kicking in that's right and we're gonna
do that we do that for you know couply
couple of months it's gonna cost some
money it's gonna cut into the college
fund for the kids but I'm sorry baile
I'm glad you terrorized this Dave
help dad's algorithm I'm not going to
I'm not going I read the nest Sweeney
brushing up on competition anybody does
anything other than enjoy the show get
in there and leave some comments and if
they're positive comments build
community build so community an hour
look there's also there's also been talk
that what will happen is people will
join his discord or whatever it is and
be like a sleeper cell and you know just
inhabit there for a couple of weeks or
months and then start doing it and look
I understand I don't think this is gonna
be a problem a lot of people said to me
like oh but wait a second if Dave thinks
there's a bunch of people in his discord
that are actually like trolls he's gonna
have a trigger hair finger to ban people
who criticize him at all and that he
could get confused he could actually be
banning some of his own fans and hello I
just don't think that's gonna happen
he's banning them for freedom of speech
I mean do we think if trolls are cheap
do we think this community cost more or
less than a billboard in Los Angeles
well I mean the billboard I think he
already happened is instance just to
give you a sense of Dave's emotional
state with regards to the reddit I think
this this exchange that I just sent you
guys between James Day more innocently
questioning Dave Rubin and Dave's now
James Day more is Google got the Google
guy were they on it would stay more on
the show yes oh connect this out first
13 seconds and they seemed it sort of
angry I don't know well I don't want to
get into that there were that wasn't my
my own thing
yeah it doesn't matter doesn't matter
[Laughter]
they're warning contents under pressure
the bull project is bullfrogs are very
talented bull Pro that was all the way
from January that's who did the Mr fun
knowledge mixer you started that example
