[Music]
lastly this is pretty fascinating
particularly for Matt who lives in these
parts this is a big deal
the Oglala Sioux tribe which is a a
tribe that is in the guess the lives in
South Dakota Pine Ridge Reservation in
South Dakota and this is about I don't
know five percent of the territory of
South Dakota maybe it's pretty big and
South Dakota it turns out to be pretty
big can't believe that it's about this
reservation itself is about a about a 1
20th to 25th of the state of so that
would be a 5% oh they said I got you and
5 to 5 I heard a fifth but you've
reported four to five percent and they
have basically sent a letter to South
Dakota governor Kristi Noem this from
the president Julian bear runner
president of Iguala
Sioux tribe I'm hereby notifying you
that you are not welcome to visit our
homelands the Pine Ridge Reservation
until you rescind your support for SB
1189 and SB excuse me 189 and SB 190 and
affirm to your state in this country
that the First Amendment rights to free
political speech are among the truths
that you hold to be self-evident your
newly fabricated unconstitutionally
vague notion of riot boosting is being
lit at a against and will not stand we
are particularly offended that you
consulted TransCanada before introducing
these bills but failed to consult the
Ogawa Oglala Sioux tribe or any of the
sovereign bands of Sioux Nation though
our treaty lands would be traversed and
endangered by the Keystone XL pipeline
this of course is part of the the
dappled the the Dakota South Dakota
access pipeline is that the bill that
would make it legal to
run-over program you know that hard
that's a North Dakota bill actually yeah
they want to do what's going on
apparently in Venezuela right basically
travesty when it's in Venezuela here
it's actually forward-looking policy
right there you go we will be invading a
South Dakota shortly to stop this
apparently we have superior title to all
the land west of the Missouri River and
you and or Big Oil seek to trespass and
aggress on these our lands and our
waters before you presume to visit our
homelands again the Sioux tribe council
must rescind its action as of May 1st
2019 if you do not honor this to honor
to this director for example if you were
to repeat your recent visit absent
permission from our tribal government
we'll have no choice but to banish you
nice solidarity and the the rest of the
Sioux tribes if you follow suit we will
support you as well
