[Music]
so Bernie Sanders in the wake of his
announcement last week I think it was
where he proposed having workers get
seats on board of directors
not unlike we see in Germany labor
unions in this country I think you know
it would take some adjustment in terms
of like trying to figure out how you
maintain the relationship to management
that is optimal but also be able to sort
of have some say in the governance there
was a second proposal that he had in
terms of coops
which was an extension of legislation
that is I think already been introduced
in the in the house and maybe even in
the Senate I'm not sure which would
allow for family-owned businesses that
want to sell their to be a bridge loan
fund from the US government to allow and
finance the purchase of that company by
the workers he started these first bills
related to this in 2014 with Leahy as a
co-sponsor right so there's and this is
building on that to expand that program
essentially and promote more worker
owned companies like like just coffee
co-op fair trade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority attempt
percent off I have to say that the time
I spent at just coffee
the I don't you know I am I imagine
maybe there are some coops that are not
they're not done well but I don't know
but this one was it was impressive in
terms of the the sense of supporting all
of the workers they support each other
as workers and as
owners of of this entity but they also
support their suppliers with basically
the same level of commitment that they
support each other with and so you know
that this is what these these businesses
do they protect communities as well as
protecting the the specific needs of the
workers so good stuff all around in the
wake of those proposals Sanders was
asked on behalf of workers at Walmart to
go and head to the shareholders meeting
to represent their perspective here is a
here is a video Bernie Sanders and route
this was posted just two hours ago here
it is so what this event is about what
we're doing today is telling the
wealthiest family in the country the
Walton family that owns Walmart that
they have got to start paying their
workers a living wage this is a family
that is worth a hundred and seventy five
billion dollars Walmart is a company
that provides compensation to its CEO of
over twenty million dollars a year more
than a thousand times what their average
worker makes so what's going on in
Walmart is just an example of what's
going on all over this country the very
wealthy are getting wealthier and
working people are struggling so the
message to Walmart today is pay your
workers a living wage at least fifteen
bucks an hour allow them to work 40
hours a week provide them with decent
health
in a nation in which we have massive
levels of income and wealth inequality
we have got to address this issue and
that's what we're doing today thank you
so there is Bernie Sanders laying out
his agenda what he's going to be telling
you the Walmart shareholders as soon as
he gets the meeting and literally this
got tweeted out about 15 minutes ago 20
minutes half an hour ago I guess Kara
Courtney who's with CBS News
she's a campaign reporter tweets before
senator Sanders takes the stage at the
Walmart shareholders meeting I guess at
these meetings you know you imagine it's
like a boardroom or a conference table
but it's actually like a big theater
because it's a huge there's a lot of
people CEO Doug McMillon calls for
Washington to raise the federal minimum
wage quote it's time for Congress to put
a thoughtful plan in place to increase
the minimum wage that's that's pretty
good very reminiscent of like when
governor Nixon of New York State was
able to push all sorts of new
legislation before she won before she
won the election in fact she never won
the election and still we got the
benefits of that we should always thank
Cynthia Nixon for doing that finally
helped it and no one else would it was
willing to do that she helped a lot but
nevertheless there's a bernie already
getting now now it's smart play by the
CEO of Walmart to call for Congress to
raise the federal minimum wage right now
because and we'll talk about this the US
Congress in the past five and a half
months has passed about 50 bills some
really good bills that of course are
going to go nowhere because of Mitch
McConnell and part of the reason why
this story about the tariffs with Mexico
is so important is it's conceivable that
if Donald Trump is able to or actually
imposes these tariffs and his ability to
do so you know laterally I think is I
mean I think it's quite possible he does
have the ability to do that I think will
seriously hurt the chances of the
Republicans to maintain the Senate in
2020
