[Music]
let's just continue on with the clips we
have from Robert Muller there's two more
clips here is Muller saying contrary to
what some people argue that there was no
evidence that the Trump folk
participated in a conspiracy to defraud
the United States that would have been
the specific charge contrary to that
assertion
Robert Muller says there was
insufficient evidence we will get to
possibly one of the reasons why there
was insufficient one of the reasons
could be didn't happen so there wasn't
enough evidence there was some but there
wasn't enough evidence to cross the
threshold of charging the president but
here's Rob ma let me say a word about
the report the report has two parts
addressing the two main issues we were
asked to investigate the first volume of
the report details numerous efforts
emanating from Russia to influence the
election this volume includes a
discussion of the Trump campaigns
response to this activity as well as our
conclusion that there was insufficient
evidence to charge a broader conspiracy
okay insufficient evidence not no
evidence which he would have said if
there was no evidence in other words
totally vindicated in other words
totally vindicated insufficient evidence
to charge a broader conspiracy and
that's not just in regards to the
president because we already know that
in regards to the president he cannot
bring any charges to that effect but
that means to all the people around him
except for those of course like the
former campaign manager and the former
consigliere who are in jail right now
here is Robert Muller speaking to the
second half of his report which is the
question of obstruction Muller makes it
quite clear that obstruction keeps
investigators from finding the truth
struction is subsidiary to the primary
mission of the investigation but it is
specifically related to why maybe there
was insufficient evidence to bring a
conspiracy charge because of the
obstruction the idea that you need to be
found guilty of an underlying crime to
be charged with obstruction is absurd it
is absurd and anyone who says anything
differently knows it's absurd they know
that they're lying to you and it's sad
in some instances said yeah super sad
here is Robert Muller speaking
specifically about the obstruction the
indictments allege and the other
activities in our report to describe
efforts to interfere in our political
system they needed to be investigated
and understood and that is among the
reasons why the Department of Justice
established our office that is also a
reason we investigated efforts to
obstruct the investigation the matters
we investigated were of paramount
importance it was critical for us to
obtain full and accurate information
from every person we questioned when a
subject of an investigation obstructs
that investigation or lies to
investigators it strikes at the core of
their government's effort to find the
truth and hold wrongdoers accountable
there you go so it strikes at the core
of those efforts this what Muller
delivered was basically a call to
Congress to begin impeachment
proceedings this mean to actually vote
to impeach it means go over this
material it's all here in the report
Muller says that he does not want to
testify because the report speaks for
itself
frankly I don't think Maher gets to
choose a B I think there's value in
bringing Robert Muller in just to read
the report to the committee because this
is a political process this is a
political process you cannot just submit
the report and anticipate that it's
gonna do all the work now Congress needs
to do the work but part of that work is
to put on a basically an argument in
front of the American people because
this is a political process and if
driving attention to the report and I
have said this multiple times all you
need to do is read the first two
chapters but 99% of the American public
is not I would say probably that may
even be generous estimate and the way to
do impeachment is to convince the
American public at least some percentage
of them and the only way to do that is
to expose them to what's in the report
and if there's a better way to do it
than bringing the author of the report
to talk about the report then I'm not
aware of it I mean I could have just
told you everything about this book
today but I had the author on because I
don't understand every dynamic in the
book she may have more
ing maybe right the same amount of pages
for one story into another but one may
be more important to her I mean this is
fairly obvious robert muller does not
get to choose whether he is used as a
prop frankly or a mechanism to inform
the American public what the President
did it's not his choice and Robert
Muller has now gone in front of Congress
essentially in front of the American
people and basically said to Congress
it's your turn I did my work well that's
fine Congress may need them a little bit
more
