another strange a week in American
politics of course we are now less than
really 25 days maybe I think close to 20
days maybe even less than that from the
midterm elections we will talk about
that a little bit later in the program
but I will say that everything that we
talk about at this point is so
implicated by these midterm elections I
you know I've been going around saying
like I don't know if things are gonna
get better in the short term if the
Democrats take the house there will of
course be hearings and and and some
measure of accountability at the very
least there's an incentive for Democrats
right to provide some accountability but
I am quite sure that if the Democrats
don't at least take the house things are
going to get much much worse and and and
I'm talking across the board and and
let's just start with this story that
has been sort of unwinding over the
course of the week and that is the the
gruesome killing of a Washington Post
columnist Jamal khashoggi he is a was a
u.s. resident he was in Turkey with his
fiancee seeking a paperwork he's a Saudi
national seeking paperwork from the
Saudi embassy in Istanbul to get married
and he went in and never came out and
subsequently we have learned Turkish
officials who apparently have bugged the
heck out of their country and you know
people have known that but apparently
have perhaps some ability to record
audio
maybe video in the Saudi embassy detail
the the killing and the dismemberment of
this Saudi journalist and
the the I mean this raises a lot of
questions aside from our support of
Saudi Arabia which is no small thing in
there creating a huge human catastrophe
in Yemen we the this is an example of
sort of trumpism spreading across the
globe like the the the lack of the us
being any type of ballast starts to open
up a huge can of worms oh absolutely and
I think I mean I even read an article
this past week stating from somebody
quoted from within the inner circle or
some association of with the inner
circle in Saudi Arabia that one of the
reasons why MBS Mohammed bin Salman the
young prince who is in charge of Saudi
Arabia at the moment and who is you know
very likely to have been the person who
ordered this gruesome killing in Turkey
that he was a highly influenced by two
things one that Vladimir Putin has been
getting away with assassinating
dissidents and and you know people he
considers to have betrayed him in
foreign countries and you know it just
everyone seems to be shrugging over that
no ramifications for anyone and second
that you know Donald Trump has been has
been you know harshly criticizing the
media as despicable scum you know the
worst people in the world nothing but
dishonest and you know it led him to
believe that this would not be something
that would cause him any any serious
blowback and that what it would do is
sort of exert his own authority and
power not just within his own kingdom
but also you know this is a pretty
aggressive move against Turkey in its
own way and you know what we're seeing
here is a lot of jockeying for power in
the Middle East Iran Turkey Saudi Arabia
Israel and these various that you know
sort of shifting alliances and it's all
complicated but particularly complicated
by the fact that you know
is now involved in the Middle East in a
way it hasn't been in many years and
you've got Trump who you know is on the
one hand advised by a naive princeling
Jared Kushner and who has very little
understanding of the complexities of
these relationships or the consequences
of you know making me sort of move and
on the other hand he's got some hardcore
right-wing ideologues who are
essentially working on behalf of Israel
to confront Iran and so you know this is
a very very very volatile situation and
this has thrown a bomb into the middle
of some plans that were of the New York
Times reported last week that the Trump
administration had been planning to
stage a major confrontation with Iran in
November over and and basically try to
isolate them by sabotaging their oil
sales yep which of course would and this
would would be with the backing of Saudi
Arabia of course who would recreate a
reduced prices or you know up their you
know their oil production or whatever
that this was you know a big grant plan
that this has somehow disrupted because
now Trump is sort of having to you know
I mean he's not doing it very well
because he's basically saying hey you
know stuff happens what can I say but
you know this is a very very volatile
situation and just before I stop here
the the the one thing I heard that was
very interesting to me about how this
might affect the midterms is that this
has been the most sustained coverage of
a foreign policy event since Donald
Trump came into office and I don't know
whether that means anything important
but it sure seems like it might that
maybe this is going to have some effect
on on the midterms I mean it's possible
I mean and but before we get there I
mean I think you raised a couple of
there there's sort of two aspects right
that I think are becoming clear and this
is something that you and I have have
touched upon every couple of months over
the last couple of years which is what
what are going to be the implications in
the context of a foreign policy
with an administration that is a on some
level fundamentally incompetent insofar
as that they they're understaffed the
they are inexperienced they are running
our foreign policy in the same way that
you would if you were a small under
undeveloped nation without a democracy
right
they are running our foreign policy as
if we were not a nation and and
regardless of of of one's perspective on
how much of a source of good we are in
the world right I mean because I think
people have a range of perspectives on
that what we were indisputably was a
consistent watershed that would change
our policies perhaps at the margins but
fundamentally there were certain things
that didn't even need to be articulated
on a regular basis that in some ways
impacted and regulated the behavior of
other countries and when we come back I
want to take a break when we come back I
want to talk about that element of it
because there's really two elements to
this there's there is the sort of the
mechanics of foreign policy and then
there's sort of the more broad messages
that we send to the rest of the world
that are not necessarily a tactical or
strategic in any way but they have big
implications for the way the rest of the
world functions we got to take a quick
break I'm Sam cedar I'm talking to the
great Digby we'll be right back on ring
of fire radio
