[Music]
well who do you get what did you get up
there what's that's we oh yeah let's now
let's first go to Donald Trump we'll do
a couple more Donald Trump's here here's
Donald Trump really I mean if you stop
like if you just about to go into this
I'm like of course he's saying this and
then I think wait he's the president of
the country and 30 people on for 29
people have been shot dead by machine
gun you know fire I know doing machine
gun I just want to get all the ammo
sexuals of Colin look I just want to
correct you it really does a disservice
to a sensible gun reform legislation to
call it a machine gun even flippantly
well that we can't even let's not call
it sensible gun reform that I don't want
to get by pointing pedants twenty nine
people shot with an assault rifle shot
dead almost twice that injured the idea
that the president is doing anything
other than consoling victims decrying
the political terrorism that impacted
that caused at least the El Paso
shooting and speaking to the Latino
community in assuring them we are with
you we will protect you we will do our
best to to fix what is so wrong in this
country no instead he's like you know I
got a healthy dose of what about ISM
this is number two
so my closet posit the question is what
do you say to your critics from your
heart that your your words and your
rhetoric have emboldened white
nationalism because they're just asking
this and of course they're doing it
because they're the liberal media they
just recognized that the men of the
Creed the screed that this guy wrote was
basically just showing together stuff
that Donald Trump says Tucker Carlson
says Laura Ingraham says and then going
out there and his response is in many
cases they're running for president and
they're very low in the polls a couple
of them in particular very low in the
polls if you look at Dayton that was the
person that supported I guess you would
say Bernie Sanders I understood and
Aoife I understood Elizabeth Warren I
understood have nothing to do with
president Trump so these are people that
are looking for a political gain I don't
think they're getting it and as much as
possible I've tried to stay out of that
yeah Wow that's not Elizabeth Warren I
mean I really wish I could do her
impression because just like Trump does
all of those like I mean he said in 2016
I have the military I have the cops I
have the bikers these are tough people
and right now they're being nice but
they might not be nice like do you
imagine if Elizabeth Warren was like my
daddy said corruptions a bad thing and
the people who follow me hate corruption
they don't like a rigged system right
now they're being nice but they might
not end up being nice I just think that
like even he doesn't even have the
capacity to say look there you know like
I mean he could have answered this like
look there are people out there who have
mental problems and I can't if my words
were twisted and used by a twisted
individual to do something horrible I
regret that but we have problems in
this country and perhaps my word choices
you know you know to evocative but we
have an evocative situation and yes I
regret that but I will say this like I
cannot be blamed for the deviance of
these like there's there's there would
have been rational normal ways even if
you're is hateful of a person as he is
to have answered that and he didn't want
to do that he can't do that
I don't know if he can't or won't
because he feels like I already did the
prepared statement I already did the
thing where you know people could see me
my people could see me knowing that I
had to do the sort of stodgy thing here
and I'm not doing any more than that he
did it it's unfair Obama would have been
like I really shouldn't have said that I
think the Chicago Bulls are gonna kick
ass and over perform in the postseason
my bad right exactly I'm not a
contributed to a tenor and this goes
without saying but there's no evidence
that the Dayton shooter was politically
motivated he didn't leave a manifesto he
was not an active participant in an tyfa
and his his left politics seem like they
are kind of shallow well it doesn't
matter well how shallow or deep his
politics are they didn't motivate
there's no reason whatsoever to assume
that they motivated that attack if you
know if he had attacked a police
barracks or something and you know well
you know went out with an a around his
back and this and that those would be
clues but this guy went to a nightclub
and attacked two people including
killing his sister so you know we're not
the one is a situation where
specifically the shooter himself says
this is why I'm doing it and it has to
do with these set of politics and this
rhetoric that I am parroting and in the
other situation this guy happened to
have politics that you could perceive as
being on the left given the way that
bill Barr has sort of you know
politicized the DOJ had been you know
the Roy Cohn
for the Trump administration do you see
him possibly you know throwing noise
into this by opening a domestic
terrorist claim into Ohio I I wouldn't
be surprised because I noticed they did
that with Gilroy because apparently they
found the guy had a hit list and it must
be there's people on the hit list that
must suggest to him that the two
authorities that like wait a second
this hit list is not random this hit
list reflects a certain ideology I don't
know the details of the hit list I would
be surprised if Barr didn't say for the
sake of due diligence we're gonna do
this and just sort of balance it out you
know and the results will come six
months later and it won't mean anything
and he won't do anything and that's it
yep that's a very legitimate concern and
which one is this what do we still have
up there is it number oh yeah here we go
so someone asked him again about the
language and here he goes on he still
has he knows how he's going to win he is
he is completely singularly focused on
winning by playing to his constituencies
racial and xenophobic fears
immigration you're talking about illegal
immigrants yes I think illegal
immigration is a terrible thing posit
remind you that the the shooter had the
problem with basically losing our white
identity we know that his administration
has attacked immigration period not
illegal immigration only so-called
illegal immigration they have kicked out
people who are here legally because
their homes were devastated in natural
disasters or civil wars they have made
it much harder for people to get into
this country legally they've detained US
citizen they have detained US citizens
but continue
I think illegal immigration is a
terrible thing for this country I think
you have to come in Legally ideally you
have to come in through merit we need
people coming in because we have many
companies coming into our country
they're pouring in and I think illegal
immigration is a very bad thing for our
country I think open borders are a very
bad thing for our country and we're
stopping we're building a wall right now
we won the lawsuit in the Supreme Court
two weeks ago the wall is well under
construction is being built at a rapid
pace we need that we need strong
immigration laws but we want to allow
millions of people to come in because we
need them we have companies coming in
from Japan all over Europe all over Asia
they're opening up companies here they
need people to work we have a very low
unemployment
so I believe we have to have illegal
immigration so I'll remind you the
question was you and the El Paso shooter
used the same language do you regret
this and then he went on to lie about a
bunch of different things about how
these companies coming in and then also
say like we need legal immigration
specifically legal immigration that is
merit-based allow me to use the same
language right attack dog with them of
course
[Music]
