[Music]
you know who was else was on Tucker last
night was Stephen Moore and this would
be the last that we hear from Stephen
Moore for a while so let's let's play it
here is Stephen Moore wondering why on
the one true journalists apparently that
is Tucker Carlson's show Stephen Moore
is on there wondering why he is he is
now being maligned by people who hired
him and really the question is really
should be why did those people hire in
the first place turn to that because you
know but I will say this you know who is
the biggest fight the guy who did not
want me to withdraw from new Donald J
good that's what I love about him he's a
fighter and I just said yeah and I just
had to say I don't know if I belong now
who believes that Stephen Moore was
telling reporters 30 minutes before
Donald Trump announced that he was
dropped that that Stephen Moore was
dropping out with withdrawing that it's
full steam ahead what happened in those
29 minutes to change Stephen Moore they
had to go and argue with the president
no no no I'm dropping out I know you
want me in here there's even more lying
almost like trying to pull what would be
a deception or a hoax on us on Tucker
Carlson show but continue I don't know
if I can't believe it was it really
quick I believe that you just resigned
it seeing and they wanted you to work
there and then I'm watching tonight and
they're telling me that like you're evil
this is a little awkward for for CNN
because every night they trashed me now
when for the last two and a half years
have been their senior economics writer
and the things that they're talking
about now are things that happened 20
years ago wait a minute I'm such a
scoundrel on sexist why did they have me
on every night good q what's the answer
you know I don't think you should hold
accountable you know for two things were
written 25 years ago things they even
looked at my my Christmas letters that
we would send positive we have played
multiple eclipses today him making
racist jokes or just not saying how much
he loved the racist joke talking about
women being in the kitchen as recently
as 26:17 as recently as 2014 that's not
20 years ago I'm not great with math but
I know that's like with it so what's the
cutoff is that okay or is it should be
like you shouldn't go back more than 20
weeks ago for the record this letter is
that we would send out to friends and
family that were just kind of jokes we'd
make fun of everyone I mean this is it's
disgusting what's happening what's
disgusting what happened to you and
Cavanaugh and a lot of other people in
this city anyway Seymour you're always
welcome on the show thank you Thank You
Debra yeah great
here's the hutt take Steven Warren CNN
are both bad yeah that's a very good
question Steve Maura's right to point
out that CNN should have never hired
Steven Moore maybe they should look if
there's any other people they shouldn't
have hired that they are currently
hiring right but I just I mean yeah you
know we don't have to pick both of those
things can be true exactly it's just
shocking to me because Tucker is the
bastion of journalistic integrity and
I'm surprised that he let Steven Moore
come on there and tell a blatant lie
about the fact that Donald Trump was the
one guy who wanted him on there and
Steven Moore had to fight him I mean
Tucker like Tucker likes to make it out
like it's all about bub and the love
sponge but as the Michael Tracy thing
show people give them a pass on the Iraq
stuff too
