[Music]
one of the great crimes that were both
among many that were committed in and by
this country was the Japanese internment
and the Japanese Japanese Americans
during World War two were put in
concentration camps because that's the
term that's what it means can't you
concentrate people in camps you
concentrate people and as an example
refugees or people from a specific
ethnic group it's something that the
United States government has apologized
the Japanese community about I remember
I I actually knew a amazing couple
growing up who were both interned as
young people I believe she in California
and he in Hawaii uh and but also on the
right on this sort of proto-fascist
right there's actually a lot of work
even going back to the Bush
administration of laying the groundwork
of justifying this crime now of course
we have children who are being tortured
we have children who are being kidnapped
we have children who are dying in ice
custody there's people like Chuck Todd
and others who want to play pedantry
games there's people like Megan McCain
who think it's another opportunity to
talk about their dad I'm almost getting
to the point of like I don't know just
go to a therapist but there's other
people like these incredibly principled
japanese-american advocates who are
linking their own experience in the
crime of internment with the crime of
this terrorism aimed at children by ice
and the Trump administration and so
these japanese-american activists were
taking the lead on this protest that was
I believe it was taking place in front
of a facility there were children that
were gonna be moved from to a camp in
Oklahoma I believe this is and these a
former Japanese internment Vik
were speaking about that and there is a
guy who you know we talk about form and
function I don't think that everybody
who takes these I think there's plenty
of people go for these jobs frankly
because there's not many good jobs to be
had but there's also people and then
there's a structural bureaucratic
problem and I'm really not interested in
demonizing people for holding different
jobs I think it's a self-defeating
strategy and I think it's mostly
moralistic and annoying that all being
said this guy has all of the traits of a
milk monitor bully and the fact
that they stand up to him is very
satisfying yeah I just want to note
first the hashtag that they have on
their shirts which just stop repeating
history and also yeah Michael said this
isn't about this individual guy I think
look at this as a visual metaphor for
like basically what political struggle
might look like for the next 50 years
the military guys saying this and and
these people react the exact way that
they should
exactly and subsequently Santa Fe New
Mexico my mother and I were incarcerated
at the Puyallup fairgrounds called camp
harmony and later in Mena dhoka Idaho
you cannot protest on Fort Sill if you
want to protest you have to go across
the street the highway and that needs to
happen right now let's go let's go let's
go now today
my name is chisel amore singing no no
ma'am you may not you meant again I will
say it this is the last time you cannot
protest on Fort Sill you need to move
across the street now empty beds
jeez who are you going to make a
statement yes apparently didn't hear
what I said you need to move today now
right now I I don't know no I'm not
gonna arrest you but you need to move
yes you're not getting on my waka time
in Arizona an American concentration
camp there that's it
so a woman who was an internment camp
yeah concentration camps right oh that's
also a good point so they called his
bluff you know obviously it's satisfied
I mean the guy just it's as simple as if
that guy wasn't a total bully an
and embarrassment there would be the
attitude of basically like you can't say
in words but I see I've been in
situations where the guys basically and
maybe they're being insincere but it
makes a difference where it's like look
the subtext is I have a boss I'm being
told to do this I understand I'm being
an
I might even understand that you people
are totally right but you know I got to
go through the motions on this that guy
is on his own authority trip was his
walkie-talkie is stupid gadgets and it's
like you what are you gonna do all
right you're not gonna arrest us we're
gonna go back to being a moral
conscience you can go back to being a
joke in a bully
you can either use force so you can get
a gtfo let us do our speeches
yeah and shout out to that lady for
making the connection between different
people's struggles and negative
shoutouts to right-wing Jews who want to
police the boundaries of what you can
refer to as a concentration camp
I mean it goes against everything I was
taught in my own Jewish upbringing
everything I was taught about the
Holocaust you know when we say never
again we don't just mean never again for
Jews no we never again anyone Oh Jews in
Germany specifically so is an example if
you want to it if some Jews found
themselves and say Zanzibar well you
couldn't use the word concentration camp
we need to be very specific it involves
Germany or when you're agitating for any
war you want in the Middle East or if
you're justifying killing Palestinian
children and besides that you never use
those words so every yeah
