[Music]
alright let's just start with this
Donald Trump has pardoned someone who
was really down on his luck and it's
really the president can pardon whoever
he wants
really for any reason you recall that
Bill Clinton pardoned mark rich on the
way out of his administration people
were very upset about that I think with
some justification frankly not
appropriate in my estimation
I think Eric Holder was one of the
people who who promoted that if I not if
I if I don't remember if I'm not miss
Murray I'm misremembering it turns out
that Donald Trump has pardoned Conrad
black Conrad black of course a Canadian
he was a wealthy publisher he was
actually the Lord black of cross Harbor
I think he is a should say Canadian but
he's British born no I'm sorry Canadian
born British citizen he was the head of
a big international newspaper and
Enterprise that included I think the
National in Canada and maybe Chicago
paper others and in O seven black was
convicted of mail fraud and obstruction
in the United States he was supposedly
going to defraud the shareholders of the
company that owned all those newspapers
of a lot of money he was convicted on
all the accounts but I think two were
were overturned subsequent to that and
he ended up going to prison I believe
for two years but he'd be defrauding the
ruling class no that that is you
you got to steal from the right people
and so here he is on laura ingraham show
last night explaining why I got the
pardon he just wants to make it clear to
everybody that has nothing to do with
the biography that he wrote about Donald
Trump what is the title of it it is
literally something like oh yeah it's
Donald J Trump a president like no other
and the beautiful theta he's also
written several op eds I think one of
them was literally entitled Trump is the
good guy that death yes but fair but you
know it was a very honest piece and it
came down to some meta mistakable
conclusions in a way and Conrad black
wants you to understand that that had
nothing to do with the pardon O'Connor
everybody knows you and I have known
each other for a long time and I've
spoken about your absurd case for many
many years and written about it but your
reaction to those who say that this was
just your flattery that won you a pardon
Loretha thank you for having me on my
reaction is I have absolutely no reason
to believe that the president is even
aware that I wrote that book he
certainly has never mentioned that and
has read it you see that it is not
uncritical it's no whitewash point said
some of the less salubrious aspects of
the superior and critical of him in
general I am a supporter for policy
reasons and he was a pain to say when he
phoned last week that his motivation and
he authorized me to say this urgent need
to say this it was not that we've known
each other a long time that I've been
generally supportive of him it is that
after careful examination by the White
House Counsel his legal staff they
confirmed what Alan Dershowitz and other
lawyers said on my behalf
and the president's own words where it
was an unjust verdict and I never should
have been charged and it was a bad rap
those were his motives really and in
favor side to his friends and you know
there would be you'd have five
ambassadors in every embassy and okay
first off so we're to believe that his
lawyers that Conrad Black is just super
lucky that his last name starts with a B
cuz I was going down the list and I got
to the B's and then you just stood right
out it was a LaBrie Bria's prize there's
this black guy there's this black guy
that you wrote a positive book about me
we need to get him out of jail his name
is Conrad black and he's my black they
said it was another blue Bria's that it
was good put up the tweet that Trump
also wrote he didn't there's no
indication that probably did not come up
at all when Donald Trump authorized
Conrad black to say this is not just
because I know you but it's because you
really deserved it
what an honor to read your piece as one
of the truly great intellects and my
friend I won't forget 2015 right so I
forgot about it
total coincidence I forgot about that
had amnesia and then I was going through
because you got to go by the list and so
we were doubted it's like at least
several hundred people before you go
through it and after careful judicial
review and there just happened to fall
upon this I just I just love the fact
that Conrad black is like I'm gonna go
on television Rick rather than just sort
of lay low I'm gonna go on television
tell people this definitely was not
because I've written all that positive
stuff about Donald Trump or that I've
known him for a long time if Donald
Trump he wants us to believe that Donald
Trump is not the type of guy to give his
friends favors they don't pay attention
to the press yeah that's not true just I
mean the it's literally the one thing I
think people understand about Donald
Trump Donald Trump was probably like the
third person to sign up for Google
Alerts for their own name
like in the history of the service was
how I learned how to use Google actually
it's like a hack that tells you
everything sounds saying about you it's
amazing I had no idea you wrote a book
about me calling me a unique president
no idea
it's magista mazing that they can just
everyone involved in the production of
that that that hit on television didn't
just die of embarrassment in that one
moment in a way it would have been even
more difficult if I knew he wrote a book
about me because that would have had the
appearance of impropriety and we all
know that when you're in office it's
it's a tough standard so it's one thing
actual impropriety which you can never
do but even the appearance of
impropriety is a problem so lucky for
Conrad I didn't know he wrote them if he
wrote a month that was nasty about me I
would have putted him sooner if he wrote
a book that was bad I would have had to
part of him on the first day and and
frankly I would have had to have had
someone read it for me and then explain
it to me so unbelievably Grieder big
reader I like to I like to read big
things I read books about ideas
