[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat come
on Jordy rapport with Sam Sita it is
Friday May 31st 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today from
the uber vlog hullabaloo Heather Parton
or Digby will be joining us to look back
on the week that was and look forward to
the weeks that sadly will be also on the
program today I think Judy gold will be
joining us to provide for us a primal
scream of sorts as we deal with the
daily nightmare that is this this
political era also on the program today
I think we're going to have a call in to
Michael Brooks at his silent retreat yes
very likely happening and Donald Trump
announces he will institute a five
percent tariff on Mexico until they do
something and if they don't do it he's
gonna increase it five percent by every
month up to a maximum of 25%
of every one of the products that makes
up 14% of our imports as it enters into
this country meanwhile hundreds of
immigrant miners are being held beyond
their legal limits at our border more
than a dozen online charter schools shut
down in California facing criminal
indictments speaking of criminal Fisher
Price sold deadly baby sleepers for
years without ever having tested their
safety of course they did yep well all
those babies can just decide to get a
sleeper at a different place
according to market principles how do
you say caveat emptor and baby Todd
Wright North Korean envoy reportedly
executed over the Trump Kim summit and
that feeling when your global editor in
chief turns out to be not so global
Nevada governor vetoes national popular
voters vote bill why I don't know and
some bipartisanship you'll like and
lastly some very good news New Hampshire
kills its death penalty all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen welcome it is the end of a
rather long week long short week and
glad you could join us we're
anticipating a lot of fun today there's
been a bit of a meltdown on the right
wing right now
meltdown may its meltdown may and I
I like to think that I play a little
part of it you know I think there are
sometimes moments probably where I
certainly dedicate too much time to this
but then again you know I've been doing
this now for 15 years and have been and
becoming you know more and more clear
with where I have influence and where I
do not have influence and not so great
with necessarily purport exerting a
proportionate amount of effort based
upon what I know will be the return in
these things but with that said I do
think it is important for one to be able
to assess one's skills without without
ego maybe they're not always where you
want them to be but if God made your
your hand into a hammer then you should
be banging nails if it's a saw you can't
feel bad that it's not a hammer and you
got to saw things there's no romance to
being proportionate about everything
right well there's no romance that but
it's also like you know sometimes you
have to look yourself in the mirror and
say like you know look I'm not going to
I'm not noam chomsky I'm not going to
I'm not Howard Zinn I'm really good but
I'm pretty good at driving some people
crazy on Twitter and you know what you
do look like Noam Chomsky when he was
your age
well that may be enough but the point is
is that you know my skill set is what it
is
and so sometimes I feel like well if not
me then whom you know back in the day I
used to get into some pretty good
Twitter fights with the Breitbart and I
always felt like I got under his skin
quite a bit and I thought that was
healthy for me to do I think it was
healthy for the world I'm not going to
take responsibility for his heart giving
out on a walk but and and like I say you
know
you don't Wow no I don't say I don't
wish it on people
I do wish Hill on some people but and
it's not a function of like you know
Andrew Breitbart might have been a very
nice dad and a very nice husband very
nice friend to people and I don't blame
them mourning his loss but I only knew
him through his public work which I
thought was extremely detrimental in
fact I would say we're still feeling a
lot of that detrimental impact things
like the destruction of a corn for
instance and and other things but and so
you know to the extent that I can be a a
cog in a wheel that in any way inhibits
another wheel I'm happy to do that
and so with all that said let's talk
about steven crowder who as you know and
i have said this before
i have not ever released any evidence of
this I am quite confident about the
evidence that I have I believe it's
sitting in Matt's computer New York is a
what is known as a one-party state and
in one-party states you are allowed to
record a conversation as long as one of
the parties on the line is aware of it I
mention this because originally when I
accepted the invitation to go to
politican I had conversations with
people associated with that event
wherein I was supposed to have a debate
with steven crowder and then at one
point i was told and this is a quote he
got
old feet and then there was other
information that was provided to me that
I thought was pretty funny
about like who was management is but
that's not important but steven crowder
is has what like a millions of followers
on YouTube might be a couple I mean he
has a massive show he has a beautiful
studio he makes I would imagine a
considerable amount of money 3.8 million
subscrib yes I mean that's pretty
stunning
that is pretty stuff so bad The Young
Turks have a business model I think they
have two million subscribers right or
maybe they have five I don't know
somewhere around there but nevertheless
they have a huge enterprise he has four
or five guys in a room and so he's doing
quite well for himself
and much of his appeal to his audience I
imagine if we looked at the demographics
the audience they'd be quite young young
enough that they never occurred to them
say like hey how come when you're going
out to always to debate politics you're
always doing it with freshman's in
college as opposed to like adults who
might have had more time to think about
these things his audience doesn't seem
to care and so I wanted to bait Crowder
and
he wouldn't do it and much of his of his
shtick is basically what you would see
if you were in junior high I think maybe
even like its sixth or seventh grade
middle school and he doesn't unabashedly
and I do mean bash idli on it on his
thing it's you know what was it che
guevara as a and this net socialism
is for fish eggs here's the thing when
we do Ken Kenny Ken
when Mike and I do Mike and I do that
that that that parody show we talk like
that because it we're we're parroting
and we're being ironic I mean I some
people could say like well you still
shouldn't say that because it's a you
know whatever I am and I think there's
there's an argument to that but what if
there's no irony in what he's doing he
is literally calling people gay and
and making these jokes with the premise
is that it's you know like gross and
funny or stupid or what I don't know
unchristian think it's almost like an
unchristian
I can't like it's almost like I I feel
like at one point in my life I
understood the concept this joke maybe
I'm just too old or maybe the times have
changed or something like this but like
no Sam some people are gay and that's
funny
I watch this and I I can't it's hard for
me to wrap my brain around a grown man
doing this stuff on a daily basis like
you got to come in he got to do it and
so this this compilation came out from a
tweet thread from that guy does
explainers on Vox I don't I can't
Romero's me Carlos Mazda Cosmo Zaza and
apparently which I didn't know Crowder
rides
Carlos Mazda in the same way that we
ride like you know Crowder or like Dave
Rubin or these guys except for I don't
go like I don't know what that well I
don't make fun of the fact that Dave
Reubens gay you know it just doesn't
even occur to me Crowder I don't make
fun of the fact that he is I don't know
oh I don't know I don't you know I mean
all white
I mean I'm white you know I I don't know
and but Kyle's Mazda basically details
in this Twitter thread that and he
doesn't blame a Crowder good for him
because crowd is just
Crowder does but Crowder has challenged
Mazda to a debate but the premise of it
is he's so gay he's gonna lose the
debate or something to that effect and
apparently when they go after maza it's
not just debate steven crowder like my
understanding is that people sometimes
do too dave rubin with with my name
right
they docks them and give him death
threats on his cell phone and it's it's
creepy it's creepy but here is the
compilation of steven crowder and so he
blames youtube basically for not for not
policing this in some way but here's
steven crowder a compilation and it is
almost impossible to understand how a
grown man could be I could act like this
a grown grown grown human being but here
he is before we get to the video with
our favorite favorite and listen it's
ridiculous it's bonkers you're being
given a free pass as a crappy writer
because you're gay that's a center line
on his a little queer graph there is
queer
violence Phil okay so the little queer
could eat his chips all nonchalantly
it's code for a mister we're eating
chess on the box this is what mr. gay
Vox wants to do mister let's be queer
from Vox what were you holding gay
latino from pots keep this hand movement
fast motion is gay now we're here with
the short-haired angry lesbian on sky
change a guy sitting there eating banana
we get the symbolism Erica truth is
hiding in a closet
two weeks later probably along to his
next Pride Parade out but this guy on
the gay semi Latino vote we're all right
and deal with this sprite more okay he's
a sachets across without eight like just
stop that gang
sprite his Wars now he could be a
your honor but how many lispy angry
sprites and Voxx green and trying tell
you otherwise are you by the way the gay
mexican guys like gay latino v-neck gay
Mexican Mexican gay guy used to work
Mexican gay latino there at that bottle
gay latino from Bakke token box gay
atheist sprite with surprisingly
surprisingly flaccid chests considering
else any is idiots is very bizarre to me
hominem yes but it was an addendum to
fat so weird like what that is a very he
gets very worked up about that stuff now
what else he he's got he's got socialism
for and then what is his producers
name his producers name is Jared or as
they call him not gay Jared not gay
Jerry they seemed to be very very
concerned about gay people I mean and
also Crowder likes to dress up in in
drag like once a month to do a
anti-trans video yeah you know it's it's
like how Alex Jones smokes weed once a
year just to make sure that it's still
bad what is this this is a bit of
Crowder's comedy chops this is him doing
a Bernie Sanders impression I'd say
Bernie Sanders impression because people
might not know otherwise okay he's doing
well it's a good Gilbert Godfried it's a
little bit weird it's the only Jew I
could do so what are you to do is
conservatives doing comedy for there you
go he's so bad at this even for like the
standards of the current culture wars
he's like 10 years behind yeah that's
true but it is
I think his he is he's he's geared his
show to fourteen-year-old boys
thirteen-year-old boys yeah YouTube
itself has actually
let's see if I can find this here they
actually said we're gonna look gonna
look into it thanks for bringing this to
our attention
Carlos so I mean who knows what they
learn follow-up is going to be but I
mean you know this is I I I don't know I
mean I I don't know how you deal with
stuff like this just ignore it
well it's it's tough because I mean
YouTube has anti harassment and
anti-homophobia like policies right I
honestly I don't know what there is to
do about this I really don't know III
mean I just don't assign from breaking
up YouTube like I don't know how you you
deal with this other than you fight it
out on YouTube do you know what I mean
like I just don't know how you deal with
this type of thing if if if Bill
O'Reilly can go on and call dr. tiller
you know a baby killer until tiller is
assassinated yeah but Fox News doesn't
carry YouTube might YouTube might but I
just don't know what I mean I think all
that YouTube can do really is Judy
monetize yeah that would hurt him and
you simply say this guy's been involved
in stuff that is toxic and and here's
the bottom line the construction of that
argument is based specifically on
Crowder's content right it's not like it
I'm not I'm not advocating broadly
speaking that YouTube should do any have
any policy that can be applied fairly
there's no such thing it's gotta be
if you do stuff that ends up like
directly leading in some fashion or
another to inspiring people to go after
somebody based upon things that are not
advertiser friendly um then you get
demonetised I think it's a highly
problematic I think we need to we do we
should not have a YouTube that is as
large and as powerful as this is we just
simply should not and there are myriad
of ways in which you make it less
powerful very similar to how you would
in some ways deep platform Crowder now
you know that deep platform you just
can't make any money off it and maybe
you don't allow links either in the
descriptions for his videos you want to
put the videos out you can do it I don't
I don't know I'm not I'm not
recommending this I actually think that
like there's just nothing that you
should be doing about this level I don't
think it reaches a level I think you
know being childishly homophobic like
this we should be able to to push back
on it in some respects and that's easy
for me to say I'm not getting you know
doxxed and you know my phone I mean I've
I've been through similar type things
but it's a problem but ultimately what
we need to do is cut off different
revenue streams for YouTube so that it's
just not profitable for them to put up
anybody
and there's other sites for that and
maybe if they're on different platforms
it's a lot harder to sort of do this
type of stuff but this there's a certain
inevitability as we democratize media or
we have you know basically democratized
media that this
is gonna happen yeah I mean it's not a
short-term solution but like thinking
back to the idea of nationalizing these
large platforms I don't think it would
work under our current system but if we
had truly democratic control over the
state and over these giant new things I
I have to believe that they might be
somewhat better at regulating I mean
assuming the best acharya people vote
against homophobia or whatever right but
i think we would have the same problem
wouldn't we I mean I mean could you
really feel it could you really have a
you know you'd have the exact same
problem you just can't have one thing
that is like this it's just too
problematic I mean that's this basically
what it comes down to or or I don't I
don't know maybe there's other ways of
configuring it like nobody has their own
unique channel anymore that things you
have some type of like Fairness Doctrine
in the context of the way that people
watch them I don't know whatever they do
it's probably not gonna be good for the
left uh it's not gonna be good
I think there's it's gonna be
problematic but all right we're gonna
take a break and when we come back Digby
[Music]
you
back Sam cedar on the majority report
ladies and gentlemen it's casual Friday
and it's this casual Friday which means
that only this tune works that was it
well it feels shorter than normal hello
Heather how are you I Sam I'm doing fine
I'm so out of sorts right now like I'm
just I'm taking in way too much
information at one time and it's
becoming I feel overwhelmed one would
think that I've gotten used to this but
we were just talking about you were just
watching that segment on crowder I'm I I
can't tell you how fortunate you've been
to be unaware of steven crowder for all
this time up until now but I had never
and I certainly want to apologize for
ruining that small part of your life
that was untainted I'm so jealous if you
dick fie
well it's over now it's over now the
question is is it better to have had
that ignorant and lost it or to have
never have had that ignorant at all I
think well I have to say that I really
think my life was better yeah for I knew
this before I knew this person existed
although can't am I surprised I mean
this 14 year old boy humor wit just was
this you know it's no different than it
was when I was a kid and that was a long
time ago I mean I really thought that we
had advanced just a little bit that
really juvenile discuss being stupid you
know just it's it's idiotic any idea
that there's a grown man out there in
2019
saying this stuff and everybody's
laughing and snorting and you know
defying over it it just I mean I'm just
appalled that but on the other hand you
know I look at the president and I look
at the people you know on Fox News
they're they're really not that
different I mean as you said you know we
were in the break you said you know well
it's not full-on Nazi and that's true
their art did let's just not you know
did not not be grateful for the fact
that the guy isn't a full-blown Nazi but
he's you know a disgusting homophobe and
he thinks he's funny and you know that's
just kind of mainstream I mean I'm sorry
I know the president doesn't actually
say this stuff about gay people but I
would bet you know everything I have
that he says it in private because it's
just so perfectly
you know like him and it is exactly the
kind of you know as bill bar would say
Smitty stupid humor that you know this
is this is where we're at in our
national discourse and I can't say I'm
surprised this guy is probably you know
quite popular and I'm sure they're great
and it's not just kids who are watching
it's not just fourteen-year-old boys
that maybe his audience but I have to
say that you know in the conservative
side of our country now they're all a
bunch of fourteen-year-old boys and they
all have that kind of mentality so you
know he's cuz I'm sure he's got a big
audience for this and it's not just kids
I'm sure it's adults as well and
probably a few stupid women too I'm
going to I'm going to spare you the
details of Ash Wednesday and the Mudd
Club
so that you don't have an existential
crisis and and and just like a head turn
to the west and just keep walking until
the Pacific basically overtakes you but
uh it's okay let's let's talk about the
other thing that I think is that it is
upsetting obviously mulher this week
comes out and says not a whole lot
that's new but a whole lot that's new to
a lot of people I think yeah right and
that was that was the the point
yesterday in the program we had Marcy
wheeler on for an extended you know
through comprehensive roundup of both
like you know the the investigation you
know where it ended up going and not
going and what is is left and when maybe
what can happen going forward but let's
try and focus on the on the politics of
this I am like I am becoming
increasingly concerned at how how poorly
Nancy Pelosi frankly and as far as I
know Chuck Schumer is still alive and
still the minority leader in the Senate
but I have not he seems to have
completely disappeared if you told me oh
no he's been in a fact-finding mission
in Siberia for the past three weeks I
would been like oh okay that makes sense
but last night Nancy Pelosi was on Jimmy
Kimmel if I'm not mistaken and she said
there's a school of thought that
acquittal in the Senate after
impeachment means it can't be tried
criminally after leaving office I yes
exactly
I don't know I'm sure there's a school
of thought but that school is probably
in a different country and not well
attended and certainly not taught by
anybody this is the the relentlessness
in which she is avoiding this is is is
really disturbing to me and I see a
myriad of problems happening like I
don't get what the plan is here well I
keep hearing from people that you know
when I criticized Pelosi and let me just
say up front yeah I have great respect
for Nancy Pelosi she's an incredible
legislator she keeps her caucus together
there's a lot of great things about her
but you know I don't worship the woman
and I don't you know I don't feel like I
have to you know fall in line behind
everything that she does and I think
she's wrong on this I really do I mean
that comment on Kimmel was absurd for
one thing there is no school I don't
know where she got I mean I've never
heard that and I read a lot about this
and there's nobody who thinks that
moreover she said again I think he wants
to be impeached
he didn't say I think he wants to be a
 she said he wants to be impeached
that's the most ridiculous thing I have
ever heard the man had just come out
earlier that day and said I think
impeachment is the most dirty filthy
disgusting word I've ever heard I mean
he calls it the I word there this man
does not want to be impeached and the
reason he doesn't
because there's one thing he's good at
and that is he's good at sussing out how
you know the media and his image and all
of that and he understands very well
that an impeachment process carried out
on live television is going to be very
very hurtful to him he understands that
because he knows how that particular
part of our politics works
apparently he knows that better than
Nancy Pelosi does but you know and and
you know I say that God the guy is
useless in almost every way but you have
to pay attention to him on this one
because he gets it and he does not want
to be impeached and the idea that she
keeps saying that is infuriating to me
I don't even understand what like what
that's not an argument like okay let's
say she does want to get impeached okay
woman so what so what he he he has some
type of like vision like this guy so
sophisticated about you know what
happens over the course of an
investigation of 15 months like that's
like saying he wanted to be investigated
by Muller like it doesn't like you don't
know Donald Trump does not know how this
is gonna turn out anymore then Nancy
Pelosi does I mean that to me does not
seem to be an argument you need to
follow it up with like it can't be just
like well I mean if he likes green M&Ms
then I'm gonna like green M&Ms that
doesn't make any sense of course it
doesn't and of course it's ridiculous I
mean it's exactly what you say that's a
really good point it would be like
saying well he really wanted Muller to
investigate him I think it's pretty
clear over the course of the last two
three years that he did not want that
investigation neither does he want
impeachment this whole thing is driving
him crazy and as you say it's irrelevant
what he wants this is not this is not
his decision to make this is the
decision of the of the Congress and for
reasons that I I mean look you know
people keep telling me there's some kind
of 12 dimensional chess going on here on
both sides
you know Tron peace really he wants to
be in Beach because then he'll be
vindicated by the Senate and he can go
around saying he was exonerated and I'm
going whatever he's going to say he was
exonerated anyway that changes the
calculus
at all and on the other side if Nancy
Pelosi she's just saying all this so
that she can appear to be reluctant and
then they'll get enough people for
impeachment and then suddenly she'll say
she had nurtured all that you know okay
even if that's true I don't care I can
only go by what she's saying and what
she's saying is ridiculous and in my
view it's harmful because what it's
doing is telling the American public
yeah well you know yeah he committed all
these crimes and he's completely inept
and you know I know you sent a large
majority to the Congress last November
to do something about him but I'm sorry
you know we just can't it's just now
it's not good politics for us doesn't
you know it's just not going to work for
us politically so we can't really do
that so let's talk about you know that
that prescription drug plan that we
passed that will never see the light of
day in the Senate and Donald Trump
wouldn't sign if you put a gun to his
head so let's talk about that instead
because that's what you really sent us
there to do none of this makes sense to
me I mean you know if it's as delusional
as what you see on Fox News in a
different you know in in the in the left
side of the the dial where you've got
people acting like this thing isn't
happening and this is what you know she
wants to pretend she and and others you
know I mean I heard people at like for
instance they're now floating this idea
of censure I mean if they could find a
more weak-ass know approach to this then
censure I don't you know I don't think
there when it says and they had Rokon a
guy who I normally am very you know
positive about I mean he's a good
progressive he's you know but for
whatever reason he was on Chris Hayes
last night talking about how well you
know maybe we could censure him you know
Jim Jordan and Mark Meadows would stand
in the middle of the floor and you know
take off their clothes and laugh at
everybody if they tried to censure
Donald Trump like he cares if anything
Andrew Jackson was censured and he loves
Andrew Jackson and he's on the $20 bill
and he's gonna stay there as long as
Donald Trump is in office so you know
this is you know this is a ridiculously
weak and pathetic and impotent approach
to dealing with what I think most
Democrats I really believe this deal is
an existential threat I mean this guy is
I mean you know we can talk about Bill
bar if you don't think that that guy's
an exsisting
threat then you've got another thing
coming well I mean I don't even think
that you need to think that Donald Trump
is an existential threat I mean I I i
from a political standpoint it is clear
there is no plan there only plan is no
impeachment there is no plan I Ryan grim
I went to a book talk of his the other
day he said they've running it they're
running out of bills in the house to
bring up now I'm like what wait what
like I mean I can understand Nancy
Pelosi I can understand this position we
cannot impeach I've got 25 members of my
caucus who are coming from purple
districts they are nervous that
impeachment will mean they will lose I
don't want to lose the house because we
probably won't get the Senate and you
know who knows what's going to happen
with the presidency so my plan is we're
gonna do the people's business we're
gonna pass bills I don't care if the
Senate says no we're gonna hammer them
every day like you know this I you know
this is this is that's a plan I may not
agree with it but it's a plan that plan
doesn't exist
she just has I've got to protect 25
members of my caucus cuz I don't want to
be the minority you know I don't I want
to maintain the majority and that's the
most important thing to me and I think I
am come I think this is gonna work out
but here's my question what happens
between now and that election in January
2020 if if the Democrats don't impeach
like it well I can something's gonna
there's a vacuum there and something's
gonna fill it and the Republicans aren't
going to stand by and go like oh well
these guys didn't go after President
Trump so I guess we won't you know try
and arrest everybody else well that's
exactly right I mean that Nancy Pelosi
and the Democrats may not have a plan
but the Republicans do and they have
been very Oh
about it we know exactly what they're
going to do and they're going to be
doing it in the US Senate under the
auspices of Lindsey Graham and the
Senate Judiciary Committee they are
going to do the investigation into the
investigation this is like this weird
you know bizarro world counter narrative
where you know the whole thing was bogus
it was a completely this investigation
was ridiculous to begin with it was a
coup which apparently was staged even
before the election even before Donald
Trump got the nomination
they were staging this coup and weirdly
enough they never leaked a word of it
but they went after Hillary Clinton
hammer and tong instead I guess because
they just want to make sure didn't look
too bad for them I don't know what the
logic is there but this is this is a
real thing and people are dismissing it
at their peril because it's not just the
the Senate doing a you know what you
could dismiss as a partisan
counter-narrative investigation in the
hands of the Department of Justice is
doing the same thing William bar was out
there making this case and he made it
just today on CBS where he raced to the
cameras to rebut Robert Miller statement
on Wednesday to explain I mean he truly
this guy is really malevolent I mean I
have to say that he scares me almost as
much as anybody I've ever seen I mean
this is a very very very slick
malevolent partisan operator and he's
pretending that he's some kind of civil
liberties hero from the 1970s right that
he is this guy who saw the obsesses of
the of the FBI and the Department of
Justice during the protests and during
the Vietnam War and he just took that
really seriously which just you can't
find any big bigger pile of BS than that
because this guy was first of all he
covered up the iran-contra the
iran-contra scandal by you know getting
HW Bush to pardon all the people on
Christmas Eve before he went out of
office and even worse than that he was
in office and I don't think most people
notice about Barr he was an officer in
the 92 campaign and he tasked the
Arkansas US Attorney with digging in
the Bill Clinton and all the Whitewater
stuff and all that while seeing the
campaign was still going on he tasked
him with doing it and the only reason it
didn't happen was because a US Attorney
in Arkansas refused and he stood up and
he wrote a letter to the Department of
Justice saying it was completely
ridiculous that he was not going to do
it it was unethical and so they had to
hold back well we know that that
investigation went on anyway right I
mean and it was done by the press and
the Arkansas project and all that other
stuff
William bar was one of the most partisan
ruthless partisan operatives ever in the
Department of Justice the first time and
he's doing exactly the same thing now
and he's doing it you know in in this
most cynical way possible saying that
you know what he said and this is very
dangerous but he said on CBS this
morning he said I think the greater
threat to our system is resistance to
the President of the United States I'm
like really I mean I when did that
happen now okay you know and and he said
use those very words there's resistance
to the president United States is a
greater threat then he was talking about
the foreign interference and so you know
this is a very very dangerous guy so as
you say getting back to the point that
there will be a vacuum there is a vacuum
already and as the Democrat seem to be
differing in a hundred different
directions they're very clear on what
direction they're going in and that is
going to become the story and you can
already see the New York Times and The
Washington Post and all the networks are
kind of you know they're kind of
wandering around the fringes of this you
know yeah bogus and all going yeah we
need a story we need a story I need a
story and I just remind people the
Benghazi thing the Republicans had five
maybe five different entities as you
know controlling the house maybe in the
Senate too yeah you know I think it's
it's which is off investigate Benghazi
and it ultimately was the in
investigation that brought up the whole
personal server thing so I mean the you
don't know when an investigation starts
you just cannot tell where it's what
what it what havoc what benefit it's
going to create down the road and I will
say not only is the the overall notion
of not in pursuing impeachment creating
a vacuum the dithering that you're
talking about is also creating I think
another problematic vacuum which you
know I don't blame people for but you
know on two or three different cable
news shows the proponent of impeachment
brought on to talk about it was Rob
Reiner now I love Rob Reiner uh I think
he's great but this should not be
happening
it should not be Robert DeNiro as the
voice of impeaching this guy this is
serious stuff politicians lawyers judges
people non celebrities should be the
most prominent voices that are calling
for impeachment but there is a vacuum
because the the leadership of the
Democratic Party has ceded this ground
and so I don't blame you know like as
you know filmmakers and actors coming in
and making this appeal but I do not
think it's effective I just don't think
that it's reaching the right people now
maybe they can convince Pelosi III I
hope so
but this is this is a real problem like
now back benchers in the Democratic
caucus and other people have to stand up
because this is there's no plan and the
only thing worse than a bad plan is no
plan i I genuinely believe that and this
is i it's just highly III just I can't
get over it I mean this is total mal
this here and I think the presidential
candidates should step up and put more
pressure on Pelosi to the extent that
they can but you know they're all
looking for support so they're afraid to
do it this is a bad situation and I
don't know if she thinks it's just gonna
go away like how how could Nancy Pelosi
think that like well if we get past
Muller and this and that nobody's gonna
be thinking about impeachment anymore
wait why like you're gonna maintain the
driving force that brought you the
greatest midterm electoral victory in
the history of midterms and you're going
to sort of try and like I'm trying to
like trying to figure out how this works
we work with Donald Trump or we don't
work with Donald Trump people won't
notice that he's continuing to I don't
know do stuff that is impeachable and
and not and so the calls for impeachment
are gonna die down and won't that
necessarily involve the acceptance of
Donald Trump which is gonna undercut the
elections in 2020 like I just don't even
understand I would love to see just her
the flowchart of how this works in her
mind well you know I don't understand it
either although from what I gather they
have really convinced themselves that
the reason they won the election last
November was based upon their domestic
kitchen-table issue agenda and that's
because everybody was talking about that
on the campaign trail people were
talking about health care and you know
the prescription drugs and taxes and
college loans and all that stuff which I
which is true they were talking abut the
subtext of everything that happened in
November and I cannot believe that these
people don't know that was they sent
them they knew that none of that stuff
was going to happen as long as Donald
Trump is president none of it was going
to happen they sent them there that
November they didn't sit around and wait
and go you know hey whatever I'm going
to get on with my life and then in 2020
I'll come out and I'll vote against him
they didn't do that
they went out and to send a clear
message that they wanted Donald Trump
stopped this is not this was not I
absolutely know this in my bones this
was not about them saying you know we
really want you to go to Washington and
ignore Donald Trump and just pass some
symbolic bills which will be really nice
makes people feel good that we know
won't get passed but that's what we want
you to spend the next two years doing
and that's what we've sent you there to
do and we don't care about any of the
rest of this stuff and furthermore Sam I
think it's insulting to the electorate
to suggest that they don't care about
any of this stuff and that's really what
they're saying oh come on you know it's
into this impeachment thing this is just
a waste of time he'll just go around
saying he was exonerated because it's
not bipartisan and you know what people
really care about and they come out and
say this openly on TV every single day
what people really care about is their
own lives and what's going on in their
own lives basically what they're saying
is our voters don't care about the
country they don't care whether or not
we have a criminal in the White House
they don't care about the fact that our
system is being totally destroyed and
that the president goes overseas and
makes a spectacle of himself and that
everything in our system has been turned
inside-out because of all of this and
that the Republicans are now a
nihilistic I mean you know can we say
Mitch McConnell you know a nihilistic
blight on our Constitution they don't
care about any of that what they care
about is they just care about themselves
that's all they care about you know as
long as we talked to them about what
we're gonna give them and what they have
they'll be happy I mean I think that's
insulting
I mean I really do I think the American
people do care about what's happening
I think they are you know maybe they're
confused by it and I can't blame them
because you know you've got Democrats
running around did the ring robert
muller making speeches raat William Barr
Donald Trump running around the world
you know talking about Kim jong-un like
he's his best friend all that stuff is a
confusing morass that it's hard to sort
of you know work your way through it but
nonetheless they care about it and I
think you know look at this town hall
that Justin Amash had earlier this week
I mean Justin Amash is a super
conservative Republican he was one of
the founders of the freedom caucus he
came in on the Tea Party wave he's a
libertarian and he ran on all those
issues that all those Tea Party guys ran
20:10 but he's the only one who meant it
apparently he is the only one who
actually cared about you know the
Constitution and the Gadsden flag and
civil liberties and all the stuff they
pretended to care about and he Linton
had a you know he came out for
impeachment and by the way if anybody
hasn't read his Twitter feed on
impeachment he should do it because it's
really very clarifying I mean I think
he's ironically one of the best people
who has actually explained the Muller
report is a Republican a very
conservative Republican so there you
have it and he had this town hall and
there were people there you know who
were obviously there were Trump he's
there there were sort of you know
standard you know right-wing suburban
Republicans there were Democrats and he
was very well received and he was well
received and respectful way they gave
him a standing ovation for saying you
know when when someone said that you had
that we admire you for the courage of
standing up and speaking your mind and
telling the truth as you see it and you
know I'm looking at that I'm going you
know if a conservative Republican can
get that you have to wonder if maybe you
know some Democrats might try the other
sort of fascinating thing out of that
same Town Hall was the clip of that that
woman who said like that woman I had no
idea I only listen to conservative news
and I had no idea there was anything bad
in the Muller report about Donald Trump
at all and you know this goes to show
that there is room to educate people
like I said Muller delivered nothing new
but new to a lot of people and mistake
you know and I I will admit that like a
week and a half ago I thought Pelosi's
close she's turning and it it seems to
me she is not and everything she is
doing now I think is basically just
completely limits all the possibilities
I mean at one point the whole point of
impeachment is not to get Donald Trump
out because you're not going to get
Donald
maybe there's a 5-2 percent chance the
whole point is to make the Republican
Party own him and they have failed to do
this since day one they failed they
failed at the convention they failed
during the campaign Clinton and Schumer
in particular like you know Schumer
bragging about he's gonna got a deal
with Paul Ryan and Schumer and Clinton
we're all gonna do this repatriating the
taxes they have failed to do this and
the only thing that I could honestly
that makes any sense and when you see
Joe Biden literally articulate this
right that they're gonna revert back to
the mean after Donald Trump is not
around and they're gonna be okay after
this they're in a fever whatever all
this BS which still it shocks me that
not a single candidate frankly not a
single one has had the smarts to go out
there and say even if they do it through
surrogates Joe Biden is criticizing
Barack Obama here because they didn't
have Donald Trump four years ago and
they didn't work with the the the you
know well they should have done it
earlier because it's it's it's it's also
political malpractice but the idea that
the Democratic establishment in some way
refuses to lay a glove on the
Republicans and attach Donald Trump to
these Republicans which is what a peach
Minh Saul about on day one you set out
we're not this man is going to be in
office in 2020 we're gonna do our job
but the reason why he's gonna be here is
because the Republicans will not do
theirs exactly why isn't that a great
argument I don't understand them that's
a great argument thing look we're gonna
lay out everything right here it's gonna
be right here for you just like the
Muller report right only it'll be
broader it'll have emoluments and you
know corruption and all the Ralphie
scence and the abuse of power lay the
whole thing out and then say and you
want to know why the
sky is still in office you want to know
why he's even on the ballot right now
because all of these Republicans over
here refuse don't care about the
Constitution we could get it up here and
we could keep passing bills that we know
are not going to pass but what we're
going to do is we're gonna do our job
and provide oversight and let the
American public know exactly who has
been sitting in the office and who the
Republican Party is protecting and you
make that argument it's it's it's beyond
me now that because I the other thing is
like you know you know I have had this
conversation a couple of times nobody
nobody seems to be talking about
everybody discusses one side of the
ledger you know do we impeach you're not
do you know like what what is what's the
value in impeaching nobody talks about
what the cost and not a P impeaching is
it's just it's stunning to me well it
seems obvious to me that the cost of it
is is that Donald Trump will look like
you know the strong one who basically
cowered the Democrats into not taking
action and did the ring around like a
bunch of chickens with their heads cut
off and that he basically which stood
he's a strong guy he stood up to them he
basically survived and look at him and a
lot of people are going to find that a
hell of a lot more compelling than the
Democrats running around like you know
like fools that they could couldn't
figure out what to do about it
it's very worrisome it really does worry
me and and the I'm just the one tell for
me is this whole five percent tariff
thing because that's how you know he's
like he's in a sort of a panic mode they
always return to the brown people
whenever there's a problem and that's
absolutely and now everybody's talking
about it and the market is tanking and
he's doing all this stuff and again
another impeachable offense he's using a
but a phony national emergency to enact
powers that no other president has ever
enacted under these circumstances this
is crazy time and we're just like
shrugging our shoulders okay
tariffs on Mexico sure in order to stop
drugs and immigrants
I mean that's ridiculous and and the
idea that this is happening and nobody
even cares about it anymore is yet
another bit of evidence that the man is
completely out of control and and and
you know the Democrats are going to sit
and go oh no I mean now if they came on
the u.s. MCA the new NAFTA as a result
of this I'm gonna I don't know what I'll
do I I'm gonna put myself into a home
because that will show their weakness
more than anything else that's what he's
trying to do you know well Heather if
you could do me a favor save me a bed on
that see if you can get me a room with a
window that's all like yeah I'll get the
reservation in line they're always a
pleasure
with a little asterisk next to it
absolutely thanks for having me Sam have
a great weekend everybody all right I
think we got a couple minutes here let's
let's call Michael as you know Michael
is at a retreat where he is
it's a silence some type of silent
retreat and we're gonna give him a call
just check on them to see what's what's
up see if he's we have the chyron that
we set all right what's that net up
right now okay yeah call didn't answer
hold on here we go which I one more time
it's going out with our phones here
Oh Michael is that you
Michael I know you're on a silent
retreat so if it's you just one beep for
yes two beeps for no on your phone oh
okay hi Michael how are you are you good
all right I'm glad to hear that well I
should tell you that let's see what
should I tell Michael I'm about Dave oh
yeah well you missed Dave Rubin having a
total implosion and it was great oh no
it's true it is absolutely true I'm
sorry but it is absolutely true Dave
Rubin had a very difficult time this
week also Bernie Sanders came in to the
office yes yes absolutely he did you
missed that sorry
we also what's that oh yeah Lula da
Silva called in oh yeah no he did they
let him call from prison and then of
course we also HBO show came in and
taped the show yeah sorry sorry buddy we
did mention that you were here we got
your name wrong we misspelled your name
and I cancelled your live Chicago show
I'm sorry but I just
we had a misplaced call and what else
can I tell you oh we've been sponsored
by Nike on this show so we can't you
wear any more adidas stuff I'm sorry
well yes it's true I'm sorry no is not
the proper response there the answer is
yes it's true so I'm sorry but what else
can I tell you that's about it
we were having a great time in your
absence and don't know if you're gonna
be back but let's face it I mean things
are going great here so take your time
and anything you want to say no are you
sure about that
he played some music playing some outro
music
alright well Michael great talking to
you as always appreciate it okay okay
alright we're gonna take quick break
we'll call Judy gold
you
yes ladies and gentlemen every now and
then on a Friday we get super lucky and
we have the opportunity to play this
song calm cool and collected to keep us
all connected the matter with
them a steady hand to God she'll keep us
calm and carry you know
too bad Jimmy Refik
didn't find a worthy and he's he's such
a penis head liar hey Judy
okay can we yeah what what were you
gonna say Akari
how are you I'm great I'm great you know
like I think everything you know I think
that when someone basically comes out
and says look I am telling you right now
this guy's a lying piece of
who was ruining our kind like I'll do
the subtext of that Muller what
was it a speech was part of life press
conference yeah okay press conference I
can't even think anymore okay basically
saying hey I just want you to know I'm
Robert Muller
I'm really honest I'm a public servant
I'm really sorry
uh I just you know I'm so proud to be
American despite a this
guy's a liar you should get that
 taken Adam office right now impeach
him I'm telling right now he committed
crimes
dude this stupid law is
presenting and I'm so good I'm so good
I'm gonna totally go by the rules get
him the
 out now okay that's basically what
he said and then we have to here we have
Hitler information and I mean I word the
I word if I hear the I word one
more time that mother lying
piece of
hello hello
I can't and he's like you know he's just
he's a--
i what more do you need what more do you
need and bar I want to take his
I want to grab him by the jowls and
 anymore what's going on
no I'm serious like what's gonna happen
like help one more to the Democrats need
I I just spent 40 minutes asking Digby
the same question and she spent 40
minutes asking me the same question what
we have no we don't are the Democrats
scrotal sack okay
how does not drop okay I know know what
that means
to drop I don't even know what that
means but whatever the ball the balls
have not dropped they have it we are we
I just is anyone like is any what he
covered John McCain's name like that is
mental it is mental is psychotic
and mental baby toddler jealous we have
to cover like seriously we are dealing
with like the most immature dumb lying
 idiotic enlarged prostate
 I can't we have footage of Prop
8 know of his prostate and but we do
have footage of Megan McCain talking
about it which I can't yeah this is
let's bring this up I mean it's
this is one of those things like where
it's sort of like you know you're doing
a joke on a joke where it's sort of hard
to figure out who you know like which is
worse what Trump actually did or the way
that Megan McCain phrases it like it's
like that the problem is well this is
the thing about Megan McCain right it's
like she is the worst person to talk
about this because but nevertheless
that's what we have here she is on the
view talking about the report on it okay
and we should say Donald Trump has
addressed this and said he didn't know
about it but you know he hated John
McCain so people who work for him knew
about it they did it right but he still
even when he said I had no idea about it
he prefaced that with I hate him right
he prefaced his statement about it with
oh by the way I do hate him but
I didn't know about that we should
basically say I I knew about it
and I hate him that's exact
 go ahead Megan here we go the
White House proudly emailed Navy
officials telling them to hide the name
of the USS John McCain warship now you
know who's denying you knew anything
about it but he does say that whoever
made the order was well-meaning since
they knew he wasn't a fan of John McCain
okay you want to take this one God thank
you for letting us do this topic first
cuz I just want to get this out of the
way first and foremost I had journalists
emailing me all Memorial Day about this
asking me just sort of giving me a heads
up this was happening so the idea that
people didn't know is ridiculous they're
journalists I trust I will say the
president's actions have consequences
and when you repeatedly are attacking my
father and war heroes positive one
second they don't have any kind of what
are you talking about he's got that
 turtle and that's what
kind of dog has the jowl what the
 dog with the jowl I don't know
the blood a bloodhound bloodhound
 bar bloodhound bar okay and
 Lindsay Gay Graham I can't you
know all these people are okay he has no
consequences none and first of all
beggin what's up yes I've known about
this all weekend and let me just get
this out of way because I'm like really
important no one can talk about my
father except for me well I know wait a
second oh where do you think she's going
to this what do you think the
implications are gonna be that she
points out here like the the that that
Donald Trump would have at no small cost
you know I have this covered so that or
his people would have a covered so they
didn't have to see it what what is what
is in debt what is what is this going to
lead to do you think megan mccain is
going to say you know what that's an
excellent question like this guy is
acting like some type of autocrat like
the idea that like you don't like a name
so you wanted to race this is his
bizarre and and creepy or this is
indicative of a guy who like is so
mentally unstable that his advisers have
to be worried that he can't control
himself in the context of like doing a
ceremony for the japanese that he's
going to end up calm
Banting on the the John McCain like they
had sailors who had John McCain on the
Vega that they weren't allowed to go to
the event they were kept out of the
event I know what is she's gonna say
it's gonna it's gonna create a culture
in the military where instead of being
professional they start to think that
they just belong to Donald Trump right
like because that's a problem here I
mean if you're like I want the military
I you know standard procedure I don't
care you are going to now respond to my
whim that is actually not the fear that
Megan McCain has go back just like that
is that correct
those are all yes yes here's hers we'll
say the president's actions have
consequences and when you repeatedly are
attacking my father and war heroes it
creates a culture in the military where
people are clearly fearful to show you
know my father's name in one way or
another and that I think is what has
started this chain of events and actions
there were night waiting Trump well I
think they're I think they're if you're
afraid to have a US McCain hat or show a
you know the banner on the warship which
by the way is named after my grandfather
and great-grandfather who the very first
four-star Admirals in the Navy and both
integral in and day
a horrific situation okay that's so
there it is the danger is that we're
creating a culture where people are
afraid to say the words John McCain that
to me doesn't feel like a culture
exactly that's exactly right Megan and
let me tell you something back in the
world revolves around you I mean I
there's a thing about her like I loved
what she said at his her eulogy was
amazing okay
it was amazing okay um but I don't
understand like she attacks Amy
Klobuchar for um you know talking about
him in a positive way
you know she attacked her and yet this
is it I mean I do you understand that
the guy is a mental case like I
don't even know what to say it's so
annoying I can't believe they
had to drape that it is so it's
even it's cuter its nursery school it's
nuts
 crazy and crazy yes go ahead
what do you think about this drinking
game every time that Meghan McCain says
my father my father my father right we
all take a sip of arsenic I think we'd
be dead like what literally in under a
minute it's a it's a pretty disturbing
time isn't it it's been like this for
quite a while oh you music's coming
through I just like the guy like okay
what let's all right let's not even talk
about the lying and the you know
the no collusion and Putin and
China and and Kim Jong let's forget all
of that and only deal with his mental
health he should have been out he should
be out
he's night how many it's not I
mean you know that even if there's
impeachment he's not going anywhere
right I understand I think we know that
I don't think other people know that who
what do we do what do you mean by that I
think we know that that he's not going
to go anywhere but I don't think people
and you know who don't follow ball okay
I think they think you know like Nixon
who resigned with although that they got
kicked out like I mean like written
first oh this is the other thing
I want to say okay this whole idea like
Clinton was more popular after he was in
pH and we don't want to have that yeah
he was more popular because it was about
a it was about
sex in the office with a consenting
adult getting it was about getting
 that's what it was about they all
wish they could get and they all
felt sorry for him like oh I mean yeah
this was bad but you know at least you
got a you know okay
that's why it's he was more popular
because they were like oh he's a guy he
need to get okay that's it this
is about our democracy our Constitution
like and if I hear constitutional crisis
one more from I mean okay Randy person
that we're in a twice's
period constitutional whatever
the earth is going on fire okay
there's the global warming this guy is
like like a dictator like he's just I
just how's everything else going you
know my blood pressure is all right no
it is right now I just just in anyone
outraged by like it's like you know
Nancy Pelosi is very smart she knows
exactly what she's doing
we need to trust her up you know what
the guy is mentally ill he's a mental
case minuchin I'd like to smash
his face in a in a
I hate speed minuchin is such a dick and
he does just that like like oh yeah no
not to do that no we're not doing that
listen um yeah I'm gonna someone should
suffocate him with like you know twenty
dollar bills out going shove them down
his throat usually you're speaking under
horribly right metaphorically yeah I
don't want to get in trouble right so
anyone else let me ask you a question
anyone else behave like him like Trump
would they still have their job go no of
course not of course not
okay if Trump was a Democrat he still
wouldn't he wouldn't have his job right
if any Democrat acted behave like he did
what would they be doing what would they
be doing they would be talking about him
right right it's already gone it's not
right
someone's got to stick up we got the guy
from Michigan
someone else has got a it's I
just want to contemplate this the idea
that Justin Amash is going to end up
running on his calls from Pietschmann
and perhaps winning in his district you
got Democrats we're gonna rise what what
what's really gonna drive me nuts is
when Susan Colin comes out for
impeachment and that's the way that she
gets right now I know yep well I thought
that his behavior was very bad so I am
actually going to support his
impeachment and I want him better later
so Judy did you uh did you take a
vacation at all over over the past
couple months to get a chance to go I
said I'm writing a book
I'm lining a box well I have to finish
my book it's on freedom of speech Israel
and yeah oh
called yes yes I can say that you
if you can't take a joke it's for
HarperCollins really working on that
yeah damn I'm good I'm an author almost
so this is now so Oh
so let's talk about Nick DiPaolo yeah go
ahead
did you see did you see the little his
his little uh his his cover for his new
album
oh you didn't how did you miss all this
because I all I do is write all that
well I mean this is my oh yeah look at
that all right yeah no that's them
that's totally him hey don't think Nick
should be arrested for this but uh
no of course no what freedom of speech
right well look you you're going you're
going Oh Nick DiPaolo should I listen to
his album oh wow he's giving he's
flipping off these protesters I don't
think I'm gonna really like um I'm gonna
let that guy was killed so and he's
giving him the finger okay so that's a
choice okay you can't shut anyone if you
shut one person obvious out everyone up
okay but what so let me ask you this let
me ask you this because I don't I don't
know the premise here book what is there
do you think that there is a there are
comedians out there who are being shut
down any differently than what you just
exude just said yes who's that I don't
know Oh Mike oh so he got he went on
stage in Florida he's from Egypt he was
born in Egypt he got at Club in Florida
in Naples nipple and he has a joke or
he's like oh you know Middle Eastern any
other Middle Eastern people here are
some people clap he's like well that's
that's cool a bunch of Malaysian people
are here but you know it only takes one
of us to tell a joke okay and then he
says you know what right and then he
says but laksa you know I would like to
ask you know the Georgia it was
something like that some guy in the
audience called 9-1-1 calls 9-1-1 yes
and they come the next night before so
he calls 9-1-1 saying that he wants this
guy if you know ahmed was trying to
start a terrorist cell what oh my god
it's ridiculous did they stop the hey
did they stop the show no first of all
they said to two police officers of
color of course because you know and
they were like do whatever you're doing
and he even got I got an email from the
911 operator he got an email from her
like sorry we had to copy like okay
everyone knows it's ridiculous but he
does meet and greets after the show he
waits for the audience he takes pictures
with them and shake their hand
terrorists as he said terrorists don't
you meet and greet so okay okay so
alright so we're not really but he's not
being shut down like I mean obviously I
think that guy in the audience right but
he was he was shut down and at a college
game shockingly enough all right that's
just somebody saying that's just that's
just something like that's just a
college kid gig like that is just
somebody saying the equivalent of like
oh I just realized that the the guys
given the finger to is a dead black
lives matter protester I'm not buying
that album I'm not listening to the
album I mean that's not I mean that's
that's what happens at the college right
like there's no right don't go or the
college but that's yeah that's the
college not going by saying like we're
not gonna host you yeah I mean that the
Amin example just kind of shows that the
people who are more likely to have their
freedom of speech interfered with by the
government which is what the First
Amendment is actually referring to tend
to be marginalized people and people who
are speaking out against the entrenched
power structures like well but
government didn't stop him they just
showed up and basically apologized
well okay be that as it may it could
have gone differently for him like my
friend Jake Flores tweeted a joke about
killing ice agents that was very funny
and the DHS showed up at his house yes
that we I mean that is a good example of
something that's problematic but the
college thing I mean obviously I think
that the college is being ridiculous but
that's not the same as that to me is the
same as an individual saying I'm not
going to buy NICTA Paulo's album isn't
it it's not the same no it is the same
yes yes exactly
listen here's the deal you know it's all
about power you know I've learned a lot
it's researching for this book it is all
about power yes you know freedom of
speech is you know it the First
Amendment the people who were in power
like Trump can say whatever the he
wants because he has the power to do it
it's the you know I talked to Ira Glass
you know they wanted to shut up Malcolm
X they want to shut up people who were
telling the truth they wanted to shut up
Lenny Bruce you know anyone who's
telling the truth and doesn't have the
power that you know these these law
enforcers enforcement people have or um
they want to shut them up they want to
shut up comedian Nick DiPaolo is very
obviously a conservative he's got you
know he's he has who he is he's just
he's a he represents a certain kind of
person and he happens to be a comedian
and his communist through that point of
view and if you don't like it don't
watch it don't buy the album and just
you can say Oh your but that's
it
right fighting Nick DiPaolo album cover
it's not going to change the very well
wait a second there those are two
different things right like okay like
like saying Nick DiPaolo has every right
to do that album cover but I also have
every right to go on Twitter or anybody
and say
like nobody should buy that album cover
because it's gross right album right
right
you shut one person off then you shut
everyone like it's like saying I don't
want this person at my college because
they're you know right-wing Nazi
propaganda okay and then so they say you
can't come to the college and then they
have some like you know lefty left um
Pro gay Pro gender fluidity or whatever
and these other people are like well you
didn't have that one so you can have
this one and then that's okay you know
you can you can't shut anyone up but I
am equating the idea that a college
would not would disinvite Nick DiPaolo
with the same act as me as an individual
choosing not to buy his album like the
college is not saying you can right yeah
it's a private college I'm just saying
if if that private college if it's a
private thing if it's get it right if
that College says no you can't come here
you know we don't want you okay and so
you're not coming
and then they but they have someone else
with the completely different opinion
those people who can protest you know
they change stand there and say yeah
it's freedom of speech of course the
college has the right to say like you
know what we feel more comfortable with
this perspective than the other and so
we're going right right
State College it gets a little more I
just get annoyed when comedians try to
be snowflakes about it themselves and
they conflate that they think like
people not coming to their shows or not
laughing at their jokes means they're
being censored you know like I feel like
a lot of people can dish it out but they
can't take like it's okay to complain
like college audiences suck today and
but it's another to say like it's
completely wrong that I'm shut out of
the college circuit because of
you know PC culture well no it's just
like your comedies just out of the out
of step and you know you know 30 30
years ago yeah
when Andrew Dice Clay was King you know
you could have people are bitching like
my comedy is not you know misogynist and
I could never get booked well you know
it's like that's that it's like look you
know he's playing with character he's
doing that his aunt you can't shut him
up that's what this country is that's
when people come here you know mr. Paulo
is a person and he has his own points of
view and he decides like just like Kathy
Griffin with the head the fake head you
know like right hey big deal big deal
she's l200 and be the
rock this guy
these lawmakers but none of what
these comedians are doing have any
effect on your life they don't but wait
where is this coming from ah they're a
real threat here I mean you know III
know I'm just saying
they act like it's a big threat the
threat is your lie ass
 president and Mitch fat
 turtle face McConnell
and fat will go bar and see minuchin and
lending granny
these people they're making laws they're
affecting people's lives everyday live
they're affecting a woman's right to
decide what to do with her body
this is a comedian and he's off-color
and you don't like what he's doing it
has no effect on you turned off the
 turn the channel off don't buy
his album write about how you
hate his album but he has a right to do
whatever the he wants right he has
a right to do it though you can also
boycott you're okay with boycotts right
exactly
i boycott I won't go to chick-fil-a I
don't even let my kids go to
chick-fil-a okay Judy when does this
book come out the book is coming out at
the end of November I mean the end of
October and when will I receive my
advance copy
you'll get your advance copy as soon as
I finish writing the book
all right well well maybe you should get
on it it's married okay I don't need
that that's all I hear every day ELISA
calls me she's like oh did you get any
writing done how much more do you have
writing a book is a nightmare isn't it
it's a nightmare it's all you can think
about you can't do anything else I like
I have dinner with my family and I'm
like oh my god I should be writing I I
did not enjoy the process I did one yeah
many years and it was not but it's like
I'm under
they only gave me six months so that's
the hardest part
well that's it would be even worse if
they gave you two years because then you
would just be like saving it until the
last like you know month month project
right it's like it's like 30 horrible
but Judi I am very very excited to read
it do we have it oh my god we have a
title it's called yeah it's called yes I
can say bad yes I can say that and then
the little title you know underneath it
says you if you can't take a joke
but you know the you in the nasara with
oh yeah okay how do you get around that
apparently you cannot you can say it but
you can't spell it yeah like yeah you
can say it and you can say whole
countries and whatever the or
whatever but you can't spell it
yeah smell it you know and if a kid sees
that they're gonna be scarred for life
it's true you know and and if a kid sees
the Nick DiPaolo giving the finger to
these protesters you know that's gonna
be the end of the world
you know I mean stop picking on
comedians stop it Judy gold Wow
well I'm gonna keep I'm I keep picking
on you to come on the show what do you
think about that I love you guys I love
you I get you know how many people
stopped me at my gigs and they're like
only heard you once and theater and I
need you on the majority but like a lot
not that I want to get single to single
digits single digits but that's that is
that no a lot Oh
can i plug something of course oh good
Milford Pennsylvania
in the milford theater its historic and
if anyone's near milford you have to
 come to my show
where is milford and I went it's where I
went to sleepaway camp and I
hated it and not because I was like six
feet tall and twelve years old and I was
looking at my bunk when I was you know
leaving for the summer and leaving after
you know the summer was over and someone
carved in the wall Bigfoot's left here
okay thank you
I know and you left you left but
whatever but it's like that's the story
in my life but it was us it was a sad
laugh you know I I can tell you that
Mike my experience at camp I would cry
like a baby on the ride home right from
camp I was very very unhappy to return
back to home oh my god seemed really
mm-hmm Wow but I only might hated it to
be fair I only went for eight weeks a
summer so I was such a loser in my
normal life at school and then I went to
camp and I had so many friends cuz I was
with all the other theater losers it's
great that's great because you know what
I was a loser in school and then I went
to camp now though where are those
people yeah yeah leave them in the dust
Judy go you know I don't I blocked it
out I really wish I wouldn't want to
hear from people who are in my bunk and
tell me what the because I write
all I remember is yeah well boats can
also contact people can contact the show
and we can do a Judy gold this is your
life at camp
I love that I love that do they love you
I think you guys talk to you soon
alright folks
that is the free show that we have for
you today we're going to head into the
fun half we're in where we've got some
very very fun video fun video bill Barr
lying on television we have fun video of
a preacher who apparently cannot handle
being questioned on his use of and
ownership of massive private jets closer
to God
we've got Lou Dobbs who is so befuddled
by where we are as a country right now
that he cannot read anymore
Lou Dobbs struggles with Trump's syntax
we have Laura Ingraham who is not in any
way a white supremacist basically
bemoaning the censoring on social media
of a-z an avowed Nazi oh yes it is very
explicitly once a race war Nazi there
you go so I know I know don't mean to
get too moralistic about things we will
we will take quick break remind you that
this program relies on your support you
can support this free show by becoming a
member at joined the majority report
calm when you do we give you extra to
extra content every day we give it to
you commercial free if you are one of
those people who are going through a
temporary or prolonged or war you're not
sure a period of financial stress or
insecurity or you anticipate one or or
whatever send us an email at majority
reporters at gmail.com we will hook you
up we will not keep anyone out of the
free out of the fun half for financial
reasons now I say this it takes a while
for us to get to the emails constantly
doing it but we're just always
constantly behind so if you send an
email and then like a half a day later
you're like why you asking me to send an
email when you're not answering the
email I can
sure you you're just not getting the
drift of what I mean what I mean it
takes us a while I mean like it can take
like a week or two or three sometimes it
just depends on the rhythm of things
Pony Express it's like the Pony Express
but we will get there I promise you join
the majority report com also just coffee
co-op fair trade tot a coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off I'm rushing through that
because yesterday we got a phone call
about coops and I know maybe I should
just save this for the fun half because
it came through in the fun half but can
somebody said where is the concept of
coops come from and what I can't
remember somebody claimed that it was
that it was that it was Marx
I started coops I think I can't remember
what the what the caller said but this
is what the email I wrote today a caller
said that coops were started by Marx and
you said you didn't know modern coops
were started in 1844 in Rochdale
England Marx was in his 20s it's time
but how much he interacted with Rosedale
folks or was influenced by them I have
no idea I worked in coops for decades
coops all over the world give credit to
the Rochdale pioneers Marx may have
pioneered the collective but those are
different than coops co-op everyone
contributes but they also have personal
autonomy and a collective everyone
throws everything into the same pot and
get taken care of by the collective
Theory according to their needs I have
lived and worked in both in my humble
opinion collectives don't work and don't
last just saying this is from listener
Brenda well the 1840s actually it's
funny should mention that was a time of
utopianism in America there's a lot of
utopian communities started they were
all sort of inspired by the shakers and
then there was sort of Robert Owen and
Fourier who were sort of guys that were
they were sort of industry people
themselves they wanted philanthropists
so basically formed
phalanx Azure little communities made of
these massive buildings that everybody
could live in and do their laundry
together and cook together and do all
that stuff
Wow I had no idea the people
contemplating but what what probably
constituted massive buildings back then
we're probably not quite as big as
they're today they call him the
parallelogram and the idea was they'd be
for Robert Owen at least air for year it
was it would be a Versailles for the
people hmm
that is super interesting as the choking
a crazy communist I just feel obligated
to note that Marx wanted to go beyond
coops
to a stateless classless society not
just I mean coops clearly better than
having a boss no offense to any bosses
in the room but you're still competing
on the marketplace so it could coexist
with capitalism which Marx was generally
against there you have have folks just
another little factoid that you get from
listening to the majority report this
one of course was in the free show but
you should see how many ones were in the
one half so many factoids so many fun
toys in the meantime tea MBS this week
has been taken over by literary hangover
but the Intifada
the anti Fattah and the anti Fattah is
not taken a vow of silence is that right
Jamie that is true
we're keeping on keeping on just yelling
about communism 24/7 we actually have a
lot of stuff this week to promote so in
our free episode we speak with Anna
Marie in the author of Republic of Lies
American conspiracy theorists and their
surprising rise to power to talk about
why conspiracy theories are the most
American thing ever how they got into
the White House and why we will not be a
less paranoid Society until we are a
fairer one we also yeah it was a
something okay we also have history is a
weapon featuring Sean KB and Matt
Chrisman from Chapo Trap House where
they talk about the 70s as a very
important decade the prefigured
a lot of what's going on in the world
right now and it's a two-parter so part
two will be out next week for our
patrons and this is very exciting I have
an announcement I started a new a new
show a new thing it's currently a side
project although you know we'll see how
it goes
it is called the vampire castle with
Leslie Lee from struggle session and it
is the only podcast called that where
they where we actually talk about
vampires so check it wait a second wait
a second but there is another podcast
called that yeah another podcast which
has appropriated gothic American culture
in a way I really do not appreciate
aren't you guys worried about that from
a marketing standpoint it's like the two
dopeboyz thing all over again
I mean which do you think is more
popular with the general public leftist
politics or vampires mmm I don't think
either are that's the problem
Twilight is like the best-selling book
of all time oh that's true I suppose I
can tell you that when the Minority
Report became a movie not so much as a
book things went severely downhill for
me wait that was after when was that
movie from well yeah that movie was
probably in the mid arts right well you
know what I that's the mid wait a second
I have faith in the vampire loving
public that this will not happen 2002
shoot well oh and in this first episode
we discussed two vampire westerns
Kathryn Bigelow's near dark and John
Carpenter's vampires so check it out it
was when what's-his-face Larry Wilmore
almost called a short show Minority
Report that I said yeah a little worried
Matt yeah I guess there's so many
literary hangovers out there but yours
is the one that actually talks about
books I think mine's the only one
actually and it's the only one that
talks about books and it talks about
market fuller if you don't know who she
is you should be ashamed
I was when I figured out who what her
life and work was so check out the most
recent episode this weekend
recording a new for members only edition
of Orwell er where we talk about George
Orwell's essay such such were the joys
on his time at a preparatory school and
how they sort of beat him for bedwetting
how he realized that he was there
because he was an investment for
prestige and scholarship money for the
school and not necessarily therefore an
education so a lot of interesting things
but it's also very libelous and he
basically lied about a lot of people so
it wasn't published in his lifetime but
that we'll be covering that what would
be recording this weekend it sounds like
a nap or well err seeing the fun app
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whippin like
he's boss I am NOT your employer you
know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you alright but dude
dude dude dude dude dude you want to
smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur I'm
happy now five times hoping that more
moves to my repertoire all I have is the
dip in the scroll fine we can double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no under a
million dollars all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber laughing I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
will you send that to Matt so uh
yesterday oh shoot I gotta get the UM
let's see the switch and a new version
of fans which is looking actually pretty
sweet but there's a couple of things
that I gotta I could not for the life of
me figure out how to schedule my uh my
app this past week but then Andy figured
it out so we're getting there in their
call should now be open
what Oh did not happen hold on I'll do
this geez Oh peace now it should be open
let's just firm thank you for calling
here we go already report um please use
no speakerphone and give your one
comment or question ready listen for Sam
to call this is that no I think we
almost we knew that is not new I did
that about a month ago oh really yeah
nobody listens to it nobody listens to
it at all
Wow how did that happen these people
been on this whole time I just literally
got 12 callers Josh from Chicago called
in yesterday said that there was going
to be a live reading of the Muller
report in Queens and he's part of it
he's gonna be reading for at least two
hours and of course as soon as we talk
about it who jumps right in the New York
Times coming in to pick up on our scoop
mullet report will be read live this
weekend so let me make something clear I
think it's great for people in the arts
to do this kind of thing to communicate
and and get them all a report out there
because people have not read I don't
know why I think it's because I think it
was like you could study a media
campaign what Bill Barr did was so
effective in keeping people from reading
the report basically it was like a
spoiler right
and apparently Muller wanted to have the
summaries released in that moment which
would have been not a spoiler in the
same way because it would have been
characterized by the report itself not
by somebody who had an interest in it no
not existing so this is a great way for
people to get a sense of what's in the
report and then you know things can
happen more organically from their
speaking a bill bar let's let's just go
over this because this is Bill Barr gave
a an interview last night with I don't
know who with CBS it's exclusive they'll
probably Bing us for this maybe we can
slow it down or something maybe let's
just do sound on this okay
let's start with Bill Barr this is May
first right is that what you have right
there okay this is May first he's not
he's not sending this to Congress but
he's basically saying this in a press
release we accepted the special counsels
legal framework for purposes of our
analysis and reaching our conclusion
about obstruction let's listen to this
clip here
although the Deputy Attorney General and
I disagreed with some of the special
counsels legal theories and felt that
some of the episodes examined did not
amount to obstruction as a matter of law
we did not rely solely on that in making
our decision instead we accepted the
special counsels legal framework for
purposes of our analysis and evaluated
the evidence as presented by the special
counsel in reaching our conclusions okay
there we go we accepted the special
counsels legal framework for purposes of
our analysis and now as he sits in front
of a fireplace in Alaska I'm not sure
why is up in Alaska god knows what Horry
is doing with Anwar or whatever it is
but here is a bill bar sitting down with
CBS television saying the exact opposite
said that he couldn't exonerate the
president you looked at that evidence
and you did I mean what's the
fundamental difference between your view
and his well I think he was not going to
engage in the analysis he was he was not
going to make a determination one way or
the other we analyzed the law and the
facts and a group of us spent a lot of
time doing that and determined that both
as a matter of law many of the instances
would not amount to obstruction as a
matter of law as a matter of law in
other words we didn't agree with a legal
analysis a lot of the legal analysis and
the report he did not reflect the views
of the department it was the views of a
particular
lawyer or lawyers and so we applied what
we thought was the right law that yeah
so the legal framework ie what law
you're going to apply he's changing his
story a little bit because Muller has
now spoken yep there you go
no bar big liar so as you know President
Trump announced via tweet some type of
statement I guess that as a way of
deflecting attention from the
impeachment talk and as a way of dealing
with the crisis at the border as he
calls it what he's going to do is and I
believe what is illegally legally impose
a five percent tariff on Mexico or goods
coming in from Mexico starting I think
in ten days June tenth and then
increasing it by five percent every
month unless Mexico does something to
stop migrants from entering into its
country right they're not illegal
immigrants in Mexico they're people who
are allowed to travel through here is
Lou Dobbs so confused as to the the news
that he has to give to people on Fox
Business fourteen I think it's fourteen
percent I think our second or I think
the second biggest a country we import
from I think is Mexico maybe the third
14 percent somebody can check on that
but I think it's about fourteen or
fifteen percent if you enjoy avocados or
any type of fruit or vegetables avocado
toast is in trouble yes now the
Millennials will vote in
exactly there's gonna be it's gonna be
things are gonna get a little hairy and
I imagine people in on the business
channel are just like we what here is
Lou Dobbs trying to either either having
a stroke or trying to wrap his head
around this policy from the border and
the White House President Trump tonight
tweeting that on June 10th the United
States will impose a five percent tariff
on all goods entering are coming from
rather coming into our country from
trying to edit the president how foolish
from Mexico until such time as illegal
migrants come through Mexico and into
our country stop the tariff will
gradually increase until the illegal
immigration problem is remedied at which
time the tariffs will be removed details
from the White House to follow let's
let's read that again I think I owe the
president a better read than that if we
could begin again on June 10th the
United States will impose a will excuse
me five percent tariff on all goods
coming into our country from Mexico
until such time as illegal immigrants
coming through Mexico and into our
country stop and there it is the tariff
will gradually increase the president
says or beast be stopped when the
illegal immigration stops okay so
there's here's the thing there's no
illegal immigration like in this
calculus there's no illegal immigration
they're not illegal we can't decide
who's illegally in Mexico we can't
decide that and to the extent that
there's a crisis it's because there's
all these people who are coming for
asylum part of that is a function of how
horrific things are in their countries
part of it is frankly my understanding
is that people are afraid that he's
going to shut the
border and they're not gonna have the
opportunity to get in there so there's
like everybody's you know rushing to
come up there I thought it was because
of Mexico's imperialist foreign policy
thereby making it Mexico's Falls the
fascinating thing is it's not many
Mexicans that Mexican immigration is net
is is is below is a net negative at this
point there's more Mexicans leaving the
country this country in going to Mexico
than coming in so we're basically
threatening Mexico to attack the
citizens essentially of other countries
that they let into their country I just
don't know that this is gonna work folks
I am a little bit skeptical in dubious
and I'm curious as to the legality I
haven't heard much about that well it
will work to make basic goods more
expensive for Americans it will
certainly do that it will certainly have
I think a not terribly good impact on
our economy I imagine it might hurt
Mexico's economy trade with Mexico
apparently is 15 percent of our total
trade third and imports behind China and
Canada so we shall see we shall see and
we shall see you know for a guy who
wants to get impeached Donald Trump
seems to be changing the subject a
little bit weird a little bit weird
let's do this there was a couple of
moments we had Bernie Sanders in Nevada
we had Elizabeth Warren on the view
let's play Elizabeth Warren first here
she is explaining to people the wealth
tax this is an enormous ly popular
policy and one could understand why
because the number of people who are
actually subject
- this is infinitesimally small and the
benefit that we will get from it as a
society is quite large all of her
proposals that she's been talking about
a lot of the basically getting rid of
95% of the student debt function of the
wealth tax her expansion of childcare
the generic drug production all of this
funded by the wealth tax he or she is
explaining the wealth tax on the view
unclear if Meghan McCain is in the room
because I imagine she's in the room she
would be oh she would have a little bit
of a problem with this here we go puzzle
is a two-cent wealth tax on the top
one-tenth of 1% your 50 million and
first dollar you got a pitch in two
cents in two cents for everyone after
that and with that we can cancel student
loan debt for about 95 percent of the
people who have
finally but we can't do so much more to
cents we could not only do that we can
also provide Universal tuition free
technical school two-year college and
four-year college for every one of our
kids we can do universal child care for
every baby age zero to five for every
three-year-old and four-year-old in this
country and raise the wages of every
child care worker in preschool plans you
have they use the S word socialism how
do you counteract that type of an
assault
you know 43 million Americans who would
see student loan debt canceled under my
plan I think right there that's where
you cancel it you cancel it by making it
real it's in this country either this is
our values do we think that the two
cents should stay with the top one-tenth
of one percent they can't pitch in two
cents on the fifty millionth and first
dollar we're not saying they're bad
people we're just saying when you do
that
pitch in two cents so everybody in this
country gets a chance to
[Applause]
ah what is the question to tell are you
serious I can look it up I've got a
question I have I don't tell me that
it's gonna kill me I mean the framing of
that is I you know pretty good the idea
that it's two cents on every dollar
above 50 million no it's impossible to
argue with on any reasonable level it's
impossible it really is impossible
although I think Megan McCain's gonna
try but if she doesn't ask this I think
she moved on to a different question
that's how she did yeah man yeah too bad
I would be like 50% more likely to have
kids if Universal child care goes
through uh and Universal child care
universal pre-k I mean huge expenses but
also the idea that you're going to get
pre-k instead of childcare you know in
age three and four is also a is is is
hugely important do you see you had that
study the other day that they had
children two groups of children from the
60s one who had had pre-k one who had
not coming from the same neighborhood
that not only were in every single
category you would measure higher
education money earned staying out of
prison all of those things the kids with
you with pre-k did better they found
like a 25% health disparity in the age
of 55 that kids who had gone through
pre-k we're doing that much better in
terms of their just their health its I
mean it's it's so important all this
stuff is locked in that's the good thing
about having a 13 year old is your
like doesn't matter what I do now it's
already baked in the cake doesn't matter
all that stuff happens the first six
years seven years maybe and in in
biologically this case still like you
know Saul's eyes have improved but
apparently after the age of nine chances
are no you can't prove there you go
folks that's one of those fun toys that
I said you'd be learning in the Bernie
Sanders in in Nevada as a town hall he
is called out there is a perception that
continues to linger amongst Democratic
voters that Bernie Sanders did not exert
an effort to get Hillary Clinton elected
in 2016 I want to see the numbers on
that well there's there's there is you
can google it if you want you standing
in front of two computers I mean we
don't for a fact that okay Bernie voters
turned out for Hillary more than Hillary
voters turned out for Obama in no way
yes well Democratic voters and but but
yes that is true but that necessarily
isn't a function of his efforts the
point is his efforts are also well
documented the guy traveled around
relentlessly to get Clinton elected
there is a perception though that he did
not also Sanders has within the
Democratic primary according to polls
the largest number of people who would
not consider voting for him it's not
that big it's not that but it is it is
that is a reality here he is addressing
that question in Nevada
the answer is absolutely and positively
yes pause it pause it
we should say he's asked the question
he's asked is will you support the
Democratic nominee and somebody in the
crowd says where were you in there you
go I mean I'm more worried about the
Democrats not supporting Bernie I think
that what's that yeah that's true
Howard Schultz is not around the black
male worked well we'll see but yeah and
I think you know frankly during the the
2016 campaign I was of the mind that the
bigger issue would be would Democrats
support Bern
sandurz not not voters but but I think
more like people more invested in the
data and the Democratic Party and I
think a lot of that is some of that is
ideological but I think mostly it's like
everybody wants someone from their team
to win you see that all the time there
is a you know we have tribalism and then
we also have you know sectarianism I
think and I want to see income
correlated with never Bernie voters
because I'm gonna guess that they're
wealthier than people who would vote for
him
baby it's possible but all the things
you're saying or we like literally
within your grasp
I think there's there must be data on
this
there must be here is a is this from
Inside Edition Wow though Riley's old
beat so apparently there's this uh
pastor Kenneth Copeland
he's a megachurch pastor why would
Inside Edition be interested in this
well become errantly Kevin Kenneth
Copeland who do you by his point he
bodies his plane from Tyler Perry which
is a I don't know if you're worried
about demons
apparently the the preacher said someone
asked him about he said I'm not getting
on board one of those metal tubes with
all the devil's little devils and and
you'll see in this sort of interview if
you will he explains it's not humans I'm
talking about I'm talking back Shaw
devil spirits I gotta be I would be
worried about getting into Tyler uh
Tyler Perry's playing a Hugh meant to
get on a private jet with this guy yeah
no he's not talking about white devils
that's for sure oh there you go alright
so here here is here is a megachurch
pastor Kenneth Copeland being
interviewed
a Inside Edition reporter isn't it true
that you want to fly commercial so that
you can fly in luxury how much money did
you pay for Tyler Perry's Gulfstream jet
for example well for example that's
really none of your business but the
business of your donors mission I paid
you kind of caught me off guard here
okay thank you Lord let me just ask you
a really simple question a lot of people
think it's unbecoming for a preacher to
live a life of luxury
and to fly around in private jets what's
your response to that very simple it
takes a lot of money to do what we do
without the airplane that we have that I
bought from Tyler Perry and I didn't pay
anything or any Tyler's one of the
greatest guy he made it he made that
airplane so cheap for me I couldn't help
but buy it all right but I want to get
to the demons because people are very
concerned about that comment chance
you're inside the vision I love your
eyes again getting back to the comment
that you don't like to fly commercial
because you don't want to get into a
tube with a bunch of demons do you
really believe that human beings are
demons no I do not and don't you ever
say I did we wrestle not with flesh and
blood but principalities and powers can
you explain what you meant by that that
by that term then just just explain
because it's really simple you said you
didn't want to get into a tube with a
bunch of demons what did you mean do you
think that people that fly commercial or
demons but it's a biblical thing it's a
spiritual thing it doesn't have anything
to do with people people I love people
Jesus loves people Jesus but people get
pushed in alcohol
do you think that's a good place for a
preacher to be and prepare to go preach
to a lot of people when somebody in
there is dragging some woman down an
aisle it made me so mad to see that on
television I wanted to punch the guy out
myself I can't be doing that while I'm
getting ready to preach you just don't
like to be around the sinful people or
the the hurtful people is that what
you're saying
preacher should not be living a life of
luxury what is your response to that
they're wrong the Bible also says that
it's more difficult for a rich man to
get into heaven than it is for a camel
to get through the eye of a needle
correct yes to the scripture but he said
all things are possible with God boom
there you go onde I love it when he goes
pay me he's calling a baby like that's I
like your ass oh my god that is so
creepy how many how many like
inappropriate like like like it's trying
to shut her up I mean aside from just
the the horror that those type of people
are just broadly speaking how many how
many do you think like inappropriate
sort of come ons he's he's been involved
in like how many like God seems like a
lot I felt very grateful that she had
the door between yeah human heard but I
will say this what I would like to see
Inside Edition the business they get
into is why stop with preachers like why
is there really a fundamental difference
that it's hypocritical for a man of God
to amass that kind of money when it's
okay for Howard Schultz - well I mean
Howard Schultz doesn't claim to be super
into
Jesus does he well he's Jewish all right
so like there is a certain hypocrisy and
I think that's probably true but I still
think that like sometimes I sort of feel
like those type of things get to be a
little bit like they're a little bit
distracting that's the only thing I'm
severe enough going after really nobody
should have a private jet I think
private jets are a problem yeah we
should ban private jets be great fly
with demons the way the rest of us do
demon Airlines you think you're too good
to fly with demons yeah no I don't know
the way you talk about that offer of the
private jet are we sure tell her Perry
isn't like a discount private jet
salesman get what's so cheap a hot bath
died for the church my god I gotta flip
it I'm gonna flip it
tell me a quarter of a million dollars I
Got News for you that jet was probably
more a little more than quarter million
dollars well I'm gonna start an airline
human air and all of the goth socialists
who you know listen to my show we're
gonna fly on it it's gonna be great
I'm gonna start a religion speaking of
religion did you folks when you were
watching Robert Mahler the other day
realize how irreligious everything he
was doing was almost satanic but that in
of itself is also a religion isn't it or
even worse Islamic I mean satanic is
about as religious as it gets they don't
believe in Satan people who don't
believe in religion hear you stumbling
through a very strange prepared speech
in which he refuses to take any
questions thereafter denies exactly that
presumption of innocence to the man
elected by 63 million Americans to serve
as our 45th president
that's who Robert Muller is when he says
that we could find no proof that a crime
was not committed
he has upturned hundreds if not
thousands of years of judeo-christian
principles of how we judge other people
and the power of the state posit for one
moment now
I'm I probably should have spent a
little more time thinking about this but
there was the witch trials right where
the Christians were basically seeing if
the witches floated and if they floated
they were witches and they would get but
if they didn't float and they died then
they were obviously they were not
witches that was a judeo-christian II
then there was of course Crusades and
the Inquisition and all that stuff about
all those people who were like the world
you know like there's a universe and
this it was a Galileo like all that
stuff did he go to jail for a bit
because of that stuff and then Catholic
Church has a long history of loving
justice yeah yeah the expulsion of the
Jews from everywhere clearly they were
all guilty
they were all found guilty was that
other thing like with Jesus busy was he
put on trial but that was probably about
the the Romans yeah I'm not sure I know
what he's talking about with this
judeo-christian notion of you're proven
until you're guilty if you're innocent
till proven guilty thousands of years
thousands the Church of Satan should
make Moeller their mask judeo-christian
but it's just that's a little bit
there's a little bit of hyperbole there
but good and what it takes to denude us
of our rights you do not get to
pronounce ever in the United States on
the innocence or the lack of innocence
of an
individual who is uncharged I'm using
the technical terms of the Department of
Justice's own regulations and the ABA
he's even more in love with his voice
than he usually is yeah you know that's
what happens where are those hands when
you wear the cans you really start to
hear your own voice that compression is
really hitting me nicely in the ear drum
little more bass justices own
regulations and the ABA
you are a disgrace to the uniform you
once wore the badge you once had and the
credentials you once carried I hope you
have been escorted out of the main DOJ
building building because Robert Muller
you should not be allowed to park cars
there you go
you know I know we have some video game
designers that listen to the show and I
know this would probably take away too
much money to ever do but it'd be very
funny to have a video game and then just
take snippets of Gorkhas audio for one
of the characters just out of context
yeah it's always like this stop it now
stop it now but he's like a little like
I don't know you know what he I wonder
if he stole that that that that cadence
from this you all remember the movie
Wall Street there was a scene when
Father Son actually we're in an elevator
this is when I can't this is what's his
what's his name Mikey no not Michael
Douglas Emilio Estevez with his dad who
played Bartlet the president I can't
remember but this is father-son and in
this instance Emilio Estevez is the the
assistant or the protege
of Gordon Gekko and his his father is a
union representative of a company that
Gordon Gekko is bought and then
basically raided in sort of a leveraged
buyout situation and the and they're in
the the elevator together and the father
is admonishing the son he realizes he
hasn't taught him any of the values that
he thought he raised him with and this
is the way he delivers that line he's a
guy who never measured a man's success
by the size of his what what you see
success by the size of his what is very
apt um I'm also getting notes of like
Stewie from Family Guy's okay
well it's doing from Family Guy
undoubtedly got it from that that that
scene right there became a big talking
point it signifies authority to begin to
scream in the middle of your sentence
I gotta steal the equivalent of
capitalizing your lettuce is that like
because he wrote down that take and he's
trying to spice it up a little bit so it
doesn't sound like he's reading yeah
maybe I don't know I'll tell you that
next time we record the ante photo see
how it goes but you know polish the
means of production what is amazing is
they it would be fascinating to know and
I hope somebody's going out and pulling
this do you think there was anything
damaging to Donald Trump in the Mulla
report that to me seems like a good
thing to spend your money on if you're
polling I guess let's go to the phone's
calling from a to10 area code who's this
where he come from
good afternoon Sam its Johnson San
Antonio John from San Antonio welcome to
the program yeah
this latest Harris X poll came out today
as the top four Democratic candidates
Barney leading Harris 42 37
Biden up by two over Bernie 41 43 41 and
Warren over Bernie 42:37 so you know in
the most recent Dominican I can't follow
the way that you did that what was the
order in which what well I
yeah I that Bernie goes first because he
has a lead over Harris I mean they're
all you know besides those two who's
leading the poll Wyden yeah yeah binds
up by two in a two way race you know so
that's that's a me where is this friend
where is this poll where if this is a
national poll yeah at the national polls
well you know I tell you didn't by
national polls John well I don't but I
mean I'm interested in this one because
you know it's a two-way race and also
you know in most democratic primaries
that have been competitive you know in
the last since 1992 they've essentially
been two-person races so that's why I
think that's an interesting take and so
anyway so you know after Iowa and New
Hampshire so okay so the point is is it
Bernie's right up there you know and I
mean all of these you know if Biden drop
you know it's gonna if it's just two
people it's going to be really close so
that's my that's my point so it's good
to see Bernie joined the impeachment
bandwagon you know he's been at the
forefront of dancing policy to help the
middle class and working class it's
great to see his ideas resonate with the
general public hopefully those ideas
will be passed into law someday soon I
understand the balance of advancing
crucial policies but when you have a
president who is advancing an
authoritarian ideas and he won't follow
the law and he won't to buy to buy
subpoenas you have to take action almost
as important that started an impeachment
inquiry is the fact that Democrats
haven't done enough to compel people who
are defying subpoenas by taking it to
account at taking to court the you know
to have people these subpoenas enforced
they got a late start and doing
they need to act immediately to get to
start having people show up to have
oversight and I agree with you about
Pelosi's misinterpretation of the 2018
house election kitchen kitchen table
issues are extremely important but when
you look at what motivates Pope voters
to go to the polls in record numbers
it's a large degree I do feel it is
because of Trump
I mean Democrats had 60 million seven
hundred five hundred and seventy two
thousand votes which is an all-time
record the second highest were the
Republicans in 2018 with 50 million
eight hundred and eighty one thousand
which is more than six million votes
higher than their previous midterm
record by in in 2010 in 2014 at the
worst turnout rate since World War two
for the midterms and Republicans had
very similar policies when they are in
power it's true that they they didn't
have power then but there's there's no
doubt that Trump is driving turnout in
2018 and he will drive turnout in 2020
people are actually more as enthusiastic
right now today and this has been
reiterated by the Fox poll and the CNN
poll about about have any interest in
2020 as they were during election day in
2016 Wow so so one other thing about yet
that that to me John is the most
encouraging thing that you've said yeah
well I mean I've always felt really good
but you know I'm also concerned about
you know having split votes you know so
I mean you look at the European
elections and what what just happened
and you see the sinners is pulling out
you know more more people are voting for
different parties I mean that's you know
the history of that is much stronger in
Europe than it is here but I mean it
obviously happened to some degree I'm
interested in what you had to say
about Amash in one of my kind of
fantasies is that a mosh will run for
president a lot of people you know
libertarians are writing about this
about Amash running for on the
libertarian ticket and actually taking
away more votes from Trump then
necessarily let's say you know if Bernie
wins then let's say a Schultz candidate
would take away or you know the more
centrist wins let's say a Green Party
would take away from the Democratic
candidate so tell me who the Democratic
nominee is and I'll tell you if I want
Justin Amash to run because I'm not
convinced that Justin Amash does not
take away votes from Bernie Sanders in a
in in a three-way election he may take
he may take away votes from Bernie from
from Donald Trump but I'm not convinced
that he wouldn't take away votes from
Bernie Sanders right as opposed to
Howard Schultz who might take from both
frankly might might take away from both
equally in some respects yeah I don't
know it hard I don't know that I don't
see how a Howard Schultz frankly gets on
the ballot what do you think Amash is
appeal would be to Bernie photos
non-intervention legalization of
marijuana
I mean we saw frankly in the last
election that the that was not the
Bernie voter was not ideologically a
coherent I mean how only half of them
maybe were three quarters even but
certainly there is a percentage of
Bernie voters like for any candidate who
are not voting for the reasons we think
they're voting for that candidate and I
think certainly there
there's there's crossover between you
know libertarian positions and what
Bernie's positions are I think there are
other positions that are couldn't be
more fundamentally at odds that I think
are what actually distinguishes them but
I I don't think that's the case of other
people yeah you might be right I just
feel like you can have all of those
things and healthcare is always gonna be
a better sell to people but I could be
wrong the electorate doesn't always make
sense right do you feel though do you
feel that it is inevitable I mean I know
you're gonna you're gonna push probably
for the eventual Democratic candidate I
know it's going to be really tough if it
is Biden for you but I mean you know do
you feel that it is inevitable that
people are gonna eventually pull away
from the major parties like which
already started in 2016 Domon yeah I
mean they they had a I mean Jerry
Johnson got 3.28 of the vote
there was 5.73 didn't vote for the two
major candidates which is the most it's
been since Pireaus run in 96 okay yeah
Johnson actually got more votes than
later in 2000 yeah okay
I mean but we had two of them like
almost historically unlikable candidates
right but not just about the candidate
it's about the parties people don't like
the parties themselves especially young
people and so like the the fact that the
greens are getting more votes in in
Germany and you know and all over left
you know the young people are voting for
Less parties I mean you see it with
Corbin you see it with melon Sean like I
said the green parties are picking up
you know that left did well in Spain so
I mean in in older voters they're in
middle-aged voters they're going more
far-right and I see that as a
both in Europe and in America this is
what Thomas Piketty wrote about in his
he wrote an essay in 2018 talking about
what's it called the the Brahmin Left
versus the merchants rising inequality I
think it's a function of who the
candidates are I think it's a function
of who the candidates are I'm sorry I
mean it may be the case in in in Europe
it's different dynamic because there's a
greater to tradition and and and voting
for these other parties actually has
some consequence because of the
parliamentary system but III think if
frankly if it's not inconceivable to me
to see young people sort of vote less
for the Democratic Party if Joe Biden is
the candidate but frankly almost any
other Democrat I think will get a lot
more support will will not lose let me
put this way will not lose young people
to a third or fourth party in the in the
way that Hillary Clinton did I just
don't think that I don't think there's a
single Democratic candidate who would
end up in that situation I mean I I
think I think the right Arian party has
a room to grow if you have like a you
know at least in this election because
of Donald Trump but I I think it's a
function of the candidates know Ross
Perot got got you know twenty some odd
percent of the vote this is not
unprecedented stuff it's just an admin
flow it's just a function of who you
know of the candidates yeah I mean I
agree I mean obviously there's a huge
difference between a Bernie or a Biden
so I mean I mean I agree with you but I
mean but I don't think there's such a
big difference in digital satisfaction I
think that's true but I don't I just
don't think that it that it plays out
that way because I think also people are
like well I don't really have an option
if I want my vote to
have some implications and like you know
I don't know how how anybody who is
sentient it can still say like okay it
works
I can teach a lesson to the party with
my vote like I would love to see the
example of when that works it would be
nice if it did it would be nice if
people are saying like a lot of people
voted for Jill Stein and that's why
Hillary Clinton lost well of course
that's not the way it works even the
people who voted for Jill Stein
immediately after the election were like
don't blame me we didn't we didn't keep
her from winning or losing
I mean I'm not saying that you know III
wouldn't in in a million years know how
to even begin to calculate that my
assumption is that they didn't but you
would think that all the people who said
beforehand that we need to vote for a
third party to teach the Democrats a
lesson the Democrats lose and then they
say well it wasn't because of us
like well then how are you supposed to
teach him a lesson like that was that
was your plan don't have the Democrat
win and then say now we're teaching you
a lesson and then Hillary will kiss all
the Jill Stein voters ass for the next
two years like what's happened also the
Democrats do not learn lessons or at
least not the right ones no one learns
lessons like where where did where like
what is the example of that model well
that well the Republicans did a big talk
about meat Iran
you know he started running in the
sixties and eventually he became their
president and they yes candidates figure
out ways of winning elections but when
has a political party particularly one
as disparate as the ones we have in this
country learned a lesson like the
Republicans didn't a autopsy after what
was it 20 24 2012
remember that autopsy and they think
they did the autopsy they had the
results they did the exact top
and then they want like I mean you know
who learns there's no thing like that
construct is just sort of bizarre to me
and first of all like what makes you
think what makes people think people
assume like well you know the DNC is
gonna learn a lesson like these are just
transient people these are just shells a
fill of individuals who have their own
agendas that don't necessarily rely on
the fact that the Democrat wins the
presidency or a Democrat wins the house
majority I mean it's just the people
project onto these sort of like these
entities that in some instance don't
even exist except for they're just a way
of categorizing a group of people who
behave in a certain way at a certain
time and it's it is completely a
strategic I don't know how to say that
and so you know like I think if if
Bernie or frankly any other candidate
maybe not any other I can't you know I
can't keep them all straight in my head
but the any of the ones that can win
short of Biden I would say I think are
are you're not going to have a strong
you know I think you're going to get a
more anemic showing for let's say the
Green Party then you will let me then
you didn't can I can I give you this
hypothetical the Republican Party split
let's say somehow it's probably not
gonna happen in 2020 with the mosh but
let's say there is a split between the
party okay at that point would you be
more willing to think that there would
be a left party you know a Green Party
or maybe some other left party that
emerges to where if there's four serious
contenders that are close together you
know to where the Left Party would
actually you would have unity within the
party because you would believe in this
you know everybody would believe in what
they've not
young lady I gotta be like first of all
I don't think there's gonna be a split
in the Republican Party who's gonna lead
this split Justin Amash honestly like
what what that this no like we're like
you don't even see any dissent eighty
ninety percent approval rating amongst
Republicans for Donald Trump if there
was ever going to be a split in the
party it would have happened that party
is not gonna split it's not but I
appreciate it caught on Glee night thank
you I mean I you know and I say this is
someone who thought in in the lead-up to
2008 that the Republican Party was gonna
become just a regional party and it's
still very well may become just a
regional party it also may become a
regional party that because of quirks in
our system still controls the Senate but
it's not gonna split they're not gonna
be - that's yeah I mean we're at a low
ebb for third party ISM anyway like even
historically speaking the last 50 years
and if Hillary Clinton was the top of
the ticket last time and the Green Party
only had like with a Mott minuscule like
success it did then it's not gonna have
anything more I do think that if Biden
is a top of take that that does portend
doom to me for the Democratic Party but
probably on a longer term if any party's
gonna split it's gonna be the Democratic
Party but I also don't think that that's
going to happen I mean there are people
in the DSA who think that should be part
of our long-term strategy right to
create a mass party that's capable of
being the first Labour Party that the US
has ever had that's capable of
contesting big elections and replace the
Democrats and send them the way of the
Whigs but I just don't think so
I my personal feeling is if you can
amass that kind of power just take over
the Democratic Party if you can come out
if you can amass a an infrastructure in
a in a in a pen a party that could
actually defeat the Democratic Party
then just do it internally who cares
what
you know that that's the thing I just
don't understand it's just it's just
it's just a vehicle avi I mean I agree
with you I'm honestly agnostic on the
party question where some of my comrades
are much more intense about it I mean
their argument would be like a socialist
party would not be beholden to the same
capitalist pressures that the Democratic
Party currently is I mean oh like you're
still managed you're still managing a
capitalist economy so I think the
pressures remain I agree
calling from a four to three area code
hey this is Bobby from Tennessee how are
you doing good how you doing Bobby
what's on your minds hey I'm doing
alright first I just wanted to make an
observation that all the libertarians
they call you and you start making fits
to them their cell phone suddenly go out
yes we've noticed yeah every time yeah
so hey mostly man I just want to ask you
what you think about this whole USS John
McCain thing like I mean I was in the
Navy I was a corpsman in the Navy and I
mean my personal opinion is that
whatever officer signed off on that and
thought that that was an okay thing to
do about work but that's just not in me
and I guess well I mean and let me ask
you this how like how far up from your
experience because I've had
conversations with with my friend Larry
who was also in the Navy and Larry was
he texted me like first thing this
morning
Larry's a little bit Larry's a little
bit wants to be very very accurate let's
put it that way
and Larry texted me first thing this
morning goes for the record that story
originally reported that ship McCain was
a carrier it was not and no and Larry
said he should have caught that because
only carriers carries only have named a
presidents but this is what Larry said I
want to get your take on this since you
you or sailor yourself the reality is
the very idea of moving a vessel is
insane these are not pleasure craft and
getting underway for any reason on any
Navy vessel is an operation for security
personnel and operations money requires
orders
top-level Pentagon it's not the Coast
Guard or a whale watch and it was
reported originally that they moved of
the vessel now I don't know if they
actually did move it but from your
perspective if they're gonna move a
vessel like that how far up the chain
when the Acting Secretary of Defense
says he didn't know about how far up the
chain would they have to go oh man I
don't know and now I wasn't a Bluewater
sailor I was a hospital corpsman and
there aren't that many corpsman on ships
or anything we mostly go out with
Marines and stuff like that but as far
as like movements go like it has to go
pretty high up on the chain I bet you it
was somebody at the Pentagon I mean like
well that's not a regional thing you
know with the skipper and self or
herself can't decide to move a warship
like that I don't think but yeah I know
it's a it's pretty sad man it's it's
pretty sad what the military's come to I
mean look like I was kind of a black
sheep being in the military you know I'm
an atheist from the south and
progressive you know and I was
surrounded by a lot of you know no III
2012 I got it in 2012 yeah yeah NOT a
theist yeah I got I got preached at a
whole lot while I was in there but but
it's it's changing really a whole lot
and I think it's changing for the better
cuz Gen Z's coming in and they these are
some real skeptical people and I mean
yeah but yeah I mean I just wanted to
call and talk about the John McCain and
one of the thing about that guy earlier
who was saying that the Republican Party
might split man I like food I live in
rural Tennessee like these people love
Trump like I mean any and the only thing
that they that unites them more than
being a Republican is their hatred of
Democrats or liberals it doesn't matter
what candidate they trot out they're
gonna vote against
the Democrats is just going to happen
you know what do you think what do you
think contributes that I mean aside from
you know the obnoxiousness of some of us
and the the condescending I mean do you
is it do you think the depth of the
Liberal Democrat whatever they call it
is a is a surrogate for a rural urban
divide you know I'll give you my take on
these all right yeah wait can I cuss on
this show cuz I said I was a sailor I'm
trying my best to my mind well you can
cuss like a sailor okay cool
so he thinks we're going to man a
whole bunch of factories and everything
I moved off they've outsourced all their
all the jobs all the positions and
everything and it's getting worse with
Trump in office even though these morons
can see and then and so whenever they
see things like you know like say black
lives matter they feel like they're
being left out you know because there
used to be in the forefront everything
and you couple that with like especially
my area in brown accountants thing there
are more church seats than there are
people in this county I'm not
you and and a lot of politics get
preached around here I mean there's a
whole lot of you know like wool I mean
look if you vote for Obama you're voting
in the Antichrist you know I was raised
Southern Baptist I used to be jealous
racist piece of before I go in the
Navy and got out and saw the real world
and had an awakening and then and that's
the third thing I think it ties into it
is how many people around here haven't
even really left counting and their idea
of a vacation is going up the Dollywood
and staying in there and the cabin up in
the mountains so these people don't have
any real exposure they're really
insulated and
things have gone to and then they
turn to Fox News and the and Fox News
said Democrats go and they just believe
it I really think it's as simple as that
well I mean that's not that simple
actually I mean there's like you're
talking about sort of like three
different I mean but I think that I mean
that sounds that makes sense to me I
mean some a combination of material you
know diminishing material of things in
their lives diminishing sense of social
importance and a sort of an insulation
from any outside ideas that that could
enrich or expose the you know they could
be exposed to and easy targets and I
would say a guide a guide essentially
who is saying like here's the answer for
your problems I mean this is you know
that's pretty age-old there's a reason
why you know shows like this people are
interested people want to have a voice
that they feel they can trust that will
tell them what the problem is and what
the solution is and sometimes people
turn to religion for that sometimes
people turn to you know celebrities for
that sometimes they turn to you know
books or other sources and you know that
I think the the more sophisticated
people are the more sources they will
turn to so they get a better sense of
like playing these different things off
but if you only have one big source that
source is going to be basically like
this way folks walk this way and this is
the answer
can I ask you a question I have
absolutely ma'am how did you come around
to being an atheist and a skeptic well
it started around my senior year high
school I joined the military pretty soon
after high school once there was 9/11
and all that you know patriotism stuff
and
I was friends with someone we used to
like paintball a lot he's a really good
guy and they're really there the family
was really cool and I invited him to go
to church with me one time and he said
oh no you know we don't believe in God
and I like threw me for a loop because
as far as I was aware all atheists were
like liberal pedophiles that want to you
know sacrifice babies to Satan or
whatever and and then so that kind of
planted the seed and then I was in
Guantanamo Bay during the hunger strike
riots and I decided to read the Bible
from front to back and I realize it
didn't make any sense at all and
that's when I stumbled upon the Atheist
experience with you know Matt Dillahunty
and Jim peoples and then that crowd and
that was really what kind of got me
started going down that road and then I
bought some
Christopher Hitchens books I started out
with Hitchens and I came out as an
atheist when I was stationed in Okinawa
to my family you know on the opposite
side of the world so it seemed like the
the opportune time to actually say hey I
really don't believe this and by
the way you can't come harass me about
it cuz I'm in Japan so yeah that's
that's how they got started that's so
interesting because I feel like there is
an opinion on the left that there's
really nothing we can do to change
people's religious orientation
specifically when we're talking about
like the kind of political Christianity
that rules a lot of this country and
like people say oh it's it's the base
versus the superstructure you know if
you want to change the culture you need
to change the material economic basis
that's driving the culture and I just
don't think that it's that simple
ever like I think we can do work no the
what we we need more people to go into
the Navy it apparently it seems like an
get away from their families yeah well
how you know the religious stuff is on
if it's really it's a hollow
shell talk to people about Scripture
around here and
and they don't know like you can you can
say things in aren't biblical you know
well god only helps those who help
themselves and they'll go Oh bless your
heart
you know I'll know the Bible or whatever
in it so but that ain't in the Bible and
there's a whole lot of that around here
like I mean they only know what the
preacher reads to them and even then
half of the time they aren't paying
attention and then they go out you know
it's real convenient that God wants them
to hate who they already hate you know
it's real convenient like that but I
think exposure a lot of an education the
education system around this well
alright well Bobby I will say this this
is what I this is my suggestion I think
that this could go a long way if that's
the case just remind everybody all those
religious folks that as the Bible says
from each according to his ability to
each according to his needs and as the
Bible says and see if that gets some
traction
I'm getting ready to get the hell out of
here I'm gonna head out to org and I'm
all up in the head from being
deployed and I'm gonna go to Oregon
where cannabis is legal because you know
it's not the end-all be-all cure like a
lot of people say but it does really
help with anxiety so I'm getting the
hell up out of here at the earliest
opportunity
alright well and if you go to a state
words legal you can actually have like a
doctor who specializes in treating
people with cannabis oh hell yeah I know
I'm all about that man well you know I I
hope that you have a good recovery and I
really appreciate your calling in and
sharing this with us yeah hey thanks for
thanks for taking the call if I get
another wild hair at my awesome I might
give you another call alright great well
we're here we were just like a like a
like a daily barbershop for hairs up
your asses minds we have in the Bible
when it says money is alienated essence
of man's labor in life and
since dominates him as he worships it oh
yeah that's a sweet passage it's one of
my favorite we used to sing that when I
went to I folks we've run out of time
it's three o'clock I had no idea how
that happened I I have got to get to an
eye appointment and we had the Laura
Ingram thing I am sorry people have held
on the phone for for over an hour I
apologize but I will say this there's
many many more days to come so one of
them will be on Monday and on that day
we shall see you then
[Music]
I was just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
