[Music]
also it is the 30th anniversary of
Tiananmen Square I can't believe it has
been that long it's sort of terrifying
to me in some respects 30 years ago
about I don't know a million people
wasn't honored that that showed up in
the was it a million people I believe it
was a million yapple I mean if you think
a population proportion was right it's
hard to sort of like figure out these
numbers because it's not like the
Chinese government was out there
advertising but hundreds of thousands if
not a million people gathered well
protested all around the the country but
particularly in Tiananmen Square
they were pro-democracy protesters and
labor as well it's one of the
lesser-known parts that history on the
on June 3rd the night of June 3rd tanks
moved into the square and there was a
famous people I'm sure I've seen the
video of a man who basically ran out in
front of the tanks and stopped the tanks
and only you only stop the tanks
probably for a turn about three minutes
eventually some other people came by and
I was never it was never clear to me
whether they were his friends or they
were they were some type of like
plainclothes agents of the state who
ushered him away and the tanks rolled on
it is unclear how many people were
killed when the tanks rolled into
Tiananmen Square because of course the
Chinese government was not going to
release that information hi there
Mike Pompeo made some remarks that were
saying to the effect of China has a
problem with
human rights whenever it serves their
interest they they will abuse human
rights I mean the idea that anyone from
the Trump administration which is you
know hosted do tart a and and Molson ro
and others Putin and bus MBS would have
a problem with human rights Netanyahu is
sort of laughable but nevertheless they
they went through the motions and then
the Chinese rebuked Pompeo
etc etc but more importantly let's
listen back now this is I don't know if
we have any contemporaneous comments
from Donald Trump on Tiananmen Square
maybe they'll show up but what we do
have is a an interview with Donald Trump
from what magazine was this from a
Playboy magazine Playboy magazine in
1990 in 1990 and for those people who
think that Donald Trump has you know in
his old age got became more
authoritarian this is thirty years ago
when Donald Trump was probably about
what 40-ish 40-something and back then
in 1990 what were your impressions of
the Soviet Union their system is a
disaster I was very unimpressed and then
in talking about Tiananmen Square when
it comes to China because he said the
problem with Gorbachev not a firm enough
hand he says you mean firm hand as in
China and Trump had this to say when the
students poured into Tiananmen Square
the Chinese government almost blew it
then they were vicious they were
horrible but they put it down with
strength that shows you the power of
strength our country is right now
perceived as weak as being spit on by
the rest of the world
this was 30 years ago this seems to be a
theme of his for a long time but both
the authoritarian sort of like longing
and the notion that somehow our country
is being spit on well he says it another
part in the interview he talks about how
weak Gorbachev is but he also says you
know generally a lot of these of their
representatives are tougher and smarter
than ours yeah he said that 30 years ago
I want to just say just 30 seconds there
was a slightly Gorbachev like figure in
China and name I'm just gonna forgive me
I'm absolutely gonna mispronounce this
but his name was Joe Zhao Zi yang and he
was the Party premier and he discouraged
the protesters but he had an open line
of dialogue with them and was resisting
the call to ruthlessly crack down on
them and eventually you know he got
sidelined and overruled and went from
being at the top of the pyramid totally
and politically marginalized the last
years of his life as we get to being
because he was weak right so it's nice
to know that Donald Trump has been
consistent throughout his career that's
always encouraging but there there it is
30 years Tiananmen Square
I wonder if actually Trump will he will
will mention Tiananmen Square and I'm
wondering if he'll mention the the end
of Ramadan I'm gonna go the first one
all depends on how the latest phone
conversation which she went and the
second one no a lot of chocolate cake
someone just in the discord of TMDs I
have to say I don't know if we will put
this up but somebody found hopefully
found us the cover photo of that issue
of Playboy which will add to the
vulgarity and hilariousness of this if
you want to say I don't think this is
really bad but it's also like okay I can
feel the contrarian takes coming but it
is somewhat refreshing at least to see a
representative of u.s. Empire who's not
pretending that he cares about human
rights yes that is that has always been
yeah he said something to that effect
too and I think in terms of oil I can't
remember what it was but I do remember
tweeting out one time like this is the
most honest thing that any uh yes this
is why all the neo-cons hate him
indeed he's not hiding the ball
it's funny the still refreshing says the
dumb here is endorsement of the
Tiananmen crackdown it's as Donald Trump
interview in the next story is rocking
racism has the dark side taken over pop
music the reading that has the dark said
I'm I'm concerned about the dark side
thanks for putting that on top I like
that I appreciate that
