so luckily let's start with your piece
about no labels for those people who
have not been following no labels what
what exactly is no labels so this was a
group that was founded in 2010 and it's
led by folks who is essentially a
centrist organization they feel that the
country is too partisan and both sides
need to sort of come together and figure
out bipartisan compromises to the
nation's most pressing issues so it's
you know it's it's certainly a mission
statement a lot of a lot of Americans
would probably find themselves in
agreement with but it's sort of an
insider II group that you know when when
we wrote about them last week was sort
of turning its attention more towards
the the kind of bare-knuckled politics
that you'd expect of more partisan
organizations all right yeah and before
we get to that I want to just explore
this concept of it's a centrist group I
mean what does that what does that mean
do they have no I mean and and you know
I want to cop to having an idea of the
answer of this or at least a an idea I
had having been familiar with their work
over the past eight years but they say
they're centrist like what aside from
the idea that they want and I put this
in quotations bipartisan solutions what
what does that mean to them well they
have over the years put out some policy
proposals but this idea of centrism I
think is more about sort of style than
substance you know in other words the
end product in terms of policy is
perhaps less important than the goal of
bringing both sides together to achieve
that policy so you know they would
certainly argue that there is no you
know they're not an ideological group in
the sense of wanting policies that align
with one side or the other but that
leaves a number of people wondering sort
of what they do stand for and you know
like I said they're they're really more
focused on the process than they are on
the outcome which you know depending on
who you ask could be a good thing or a
bad thing but it's not a policy group in
each
additional sense it's more of a group
that wants to I mean if you want to put
a generous generously sort of mend the
political process and the intense
partisanship that has sort of taken over
over the last number of years but I mean
based upon your reporting I mean and
where people sit I mean is that are they
really devoid of any desired policy
outcomes I mean if if the idea is it's
just about process that would mean that
there would be no solution or I should
say no landing that they would have a
problem with as long as it actually
passed right I mean because if we're
talking about the center right I mean we
could theoretically look at the polling
and say okay where is you know sixty to
eighty percent of the American public on
a set of different issues and they're
gonna take those issues right I mean so
what like I'm just always been befuddled
by the terms that we use I mean left and
right we're not really talking you know
represent a certain set of ideologies
centrist doesn't it it doesn't seem to
be necessarily positioned in between
those it just seems to be like a
different set of ideologies but maybe
I'm wrong well I think they would say
that you know one of their selling
points is they don't ask their
supporters or the people they courts to
give up their policy preferences but I
think the central sort of conceit of
above no labels and and this sort of
centrist movement more broadly is a
failure to recognize that there are
deep-seated ideological and policy
differences on both sides of the aisle
in other words it's not just folks
fighting because they enjoy fighting or
because they for political or rhetorical
reasons can't fight you know don't can't
find it in themselves to give an inch to
the other side it's the it's the I would
argue very real and substance and
substantive differences excuse me
between the outcomes that whether it's
Democrats and Republicans or
conservatives and progressives want to
see come out of people
process so they are sort of putting the
cart before the horse in my opinion and
you know I think addressing policy
issues in a centrist way you you're
going to be hard-pressed to solve a
number of policy issues because the
divide is is so stark right and we'll
talk about their sort of their their
success or failure rate in a moment but
one of the the great things that you and
Sam Stein did through your reporting is
let us know who they wanted to fund them
and who actually ended up funding them
and you know certain caucuses I imagine
you know the freedom caucus if you were
to look at them and the you know in the
Republican Party you would find a
certain ilk of donors say maybe with the
Progressive Caucus on the Democratic
side who how would you describe how
would you characterize the group of
people that no labels is seeking funding
from and gets funding from well just to
sort of break down the the precise
information we got ahold of we got a
list of actual donors to no labels
itself which is a 501c4 dark money
nonprofit and then we got a list of
people who the group wanted to approach
and did approach to pitch them on
funding one of six super PACs that were
formed last year for this election cycle
so in terms of the people who actually
did donate to the organization to the c4
you know it was basically a who's who of
hedge funds private equity folks a
number of other fortune 500 executives
and these are the types of folks who
very often this sort of centrist
language is catnip for who come from a
business background and and maybe see
that sort of process and the ability to
work through differences in a business
environment as something that they would
like to see sort of imported into the
political system when obviously it's
nowhere near that simple for some of the
the ideological division reasons that I
mentioned earlier it was a little
different on the super PAC side among
the folks that they approached to fund
those these were names that you know
casual follower
of the political process will most
likely recognize folks like David Koch
the major libertarian funder Michael
Bloomberg former New York City Mayor
potential presidential candidate Peter
Thiel major Trump supporter spoke at the
Republican convention in 2016
already Emanuel the famous Hollywood
agent so these are very very big names
most of the folks who they approach at
least according to the FEC records we
saw did not end up giving but it was a
much broader spectrum ideologically of
donors which we thought was really
interesting you know they're fighting
partisanship and here they are
approaching donors who for years have
really bankrolled some of the most
partisan groups and political figures
out there do they have any non super
wealthy people in their constituency I
mean do they like do they appeal the I
mean have have they ever received a
small donation you know you can actually
go and look that up on the FEC website
which we did and we found that they've
gotten almost nothing and so on the
super PAC side in terms of small
donations the average contribution was
about $125,000 they had about one sunny
is a range of 42 every contributors I
get asking did you just say the average
contribution was a hundred and twenty
five thousand dollars that's correct
their political arms yeah okay so they
were definitely going after you know the
strategy was not to be a grassroots
political organization at least on the
super PAC side now we can't know on the
c-4 side because they're not required to
disclose donors what the full range of
contributors were but so you know we
can't say for certain what percentage
was high-dollar for small-dollar donors
but certainly the folks on the list we
obtained were all you know this was
$25,000 and above was either what they
were what they were expecting to get or
what they had already got from these
folks and very often much higher up to
closer to a million so yeah I mean it's
fair to say that they are definitely
their financial support is
overwhelmingly from wealthy people if
you ask the organization to be fair
they'd say sure of course it is or they
might say we won't discuss our toners
more likely but they might also say that
you know our supporters the people that
we work with and we recruit and that we
have
in No Labels chapters all over the
country are grassroots they believe in
our mission they're not necessarily
wealthy people they just support a more
sort of centrist approach to the process
but you know in when you have these
donors names on paper you know it's it's
very difficult to arrive at the
conclusion that this is if not a group
for the wealthy then it's certainly a
group of the wealthy
all right luckily we got to take a break
when we come back I want to talk about
the I got one or two more questions on
this because I am I'm super curious as
to what it even means that they're going
to fix you know they're problem solvers
they're gonna face things in the context
of a in the context of politics and then
I want to get to what is clearly a
problem and that is that no one wants to
be Donald Trump's chief of staff but we
gotta take a quick break we'll be right
back
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
