so we're gonna get to gig Lawson in just
a moment but understand that for some
reason things fell apart between Donald
Trump and Justin Trudeau this past
weekend part of it is Trump wants to
renegotiate NAFTA with a five-year
horizon which of course makes it
impossible there is some looking at
apparently the the dispute resolution
Court which would actually be in my
estimation a positive reform Trump wants
to get rid of this Trudeau not so much
so it's not you know completely black
and white but here is Larry Kudlow going
on Jake Tapper show the State of the
Union explaining why Donald Trump
basically lit our relationship with
Canada on fire now understand because I
need to put this in context I did Larry
Kudlow show I don't know probably a half
a dozen to a dozen times very nice guy
Larry Kudlow in the past
I'm not telling any secrets here it was
widely reported he had substance abuse
problems but as far as I know was doing
great for decades it was one of those
complete free-trader free-market guys
every response to every economic
situation was to cut taxes and get rid
of regulations and no protectionism so
when he goes into the Trump
administration not only does he have to
completely change the ideological
posture he's had for 40 years but he's
also got a deal with Donald Trump that's
my way of saying forgive Larry if he
seems a little bit under the weather in
this interview
you'll see what I mean POTUS is going to
Korea it now Singapore to negotiate with
North Korean this is an historic event
absolutely good things wonderful things
could come out we all hope so thank you
now yeah oh this is not gonna let a
Canadian Prime Minister push him around
push him totus around president trunk
that's what I'm the eve of this he is
not gonna permit president I like it say
see ya let other Prime Minister push
magnetic let's see
he POTUS he POTUS POTUS president heard
it's totally good thing Canadian cookies
don't like him good Gill look at me I
don't like to show of weakness on the on
the trip to negotiate with North Korea
nor should he this was about North Korea
of course it was in large part so
because positive day j-jake we fear was
do I have a TV show but I don't know
logic shake I like that this was about
North Korea of course it was in large
part so because Trudeau said that as
Trump was going to Singapore one thing
leads to another
oh I say they are all related we had
done our work in in Quebec north of
Quebec we did our work we work with the
Western alliance pleased to do so we get
on the plane and then this guy Trudeau
starts blasting so what's key here him
must not see American weakness short and
you know Jake you've covered the B for
so long how many times as president
Trump said if you hit me I'm gonna hit
you back right and this is a case where
Trudeau it was like I don't know
pouring collateral damage on this whole
Korean trip that was a part of Trudeau's
mistake positive what second
yep or that collateral damage Olli Jake
I love you Jake he thinks we don't know
I was like how he's doing that thing
when someone's really blasted or they're
trying to get like super specific
details in to prove the wrong point that
was the door the Quebec Quebec we north
of Quebec Doris it wasn't good people
confused Oh Susan odd detail or it's a
Jake Trudeau made an error he should
take it back he should pull back on his
statements and wish President Trump well
in the Korean negotiator with these
other members did gondola Merkel did
macron did I was right there a Theresa
May did okay so then all of a sudden he
went row there are two jumpers both
there are two BR topless they were
hugging him but Justin Trudeau didn't do
that cuz the bad guy Jake a good guy my
own TV show Jake unbelievable
well what was fascinating was I mean in
addition to the fact that we're watching
this guy implode on on TV and you know
as soon as you joined the Trump
administration
it's basically written in stone it's
like you're but the the other thing is
that they all had the same exact talking
points both Navarro and Kudlow said at
the very least in one imprint maybe the
other on TV that Trudeau stab them in
the back which has nice resonance that's
the the lugan flug in class I learned
about that in Slough what they did to
hit those so unfair
