[Music]
agree and also I will say this I don't
think that this is necessarily gonna
pull well I get that fox business is
targeting like a sort of upper middle
class falsely identifying with oligarchs
audience and you know like grouchy cigar
chompers and a handful of like weird
students but I think for most people
including people who might rate
themselves as being pretty conservative
I don't think that they're gonna share
Stewart Varney's opinion Stuart Varney I
don't exactly think that they're gonna
view ultra wealthy people and major
multinational corporations cheating on
their taxes in the same way he does
Jaka DeAngelis joins us with a history
lesson okay Jackie you're gonna talk to
us about when capitalism goes wrong give
me an example of examples that people
will point out and that is what I'm
doing here today right so let's talk
about big tech Facebook Amazon Google
right Facebook a lot of people saying
too much power their disruptor but they
need to be regulated there are privacy
issues what about Google being sued for
anti-competitive practices or Amazon a
lot of people will turn around and say
they don't pay their fair share of taxes
on billions of dollars in revenue
federal taxes I'm talking about I
interrupt do you mind if I do that it
shall be very very rude I know that I
don't think that's an example of
capitalism going wrong I think it's a
fine example of capitalism being
innovative dynamic and a remarkable
employer and creator of wealth you know
what I think you're saying capitalism
has gone wrong maybe a little bit too
strong but there are certainly places I
think where the system could be improved
right even the president elissa Wow I
just will say like first of all I mean
okay I mean just this the slate just
total hawkish devotion to these
companies like well they hand out some
jobs so they should be able to
completely plunder all of our resources
destroy the earth and work people to
death I mean I guess it works if you're
you know this like hilarious paid
propagandist like Stuart Varney but the
other
element I will say and I don't want to
overestimate the importance of things
like this but the fact that there is a
capitalism gone wrong segment on fox
business that isn't purely adversarial
that is definitely a signal in the in
the you know that's a signal from the
intellectual infrastructure of the
debate that's that's Richard Wolffe
going on there and drop in some science
they had on Richard Wolffe and Bianca
Cunningham the co-chair of NY CDSA on
Fox News MSNBC would never have those
people on that's true uh this is a
American Enterprise Institute chaired I
believe but it points out that actually
startups were in a historically speaking
there's not a whole lot of new startups
being formed word that's and it's mainly
because actually the data is from the
Kauffman Foundation which is good but
yeah like we do not have a dynamic time
for like startup as an innovation
because everything is owned by the same
few companies if you're a tech if you're
a tech person basically your business
model is to as Corey pine puts right in
live work work die you're basically
aiming to get your product or patent
bought by one of the big four company
you need to have the social capital
that's why he said the number one thing
towards succeeding in Silicon Valley is
going to Stanford and you could even
drop out you just need that social
network is access to venture capital H
already is a huge barrier that
eliminates most people and then the sole
goal of your startup is to sell it to
one of the big four monopoly companies
so yeah of course I did just read about
a very innovative sounding startup that
basically invented payday loans for
downwardly mobile Millennials but that
sounds like a brilliant idea
that sounds like the markets solving
problems and I'm so tired of you know
Millennials complaining what could
possibly go wrong what could possibly go
right is that Millennials might be able
to get a start on their lives instead of
sitting around complaining all the time
and eating avocado toast
