[Music]
come from a 484 area code yeah Gary
yeah who's this
happy anonymous what they'll be okay
sure where are you from or do you want
to be anonymous about that too if I
could it's nothing okay it's not like I
can razors second anyway I have a little
bit of knowledge on the situation in
northern Syria and you did make one
mistake earlier and the analysis of the
situation when you're talking about how
the prisoners are held okay so okay so
to clarify when they say the Kurds
that's kind of it's more complicated
than that over there there's a lot of
courage involved but they're the Arabs
and there's actually even some Turks and
there's a lot of people actually from
other countries who are there as well
and there's a shitload
oh sorry but there's a bunch of
contractors like from US UK lots of
different parts of the West but who are
paying the contractors is it the u.s.
paying him or different different
entities paying the contractors yeah
they're usually Pentagon contractors
that's what most of the money comes from
that I don't want to yeah basically like
a lot of them are like your ex cops or
you know I have been like in some form
of military service at some point right
and then it's just like it pays a lot
better if you get into that and you have
a lot more freedom it's more dangerous
in some ways because you think about you
left there yeah I know I remember this
from the Iraq war there was a lot of
contractors they had a lot more latitude
but there was also times where it's like
oh you guys got surrounded we don't have
anybody to send to get you yeah yeah
yeah yeah locked up with friends that
way one time
anyways so the so okay technically there
are no foreign Western powers like the
United States has no control over any
prisoners in that area okay so that
would all be under the the Syrian forces
or the Kurdish forces right right so
there's a democratic like Syrians
Federation okay that that involve lotta
Kurds and then you have like the people
protection unit which is you know
there's there's the Kurdish nationalists
they want to see Curtis sample right so
they effectively probably with the us
point out are gonna be the ones that
have control over all the prisoners now
when you talk about these guys releasing
them I don't think they would release
them I think they would just start
executing and mass there's no way those
guys the ones that I know are gonna feel
comfortable to say we're gonna let right
those guys these guys who we captured
and we were fighting against and trying
to kill three months ago we're not gonna
let them go because they're gonna go get
armed again they're gonna come back and
fight us it was difficult to convince
them to not just shoot them in the head
to begin what about what okay like
they're not they don't like the idea
that they even have to put them in
prisons there's that's that's like a
testy subject I don't want to get into
like all the details of everything that
goes down over there and whatever but I
think that the thing that's like
difficult to understand is like this is
there's a lot of there's a lot of
different interest going on here this is
pretty much the way I look at it I think
like yeah okay it's possible sure he has
some business deals with Turkey because
real estate situation in Istanbul and
then for your earlier callers like you
know more instability higher oil prices
going to get for the US and from a
perspective of political economy though
that's pretty much always the case for
all
or producing nations and its ability in
the Middle East has been you know
beneficial but III think that's kind of
well I think that the issue with that is
you know you've seen by the number of
people that have resigned the situation
area could potentially turns like a
serious bloodbath we're like more people
end up dying and died in Iraq just if
they could get if you get way worse and
I think the major issue they're dealing
with is the idea of a formation of
Kurdistan right or of any Free State in
that area that would be democratic isn't
in Turkey's interest isn't in Israel's
interest because it's on US interests
Russia's interest isn't in Iran interest
so they're really surrounded by enemies
on all sides I the Kurds don't really
have any friends real friends in that
area and now with this occurring even
though they're still going to have
contractors working with the Kurds I
guarantee it they're still going to be
sending them a bit of a because I don't
hang with I want to get into that but on
the they're basically surrounded on all
sides and III just whatever is going to
happen they're going forward it's been
inevitable is gonna probably involve
like a lot of people die no no pretty
much no way out of it and as far as
those prisoners go when I hear people
saying like they're just gonna let him
go loose you gotta understand these
people are really dedicated to their
cause and they they would not just say
oh we're gonna allow Isis to reform I'm
pretty sure they would execute every
single person in those prisons before
they would allow somebody to go out and
reconstitute Isis that that's just I
just think that's very detached from the
reality on the ground and my personal
experience well I mean fair enough and
people have to you know obviously take
this with a grain of salt you're
anonymous here but sound like you put it
so people can make their own assessment
about this story but what you're saying
I mean it did occur to me the idea that
they would release 10,000 prisoners
would be at a time where they feel like
they have to wage a war against turkey
seems to me to be hard to imagine I
would be very concerned that those
people would reconstitute and fight me
again
and which is not where are you gonna
release them right we're gonna take them
to release them like you guys think I'm
just think about it practically okay
you've got a Sunni like Omaha be
extremists okay cool like thinks that
your ethnic group should be basically
extinguished you've captured them to a
bloody war where you've been killing
people they knew they've been killing
people unit you know it what do you
where you gonna put them they just gonna
like take them out in a pickup truck in
the desert and say walk that way
it's just put a bullet in the back of
their head it doesn't make any sense
like I don't know like I don't know
what's gonna stop that from happening
but it's like but I think I think a lot
of it the whole idea of like releasing
the prisoners I don't even understand
how that would work practice well let me
let me ask you this this might be
outside of your you know your your
purview and I get the sense that you you
had some first-hand experience obviously
with the with the in this region I mean
I can imagine under what context it
would be but and I get what you're
saying in terms of the idea that a
successful semi-autonomous or autonomous
state in you know what is now northern
Syria and it sounds like it's going to
be occupied by Turkey like Turkey would
come in and basically annex this part of
ya annex this part of Syria but I
understand the idea that it's not in the
interests of Turkey or Iran or or
anybody to have a like a an autonomous
region there but I still don't
understand like what Trump like I don't
think let's put it this way the national
security apparatus of this country they
may not necessarily see the value of an
autonomous state there but they
definitely seem to
feel like the price that we're gonna pay
insofar as you know looking to exploit
other people to fight these type of
conflicts is going to be diminished I
mean certainly the national security
apparatus of this country seems to be
pretty upset about it
what what what else would be I mean I
understand the lack of of compulsion to
sort of create a an autonomous state but
I'm just not clear on what why Trump is
acting in this way like I don't
understand like what what makes him
decide to do this now if not some amount
of personal benefit I think I think one
thing to consider number one if you work
and I think if you ask anybody who's
been involved in any activities of
lights' all the interests that are
working over there it doesn't really
make a lot of sense like it none of it
really makes that much sense okay from
like the ground level all the way up
that's why so many people keep resigning
because it doesn't really like I get
what you're saying you're looking for
like I just want progression but it's
not really there and I I mean I think
everybody on pretty much every level
whether you're looking at like the State
Department official that resigned like
McGurk who was the special he was kind
of like a soup he was like special envoy
for defeating Isis or whatever this
guy's a tool okay like he you know I
want to get into like Becky take forever
but this guy is basically a tool right
even he resigned after a certain point
because he didn't understand what was
going on and he's released a lot now
he's just pretending like oh yeah Trump
I've no idea Lee's talking about blah
blah blah but you know when they
initially had the strategy go in right
they were saying okay we're gonna form
an alliance with the YPG and then they
were always trying to say like always
support you and Kurds are brave people
and blah blah blah but the question that
came up okay so are we going to support
the formation of Kurdistan then you know
that question that doesn't get answered
gets kicked down the road okay we got
more important
work to do the worry about that right
now I just the threat right now and then
yeah when everything said and done just
like well you can't continue to support
them because eventually that leads to
Kurdistan you would think if you know
you're actually going to maintain
support the Kurd so let's just dump them
get out and I don't I don't think
there's like that I think a lot of times
because sort of taught that like people
in power smarter than us or more
confident in my personal experience and
I mean obviously you document everyday
how that's not really the case like I
think they're just doing something
really stupid yeah I don't think there's
a lot of logic behind it I don't think
it makes sense it's just it's just kind
of they're not able to figure out a
solution because there is no solution
because what we're watching is
fundamentally the main it all the things
everything going on over there and you
can ask anybody it all comes from the
sykes-picot tree if the sykes-picot tree
had never existed
if those countries have never been
partitioned in a way that they were this
wouldn't happen but because the British
and the French established that dominion
over the Middle East new conflicts are
basically inevitable well I mean we so
much of the of the problems that we have
in this world are I think you know it's
it's hard to do a counterfactual but one
can imagine if we had you know less
imperialism starting in like the early
1800s in the world you you get the sense
that a lot of this stuff probably could
have worked out in a lot better
situation but alright let me ask you
this this is this is you know and maybe
you know nothing about this but since we
have you on the line there was a report
from a someone who worked at CENTCOM
she was a I just get there hold on one
second here it is a CENTCOM analyst
Patricia Ravalli she'd just she was a
Red Team analyst an intelligence planner
at the US Central Command
you would have a better sense maybe of
what that is and I would she wrote a
piece for the day a Daily Beast you have
like a position and your opinion matters
it's really nice there's not they just
kind of make all their positions pretty
much overlap they just like this person
is smart they went to college you have
to listen to them because they have
authority that's basically what I mean
she said that the there's a lot of very
very Pro Trump people in the military
these days and I've read speculation
that one of the reasons why mattis was
so you know treating such kid gloves
with Trump when he left the
administration was that
there is some concern that like you know
with the military is being is so pro
Trump what's your sense of that um okay
so right now I couldn't tell you like
active duty you u.s. combatants or I
don't know I'll just put it this way the
reason you get into that professional
other time is to the toxic masculine
like even real well yeah I mean it's but
it's more complicated than that like
yeah there's a lot of people to support
Trump for those kind of reasons but so
I'm like in the regular work force I'm
working construction you know once you
guys get out and they start reassessing
things you do a little more out of the
chain command and yet you're able to
talk to more people they're in a
different environment I mean people can
change up very quickly and I think it's
like there there's a lot of smart people
over there there has to be you know
there's a lot of really competent people
who make like good decisions that's
usually not the people that are valued
to go up the chain a lot of the time
because just like in any company like
right if you're a yes-man you're gonna
do better yeah though I think bike and
he encourages that but that has like
operational consequences you know what
I'm saying yes like because you do need
you do need people to know what they're
doing like
as much technology as US has and as much
money like with the situation there I
mean stuff was getting really people had
to get really creative there and it was
an extremely volatile dangerous
environment and you were under a mandate
where you had to keep us casualties at
absolutely zero yet I mean the
consequence the consequence for people
finding out Americans were in danger
Americans were in combat in Iraq at that
time was probably like they prioritize
that over actually losing a life like
they cared more about the imagery around
right and you had to have recreated
people who are very confident at their
jobs
you know executing that well more and
more and more as it's apparent that
people keep jumping out close any level
of competency or understand the
situation once again I'm not trying to
say that these people politics are good
or whatever I'm not saying that's just
they're given a job to do right and feel
better than others that that creates a
more volatile situation because if
they're gonna now say alright we're
gonna step back and allow this to go
where it goes it's it's only going to
get bloodier and I think like okay so
there's you can say like okay there's
pro-trump sentiment and then that's what
they're scared of people people follow
orders man like they do what they're
told
I don't care like if you're there you're
in that situation like right now I'm
sure those guys you don't want to leave
who are like okay I guess I gotta go
like you just do what you're told like
it's a very top-down situation mattis I
think there's been a lot of talk about
him and how great he is you know people
like look up to him or whatever see
another day the guy's a politician we
don't get that Frank being a politician
it's just like any business or that's no
that's why I think you know there was
conjecture that he was worried about his
constituency and you know he's not like
he doesn't have a popular constituency
he has a corporate constituency I mean
all his power comes from the top he did
it nobody elected him to anything right
he's a good speaker I mean he seems
pretty well-read
I'm pretty intelligent he is good at his
job well I mean he listen we got a wrap
up here but I appreciate you calling and
calling again wait can I ask one
question yeah well kind of I had two
questions well we got it's 8:45 news
2:40 and I gotta do some recordings okay
so we had David Graeber on a while back
to talk about his trip to ro Java
specifically and the sort of libertarian
socialist experiment going on there to
what degree is that still a thing and to
what degree is the whole region more
focused around creating sort of a more
traditionally nationalist ethno state
that was one of the first things that
had to be dismantled in order for us to
be fulfilled so good
that's the worst worst worst case
scenario but there's no chance for that
expanding much was it I mean I don't
know where the hell it is right now I
doubt it exists in much form whatsoever
there's not enough controllable resource
well that could go too much past that I
mean it people who believe that or
probably more danger than anyone else
but yeah any hopes that that was gonna
be like Barcelona in the 30s it's not I
mean it might end up being Barcelona 30s
enough they get horribly defeated but I
think that's been way overblown personal
yeah all right well thanks for the call
really appreciate it
yeah thanks
