so Kevin at the break you had basically
walked us up to the innovation and I'm
using air quotes
unfortunately for for radio of private
corporations buying existing failing
liberal arts colleges using the
accreditation that came with that
college basically I imagine keeping that
college alive just so that it could
basically be a I guess a honey pot for
accreditation and then using that brand
and that imprimatur to create a much
larger business on online business that
catered to students across the country
and that accreditation allowed for these
students to qualify for government loans
or at least was a requisite for them to
qualify for government loans which ended
up funding of these growing for-profit
universities give us a sense today and
where it's been traditionally what is
the amount of revenue that these
for-profit colleges rely on u.s.
government loans for I mean it can edit
its height I think the University of
Phoenix was getting over a billion
dollars a year coming in from federal
loans now the as you mentioned there was
really kind of a bubble in the in the
mid arts and then the Obama
administration worked very hard to crack
down on abuses in the for-profit College
industry it was basically a huge Gold
Rush they were signing up anyone they
could who could bring in federal loans a
lot of students didn't graduate a lot of
students got a bad education they
couldn't pay their loans back so the
combination of all that reputational
damage and the regulatory crackdown
really did have a major effect on the
industry where a lot of the for-profit
colleges most of which still exist
although many of them have gone bankrupt
you mentioned ICT which has been around
a long time and they were at bankrupt
just last year so if the high D was it
was in the billions of dollars but even
today it can still be in the hundreds of
billions of dollars a year and we should
say that
I've had occasion to look at like funds
that bundle for-profit colleges and you
can follow the graph it's us like a a
slow slope downward towards the end of
the Obama administration and literally
the day after Donald Trump is elected
these stocks shot up like with a
trajectory that you would see basically
only with spaceships I mean they went
straight up but this is that is one
section of what you touch on in the
piece but the other section is sort of
in some ways I don't know if it's more
disturbing but it's it seems to be
somewhat problematic is that now we have
the phenomenon of where corporations
would go in and buy a failing liberal
arts institution to use its
accreditation now we seem to have those
nonprofit institutions leveraging their
accreditation and their reputations to
build on the other part of of sort of
like the for-profit model yeah so you
know a lot of the the implosion of the
for-profit industry put a lot of people
out of work and what those people were
mostly good at was getting students to
sign up it was really the marketing and
the recruiting that they were very
aggressive about they were very
successful and figuring out how to take
out ads on Google and Facebook and set
up call centers where they would you
know call you right away and and you
know pressure tactics and all those
things what many of them that did was go
to work in this new industry that
basically sits behind the scenes and
partners with existing colleges the the
more famous the better to create very
expensive online programs so for example
if you were to go to get an online MBA
at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill you're actually getting most
of your money not to the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill you're
giving most of your money and it runs
about 120 thousand dollars all of which
can be financed through federal federal
loans you're giving most of your money
to a company called to you which is
actually publicly traded on the net
has a market cathodes over five billion
dollars right now and partners with
company with Harvard USC Yale Georgetown
NYU like a lot of very very well-known
institutions to create online master's
degrees that are branded as the public
or nonprofit institution and the faculty
are very much involved what I don't want
to go too far in this but most of the
money is going to the company working in
the doctor and and unlike I mean one
would presume well okay it's Harvard
it's you know it's a UNC or wherever it
whatever the it's it's a it's a brand
name they're gonna protect their brand
but there's a series of factors that
make it much harder to hold these
institutions to account versus
undergraduate right because we're not
talking about undergraduate now we're
talking about graduate programs unlike
those for-profit which are undergraduate
these are graduate programs and
apparently there is not the same
transparency as to how these programs
how exclusive these programs are how
they are run none of the factors that
are there in what we call I guess the
higher education market none of those
factors are there at all are there yeah
that's right yeah I mean I think this is
in some ways a two different kind of
rackets coming together you know and so
you've got the for-profit racket on the
one hand and the recruitment and the
pressure tactics and all that these
elite institutions had already figured
out how to monetize their brand names
through the very rapid expansion of
graduate degrees particularly master's
degrees which are essentially
unregulated many well-known university
that's accredited can create a new
master's degree and more or less
anything it wants to you can you can
make it easily put together a master's
degree in podcasting if they wanted to
and charge the two thousand dollars a
year in tuition no one would tell them
they couldn't for all I know it probably
already exists well let me just say
available if someone is looking for
someone for me right do that but go
ahead yeah you're in the wrong line of
work you need to go find your local
university and see if they can kind of
get this whole thing going but
and so you know with an undergraduate
degree you know what percentage I say
t-score you know the percent of students
who apply who are admitted you have sort
of some sense of how selected they are
how much money they spend what kind of
students are coming in what kind of
students are coming out
good job place to raise things like that
it's all a black box undergraduate side
of things particularly for master's
degrees you know for law school and
medical school those are things that are
sort of done in partnership with the
professions and even PhD programs are
kind of done in partnership with the
profession of scholars master's programs
are just selling degrees that have value
in the labor market from market prices
see a rental regulation there's no
transparency theoretically I have value
in all right well we just have a minute
left here so the the gist of this is and
I and I really think people should read
the piece to get an understanding this
dynamic is that it seems that we the
system is broken that it is driving up
prices there is not the proper
constraints on making sure that a an
education consumer I guess is getting
the value that that should be there and
we are as a society encouraging you know
what is maybe frauds too strong of a
word but a bit of a scam with just 30
seconds left I mean is that is that a
fair assessment that we need to look at
that and figure out that dynamic if you
look at this video actual documents
these companies put out what you see is
that for every dollar that comes in only
15 cents is spent on instruction the
other 85 85 cents is basically on
administrative costs advertising and
about a forty five percent profit margin
split between the company and the
university so the the universities that
you think are really public minded
institutions are more and more just
acting like businesses trying to get as
much money as much of your money as they
can
Wow shocking Kevin Carey thanks so much
we will put a link to your piece at the
ring of fire radio website thanks so
much
