welcome to the literary hangover I'm
your host Matt lek with me Alex Gunz
hello and joining me for the first time
is David Griscom I'm glad to be here did
I get your last name right he did I'm
like another host of a of a podcast
somewhere David tell us about yourself
I'm originally from Texas I'm a writer
and I'm a researcher I work on the
Michael Brooke show and you can also
check out my writings on the sinthome
comm which is my personal website how do
you spell that s I n th ome com
listeners might also know that I also
work on the Michael Brooks show that's
how we know each other today we are
talking about the soul of man under
socialism which is Oscar Wilde's only
political essay really and some people
even question how serious he is about it
I'm gonna read from an essay by Peter
van de Kamp and Patrick Leahy is there
Patrick Leahy is that is Senator Leahy
is he what's his first name oh shoot
isn't it Patrick
I might be wrong about that yeah the
he's the United States Senator Patrick
Leahy from Vermont he's yellow yeah okay
that's right and and so this is not the
same Patrick Leahy I don't think at
least you guys teamed up to write a
pretty interesting essay called some
notes on wild socialism and it starts
off like this Oscar Wilde's the soul of
man under socialism was first published
in 1891 three years after the most
influential English translation of the
communist manifesto had appeared on the
market and at a time when social and
government reforms from the climate of
the day up until the present day wilds
si had received a varied response
critics who emphasized wilds dandyism
his sophistications and witty paradoxes
stressed the jocular side of his
socialism of these critics Michael
Hardwick may be taken as example he
writes if it is surprising to find the
luxury loving wild social climber and
eager mover in fashionable London
society propounding the ideal of a
socialist utopia it has to be remembered
on the one hand that he delighted in an
astonishing his friends and confounding
his enemies and on the other
his heart seemed to have been capable of
feeling genuine compassion for the poor
and the put-upon
but basically that idea that youyou kind
of just make it a trick
his socialism what when did you guys
come to this essay and what a year what
you're sort of like what's your
interpretive journey with it I guess
with this this essay for me actually I
read it pretty early on when I became
you know elisa socialist if not at you
know Marxist communist and it was
actually very important to me because I
always found the idea that you know
socialism has to be this drab gray
miserable kind of political ideology to
be very unappealing and I always very
much supported like the the slur for
example the attack against a lot of
British socialists that they were
champagne socialists always felt was
something we should wear with a badge of
honor
honestly rise that we can promise you
know a better future and you know enjoy
the finer things in life in that
something that we should be cultivating
instead of issuing yeah how about you
yeah I came to this particular sks a and
Oscar Wilde's essays in general through
the Arts and Crafts movement which I
knew people who were were considered
themselves like craftsmen in that field
and they make furniture and pottery that
her is in that vein and the the
manifestos of like Ruskin and Morris
have this confluence of like Christian
theology socialism and aesthetics that
I'd like to make my three bullet points
of things that I'm deeply interested in
yeah well how did you first how did you
come along that path the aesthetic stuff
cuz I hadn't heard of I'd heard Ruskin's
name I hadn't really heard of William
Morris I don't think so what was how did
you come across then I for a brief
period I worked as a salesman for a
company called Shackleton Thomas this
will be their plug and they're a arts
and crafts based furniture and pottery
company based out of Burlington Vermont
oh no cut that they're based out of
Vermont but I remember where that's
they're based out of Vermont and they
had a pop up store in Brooklyn and I
went I worked at an arts institution
with their daughter so they're deeply
interested in in making furniture that's
a
tactile use and also like has this
artistic manifesto behind it and the
idea of like the craftsman and and
giving meaning by having a beautiful
object with something as like a mid-20
like in my mid-20s I was like vehemently
opposed to on some for some stupid
reason I preferred like a more like
Spartan existence right products I had
no money yeah or my my theory is that
we've been conditioned to want a Spartan
existence and sort of meat like
austerity looking forward to climate
change which the elites always knew was
coming
yeah anyway I digress no yeah I think
that's probably true this the Arts and
Crafts movement that this essay kind of
lives in that milieu gives someone who's
interested in in social progress or
equality it gives you aesthetics as
another tool for that like revolutionary
purpose rather than something that in
spite of having these political opinions
yeah it's it's funny Oscar Wilde's
relationship to the isettas the
aesthetic movement I have in the
Cambridge companion to us kebab which
I'm buying all these bigs
I hate it I need to buy like some sort
of you know bundle but wild came to
America which I didn't know until I made
of like heard some a little bit some
about it but he he so in 1881 the 23rd
of April Gilbert and Sullivan's patients
sort of satirizes the aesthetic movement
including the character Bunthorne the
fleshly poet who was associated with
Wilde and then Wilde was invited by
these impresarios associated with the
Oberon Sullivan to come teach alongside
the play about what the aesthetic
movement is and in this emeral Sullivan
followed the house of Wilde book that
Elks and I've read it talks about how
basically that goes south when it it
turns out that one wild was picked he
was about like 27 he was picked because
he's gonna be one cheap and two they
thought he's gonna be a joke and it
turned out he could actually like
lecture a little bit and he was getting
some like decent publicity he had a lot
of bad publicity too but he had some
decent publicity but it's so funny to me
with let's say elite universe
to these higher e and like adjuncts I
like younger than I am to teach certain
classes while students pay like a
Playstation and a half for each lecture
there's it's weird how time is a flat
circle in that way but I ask you why
alike
I almost we should almost return to this
and just do a show on Wilde in America
because it's really very interesting
yeah and you saw a lot of the country -
I believe I think he went as far west as
Colorado I think he might even got to
California for an extended period of
time
yeah he was in st. Paul Minnesota for
st. Patrick's Day gave a speech this
this some notes on wild socialism by Van
de Kamp and lay he touches a lot on
William Morris another interesting thing
that came from
when Wilde was teaching that aesthetics
was doing those aesthetics lectures in
1882 is what America knew about that I
think in the Amuro Sullivan books talks
about how like the really only signs of
asceticism was Morris wallpaper and like
Queen Anne furniture and a few other
things mm-hmm do you want to touch on
Morissette oh yeah or more what do you
say Morris she can give you like a brief
overview William Morris was uh kind of
like a Renaissance man but someone who
didn't much care for the Renaissance
if the Renaissance was a way of like
reviving the classics of antiquity
people like William Morris and his
inspiration John Ruskin were someone who
under revived medievalism we're taking
aspects of medievalism and bring it into
what they saw is this technocratic world
that was losing any semblance of beauty
and Morris's mission was that that R has
a has a actually has a fixed place in
society and this was more also his
mentor Ruskin's idea that arts idea or I
think it's yeah William Morris as an art
is an expression of man's pleasure of
his labor mm-hmm so when something like
art is being made not by an elite class
but actually by like a working class a
type of person and it's almost like a
unnecessary byproduct of these people
that have a deep sense of connection and
meeting with their work and that's what
he's pulling from what he perceived as
the Middle Ages which I think has been
contested over and over again whether
that ever actually happened like if the
gilding system was of any actual like
gave a about anything
but that doesn't necessarily matter for
Morse's mission which he thinks that our
beauty and aesthetics have a layer of
meaning making power that can be given
to the laborer that's been stripped from
them like his sense of like when Marx
talked about alienation Morrises way of
injecting that back into the workers
through making something that's you can
see the imprint of the worker on the on
the finished piece rather than the
worker making one single aspect of some
very complex unit yeah there's a good
documentary on YouTube on William Morris
if you just search that I'll put a link
to it in the show notes where it goes
about it talks about him making his own
home and basically handcrafting like
every single portion of and that was a
big Victorian thing I'll just I guess
for a little bit I was just in Phoenix
over the weekend and I went to a the
rossen house which is this Victorian
style mansion made by this guy who was a
army doctor and then became like sort of
like a big figure I think he was mayor
for 11 months in Phoenix made this
Victorian style house and there's like
the first floor it's all like parquet
floors and like amazing like sealing the
stamped stuff and and Morris just went
did he invent wallpaper what's his
relationship to wallpaper because it
seemed like everyone talks about Morris
wallpaper
yeah he's I mean I think he split the
difference between these like two modes
of wallpaper that had been around for a
long time which is like the French style
of wallpaper from the 19th and also the
18th century was this idea of I of
almost as like closer representation to
reality as possible like I want like
something that look exactly like a leaf
or exactly like a tree which I think
there's some witty jibe that more
cynical why not just like rip off bark
and put it on your wall and then there's
don't rule that oh yeah yeah we'll see
in like 20 years of prophecy brother
well that's happening actually a lot of
architectures trying to create yeah
working with a lot of like natural
materials especially the idea of a
living building it's supposed to be a
very green way to create space so they
happen to look there's a couple of when
I was living in DC I went to a couple
really interesting lectures on that
specifically hmm basically your walls
would be alive to be would all be plants
and that's really good to insulate the
day actually and it's very green office
like I say I want to make if I had all
the money in the world I would make a
Mandan Indian style earth Lodge like
that's a logical extension of Frank
Lloyd Wright's house um following water
with the river that goes through it
that's a big influence yeah but oh yeah
and so then the other the other side of
the coin for this wallpaper was
geometric what she liked well you could
pull from like Arabic but that was very
popular English wallpaper designs so he
split the difference by making he wanted
to make it look like nature but with the
laborers impression mmm and that he
seemed to have hit a chord cuz that was
his most I mean he ran a printing
business for his books near an furniture
largely at a loss and in stained glass
but they're just wallpaper that's
probably his most and they seem
producing the wallpaper himself or is
him and a team of I forget the amount of
people but he had these like this
rotating team of expert craftsmen and
also at that time like in in England
there was a lot of like workingman's
colleges that were opening up and there
was a real split between him and Ruskin
because Ruskin taught at these like
workingman colleges which were like the
first secondary educator set the
secondary education for people who like
you know didn't go pass like the
equivalent of third grade and Ruskin saw
it as a way not to like up like so they
could have uh permeability but just a
way to like make their lives like better
like now you can enjoy art monument poor
where's Willy more so like I'm gonna be
cribbing these people for my not my
craftsman factory basically to make
wallpaper
yeah and Morris was also a writer
himself I well first I want to talk
about this wallpaper because I I don't
know if it's the power of suggestion it
might be like if I didn't know this guy
was like a sort of early socialist
I might not think like this stuff is
beautiful but now that I do I'm like I
want to make this my iPhone background
well if you look at my Twitter
background I have Charles voices
arts-and-crafts wallpaper who was a
student of William Morris so what's
going on in the Arts and Crafts movement
is still alive and kicking then there
what how does that work it's still it's
not nearly as popular as it used to be
but it disseminates into broader culture
like anything else like in like the plug
I'll keep doing is that this company
Shackleton Thomas is probably the most
liked direct descendant of Arts and
Crafts movement but the idea of like of
something that you can see the craftsman
you can see their work in their hand
like I don't know how to describe it
it's not necessary like the organic
movement but there is something about
you want something unique not something
that's like mass made necessarily unless
you go to like Ikea but that that
impetus I think is so deep into culture
now he's like the opposite IKEA he's
like the idea yeah yeah that's
interesting because you know one thing I
know a lot about you know it's sort of
like my more idealistic criticisms of
capitalism is just how much everything
is becoming more and more the same
mm-hmm and you notice that when you go
into an apartment in New York or an
apartment in Austin Texas like you have
the cabinets are exactly the same it can
be very you know freaky or even you know
we think about something like a comb
right it's like you to have something
that it's like crafts you know crafted
right I have to comb that's had very
expensive like luxury item versus
something you know that was typically uh
that was typically what people would be
able to experience for a lot of time
right yeah and they came with their
tools and yeah it's it's interesting cuz
their criticism of Renaissance
architecture particular is for that
exact reason which is something that I
feel like is lost on modern discourse
but that Renaissance art a Renaissance
architecture is inspired by classical
architecture of Greece and Rome and
that's hyper geometric and they consider
that really standoffish hmm whereas
Ruskin points out that that if you look
at a like a Gothic cathedral which is
considered the height of architecture
you can see a lot of like mistakes and
there's no perfect circle's what he
always says and you so you can see like
that the laborers imprint there and like
it that's it yeah well this is like this
is something I've always sort of
instinctually felt about architecture
which is that like brick buildings are
like those older
buildings where you can see it was like
more manipulated by man as opposed to
like giant skyscrapers now where it's
just like yeah we can pour the concrete
and crane at that high like it's it's
not and then bolted down and like you
basically see all buildings inside are
the same living in North Dakota I had no
idea about this but I've seen enough
buildings go up working in Brooklyn like
and like they when they go up they look
they all look the same and everything
else is just like how you structure the
glass around it basically yeah and both
both of them would say that you
architecture is like the perfect
barometer to see how healthy a society
is mmm that that more sterile that the
architecture is the more sickly in
spirit the average laborer is yes I'll
just continue with this van de Kamp here
it has been claimed that wild soul of
man is an artistic and not a political
manifesto yet such a claim is
historically naive in the complex 19th
century a debate about the organization
and control of society was almost
constantly conducted by intellectuals
and artists whose doctrines have largely
set them off as Victorian prophets I've
never heard that phrase before me
neither um well they related the
cultural decline of the English society
to its social and political wrongs and
promoted artistic appreciation as a cure
for the capitalist disease Carlyle
Ruskin Arnold and Morris observed that
society had to change they felt the
perfect desire to provide guidelines by
which material and spiritual well-being
could be obtained their influence on the
social and gait engagement of many late
nineteenth and early twentieth century
authors is all too easily underrated
while its interest in the soul of man
has distinct Carlisle in overtones I
haven't heard many good things about
Carlisle I know he invented the term
cash Nexus which I don't know God ever
knew that about but I heard he that's
from Hobbs Baum and I think he might be
a proto-fascist but let's put a pin in
that and come back to it maybe never his
stress on spirituality his concern with
the soul of man once material well-being
has been secured under socialism
reflects the ideas of the Victorian
prophets and so with regards to Morris
we have some correspondence this is from
Wilde in 1891 basically Oscar were the
saying he obtained
receipt of Morris's book it doesn't say
in the text but it's assumed that it's
Morris's news from nowhere
yeah which a friend of the show Cory
pine that's why he named his podcast
news from nowhere yeah I believe that's
right a beer it could be wrong so they
write early in that 1891 Wilde
acknowledges a receipt of a book of
Morris
dear mr. Morris the book has arrived and
I must write to you a line and tell you
how gratified I am at your sending it
the book itself
it is if it is to have a suitable
Raymond Ted blah blah blah so he had it
what can be safely asserted is that
Wilde had met Morris in 1881 Morse is
letter to his wife didn't 31 March of
that year establishes this is the first
meeting here's what Morris said did the
babes tell you how I met Oscar Wilde at
the Richmond's I must admit that as the
devil is painted black er than he is so
it fairs with you but not what he is an
ass but he certainly is and clever too
they continue Morris mentions Wilde
again in a letter in 1884 the tone of
which portrays their familiarity I don't
know I don't know whether you will be
pleased shocked or amused to hear that
Oscar Wilde has gone in for the Jager
with enthusiasm
Wyeth must have attended Morris's
lectures on socialism in the 1880s and
if his views Oh something to Morris they
owe it to his lectures we'll see over
the course of the as we listen to the
first half of this that it kind of
follows a lot of Morris's writings yeah
all right but before we actually get to
listening to the text let's take a
detour to his mother
her parents so Wilde comes from fairly
well-off parents in Irish parents or
Anglo Irish I believe there lived in
Marion Square Dublin does that mentioned
in Ulysses Oh surely yeah it's been too
long and his so his dad is basically a
polymath he's a sort of general
practitioner or surgeon or something
like that
there's certain incisions as a Wilde's
incision which is a which is a right
behind the ear I think to take care of
ear infections I'm like that it's still
called that to this day he was also an
antique where
and that's I think we've mentioned
earlier about this period of time being
one where nationalism governments are
putting together resources to try to
build like mythologies and histories so
basically the Irish government was
trying to do something with all these
artifacts and cataloging them and
William Wild Cameron's like I can do
that
and he basically did it yeah especially
like the pre-christian past of Ireland
was something he was deeply interested
and even moved the family to live a
place that he assumed some mythic battle
took place at sadly he's actually never
happened but hey his commitment you
can't win them all yeah yeah and
actually his son Oscar wouldn't it
wouldn't have thought that matter
facts don't matter yes yeah to quote
bodega boys Oscar Wilde was early on
that trail that's why he liked he liked
he wanted to convert it to Catholicism
he but he had a lifelong flirtation with
Catholicism even though he was a sort of
Oxford atheist um not to be outdone his
mother was basically a agitator in the
press and I want to play a little bit
from this emeral Sullivan book that we
keep referencing it's a really really
good book highly recommended chapter
five the bourgeois rebel after the Act
of Union in 1801 Ireland was directly
governed from Westminster as part of the
United Kingdom the British government
directly appointed a Lord Lieutenant and
a chief secretary with executive
responsibilities for Ireland and Ireland
elected 105 members to the House of
Commons most were Protestant landlords
from 1829 following the act of Catholic
emancipation Irish Catholics could be
elected to sit in Parliament but it took
time before any were and for two
centuries the 17th and 18th Irish
Catholics had been prohibited from
purchasing or leasing land voting
holding public office obtaining
education entering a profession and
doing many other things necessary for a
person to live let alone succeed in
society during the late 1840s Mission
disease and emigration caused over a
million deaths and a further million to
emigrate reducing the population by 1/4
from 8 to 6 million known as the Great
Famine the extensible cause was potato
blight the blight ravaged crops across
Europe but the impact on Ireland was
disproportionate a third of the
population relied on the potato for a
range of ethnic religious political
social and economic reasons while many
died of hunger Ireland continued to
export large amounts of food including
butter wheat and other grains and
vegetable crops between 30 and 50
shiploads a day went to Britain
sufficient to have fed the Irish
population the absurdity of exporting
food combined with the draconian laws of
the time have led some historians to use
the term genocide
famine worsened the already strained
relations with the British crown and
became a rallying cry for Home Rule
movements JLG Oscars mother first came
to public attention by writing poetry
and articles for a literary journal
called the nation her first contribution
was in 1846 when she was 25 she wrote
under a pseudonym using either John
Fanshawe Ellis or speranza one of her
first poems the faithless Shepherds
written at a time when famine was
extreme takes as its central theme the
failure of moral leadership the poem
imagines landlords as cold disengaged
inhumane failing in their social duty
dead dead he are dead while he live even
named that he live but are dead now the
council nor love did he give and your
lips never uttered a word while Swift
Bruin downward sped and the plague raged
on undisturbed not a thought in the dull
cold brains of how ye should bear your
part when summoned the strife to brave
for your country with death and the
grave in France in 93 published in the
nation on the 27th of March 1847 Jane
took the bread riots during the French
Revolution as analogous to the famine in
Ireland the poem pictures an Armageddon
as a volcanic surge of mass violence is
the price paid by a negligent monarch
ghastly fruit their Lance's bare noble
heads with streaming hair royal blood of
King and Queen Stream ahthe from the
guillotine wildly on the people goeth
reaping what the nobles soweth
undoubtedly this was meant to discomfort
those responsible or complicit in the
mismanagement of Thurmond hell yeah
that's I love that wine yeah it's so
good yeah that was when I'm like oh yeah
this book I see what else is talking
about a little bit more here such poems
led many to condemn the nation as
subversive Lee hunt the English poet and
journalist liked the trumpet like music
and political vigor of the writings but
was startled by the vehemence
established in 1843 by Thomas Davis John
Blake Dylan and Charles Gavin Duffy the
nation was a literary journal designed
to broaden awareness of culture it was
the vocal arm of the young Ireland
movement whose motto was educate that
you may be free Davis the inspiration
behind the movement believed that
political independence should be
accompanied by mental independence and
by the self-confidence that comes from
education self-expression and taking
initiative and we cosign all those here
are those lofty goals as well as the
reapeth what the noble soweth but yeah
that's oscar wilde's mom lady wild she
would go on to wild tried to get her
published a few times
when he had his fame but basically wilds
father was a bit of a philanderer
himself and started having an affair
with one of his patients and and that
became a big trial for libel and and
then shortly after that I think wilds
father died maybe and then wild lady
Wilde was left with the kids
William Wilde and Oscar you didn't say
well I also kind of left them in like a
popper situation yeah I had a bunch of
debts so that's that's interesting a
note like wild background it wasn't just
like wealthy parents it was like like
well-to-do parents but also ones that
that had like very specific political
leanings and sharp and political
leanings
and and it's it's actually like it makes
sense when you see what Wilde became
literally this is the milieu he came
from I think you could probably say that
the salon that the wilds ran then solely
by lady Wilde that that pretty much
helped birth the Irish Renaissance after
that like with Yeats was a he was a big
proponent of lady wild and saying a lot
of what he his point of view on like
this kind of left-leaning and an Irish
independence thing that worse were
coming out of the discussions and their
living room for the most part yeah
yeah that's so you know in some ways
wilds mother was more more of a radical
than he was although I think Mr
O'Sullivan or maybe it's another maybe
it's in the who's Richard almond
biography which is also good talks about
how she had a sort of similar distrust
of the mob that wild occasionally
exhibited in certain poems he's very
wishy-washy on Stern they're not
wishy-washy but he'll like he's be vague
is very strong on both sides of the
fence depending on what what side he's
on so I think with that that you
mentioned we can go to the actual
recording of this now Alex you do you
want to say a few words on the narrator
for this we have a LibriVox narrator
again you know I mean in my weaker
moments I'd say he's annoying I think
well Martin Giessen does is yeoman's
work like every other LibriVox recording
and so I mean right his debt that he's
gone through a lot of wilds work but he
really leans into the characters and
this kind of musical presentation that
doesn't lend itself to I think long-form
reading that's my own but if he wants to
keep doing what he's gonna do he should
just keep doing yeah I mean alex is
entitled his opinion I don't agree I
think I think you get out there Martin I
think he's doing a really good job wow
this is great yeah
oh yeah it's actually amazing what he
does now acts as a on I think
well actually no I'll just say I but I
am typically I'm I think not unique but
what another word sort of approaching
that which is that I like Frederick
Davidson I've ever heard of him really
everybody hates the way he speaks but I
think like you just gotta get over it
and just you got a not it's not
bothering me I don't know no you're off
that you're off that you're out you're
off trial okay this is just generally
speaking because I listen to so many
like text-to-speech audio book stuff so
it's like how can I really complain
about like another human being like
narrating and I have yeah I like once
again Alex I'm not not doing this to
attack you or set you up and get Martin
slave recordings of my voice yeah I
don't want martin gleason to to come
after you oh here's a ears Frederick
Davidson that's what he sounds like he
this is him doing such such were the
joys by us by George Orwell spews still
in his ears were holy and he was born
knowing what I had learned out of boys
and slowly III sounds like Martin Amos
yeah yeah
it grew on me like at first because he
also does I think like war and peace so
like a long time he gets savaged on the
audible comments big I had to turn it on
yeah and I'm just like you know what
you're only in impoverishing yourself
that's so I just wanted to say that just
get clear the air because some people
might not like this recording but guess
what you record one turnoff you record
your own socialism or turn it off yeah
frankly I don't need I don't need
listeners yeah yeah I will say Flo
Gibson she does suck that's the only one
I think she shouldn't be doing audio box
and we did her last week yeah yeah or
she don't she's getting paid that so I'm
fine saying that she's not doing on
LibriVox no yeah yeah she's done a bunch
okay so here is the liberal
version of the soul of man and we're
gonna do that first half of this and the
rest of it is available to you if you
want to continue the the second half is
a little bit less political though there
are some things in there it's it's more
about artwork and well it's like let me
be a artist please which is
which is fine but it's just a bit less
interesting for the purposes of this of
the soul of man this is a librivox
recording all librivox recordings are in
the public domain for more information
or to volunteer please visit
librivox.org recording by martin decent
hell yeah
by Oscar Wilde Oh itch I should note he
just says the soul of man by Oscar Wilde
there
the original title is the soul of man
under socialism it was reprinted I think
after Wilde was imprisoned but still
alive as just the soul of man and just
yeah and it's funny that excision
because we've talked about the the
excision of george orwell's democratic
socialism in the preface to animal farm
it says like since the Spanish Civil War
every word I've written has been against
totalitarianism and then there's an
ellipses and what's in the ellipses is
and for democratic socialism and I think
is penguin or Signet classics is like
yeah we're not gonna put that it's the
fifties this is going into classrooms
yeah yeah I have a lot of consequences
honestly yeah yeah
you see Orwell being quoted by every
every jerk-off well I don't know if
we'll get to it but there is a there is
a right wing YouTube site that has its
own little video on the soul of man wait
like pro libertarianism.org oh well yeah
okay three from the soul of man under
socialism we're gonna go after wild
originally published in the fortnightly
review February 1891 Oscar Fingal
O'Flaherty why
1854 to 1900 was an Irish essayist
playwright novelist and intellectual in
Victorian England in 1895 Wilde was
convicted of gross indecency a result we
don't know this but anyway the
Libertarians are claiming Wilde and from
a certain perspective like Wilde does
talk a lot about individualism and that
that's a aspect I think that probably
one one of the few concepts here that
like well we can talk about that nobody
definitely should yeah cuz like what
what I guess what that what
individualism really means but yes
libertarianism.org thinks that got wild
on their team Jesus Christ so we're this
is what we're doing we're doing we're
gonna we're doing some cultural triage
here
[Music]
the medical team oh I don't know I'm not
sure everyone know famously failed out
of medical here we go back to Martin
dicen the chief advantage that would
result from the establishment of
socialism is undoubtedly the fact that
socialism would relieve us from that
sorted necessity of living for others
which in the present condition of things
presses so hardly upon almost everybody
in fact scarcely anyone at all escapes
now and then in the course of the
century a great man of science like
Darwin a great poet like Keats a fine
critical spirit like Monsieur Hunnam a
supreme artist like Flo Bear has been
able to isolate himself to keep himself
out of reach of the clamorous claims of
others to stand under the shelter of the
wall as Plato puts it and so to realize
the perfection of what was in him to his
own incomparable gain and to the
incomparable and lasting gain of the
whole world so right there we already
have major wildly and sort of paradoxes
right the switching like socialism is
just so you can stop worrying about
other people yeah which is like the
exact sort of inversion of conservatives
complain like like you know take care of
yourself like stop being a victim on
behalf of other
people sort of thing yeah there's almost
like a way that he's like reclaiming
individualism from like reactionary
thought by saying like actually we're
the true individualist yeah exactly
and the idea and I think we'll develop
this as the text goes on but the idea of
living for others becomes very
interesting for um for a while because
you know there's a tension there because
socialism is you know by its name is
supposed to be social so the idea of
being able to hold yourself away and to
create art you know creates attention
right from the from the very beginning
of the text yeah I just you know I'm
just curious and I think you know
especially I guess you know if we do get
into the second half where he starts to
talk about his aesthetic theory it does
become interesting that he really does
believe this idea that to be able to
create any kind of art you have to
isolate yourself from everyone else
yeah and that's strange because it's
like is it you know I don't know if he's
because he was a very social person
himself right well not only that he's
also a notorious plagiarist yeah and I
mean that's a it's a common thing like
it's way more common than people realize
we sort of talked about this with I
mentioned Orwell like the reason he
sounds so Marxist is because he's in
conversation with other Marx's that we
just don't remember these days and the
same thing was with Wilde all right he's
like we has the William Morris lectures
he's like friends with carpet can and
yeah so I don't know completely forgot
where I was no but I think you know just
in this first text it's it's important
to recognize but what he means by
isolation is like keeping himself out of
the claims of others which is very
different from you know holding yourself
away or going off into the woods to
write your great novel it's like without
having people to have ownership over you
and your ideas basically to be able to
stand outside of society you know even
if you're living in it to be able to see
on outside of it as an individual as a
writer as a thinker in creating art yeah
it's like the it's like the dandy
paradox that he seems to live in which
is like he's this commentator on society
in in like the Shakespearean sense of
like all the world's a stage he's
standing right offstage being like I'm
in on this with you to the audience but
a commenting on society the entire time
without looking to change it because
that would change his identity as like
The Dandy
bleh so he wants to make a world of
dandies in which there will be no
dandies presses so hardly upon almost
everybody in fact scarcely anyone at all
escapes now and then in the course of
the century a great man of science like
Darwin a great poet like Keats have
locked himself out of reach of the
clamorous claims of others to stand
under the shelter of the wall as Plato
puts it and so to realize the perfection
of what was in him to his own
incomparable gain and to the
incomparable and lasting gain of the
whole world these however are exceptions
the majority of people spoils their
lives by an unhealthy and exaggerated
altruism a forced indeed so to spoil
them they find themselves surrounded by
hideous poverty by hideous ugliness by
hideous starvation it is inevitable that
they should be strongly moved by all
this the emotions of man are stirred
more quickly than man's intelligence and
as I pointed out some time ago in an
article on the function of criticism it
is much more easy to have sympathy with
suffering and it is to have sympathy
with thought accordingly with admirable
though misdirected intentions they very
seriously and very sentimentally set
themselves to the task of remedying the
evils that they see but their remedies
do not cure the disease they merely
prolong it indeed their remedies are
part of the disease they try to solve
the problem of poverty for instance by
keeping the poor alive or in the case of
a very advanced school by amusing the
poor much murmurs but this is
solution it is an aggravation of the
difficulty the proper aim is to try and
reconstruct society on such a basis that
poverty will be impossible and the
altruistic virtues have rarely prevented
the carrying out of this aim just as the
worst slave owners with those who were
kind to their slaves and so prevented
the horror of the system being realized
by those who suffered from it and
understood by those who contemplated it
so in the present state of things in
England the people who do most harm are
the people who try to do most good and
at last we have had the spectacle of men
who have really studied the problem and
know the life educated men who live in
the East End coming sounds of a Marga
like look at these elites telling us
what to do well I mean I'm a little out
of my depth here but isn't that kind of
like a like a left criticism of
liberalism that they just prolong the
the debilitating state of being in a
capitalist world oh yeah this is the
classic critique of philanthropy that
people still make today about like
basically this is tax-deductible so at
any time some rich talks about
his foundation it means like that's what
he's doing to get around paying taxes
what not only being tax deductible but
also the idea that you know their wealth
creates the poverty that everyone else
is suffering in and the idea is that the
people who are the philanthropists right
they already have a lot of material
power and political power because of
that now they're also trying to wield
even more power over people's life by
being the ones who give them charity
deciding how they give it and what they
give it to and controlling you know
social engineering in that aspect right
and it's sort of like how like the sack
lairs of Guggenheim and something that
like oh thank God we have the Koch
brothers and the sack there's to give us
like art otherwise we wouldn't have it
in our lives
Guggenheim announces they're not gonna
be taking any more money so that kind of
but this this point of view also is
cribbed from the Arts and Crafts
movement that was a big thing with
Ruskin saying that he never argued that
the medieval world was any more just or
fair than the current world
but it wasn't hidden like that class
identity was much more clear and then it
was much more righteous in that sense or
the fact that the the rich and powerful
pretending to come down and help you
that's the disgusting thing about
modernity there arts and crafts people
mm-hmm um so this is going back to the
Van de Kamp & leahey article on page 142
the force that has enslaved the working
class is the result of an institution of
private property and private enterprise
this force is kept in existence by the
bourgeois the parasites of private
property as Morris and Shah call them
who endeavor to ease our conscience
concerning their poor slaves by means of
charity yet charity remains a substitute
for a real and selfless help and it
artificially preserves the inequalities
between rich and poor between the rich
and the poor
Morris observed that quote a rich man
cannot give to a poor one without both
being worse for it and then wild ads
which we're going to get to shortly it
is immoral to use private property in
order to alleviate the horrible evils
that result from the institution of
private property is both immoral and
unfair both Morris and Wilde contrary to
Shaw agree that the working class should
revolt against the inhuman position in a
cap in capitalist societies Morris holds
that quote it would be better for the
community and for the worker if the
latter were to fold his hands and refuse
to work and either die or let us pack
him off to the workhouse or prison which
you will and well comments that the best
among the poor are never grateful so we
already see a sort of influence of
Morris on a wild here so in the present
state of things in England the people
who do most harm are the people who try
to do most good and at last we have had
the spectacle of men who have really
studied the problem and know the life
educated men who live in the East End
coming forward and imploring the
community to restrain its altruistic
impulses of charity benevolence and the
like they do so on the grounds that such
charity degrades and demoralizes they
are perfectly right charity creates a
multitude of sins I just want to look up
what he meant by that
ten thing because I first thought that
was a reference to like the
philanthropists the rich philanthropist
but it looks like it's like the critics
of philanthropists but maybe from the
right so I wanna here's what the
footnote says educated men who live in
the East End Tony Hall founded in the
deeply impoverished Whitechapel district
of London by Oxford University man was a
residence intended to bring together
educated people bring together educated
and poor people on terms of
fellow-feeling and practical help it
gave the model to innumerable other
settlement houses in Britain in America
including Jane Addams famous hall house
in Chicago so I'm not I'm not I'm not
super familiar with what that means but
interesting they are perfectly right
charity creates a multitude of sins
there is also this to be said it is
immoral to use private property in order
to alleviate the horrible evils that
result from the institution of private
property it is both immoral and unfair
under socialism all this will of course
be altered
there will be no people living in fetid
dens and fetid rags and bringing up
unhealthy hunger pinched children in the
midst of impossible and absolutely
repulsive surroundings the security of
society will not depend as it does now
on the state of the weather if a frost
comes we shall not have a hundred
thousand men out of work tramping about
the streets in a state of disgusting
misery climate change now huh the so
ever if a frost comes we shall not have
a hundred thousand men out of work
tramping about the streets in a state of
disgusting misery or finding to their
neighbors for arms or crowding around
the doors of loathsome shelters to try
and secure a hunk of bread and nights
unclean lodging each member of the
society will share in the general
prosperity and happiness of the society
and if a frost come
no one will practically be anything the
worse upon the other hand socialism
itself will be of value simply because
it will lead to individualism socialism
communism or whatever one chooses to
call it by converting private property
into public wealth and substituting
cooperation for competition will restore
society to its proper condition of a
suddenly healthy organism and ensure the
material well-being of each member of
the community it will in fact give life
its proper basis and its proper
environment but for the full development
of life to its highest mode of
perfection something more is needed what
is needed is individualism
if the socialism is authoritarian if
there are governments armed with
economic power as they are now with
political power if in a word we ought to
have industrial tyrannies then the last
state of man will be worse than the
first at present in consequence of the
existence of private property a great
many people are enabled to develop a
certain very limited amount some pretty
good foresight I feel like about the
industrial tyrannies and like to this
day we have all of our economic sort of
means in charge of capitalists who don't
have any any duty but to their
shareholders basically wasn't this
because it is very interesting obviously
because when we hear this I feel like
our imaginations are just skipping
forward like 40 yeah yeah years to
install in the Soviet Union but you know
I think that is when he's time about
authoritarian socialism there were a lot
of utopian novels that were going on
right then was the book was looking
backward looking backwards yeah and that
was supposed to be something that was
like much more like everyone had to do
military service and like the holes life
was so structured by the state and it
was very popular people so he was very
much like you have these interesting
sorry I don't worry um you know tensions
there as well we
it's like even among the utopian folks
right because this like it you know like
a good Stalinist would make the argument
right is that like the power and I mean
that you know you know the power of the
state the reason the state had so much
power was because of the like the the
rest of the world was basically trying
to collapse the Soviet Union externally
so it was more of a reaction to a
problem versus these utopian socials who
were actually arguing for that as a
positive thing gave people meaning which
i think it's you know there's a there's
a difference there actually yeah and
actually we will do looking backward at
some point i've read that there's
actually the very first librivox book i
ever discovered was looking backward i
got assigned it for a class and for some
reason I had that Inc like the idea to
like just put it into the iTunes search
I don't know why like I'm like I don't
want to read like I want to read I was I
was like new to audio audible so I was
like getting into the audiobook mode and
then I'm like but maybe there's
something out there I was actually
looking for lectures or something and
then it's like oh the entire thing is
right there and that was the very first
it's very is very interesting the only
thing I don't remember much about the
the military conscription but I think
I've heard that subsequently that like
that but it was a huge bestseller just
massive both sides of the pond Bellamy I
think isn't maybe who's British I can
remember no I think he was American and
but anyway I remember that one image I
have was like the sidewalks would have
sort of umbrellas that would follow you
a lot with machine umbrellas like
there's a lot of like machinery utopia
mmm stuff that's interesting here um I
also wanted to bring up at the start of
that paragraph Wilde says socialism
communism or whatever one chooses to
call it that's a funny thing
like the flippancy with terminology is
something I kind of appreciate but I
like to like basically like triangulate
different people's perspectives on it
you know and I do like that you know how
he's playing with the terms but I think
it's something that I at least I
highlighted this and something that's
important to me is his fixation on the
question of private property yeah
there's a lot of socials today
especially in the United States and my
experience they don't have like the
question of private property isn't
central to their and
it's very much as like okay we need to
alleviate suffering suffering and you
know create like larger social programs
which is in a lot of ways it's very
similar to the kind of like charity
argument that while is pushing against
right so talking taking the private
property question as a central you know
criticism of capitalism in the state
that he's in it's something that's very
brave and I think that you know we
should pay attention to yeah and can you
just make the distinction for people
between like private property and
personal property and I think confuses a
lot of this so you know no one is going
to come you know the private property is
not your Xbox you know private property
[Laughter]
Xbox oscarwild wants to abolish read
yeah you know but the private private
private property is the land the factory
you know the moat that you know the
means of production and that's what
we're Tama or talk about private
property specifically it's not what is
is used by many people but it's owned by
a few so wild in this is very funny
interview heated with the theatre in
1894 which is like sort of right at the
end of the the wilds 90s like it goes
from 89 to 95 and then like starts
hitting the fan this is a 94 after like
a lot of his big works are out there
he's interviewed by this this theater
writer that's this is definitely the
interview of someone who's like at the
peak of his power it's like I'm just
gonna definitely just see what happens
yeah so I don't have who-who the
interviewer is but he starts off the the
and this is interesting in the context
of the Dreyfus Affair and wild new Zola
Emile Zola who wrote J'Accuse about that
and basically anti-semitism in France
similar sort of trial as Oscar Wilde
like there's anti-semitism and
homophobia but this this writer I was
interviewing Wilde starts he likes Jews
he has he has many friends among the
Hebrews he thinks Spinoza a very fine
character he seems to have some doubt as
to whether Spinoza was really the
founder of the pantheistic second my
relationship that's a different stupid
so I just yeah he likes Jews
get that on the record yeah yeah the
conversation drifted into politics quote
we are all of us more or less socialists
nowadays he remarked our system of
government is largely socialistic now
that is often omitted - I think - maybe
blunt and what he's saying about we're
all socialists because like I think you
know like Republican and Democratic
democratizing government is very those
are victories but also like it's not
I wouldn't say like the House of Commons
is socialism I mean but he's the kind of
guy who would say like I feel like in
that same interview he'd be like oh like
what are police like those are socialist
this is a police or socialism argument
our system of government is largely
socialistic but then while continues oh
yeah he says what is the House of
Commons but a socialistic assembly then
he says I think I'm rather more than a
socialist he added laughingly I am
something of an anarchist
I believe but of course the dynamite
policy is very absurd indeed which like
to me it's somewhere it's basically like
where all these conversations now get to
like I think everybody sort of distrust
the state and then also things like
butt-fuck we need to do something with
it well and you know this is something
and I and I feel like a lot of the
secondary literature about this about
this text gets into it is the question
of whether or not you know Oscar Wilde
socialism is utopian and just - you know
so people understand is that you know
for example Marx wasn't the first
socialist Marx was actually reacting and
writing against the popular movements
for socialism specifically in in France
and also in the United Kingdom and
trying to put a rigor on them you know
mess and that's something that's very
different from what Wilde is is coming
from yeah we talked about one of those
in the House of the Seven Gables do you
remember what that his name was like
pradhan no no that utopian socialist
basically Holgrave is like says or know
the veter says Holgrave sounds like
you're no Holgrave says vetters
plans are like the goddamn yeah Charles
four-year who I think had like he had
like an idea for society yeah down to
the specific number of people you want
and they always do that
Plato singing everyone had to be an
equal amount like they have to be an
equal number of builders and teachers
yeah yeah like come on yeah this is more
about your OCD years you know and
there's a big difference between having
like the correct sympathy and
orientation versus like having a plan
and that was sort of was very much like
what the Marxist product project was was
to try to you know create a little bit
of discipline amongst these people who
were talking about like that you
know go ahead for years very funny
though because he was a guy I think in
the clip we play in the Seven Gables
episode where he had the specific
schematics already for and he was just
like why won't some rich person come
give me the money to go oh that's wild
so yeah and it's interesting I mean
we'll get to wild why the wild is
utopian or not I think it's more
ambiguous than people say but that's
sort of towards the end of the episode
but I also William Morris his book news
from nowhere
that's a utopian title right there.use
from nowhere yeah I think it's in this
essay he's Oscar Wilde is absolutely
disinterested in the struggle to get
towards socialism if anything I think he
sees it as he collapses the difference
between Darwinian evolution and the
march towards socialism as it's just the
next evolutionary step of man's progress
like that's the end terminus is is
utopia from which we'll see an utopia
said we don't have a vantage point to
yet so he's not even worried about like
the potential upheaval I think if I was
like Reba tween the lines and he's like
we're all gonna get there eventually so
mmhmm I'll just talk about what it could
possibly be like when we get there yes
and what it's gonna be for the artists
cuz we're all gonna be artists first at
present in consequence of the existence
of private property a great many people
are enabled to develop a certain very
limited amount of in
ritualism they are either under no
necessity to work for their living or
are enabled to choose the sphere of
activity that is really congenial to
them and gives them pleasure these are
the poets the philosophers the men of
science the men of culture are birds in
a word the real men the men who have
realized themselves and in whom all
humanity gains a partial realization
upon the other hand there are a great
many people who having no private
property of their own and being always
on the brink of starvation are compelled
to do the work of beasts of burden to do
work that is quite uncongenial to them
and to which they are forced by the
peremptory unreasonable degrading
tyranny of want these are the poor and
amongst them there is no grace of manner
or charm of speech or civilization or
culture or refinement in pleasures or
joy of life from their collective force
humanity gains much in material
prosperity but it is only the material
results that its gains and the man who
is poor is in himself absolutely of no
importance he is merely the
infinitesimal atom of a force that so
far from regarding him crushes him
indeed prefers him crushed as in that
case he is far more obedient of course
it might be said that the individualism
generated under conditions of private
property is not always or even as a rule
of a fine or wonderful type and that the
poor if they have not culture and charm
have still many virtues both these
statements would be quite true the
possession of private property is often
extremely demoralizing and that is of
course one of the reasons why socialism
wants to get rid of the institution in
fact property is real
nuisance some years ago people went
about the country saying that property
has duty his mom said it's so often and
so tediously but at last the church has
begun to say it when hears it now from
every pulpit it is perfectly true
property not merely has duties but has
so many duties that its possession to
any large extent is a bore it involves
endless claims upon one endless
attention to business
endless bother if property had simply
pleasures we could stand it but its
duties make it unbearable in the
interest of the rich we must get rid of
it that's another one of my favorite
lines like it's for them it's for their
own good it's because Elon Elon you're
working too hard you're overworked
you're working what 90 hour days like
every rich person says they do which
what they mean like half of that is like
checking email in the Oberer I feel like
man accusing people of pedophilia yeah
it's work I cute just for yeah accusing
people who saved kids under under water
in a collapsed cave yeah being
pedophiles because of the country that
everybody painted sus and saying he has
proof I was kind of on the I was open on
the outside chance it was like Peter
teal had given him some information that
he hacked yes CIA spy firm like yeah
this guy actually is a pedophile in
which case like Elon Musk might think he
have that hand up but really why do you
have all this information on pedophiles
like you're sitting on but you're not
sure until it's until they embarrass you
but you know in this like last section
that you read I think it's just
important to recognize the audience of
this essay because it starts become very
clear here that he's writing to I feel
like somebody who's you know drinking
with him in a social club he's not ready
to incite the masses toward revolution
he's trying to convince wealthy Buchwald
people that it's okay in their best
interest actually to have socials yeah
yeah he's doing the Nakano or special
yeah yeah this would definitely come up
in conversation after
the latest novel are like after seeing
like the ballet
also you know like we're refined people
and these land owners their trash I
think that it's an interesting strategy
though I think wealth should become more
of a social what do you call it the
thing on your back
social albatross I'm taking my acid and
like I mean I don't know how we do this
but if you have any ideas Atlit hangover
on twitter what continues are
crazy i I think it's actually I'm sorry
I just want to take another little
detour there was this long standing at
Oxford supposedly recording of wild
speaking mm-hmm
and then it turned out it there's Martin
Jason it was not much but here it is
supposedly
[Music]
yeah he's supposedly reading The Ballad
of red in jail but it was turned out to
be a fake but apparently people that
knocks were like holy we got this
that seems like too poorly recorded like
they they went to the like to prove that
it's real they went a little too far in
the poorly recorded and yeah apparently
some audio people determine that the RPM
was not up to time so you can't fool
those freaks property not merely has
duties it has so many duties that its
possession to any large extent is a bore
it involves endless claims upon one
endless attention to business
endless bother if property had simply
pleasures we could stand it but its
duties make it unbearable in the
interest of the rich we must get rid of
it the virtues of the poor may be
readily admitted and are much to be
regretted we are often told that the
poor are grateful for charity some of
them are no doubt but the best amongst
the poor are never grateful they are
ungrateful discontented disobedient and
rebellious they are quite right to be so
charity they feel to be a ridiculously
inadequate mode of partial restitution
or a sentimental dole usually
accompanied by some impertinent attempt
on the part of the sentimentalist to
tyrannize over their private lives why
should they be grateful for the crumbs
that fall from the rich man's table they
should be seated at the board and are
beginning to know it and as for being
discontented
a man who would not be discontented with
such surroundings and such a low mode of
life would be a perfect brute
disobedience in the eyes of anyone who
has met history is man's original virtue
it is through disobedience that progress
has been made through disobedience and
rebellion
sometimes the poor are appraised for
being sweet that's the most Darwinian
section of his theory that he likens
disobedience and it's almost like
talking about like mutation the things
that go against the established order is
how progress is initiated I feel like
he's folding in that that theory of
evolution right in with like societal
history as well yeah and while it was a
big wasn't was a big fan of Darwin
mm-hmm medians and rebellion
sometimes the poor are praised for being
thrifty but to recommend thrift to the
poor is both grotesque and insulting
where a note is like advising a man who
is starving to eat less but a town or
country laborer to practice thrift would
be absolutely immoral man should not be
ready to show that he can live like a
badly fed animal he should decline to
live like that and should either steal
or go on the rates which is considered
by many to be a form of stealing as for
begging it is safer to beg them to take
but it is finer to take them to beg no a
poor man who is ungrateful unthrifty
discontented and rebellious is probably
a real personality and has much in him
he is at any rate a healthy protest as
for the virtuous poor one can pity them
of course but one cannot possibly admire
them they have made private terms with
the enemy and sold their birth rightful
very bad pottage they must also be
extraordinarily stupid
I can quite understand a man accepting
laws that protect private property and
admit of its accumulation as long as he
himself is able under those conditions
to realize some form of beautiful and
intellectual life but it is almost
incredible to me how a man whose life is
marred and made hideous by such laws can
possibly acquiesce in their continuance
however the explanation is not really
difficult to find it is simply this
misery and poverty are so absolutely
degrading and exercise such a paralyzing
effect over the nature of men that no
class is ever really conscious of its
own suffering they have to be told of it
by other people and they often entirely
disbelieve them what is said by great
employers of labor against agitators is
unquestionably true agitators are a set
of interfering meddling people who come
down to some perfectly contented class
of the community and sow the seeds of
discontent amongst them that is the
reason why agitators are so absolutely
necessary without them in our incomplete
state there would be no advance towards
civilization slavery was put down in
America not in consequence of any action
on the part of the slaves or even any
express desire on their past that they
should be free it was put down entirely
through the grossly illegal conduct of
certain agitators in Boston and
elsewhere who were not slaves themselves
nor owners of slaves nor had anything to
do with the question really it was
undoubtedly the abolitionists who set
the torture light OB so we'll just stop
that there that's wrong yeah there's no
way that this podcast was gonna let I
assume are you a civil war head David a
bit yes there's no way between
the three of us we are actually
definitely
well I'll just you guys to maybe jump in
the history but I would just say that
you know in the socialist tradition this
is a good example of where you know
Wilde is very deviant from any kind of
like Marxist analysis right they very
specifically did not attribute the at
you know the civil war to the fact that
you know some agitators in Boston were
causing trouble yeah but you know a
multitude of factors including the
realities of production in the United
States where industrial production was
becoming so much more powerful than
agrarian production and that you needed
to get rid of the slave system because
it was kameen not only was it uh you
know immoral and unjust and brutal it
was also incredibly wasteful of
especially all the land in the south in
the fact that you know most of
especially in the deep south at that
time most of the the old south I mean
most of that land had become very
unfertile because it had been you know
just wasted under slavery and a real
reason for the need to expand slavery in
the United States was all these people
who owned a lot of slaves wanted to keep
their money basically by being able to
export slaves into other states yeah I
think we'll talk about this once we get
closer to the the slavery portions we
are skipping a little bit headed to
cover wild here but the there's like a
bunt there's I mean this isn't entirely
an argument against wild but the I was
trying to find this work this
abolitionist text written by this
african-american abolitionist and it's
um
David Walker and it's a and the appeal
it's a appeal to the colored citizens of
the world and I and frankly he was a
Boston but he did live in Boston he
wasn't like a white abolitionist but he
wasn't a abolitionist so um you know
maybe there's I guess that's not exactly
the I'm not dunking on Wilde as much as
I wanted to with that but generally
speaking like there was a lot of slave
revolts and the slit the slaves
themselves at a huge hand we'll talk
about this in the context I kind of want
to cover maybe when we do this for the
table setting for a lot of the slavery
section will do that Steven Hahn book a
nation under our feet I think it is
where it sort of talks about all the
different things that like slaves
themselves we're actually doing to
secure their freedom so this this is the
probably maybe the most explicitly
problematic part of while that you have
to sort of like deconstruct and
I think maybe the simplest explanation
is one this is a bias of a of a guy from
his class and who's a writer but also
he's like you said earlier of who he's
it was actual audiences yeah well and I
think so just to jump on that one more
time is like in the previous section you
know he's talking how important it is to
have the agitator instead of like the
organic you know rebellion and I feel
like that kind of perspective is very
clear when he's talking about in
basically the civil war the United
States or it's not you know the
oppressed themselves taking action it's
very much like people outside coming in
and letting everyone know you're being
you know you're being abused and you
need to be helped by us mm-hmm which is
very much like a kind of upper class
booze wall idea of like how we're gonna
deal with social problems exactly and
you can you can see in a few of these
criticisms where conservatives might be
like like you could read the full out
philanthropy critique is sort of a
critique of welfare snakes and stuff
like that too so you can kind of see
occasionally the the double nut double
edge but why
like libertarianism.org has a essay as a
video on slavery was pushed down in
America any action on the part of the
slaves or even s desire on their past
that they should be free it was put down
entirely through the grossly illegal
conduct of certain agitators in Boston
and elsewhere who were not slaves
themselves nor owners of slaves nor had
anything to do with the question really
it was undoubtedly the abolitionists who
set the torture light who began the
whole thing and it is curious to note
that from the slaves themselves they
received not merely very little
assistance but hardly any sympathy even
and when at the close of the war the
slaves found themselves free found
themselves indeed so absolutely free
that they were free to starve many of
them bitterly regretted the new state of
things to the think yeah that's a
totally natural yeah it's someone who's
never cracked a book on the subject for
sure many of them bitterly regretted the
new state of things to the stinker
the most tragic fact in the whole of the
French Revolution is not that Marie
Antoinette was killed for being a queen
but let the starved peasant of the long
day voluntarily went out to die for the
hideous cause of feudalism now he said
that that's a good line I really like
that it's funny the Kula tree did you
see that cool that article David owned
oh yeah
this one massacred nobody's ever heard
of before it's like literally in this
text like that's a well-known thing but
that's all you need to respond actually
mm-hmm actually but once this is over
I'm gonna just take a picture of this
part and respond to Andy no saying like
here's what here's here's the correct
take on like that that's just so awesome
to me what's such a great way to frame
revolutionary violence not as a way of
denying the fact that it might be like
violent or even unethical what's going
on but to frame it in like a much
broader like thousand foot view of
existence that there are actually much
worse moral atrocities that have been
going on that are just known as like
everyday occurrences of the feudal state
or the ruling class that Oscar Wilde is
both saying like yet it's bad that Marie
Antoinette was killed like just that's
obvious but it's like a drop in the
bucket compared to these the existence
that the entire peasantry had to live
under her so Oscar Wilde's first play he
wrote I believe is called Veera and it
wasn't performed until much much later
because of because of the political
aspects of it it's about those sort of
the Russian nihilists and Suffolk then
hears from the conclusion of this Van de
Kamp and glai he article from a little
bit says on the and this Vera or the
nilus 1880s so this is about a decade
before he wrote this the play was
cancelled in England at the time because
of the present state of political
feeling in England as Pearson puts it it
is not difficult to imagine the impact
which the heroine with her flaming red
dress of revolutionary sentiments would
have made on the English audience of the
time particularly with statements as
quote how easy it is for a king to kill
his people by the thigh
but we cannot rid ourselves of one crown
man in Europe and then you see like
anarchists actually did put a body count
up with like prom princes and Franz
Ferdinand and two distinct are the most
tragic the whole of the French
Revolution is not that Marie Antoinette
was killed for being a queen but let the
starved peasant of the van they
voluntarily went out to die for the
hideous cause of feudalism it is clear
then that no authoritarian socialism
will do for while under the present
system of people can lead lives of a
certain amount of freedom and expression
and happiness under an industrial
barrack system or a system of economic
tyranny nobody would be able to have any
such freedom at all it is to be
regretted that a portion of our
community should be practically in
slavery but to propose to solve the
problem by enslaving the entire
community is childish every van must be
left quite free to choose his own work
no form of compulsion must be exercised
over him if there is his work will not
be good for him will not be good in
itself and will not be good for others
and by work I simply mean activity of
any kind I hardly think that any
socialist nowadays would seriously
proposed that an inspector should call
every morning at each house to see that
each citizen rose up and did manual
labor for eight hours
Orwell writing arel wrote a review of
this and takes issue with that part in
the obvious given the his historical
time why would us to see that each
citizen rose up and did manual labor for
eight hours
humanity has got beyond that stage
and reserves such a form of life for the
people whom in a very arbitrary manner
it chooses to call criminals but I
confess that many of the socialistic
views that I have come across seem to me
to be tainted with ideas of authority if
not of actual compulsion of course
Authority and compulsion are out of the
question
all Association must be quite voluntary
it is only in voluntary associations
that man is fine but it may be asked how
individualism which is now more or less
dependent upon the existence of private
property for its development will
benefit by the abolition of such private
property the answer is very simple
it is true that under existing
conditions a few men who have had
private means of their own such as Byron
Shelley Browning Victor Hugo Baudelaire
and others have been able to realize
their personality more or less
completely not one of these men ever did
a single day's work for hire they were
relieved from poverty they have an
immense advantage the question is
whether it would be for the good of
individualism that such an advantage
should be taken away let us suppose that
it is taken away what happens then to
individualism how will it benefit it
will benefit in this way under the new
conditions individualism will be far
freer far finer and far more intensified
than it is now
I am NOT talking of the great
imaginatively realized individualism of
such poets as I have mentioned but of
the great actual individualism latent
and potential in mankind generally for
the recognition of private property has
really harmed individualism and obscured
it by confusing a man with what he
possesses it has led in
Bengie ilysm entirely astray it has made
gain no that's on the pause on that the
confusing a man with what he possesses I
feel this very strongly like growing up
and going through different sort of like
basically like item fetishes like I want
I like in the cars when I was in
basically because of like fast and
furious and gone in 60 seconds that
I bought a Honda Accord because that was
a car that had a lot of like aftermarket
parts available for it luckily my money
wasn't I kind of spent all the money on
the car and didn't have enough to like
put like underglow and micrograms on it
and then yeah I doubt of that and then
in college it was like guitar equipment
so I was like looking at guitar pedals
like on forums and like different sort
of guitars and just different things you
can buy and and it is like we're sort of
taught to sort of express yourself
through buying certainly yeah I
mean it's like you know it's a complete
fetishism but I do you mind if I jump on
this too because it's like I think
that's a very important point and I
think that wild hits it very well but I
think there's something else so that
he's missing in good like socialist
Marxist criticism of capitalism which is
it's not just the fetishism of the
object right of like wanting that car or
like these kind of objects to create the
individual it's also the idea of being a
like of because of the division of labor
identifying with a certain job um so if
you don't mind if I can quote real quick
from the German ideology we were talking
about this on the show last week okay
this is Marx in the German ideology when
he's laying out the communist society in
communist society where nobody has one
exclusive sphere of activity but each
can become accomplished in any branch he
wishes society regulates the general
production and thus makes it possible
for me to do one thing today and another
tomorrow to hunt in the morning fish in
the afternoon we are cattle in the
evening criticise after dinner just as I
have a mind without ever becoming hunter
fisherman herdsmen or critic the
fixation of social activity this
consolidation of what we ourselves
produce into an objective power above us
growing out of our control forwarding
our expectations bringing to
our calculations is one of the chief
factors in historical development up
till now I remember that section very
vividly I took a 19th century philosophy
class as an elective like I think you
may be a freshman or maybe it was my
sophomore year and it was my first
reading of time reading Marx and I
remembered that part being like damn
that is it like but at that time it was
such a different time in like I mean the
financial crisis happened so like our
this world were in now was starting to
unfurl mm-hm
but Marx seemed dead like the way it was
like presented to the class was like
yeah this is some like course some old
stuff like this is and I'm like but like
it seems kind of relevant maybe like the
end and it's amazing to see basically
what's happened since then so yeah
thanks for bringing them yeah but it you
know but it's the double move of the
commodity we're a psyche in the
production that commodity you lose
yourself and being the person who makes
the commodity and then you put all these
extra weight that don't exist inside of
the commodity because it's socially
purposed yeah well yeah I think the wild
quite beautifully described you as
essentially being stripped down into an
atom and now the minute his final form
is to just be totally destroyed mmm like
for him the individual is so important
because the individual is still complex
and then to define it is almost like a
perversion like he's like this like
negative theology form of talking about
man
he says once they're in this system this
capitalistic system it just gets
stripped away and away in a wait till
you're nothing so you're just like a
single atom mm-hmm no I mean I think
that's true but I just I feel like this
is a very important tension between you
know Marxism and what Wilde is
describing because Wilde still has a
conception at least I feel in the text
that you know we will have people who
are doing a very specific job now like
the artists specifically will just be an
artist and they won't be participating
in the other aspects of life do you
think so I think that yeah I might I
thought my reading of this is that there
is no specific jobs that everyone is
just well I think I think that's true
but I think what would Wilde is saying
is that like people like him are just
going to be you know artists or writers
and that's their pure occupation and
that they're not going to participate in
you know production of what's
necessarily necessary well yeah I think
he I my reading is that he thinks that
no one will be doing necessary
work they don't all be robots right that
is true yeah everyone's going to be an
artist in in wild Zootopia that everyone
is yearning to be like him actually but
he's not some separate class anymore
that everyone's Oscar Wilde I thought
that was my I don't think that he's
arguing for a separate class right I
think that he is arguing that yeah that
is true that like we're gonna but I'm
sorry I just I just read that whole
machine part it's just something that's
not very that's what I'm saying yeah
exactly that's all no for sure
that's his out right is out as to is
machine technical slavery and it's funny
um this is from Van de Kamp again page
146 says like Morris Kropotkin believed
in the benevolent qualities of
Technology Cobden Sanderson recalls
quote I had a long talk with Kropotkin
he was very animated he hoped that all
the necessaries of life would come to be
made by machinery so that they might be
abundant and cheap at present machinery
was in the hands of capitalists and was
misapplied and the hands were enslaved
in the better times to come in the
better times to come Machinery would be
the property of the commune or community
be directed to social ends keep always
going and be worked by frequent and
short shifts of all classes the
necessary wants of all being so
satisfied all could betake themselves
insecurity of such additional labors of
love as might please them whether on
hand or brain or both but it is that
machinery stuff I mean man that
goes back a long time
techno utopianism yeah maybe artificial
intelligence is gonna solve climate
change and I don't hope we're not
getting too much of a tangent but I
don't like that philosophically as an
argument on just specifically Wilde but
even like this idea of you know fully
automated like luxury communism yeah
because what you're asking for is a
force outside of history basically to
act upon to fix the social system that
we have today yeah and I think that that
you know you're waiting for your waiting
for Christ and what do people say that
fully luxury automated gay space
communism or something that wild has a
lot of those he doesn't have the space
part but easily the most cringe inducing
thing heard said aloud damn I see you
sometimes in real life I'm just like I
can feel my skeleton wanting to leave my
own body what if that was literally a
while
yeah get this right it's hidden deeper
fungus and I do like the idea of you
know you Tobias it's something that's
just is so impossible that you know
challenges us to action even though I
don't know that if I had you think that
the slogan specifically is a little too
ridiculous for me the fully automated
gay luxury communism but like I don't
necessarily like I'm not you know like a
hardliner on this it's like oh my god
well that's you know utopian don't ever
say that you know for some people you
know it motivates them and that's
worthwhile right but there's always a
higher level conversation you have about
it and there is a political movement
that very much is you know you know
oriented on that belief in the best of
historical necessity mmm very night
encouraged socialism or communism oh oh
technology mm-hmm right yeah I would can
you talk a little bit more about that
well you know you've had a lot of
movements especially in the u.s.
recently that are you know the I mean
the idea is basically Wiles ideas that
you know you use that you develop
machinery and so we can basically
enslave the machines so that we don't
have to work right right and then we
won't have any need to and you know that
there's like there's parts of that that
are part of Marxism like the idea is
that the machine does give us the
potential but to work so much less than
is you know necessary but I don't know
the idea the idea that you know we're
gonna be able to get there and that we
have to develop technology to that point
to be able to implement any kind of
socialism is always sort of bonkers to
me yeah well it's unfortunate to for a
while just as like a piece of artistry
this this essay that it's like he's
imagining this utopian world where it's
almost unrecognizable I'm almost
indescribable he like only hints at like
there's no like familial relations and
things like that and then when he when
he gets to the brass tacks of it for a
second he's like basically we're having
robots like yeah and so what makes you
think that everything else will change
if really you're just slotting out
you're just giving yourself a moral out
and you know who's gonna design the
robots and who's gonna have to weigh all
the machines I don't know yeah and the
and clearly doesn't have any concern for
you know what robots sentience
that's worry I get worried reading too
much postmodern philosophy that's like
you know that's the next moving it right
it's like we all these you know all
these
sci-fi movies about the robots uprising
I don't know if this is a good route to
go down but of the great actual
individualism latent and potential in
mankind generally for the recognition of
private property has really harmed
individualism and obscured it by
confusing a man with what he possesses
it has led individualism entirely astray
it has made gain not growth its aim so
that man's thought that the important
thing was to have and did not know that
the important thing is to be the true
perfection of man lies not in what man
has but in what man is end of section 1
recording by Martin Gleason in hazel
they are sorry if you're wondering where
that was yeah good job Martin said I
wasn't to have the soul of man by Oscar
Wilde this LibriVox recording is in the
public domain vid dualism and set up an
individualism that is section 2 private
property has crushed true individualism
and set up an individualism that is
false
it has depart one part of the community
from being individual by starving them
it has depart the other part of the
community from being individual by
putting them on the wrong road and
encumbering them indeed so completely
has man's personality been absorbed by
his possessions that the English law has
always treated offenses against a man's
property with far more severity than
offenses against his person and property
is still the test of complete
citizenship the industry necessary for
the making money is also very
demoralizing in
community like ours where property
confers immense distinction social
position honor respect titles and other
pleasant things of the kind man being
naturally ambitious makes it his aim to
accumulate this property and goes on
where lily and tediously accumulating it
long after he has got far more than he
wants or can use or enjoy or perhaps
even know of man will kill himself by
overwork in order to secure property and
really considering the enormous
advantages that property brings one is
hardly surprised once regret is that the
society should be constructed on such a
basis that man has been forced into a
groove in which he cannot freely develop
what is wonderful and fascinating and
delightful in him that part makes me
reminded me of I think one of the early
when it it was around the time actually
bit right after I read that German
ideology but about free will and like
when you start thing about free will
it's impossible to not start think about
capitalism beliefs for me like it's
weird to me that people can start thing
about these things and not come to an
anti-capitalist conclusion like even
climate change or like you independently
draw like oh yeah the problem is
capitalism but no I mean there's a
there's significant limits to your to
your freedom that are you know
designated specifically by the way that
we produce the what we need to survive
yeah and man I I feel like you've all
know a Harare your he wrote this book
called sapiens and it basically the
thesis is that like the Agricultural
Revolution was like actually led to
human beings I think it's agricultural
maybe it was a machine age but I feel
like it's lawton it earlier but was like
the fall well it's like we stopped
having this sort of like proper
relationship with the earth sort of
thing like what you how did what you
need to do to survive yeah wild pretty
much echoes that but saying they're like
individualism went off course as soon as
we started farming and had a more
sedentary life
notice what the was it the recognition
of private property has really harmed
individualism and obscured it so as soon
as property comes into which he sigh I
mean he's citing property all the way
back to like in like even in like an
ancient context so I think anytime like
this
recorded history basically is like this
is when we've been off the mark and
that's what we were so beliefs - yeah
yeah the state of nature I was thinking
about that considering the enormous
advantages that property brings one is
hardly surprised ones regret is that
society should be constructed on such a
basis that man has been forced into a
groove in which he cannot freely develop
what is wonderful and fascinating and
delightful in him in which in fact he
misses the true pleasure and joy of
living
he is also under existing conditions
very insecure an enormous ly wealthy
merchant may be often is at every moment
of his life at the mercy of things and a
not under his control if the wind blows
an extra point or so or the weather
suddenly changes or some trivial thing
happens
his ship may go down his speculations
may go wrong and he finds himself a poor
man with his social position quite gone
now nothing should be able to harm a man
except himself nothing should be able to
lob a man at all what a man really has
is what is in him what is outside of him
should be a matter of no importance with
the abolition of private property then
we shall have true beautiful healthy
individualism nobody will waste his life
in accumulating things and the symbols
for things one will live to live is the
rarest thing in the world
most people exist that is all it is a
question whether we have ever seen the
full expression of the
personality except on the imaginative
plane of art in action we never have
Cesar says mama Sun was the complete and
perfect man but how tragically insecure
was Cesar wherever there is a man who
exercises Authority there is a man who
resists or Authority I want to bring up
Thomas Jefferson at this moment I
remember hearing a lot about him as sort
of a polymath when I first learned what
that word was in high school it really
appealed to me and all basically every
founding father is described as a
polymath yeah and and I remember hearing
on the Thomas Jefferson Tower which is
not as bad as it sounds but it's by this
guy clay Jenkinson he's a he's a
impersonator of both Jefferson and Teddy
Roosevelt I remember him doing a and to
be fair I think lays it he's one of the
most famous North Dakotan intellectuals
he deals with like the Sally Hemings
stuff okay yeah exactly I think I think
he's way ahead of his audience but way
behind us I think he would probably say
yeah lemon who's been attached to
Jefferson for like 40 years
yeah you're in habit in that a bit like
yeah stuff but anyway that's how I'm
talking about what I'm talking about is
from that podcast I learned that
Jefferson basically read seven hours a
day and rode horseback yeah it's like
yeah you can do that when you're a slave
owner but he was also very tied to like
like he had so many debts and things
like that to like he's constantly even
for like this amazing like person who
has all this mythology around him it's
like kind of atad that's not perfect
individualism by any sense the
imagination in action we never have
Cesar says mum the son was the complete
and perfect man but how tragically
insecure was Cesar wherever there is a
man who exercises Authority
there is a man who resists or Authority
Cesar was very perfect but his
perfection traveled by too dangerous of
road marcus aurelius was the perfect man
says her no he
the great emperor was a perfect man but
how intolerable where the endless claims
upon him he staggered under the burden
of the Empire
he was conscious how inadequate one man
was to bear the weight of that Titan and
two vast orb what I mean by a perfect
man is one who develops under perfect
conditions one who is not wounded or
worried or maimed or in danger
most personalities have been obliged to
be rebels half their strength has been
wasted in friction
Byron's personality for instance was
terribly wasted in its battle with the
stupidity and hypocrisy and the Liston
ism of the English such battles do not
always intensify strengths they often
exaggerate weakness
Byron was never able to give us what he
might have given us Shelley escaped
better like Byron he got out of England
as soon as possible but he was not so
well known if the English had had any
idea of what a great poet he really was
they would have fallen on him with tooth
and nail and made his life as unbearable
to him as they possibly could while his
spirit he was not only remarkable later
in society and consequently he escaped
to a certain degree still even in
Shelley the note of rebellion is
sometimes too strong the note of the
perfect personality is not rebellion but
peace and just to follow that up I don't
think Wilde would be like the kind of
guy who complains about people getting
ratioed on Twitter like saying that's
uncivil I think Wilde would be more the
person who constantly complains about
who's writing in the New York Times or
something like that because a lot of
this stuff is very personal like like
he's had beef or people have beef with
Wilde they don't like him for whatever
reason and they just lash out so it's
not like it's not when he when he says
the public or like public audiences or
when everybody talks about that it's
like it's the reading
public which is like booj wa public yeah
yeah yeah yeah I hear you I would give
him some pushback and be curious um what
you guys think of like this idea that
art could be made essentially in a
vacuum and what's the that it's I think
sometimes we like romanticize like the
adversity that an artist has to get past
but I do think for some artists it's
required and/or like for some art
anyways it is required that there's like
push back and that's what that's it's a
coauthor and its creation almost and we
see now with like I think of like auteur
theory with like filmmaking it's
probably the most brutal example that
sometimes artists left to their own
creature comforts and desires like well
they're their artistic impulses well
ossify and they will become very
pedestrian and what they create and it's
like this is one thing you know as a
writer it's like when you have a good
editor someone who can really get into
your work and push back on you challenge
you on your ideas in my experience
that's gonna make your work so much
better and a lot of diving look there's
a lot of really bad editors out there
and there's a lot of writers who you
know have horror stories about working
with certain people but most people
who've been very successful will say
like I've had somebody who was really
able to be critical of my work mm-hmm
yeah Wilde was himself a pretty bad
editor of the women's world do you hear
that you hear that part of in the Emeril
Sullivan book he basically like would
show up at like later and later every
day his days down to like twice a week
yeah yeah King King among women writers
just talking about like dealing with
adversity as an artist and he's
basically saying that once all adversity
is stricken off then the artists won't
have to waste his time yeah I mean the
only thing I can think of is I always
like the first couple albums by bands
before they're in the sort of record
industry you know something about those
that are they're free of I don't know
how exactly that fits with it but anyway
let's continue analogy is not rebellion
but peace it will be a marvelous thing
the true personality of man when we see
it it will grow naturally and simply
flower like or as a tree grows it will
not
yet discord it will never argue or
dispute it will not prove things it will
know everything and yet it will not busy
itself about knowledge it will have with
stoma it's value will not be measured by
material things it will have nothing and
yet it will have everything and whatever
one takes from it it will still have so
rich will it be it will not be always
meddling with others or asking them to
be like itself it will love them because
they will be different and yet while it
will not meddle with others it will help
all as a beautiful thing helps us by
being what it is the personality of man
will be very wonderful it will be as
wonderful as the personality of a child
in its development it will be assisted
by Christianity if men desire that but
if men do not desire that it will
develop nonetheless surely for it will
not worry itself about the past nor care
whether things happened or did not
happen nor any authority but its own
authority yet it will love those who
sought to intensify it and speak often
of them and of these Christ was one know
thyself was written over the portal of
the antique world over the portal of the
new world be thyself shall be written
and the message of Christ to man was
simply be thyself that is the secret of
Christ when Jesus talks about the poor
he simply means personalities just as
when he talks about the rich he simply
means people who have not developed
their personalities Jesus moved in a
community that allowed the accumulation
of private property just as a house does
and the gospel that he preached was not
that in such a community it is an
advantage for a
and to live on scanty unwholesome food
to a ragged unwholesome clothes to sleep
in horrid unwholesome dwellings and a
disadvantage for a man to live under
healthy pleasant and decent conditions
such a view would have been wrong there
and then and would of course we still
more wrong now and in England for as man
moves northward the material necessities
of life become of more vital importance
and our society is infinitely more
complex and displays far greater
extremes of luxury and pauperism than
any Society of the antique world what
Jesus meant was this he said to man you
have a wonderful personality develop it
be yourself don't imagine that your
perfection lies in the accumulating or
possessing external things your
affection is inside of you if only you
could realize that you would not want to
be rich ordinary riches can be stolen
from a man real riches cannot in the
Treasury house of your soul there are
infinitely precious things that may not
be taken from you and so try to so shape
your life that external things will not
harm you and try also to get rid of
personal property it involves sorted
preoccupation endless industry continual
wrong personal property hinders
individualism at every step it is to be
noted that Jesus never says that
impoverished people are necessarily good
or wealthy people necessarily bad that
would not have been true wealthy people
are as a class better than impoverished
people more moral more intellectual more
well-behaved
there is only one class in the community
that thinks more about money than the
rich and that is the poor every takes on
his
his lane bear that the secret of Christ
yeah it's a he's in a long line of
people that's like this is what it's
actually about right and it's it's uh
it's not - it's like closer to the mark
or you could you could make that
argument with the reading with the text
that is present much more than say his
civil war analysis hmm
but this idea that like like Christ
saying like the kingdom of God is both
coming and it's happening right now
many people could like many like
theologians are like philosophers have
argued like that it's a state of mind
almost like to use like an Eastern sense
and that it's like the it's a it's a way
of enlightening yourself to realizing
what's important and it's isn't what it
being born-again wasn't that original
meaning like oh I forget I visit but
never mind I think yeah I heard from
like Russell Brand or something like
that but it was like there was a
different meaning for born-again though
yeah it's like there are two births and
like this is an idea that is really
popular this is becomes popular again
right now but it's also in first-century
for the first century kind of
Hellenistic world this is really
important that the the self has like two
births which is like your physical birth
and then there's the birth of the soul
which is accumulated over experience
that you have with the world and I think
Joyce probably is the best for the
portrait of the artist as a young man is
a portrait of a soul that's being born
but I was actually just reading an EJ
biography that was soso Kember the
author but it was interesting because
he's pretty much an exact contemporary
of wild and wild was able to square that
circle of like well we've got to get rid
of old morality for the most part but we
can keep it with like we can keep the
text itself because it's like the idea
of the ubermensch is right there that's
like you have to be this perfect self
individual he's like yeah Jesus is
saying that all along so ditch
Christianity and take Jesus with you
basically it's quite clever it's another
one of his paradoxes that it's like the
worst Christian is the best follower of
Christ basically and I feel like that's
like a theme throughout the text I mean
obviously he gets into Jesus Allah
okay for the rest of this but you know I
mean in a sense he's making the argument
at least especially in the first section
of this text that like to realize the
idealist of like booj wal society or
like the things that we think as a
society are good we have to move out of
the society you know which is like the
idea it's like oh we can happen like
this aristocracy and we can all be
aristocrats right but we don't get rid
of but it will be in that without being
in the social position that we're in now
yeah what do you know me he's like he's
flipping like booj Wall Society right
which is this idea that like you have an
upper class and the upper class deserves
to be in the upper class which is why
they're supposed to cultivate themselves
and to be aristocratic I mean that's it
what the rule you know Aristotelian
values comes from I mean he's basically
saying like we can only realize that
actually once we get rid of the class
society in general yeah there's
definitely like a first she'll be last
last shall be first
yeah natality and kind of tying like
Christ's message with like the
Hellenistic world view I think it's
really smart on his part I think he's he
I don't think he even sees him as two
separate ideas he's just like this is
all it's all the ancient world to him
but I like to know thyself dictum and
then saying that's you know that the
Hellenistic catchword and he's saying
it's like be die self so there's just
golf that were in emotionally and it
kind of recontextualizes the essay that
it's like this is not about so much like
the material struggle for socialism but
like the inner struggle of like the
human spirit what it's going to take to
get to this moment I think he kind of
itches it out in those two lines which
is like right now like the gift that
hellenism gave to us is that we became
self conscious and now like our goal is
to master our self and whatever whatever
that might mean that we know that we're
some sort of autonomous being and now we
have to like master that that being in
some way by becoming an individual I
guess personal property hinders
individualism at every step it is to be
noted that Jesus never says that
impoverished people are necessarily good
or wealthy people necessarily bad that
would not have been true
wealthy people are as a class better
than impoverished people more moral more
intellectual more well behaved there is
only one class in the community
thinks more about money and the rich and
that is the poor the poor can think of
nothing else that is the misery of being
poor what Jesus does say is that man
reaches his perfection not through what
he has not even through what he does but
entirely through what he is and so the
wealthy young man who comes to Jesus is
represented as a thoroughly good citizen
who has broken none of the laws of his
state none of the commandments of his
religion he is quite respectable in the
ordinary sense of that extraordinary
word Jesus says to him you should give
up private property it hinders you from
real little bit of perfection it is a
drag upon you it is a burden your
personality does not need it it is
within you and not outside of you that
you will find what you really are and
what you really want do his own friends
he says the same thing he tell us them
to be themselves and not to be always
worrying about other things what do
other things matter man is complete in
himself when they go into the world the
world will disagree with them that is
inevitable
the world hates individualism but that
is not to trouble them they are to be
calm and self centered if a man takes
their cloak they ought to give him their
coat just to show that material things
are of no importance if people abuse
them they are not to answer back what
does it signify the things people say of
a man do not alter a man is what he is
public opinion is of no value whatsoever
even if people employ actual violence
they are not to be violent in turn that
would be to fall to the same low level
after all even in prison a man can be
quite free his soul can be
his personality can be untroubled he can
be at peace and above all things they
are not to interfere with other people
or judge them in any way personality is
a very mysterious thing a man cannot
always be estimated by what he does he
may keep the law and yet be worthless he
may break the law and yet to be fine he
may be bad without ever doing anything
bad he may commit a sin against society
and yet realized through that sin his
true perfection there was a woman who
was it's hard not to read his lifestyle
into some of those statements like and
him because I think the Amuro Sullivan
talks about him having us feeling like
he's a guilty man among innocence after
he basically he starts indulging a lot
in homosexuality after he marries
Constance there's a amazing part in the
eleventh book where they're shopping
together and they're walking through the
shops and he sees a bunch of boys with
their face painted they're you know rent
boys and he says like terror he felt
complete terror and like like like the
bottom dropped out like what the hell
and then you realize like that's was a
terror of like attraction or something
like that and it's not that he was I
think a sort of unaware of like love
between men before but that like that
moment hit him very hard like oh
well he may commit a sin against society
and yet realized through that sin his
true perfection there was a woman who
was taken in adultery we are not told
the history of her love but that love
must have been very great for jesus said
that her sins were forgiven her not
because she repented but because her
love was so intense and wonderful later
on a short time before his death
he sat at a feast the woman came in and
poured costly perfumes on his hair his
friends tried to interfere with her and
said that it was an extravagance and
that the money that the perfume cost
should have been expended on charitable
relief of people in want or something of
that kind
Jesus did not accept that view he
pointed out that the material needs of
man were great and very permanent but
that's the spiritual needs of man we're
greater still so forgetting one divine
moment and by selecting its own mode of
expression a personality might make
itself perfect the world worships the
woman even now as a saint yes there are
suggestive thing is in individualism
socialism annihilates family life for
instance with the abolition of private
property marriage in its present form
must disappear this is part of the
program individualism accepts this and
makes it fine it converts the abolition
of legal restraint into a form of
freedom that will help the full
development of personality and make the
love of man and woman more wonderful
more beautiful and more ennobling Jesus
knew this he rejected the claims of
family life although they existed in his
day and community in a very marked form
who is my mother who are my brothers he
said when he was told that they wish to
speak to him when one of his followers
asked leave to go and bury his father
let the dead bury the dead was his
terrible answer he would allow no claim
whatsoever to be made on personality and
so he who would lead a christ-like life
is he who is perfectly and absolutely
himself he may be a great poet or a
great man of science
or a young student at a university or
one who watch his sheep upon an or or a
maker of dramas like Shakespeare or a
thinker about God like Spinoza or a
child who plays in a garden or a
fisherman who throws his net into the
sea
it does not matter what he is as long as
he realizes the perfection of the soul
that is within him all imitation in
morals and in life is wrong through the
streets of Jerusalem at the present day
crawls one who is mad and carries a
wooden cross on his shoulders he is a
symbol of the lives that are marred by
imitation father Damian was christ-like
when he went out to live with the lepers
because in such service he realized
fully what was best in him but he was
not more christ-like than wagner when he
realized his soul in music wasn't
Shelley when he realized his soul in
song there is no one type for man there
are as many perfections as there are
imperfect men and wild to the claims of
charity a man may yield and yet to be
free to the claims of conformity no man
may yield and remain free at all all
right and then we're on to our final
part that we're going to cover for today
section three actually since we're here
I'm gonna do just just the slightest
push back on the all of these I mean
with the addendum that all religious
texts are interpretive texts by design
and meant to be you know that anyone can
can put some sort of interpretation into
it but that to pull from the gospel
narratives that Jesus wants you to be
your own person as much as possible is a
bit of a stretch and over month reminds
me of a book I saw at a Barnes & Noble
once that said Jesus is a tier-one
operator
yeah written by a some is that what it's
here one awkward that is a phrase right
yeah yeah written by a guy who's like
yeah I you know I've realized my calling
in life is to do this and I realized
that like that makes me christ-like and
again like there are many
interpretations but that's
mm-hmm and I think like the philosophy
of Christ would say no and you're going
to hell for that I'm not a tier 1
operator in the same way that it's like
I'm I'm not it's not you getting to do
it's he's not a genie in that sense it's
like trying to make you feel good about
what all of your choices in life well
it's very difficult to have a concept of
sin oh yeah yeah yeah I mean if you
remove that if you have to remove like
Jesus is like philosophy with like this
is all this is all this is one of two
worlds that we're living in then it'd be
gets a lot more there's possibly a
retribution but there is like a
structure so like there is yeah as an
act that's like being yourself is not
necessarily a good thing
yeah exactly yeah he's not telling you
to be yourself so much like there are
rules I'm but it is interesting that he
kind of cut there is truth to what he's
saying about like he does reject family
life in some sense is about and let the
dead bury your dead is actually one of
my favorite small stories I've never
heard them in Matthew yeah so he's he's
getting followers in Galilee and this
he's getting you know he's getting some
Fame and this young galleon hears him
and he's like I'd actually love to be a
part of your mission and he's like he's
like okay well we're leaving like today
what are you doing and he's like well
I'm burying my father he died and it's
like a three-day ritual and and Jesus is
like no we're leaving now like the
importance of my mission which in his
mission is essentially to be alive it's
like I'm living right now like he's dead
and if you're partaking in this empty
ritual that Wilde is talk about this
thing about imitation like you're dead
too it's like what I'm trying to do is
something much more important which is
just to live life basically so in that
sense I yeah he's absolutely right in
that reading the final well the final
part we're going to talk about and I'll
link to this full LibriVox recording if
people want to listen to the remainder
section three individualism then is what
through socialism we are to attain
- as a natural result the state must
give up all idea of government it must
give it up because as a wise man once
said many centuries before Christ there
is such a thing as leaving mankind alone
okay what the hell is that
all right this day has got to give it up
on its own is that the idea yeah I think
do we I think is the part about the
sacred and what's beautiful for the
sacred what's useful does that not do we
not get to that I think we get to that
soon okay yeah welcome to he centuries
before Christ there is such a thing as
leaving mankind alone there is no such
thing as governing mankind all modes of
government are failures despotism is
unjust to everybody including the despot
it was probably made for better things
kids are unjust to the many and doclock
receives are unjust to the few high
hopes were once formed of democracy but
democracy means simply the bludgeoning
of the people by the people the people
it has been I must say that it was high
time for all Authority is quite
degrading it degrades those who exercise
it and degrades those over whom it is
exercised when it is violently grossly
and cruelly used it produces a good
effect by creating or at any rate
bringing out the spirit of revolt and
individualism that is to kill it when it
is used with a certain amount of
kindness and accompanied by prizes and
rewards it is dreadfully demoralizing
people in that case are less conscious
of the horrible pressure that is being
put on them and so go through their
lives in a sort of course comfort like
petted animals without ever realizing
that they are probably thinking other
people's thoughts living by other people
standards wearing practically what one
may call other people second-hand
clothes and never being themselves for a
single moment he who would be free says
a fine thinker must not conform and
authority by bribing people to conform
produces a very gross kind of overfed
barbarism so this is interesting because
it reminds me of Franz fanon who is a
very important post-colonial thinker he
was he was born in Martinique he ended
up being very pivotal in the Algerian
revolution but he talks a lot about
comparing workers in America versus
workers in the colonial areas especially
in Algeria and he says that it's much
more difficult for example for a worker
in the United States to recognize their
oppression and to sort of be able to
break through and to implement socialism
because of the United States you know
you go to the factory
you work for 50 years at the end of it
you're given a watch so it feels very
nice versus colonialism where it's like
you see the oppressors flag you see the
soldiers marching through the streets
you're always very much recognizing
where your chains are and like the
limitations on yourself versus like this
version of freedom that we have in
especially in Europe and in the United
States where you feel free but you're
just being given you know couple bribes
yeah I mean yeah and that's probably
gonna be a problem for the foreseeable
future I think the guys current
political moment and like the type of
struggle we do going for certain
policies and things like that yeah
Authority by bribing people to conform
produces a very gross kind of overfed
barbarism amongst us such a great moral
authority punishment will pass away this
will be a great gain again in fact of
incalculable value as one reads history
not in the expurgated editions written
for schoolboys and past men but in new
that's such a great thing to know
considering what they did to his
essay yeah and it's funny he says
additions for schoolboys and past men
what Passman is is type
people who keep even get through Oxford
but taking like the pass/fail final
whereas wild got what's known as the
greats which I think is like philosophy
and history or something philosophy I
think philosophy in history or
philosophy and literature philology I
think okay yeah and he like ace that he
was killing it yeah even though like he
was sort of the bad boy because he had
like a bunch he was like already sort of
The Dandy said like it's hard to live up
to your China and stuff like that like
people were like he's making a mockery
of easily the materialism the worst
student to have which is fun he was like
a genius and a noxious piece of
yeah this will be a great gain again in
fact of incalculable value as one reads
history not in the expurgated editions
written for schoolboys and pass men but
in the original authorities of each time
one is absolutely sickened not by the
crimes that the wicked have committed
but by the punishments that the good
have inflicted to during and a community
is infinitely more brutalized by the
habitual employment of punishment than
it is by the occurrence of crime
it obviously follows that the more
punishment is inflicted the more crime
is produced and most modern legislation
has clearly recognized this and has made
it its task to diminish punishment as
far as it thinks it can wherever it has
really diminished it the results have
always been extremely good the less
punishment the less crime where there is
no punishment at all crime will either
cease to exist or if it occurs will be
treated by physicians as a very
distressing form of dementia to be cured
by care and kindness for what are called
criminals nowadays are not criminals at
all starvation and not sin is the parent
of modern crime that indeed is the
reason why our criminals are as a class
so absolutely uninteresting from any
psychological point of view
they are not marvelous Macbeth's and
terrible book towers they are merely
what ordinary respectable commonplace
people would be if they had not got
enough to eat when private property is
abolished there will be no necessity for
crime no demand for it it will cease to
exist for small crimes and not crimes
against property though such are the
crimes that the English law valuing what
a man has more than what a man is
punishes with the harshest and most
horrible severity if we accept the crime
of murder and regard death as worse than
penal servitude a point on which our
criminals I believe disagree but though
a crime may not be against property it
may spring from the misery and rage and
depression produced by our wrong system
of property holding and so when that
system is abolished will disappear when
each member of the community has
sufficient for his wants and is not
interfered with by his neighbor it will
not be an object of any interest to him
to interfere with anyone else
jealousy which is an extraordinary
source of crime in modern life is an
emotion closely bound up with our
conceptions of property yeah for people
who don't know the distinction between
envy and jealousy envy is your you want
something that you don't have a
necessarily a right to jealousy is when
you have a sort of preparatory or claim
on something so you can be jealous of
someone talking to your girlfriend for
instance or you can be envious that
someone has that girlfriend if we want
to just simplify it into the Mayo's are
the only two forms of M possession
[Laughter]
modern life is an emotion closely bound
up with our conceptions of property and
under socialism and individualism will
die out it is remarkable that in
communistic tribes jealousy is entirely
unknown
now as the state is not to govern it may
be asked what the state is to do the
state is to be a voluntary Association
that will organize labor and be the
manufacturer and distributor of
necessary commodities the stage is to
make what is useful so this individual
is to make what is beautiful um you know
this is just very reminiscent of the
famous it's often misattributed to marx
but the state withering away which is
angles and anti during on what is the
ideas that the state will move from the
management of people to the management
of things so it's the idea and when you
hear people talk about of Marxism the
idea of the state withering away it's
the idea that eventually like the only
thing that the stable the state will
move away from you know putting people
in prison to organizing production on a
mass scale so what it would do you have
any other takes on like the sort of
distinction between the beauty make what
is individual like because that is a
role so that is a role for the state
that seems to be it I mean on the
surface of it a contradiction between
the sort of is that a contradiction for
anarchism or is that not wait to make
what is what beautiful what Wilde saying
about basically does have a role for the
state of making what's useful yeah what
you take what how does that fit in with
like anarchist tradition well I mean I
mean it would depend on what type of
anarchist tradition I mean this is more
where socialism starts to blend into
anarchism and when people find that
there's a unity and the idea is that the
the anarchist wants to just abolish the
state itself and that that will you know
bring in the society versus the social
so the Communist believes that you know
pre-transition society into a way that
we're starting to organize herself in a
different way we start to think about
objects differently we start to think
about production differently to the
point where it won't even we won't even
notice right the the disappearance of
the state versus something that the
anarchist one is that you know you just
blow up the building and take the flag
down and then you know we're in a new
mode of production yeah and even though
sort of when he says the state should be
voluntary that's not actually that hard
for me to imagine in a sense that like
if you start like dica modifying and
making is like I sort of write things
like shelter and
and things like that all of us and there
is no coercion you can like say join one
of the green New Deal platoons that's
helping to build a new levee or you
could just do like that that's here's
like listed off like just a dream like
scenario this new bridge hey doing it
this is about utopias baby yeah if
there's a podcast without utopia is on
5k
yeah but they're gonna be a couch meet
you did video shoot and edit this video
of us building the bridge Lee okay okay
cool I'll do that as the state is not to
govern it may be asked what the state is
to do the state is to be a voluntary
Association that will organize labor and
be the manufacturer and distributor of
necessary commodities the state is to
make what is useful the individual is to
make what is beautiful and as I have
mentioned the word labor
I cannot help saying that a great deal
of Robson's is being written and talked
there are days about the dignity of
manual labor
there is nothing necessarily dignified
about manual labor at all and most of it
is absolutely degrading it is mentally
and morally injurious to man to do
anything in which he does not find
pleasure and many forms of labor are
quite pleasure less activities and
should be regarded as such to sweep a
slushee Crossing for eight hours on a
day when the east wind is blowing is a
disgusting occupation to sweep it with
mental moral or physical dignity seems
to me to be impossible to sweep it with
joy would be appalling a man is made for
something better than disturbing dirt
all work of that kind should be done by
a machine that Lion Man is made from
something better than disturbing dirt is
one of the more famous ones and that
that whole section is one if that's
where he's like he's really heating up
they're like oh yeah yeah that's like
hot Tec zone
you know I will say like I don't find
too much to disagree with yeah
in it we're sick there's nothing immoral
assent like in itself of doing manual
work so it's like if we can replace
things like for example you know if
instead of vacuuming or sweeping your
apartment you have you know one of these
Roomba or something like that
there's nothing wicked or lazy about
that in mind yeah I agree with ya about
that and his point about it would be
appalling if somebody was doing no I
could do to do them yeah this is the
eighth time I've gone across the street
clear in the slush and I'm loving it
yeah yeah although I will say if I could
do that if I could just if my job could
be shoveling slush but I could listen
like podcasts and audiobooks all day
let's get like sick I'm getting there
yeah no yeah I remember just actually
having a conversation with a friend like
the other week we were getting drinks
and I was like it was like a Friday or
something I was just like yeah it's just
a sucky workday and like Oh what like
about and it was just like nothing in
particular it-it's like sometimes I just
do not want to work mm-hmm and then we
said something along those lines I was
trying to look for like you know
camaraderie ship and then she's like
yeah I know I wish we could just go in
like it's like five hours a day because
like honestly I'm just be more
productive than it's like I'm not
talking about being productive like I'll
talk about how much I hate doing things
like if somebody asked me to do work it
like pisses me off and should be
regarded as such to sweep a slushee
crossing for eight hours on a day when
the east wind is blowing is it is to
sweep it with joy would be appalling man
is made for something better than
disturbing dirt all work of that kind
should be done by a machine and I have
no doubt that it will be so up to the
present man has been to a certain extent
the slave of machinery and there is
something tragic in the fact that as
soon as man had invented a machine to do
his work he began to starve this however
is of course the result of our property
system and of our system of competition
one man owns the machine which does the
work of 500 men 500 men are in
consequence thrown out of employment and
having no work to do become hungry and
take to seething the one man secures the
produce of the machine
and keeps it and has 500 times as much
as he should have and probably which is
of much more importance a great deal
more than he really wants where that
machine the property of all everyone
would benefit by it it would be an
immense advantage to the community or an
intellectual labor all monotonous dull
labor or labor that deals with dreadful
things and involves unpleasant
conditions must be done by machinery
machinery must work for us in coal mines
and do all sanitary services and be the
stoker of steamers and clean the streets
and run messages on wet days and do
anything that is so tedious or
distressing at present machinery
competes against man under proper
conditions machinery will serve man
there is no doubt at all that this is
the future of machinery and just as
trees grow while the country gentlemen
is asleep
so while humanity will be amusing itself
or enjoying cultivated leisure which and
not labor is the aim of man for making
beautiful things or reading beautiful
things or simply contemplating the world
with admiration and delight machinery
will be doing all the necessary and
unpleasant work the fact is that
civilization requires slaves the Greeks
were quite right there unless there are
slaves to do the ugly horrible
uninteresting work culture and
contemplation become almost impossible
human slavery is wrong insecure and
demoralizing on mechanical slavery on
the slavery of the
Dean the future of the world depends and
when scientific men are no longer called
upon to go down to a depressing East End
and distribute bad cocoa and worse
blankets to starving people they will
have delightful leisure in which to
devise wonderful and marvelous things
for their own joy and the joy of
everyone else there will be great
storages of force for every city and
every house if required and this force
man will convert into heat light or
motion according to his needs is this
utopian a map of the world that does not
include utopia is not worth even
glancing at for it leaves out the one
country at which Humanity is always
landing and when humanity lands there it
looks out and seeing a better country
set sail progress is the realization of
utopias so yeah interesting that's where
we'll end it for here but that on
utopias I've often seen that quote a map
of the world that does not include
utopia is not worth even glancing at but
the omission of the second part for it
leaves out the one country at which
Humanity is always landing I I think I
have I've read one essay where it kind
of puts that that's sort of like Abuja
what progress narrative a little bit
right like progress is a sort of
foregone conclusion we're doing it we
are getting into those utopias right
like maybe air conditioning is a utopia
maybe PlayStation 4 is a utopia right
like I was very teleological yeah but I
mean it's interesting like that omission
because it does kind of serve it's a
much more fun quote I think if it's just
like if it leaves out the part that oh
we always get utopias yeah but I but
also it's probably more I don't know I
don't want to use the word accurate but
like more I don't know thoughtful or
something the way he puts it there
I don't know what do you guys think
about that I think it complexified the
concept of utopia I feel like that's
always the biggest slight against the
idea of like utopian thinking is that
like that you could possibly reach a
terminus point anyway Keaton
sorry go ahead well it's just an in
classic wild fashion he's bringing he's
making utopia pragmatic yes the ultimate
oxymoron
yeah or just yeah the idea like -
finding it clearer is like utopia is the
furthest point in which we can weave
spiritually been able to get - and as
soon as we get there we'll get to a
vantage point where it's like oh we can
go much further than this like utopia is
the firt is like the liminal point and
then once you get there then all of a
sudden you have a much better view like
that that to me is like a definition of
like utopian thought like that makes
much more sense and I think it sort of
gels with like what probably Wild
experienced or maybe maybe I'm just
projecting this but a general idea of
human beings like not being sated with
any sort of level you attain exactly and
that's you know that's the thing that's
interesting about Y to me it makes me
think of you know like Lacan like the
idea is like with the object that you
desire the ology all right is that you
have this ideal and your hand if like
you know if I do you know Matt so I'm on
this car right it's like I'm I get this
car I'll be you know a hot stud and live
this wonderful life and then you get the
car and it's like very exciting for a
moment then you drive it and like you
know you sort thing about the next thing
yeah exactly yeah and it's this
impossibility of the satisfaction which
is we're like utopia actually I don't
it's it's such a I don't find it to be
foreign to like the human mind at all I
think that most people think in utopias
and I think there's something that can
be very powerful in motivation and I
will just say you know as a Marxist and
is looking at the Marxist project it's
like I feel like you know having a
utopian bent it's like some of that can
get you very motivated to start becoming
involved in politics but then like the
real discipline and work is like try to
get the spell the kind of utopian ideas
that prevent you from organizing you
know properly or implementing that kind
of society because I mean this is like
you know if you look at what whilst
talking about and I don't know if you
could implement you know program like
this yeah you mean but you can motivate
people you can wrestle them from their
slumber with this or you could you know
encourage people to think more boldly
and I think that's where the utopia is
really great is that what it does is it
shows the contradictions within our
current lived reality it's like okay
well this is impossible
why is it impossible to us and certainly
you know you're gonna hit on some
limitations of physics when you talking
about wilds idea of utopian but you also
really quickly realized well capitalism
is the first thing that is stopping this
from being a possibility yeah yeah it
it's sort of it's weirdly like his use
of paradox is sort of like I don't know
this is probably wrong in terms of logic
but it's sometime it's it seems to be
like the traditional like dialectic
which is thesis antithesis and what's
the synthesis yeah it seems like he goes
like thesis synthesis and then both
those point to an antithesis and that
also makes it like it's so like it's
such an interesting formula because it
does make you like it I mean it's a
cliche at this point but it is it does
make you think and about things in such
a different way mmm-hmm yeah I think
that his use of paradox works well of
this and then it's like I'm trying to
talk about a world in which the language
we have currently can't describe it so
I'm it's twofold or has like a double
meaning in each of his sentences which
is like this current world is trash and
you can understand it by the way that I
came and explained this enough of this
other world because I'm just using
contradictory terms constantly in a
world that it's like the only way we
empathize with other people is through
suffering he's like what if I say we can
empathize through many many other kinds
of shades of possibility and it's also
like you know he glorifies in a lot of
ways like the criminal element of you
know the of the poor like the idea is
better to take them to you know to
receive yeah you know and I feel like
that's out there another way of jarring
us a little bit yeah oh wait that's you
know that's not typical and then you
realize well it's because you know this
system is immoral itself and then you
take that sky view and you realize that
that's the case and you know it's funny
um a couple of modern parallels on make
quick before we go is Wilde got sort of
publicity and sort of some bad press for
talking about anarchist there's a lot of
anarchism going on he signed one of
George Bernard Shaw's petitions he also
sort of played both sides like in a sort
of sister soldier type fashion where
she's like I can see why somebody would
turn to violence if like you come up in
these conditions of gang violence yeah
it's not that big of a difference
to mean like shooting your own brother
versus shooting like some old woman and
like a airier riding in right and Wilde
says he's sort of saying like yeah
violence is bad but also like these
conditions are cultivating it right and
that and in he he played that line
exactly the same theory what walk that a
similar line there actually I think
that's that's all I have to say do you
guys have any other comments you want to
get on their record
well thanks once again both to you Alex
for joining me once again David this is
great a thank you son no is your in your
your addition was very very welcome
that is it for literary hangover at lit
hangover literate hang over at patreon
or patreon.com slash literary hangover
I'll put you guys's info in the show
notes thank you very much we'll see you
next week
you
