[Music]
you may not be aware of what what how
we're referring to America these days
but as a small business owner myself I'm
I'm I'm perfectly aware how we refer to
America but here's Donald Trump letting
you letting you know activity we have a
lot of activity now where companies are
coming back to our country with a hot
show with a hottest show in town without
a show in the world right now our
economy is the best one thing that every
leader virtually every leader that I
dealt with said is that congratulations
it's incredible what's happened to the
American economy we're the best economy
in the world and it's something and it
started from election day I've put it
out yesterday because we took a
tremendous boost from the day after I
got elected the stock market went crazy
from that point until essentially now I
think we hit uncertain of the markets we
hit the all-time high again for many
many times I can't tell you what it was
but many many times we broke the record
and we were you know a stock market is
great our jobs are great we're the best
job numbers essentially we've ever had
in several categories definitely we've
ever had stock market I mean I don't
know like listeners and viewers who are
from the rest of the world and I just
want to say I'm sorry like I don't know
what else to say to you I would like to
add I'm sorry that we're crushing it so
badly
hotcha yeah it's a hot hot show in town
sorry and I'm also sorry to your
translators I can tell you that the
stock market obviously has been on a
tear I can tell you that about 80
percent of the country citizenship do
not own stocks I can also tell you that
to the extent that judging our economy
in terms of shareholder value ask those
people on the
those 737s that went down that
shareholder value was increased by the
$9 an hour they were paying like some of
the computer coders shareholder value
was increased because and I did this do
we'd run this interview with Billa sonic
on the show
the one from Ring of Fire I don't know
if we ever did we should grab that one
yeah I'll have a sonic on to talk about
this story Boeing had an opportunity a
couple of decades ago to change the way
the basic structure of their air of the
air planes Boeing had built their air
there the basic structure of their
Airlines of their airplanes to deal with
airplane airports that did not have
elevated walkways and when elevated
walkways were in they had to redesign
their planes but make some adjustments
at one point they could have gone a
wholesale change like Airbus did but
Boeing didn't so they had to compensate
with materials and the shape of their
engines I guess and that's what led to
the problems with the 737 they needed to
institute software fixes for what was
essentially a hardware problem and the
software fixes were not communicated in
the the proper way and Bill lisanna
traces that back to basically a decision
because they didn't want to lose stock
value so aside from it not being a good
measure as to how the vast majority of
Americans are doing it's also far more
problematic frankly you can also look at
industries like the for-profit College
industry which it is true literally on
the day he was elected
shot up like a rocket and have remained
up there because they knew they would be
in an environment where there's no
regulation we will be able to rip off
people without any accountability and
that continues unabated Betsy DeVos is
like rolling out and rolling back all
sorts of protections for students that
existed during the Obama administration
that was one thing they'd actually did
quite well in the last term so so
there's Donald Trump but the hot show
people saying that to me all the time
you know the hot show here's one more
clip from there this is about his
student visas global number seven of the
g20 Donald Trump is going around talking
to world leaders about how they're going
to only take the cream of the crop here
he is it's going to telling the leaders
around the country don't worry about the
student visas a great universities
they've been great students and
tremendous assets but we did discuss it
it was brought up as a point and I said
that will be just like anybody else just
like any other nation and we're actually
going to a point where you know we're
looking at if you graduate from a
college because our great companies we
talk about Silicon Valley in other
places we have a problem in this in our
country that you graduate number one in
your class from the best school in the
country and yes they say you have to
leave we can't keep them and we're gonna
make it we're gonna call it the spark
person's waiver but we're gonna make it
so that they can not only stay but maybe
they have access to green cards we want
to keep these people here we okay this
is what he's talking about he it sounded
like to normal people that he was saying
college students in America but what
he's saying is that college students
come over they graduate from foreign
countries they graduated top of the
class they
to go work for an American company but
they have to leave because you never
student you know they never work visa
cuz they had a student visa I was stuck
on the smart persons waiver thing that's
probably the official it's a good title
I nest BW and we just say that's
fascinating about that is that the one
area and I don't support like I'm I'm
you know I'm I'm pretty relaxed about
these things but like one of the smart
things to distinguish when you just
generically talk about immigration is
basically like a bunch of very
low-income very unexploited of and
deeply abusive jobs that a lot of
undocumented people do in like an
example like the meatpacking industry
and the companies that hire them don't
get held accountable for their just
numerous violations right but like in
Iran Iran not smart person not swell
that's what's amazing is that Silicon
Valley is probably one of the only areas
that if you wanted to just make like we
got to get people in the states here
well-paying jobs first before we think
about relatively privileged immigrants
who could probably do just as well in
China or India or Kenya that's like the
one area where that argument has some
validity and that's like the one area
where he's just like yeah we should just
make sure that those people can be here
no problem so think about that I mean
that is the full complete fulfillment of
every single populous lie he's ever told
on the economy think about the pressure
that puts on kids immigrant kids like
you better get all A's or you're out of
here oh absolutely it's terrorism
