it's not just larry cudlow of course
this is a Republican Republican Party is
the only major party in the world that
denies climate change and the man-made
that it is at the very least enhanced by
man dramatically and here is Marco Rubio
you know just sort of saying well maybe
that's just God's will and if it's God's
will then God will take care of it
because he's a good guy
so do you believe it's at least in part
man-made yeah look scientists are saying
the humanity and its behavior is
contributing towards that I can't tell
you what percentage of that is due to
human activity and I think many
scientists that would debate the
percentage of what is attributable to
man versus normal fluctuations but that
there's actually a rise in sea level
that temperatures are warmer in the
water than they were 50 80 170 years ago
that's immeasurable there's no I don't
think there is a honest debate about
that but in 20 years what can we do
about it
yeah and in 20 years are you gonna be
able to say to your children and my
children these are the three or four
things that I pushed for in Congress to
help mitigate this factor well certainly
a mitigating sea level rise because no
matter what we do no matter what we do
with laws that tomorrow we stopped all
card let's say we went to all you know
solar panels and did all that stuff
which is not realistic there still would
be this still this trend would still
continue and so we're gonna have to do
something about the impact that it's
having a low-level coastal areas and
that means mitigation hardening lifting
Stein how we manage water we're all over
that we've been working on that very
hard and continue to strategies to
mitigate against those factors that are
going to be in place no matter what
happens with our energy policy but I'm
also not going to destroy our economy
there's a reality here and there's a
balance on that end of it well you know
it's an interesting balance he struck he
struck the balance between nothing am I
going to promote to mitigate a climate
change and I'm not going to destroy our
economy but I did find some new
buzzwords that I can use the trick I'm
hardening managing
a bunch of ice cubes and what he's
talking about is like there will be
areas let's say like off of New York
let's say where you will be able to
build a seawall which will help with it
will cost tens of billions of dollars
where you will be able to help
situations like we had in Sandy you
won't be able to do that from Miami
because Miami is built basically on a
sponge and the waters gonna come up from
below it's not it's not gonna wash over
it's gonna come up from below but that's
what he's basically talking about like
off the coast of North Carolina
we'll build a seawall we'll protect some
some small like land masses and whatnot
but in terms of mitigating am I going to
bring up anything in Congress to
mitigate climate change uh no but I will
tell you we shouldn't do anything it
hurts our economy well guess what this
is gonna be tough for Cruz to accept not
doing anything is going to not
attempting to mitigate this at all is
also going to hurt our economy oh man
you just burned Rubio the harshest he's
ever been proved there you go No ah just
accidentally called him close that is
bro root honestly not a huge difference
in their policies one I think it's a
little bit better in terms of
articulating and being arrested people
I'm talking aesthetics purely but I
don't know why Jake Tapper doesn't stop
him and say wait a second you're
changing you're you're moving the
goalposts my question Midway but that's
how you get them to come back on
