[Music]
let's do this um let's play clip number
eight this is important this is wonky
but this is important this is a good I
would say this is a good preset for how
to get really specific on with
candidates as they run for office and we
already see this of course we saw a
catastrophic talk with Nancy Pelosi's
policy adviser under undermining
Medicare for all then we saw the
terrible move by the pod SAV guy trying
to make it a generic thing versus a
specific thing abdul al saeed obviously
we very enthusiastically supported his
run for governor of michigan he ran a
good campaign unfortunately came up
short but this is a very young very
talented guy who is gonna keep
contributing for quite some time and
he's doing it right now here he is on
rebel headquarters the TYT show
explaining the difference between the
Center for American Progress is proposal
on Medicare extra versus single-payer
universal health care how popular
Medicare for all is it's polling sixty
to seventy percent depending upon the
poll that you're looking at and a lot of
folks who are cozy with the insurance
industry are thinking well how can we
have our cake and eat it too how can we
make sure that these health insurers
that by the way our big donors to
Democratic and Republican campaigns how
do we keep them happy and so they're
taking the name Medicare for all and
they're putting extra stuff in it one
plan that's that's pushed forward by the
Center for American Progress is called
Medicare extra for all and you'd think
that if it's Medicare extra I'd be
better than Medicare right because it's
extra that's not the case at all what it
does in effect is brings back the idea
of the public option if you think back
to the time when we were debating the
Affordable Care Act there was a question
about the public option and end up
getting stripped the Obama
administration couldn't push that
through what Medicare extra for all is
is in effect a public option it allows
you to buy into Medicare if you're a
company or if you're an individual
here's the problem though that keeps us
for with Medicare for some because of
course
people aren't going to be able to afford
it the big problem we have in our
society right now is that medicaid
covers folks who make up to 133 percent
of poverty which is not very much at all
and then after that there's this big
donut hole between when the the people
can actually have access because they
can afford health care on the exchanges
and then of course there's Medicare for
people over the age of 65 Medicare extra
is not going to really solve that
problem all it does is introduce a
competitive publicly funded or publicly
subsidized public option and that's not
enough we need to make sure that
anything that we call Medicare for all
implies that it covers all everybody
you shouldn't have to buy in you
shouldn't have to worry about whether or
not your employer got it
you shouldn't have to worry about how
much money you make or whether or not
you can afford it very right now we know
Medicare for all is so popular because
people get the basic idea it's Medicare
for everybody
Medicare you know Medicare extra won't
be Medicare for everybody it'll be like
you said Medicare for some and it's not
going to deliver on the promise of
Medicare for all so there's a real
political challenge there and let you
said look the reason Medicare for all it
matters so much is because it breaks the
kind of collusion power that big
insurance has with big health care and
if we just had another private system or
Medicare for some it's not gonna do that
so we're not gonna get the major cost
savings we're gonna miss out on being
able to provide health care for
everybody so that's exactly right that's
well put and it's something to have a
lot of precision about when you talk to
candidates I mean we've seen obviously
the two famous examples so far Kamala
Harris had an excellent answer at the
CNN Town Hall on Medicare for all about
private let's move past it let's go we
got to get this done the next day she
reversed herself Cory Booker came out
said he supports Medicare for all you
know he has of course he's a co-sponsor
of Bernie's bill in the Senate which
would lead to real Medicare for all but
then the next day his team clarified no
he does not want to get rid of private
insurance it needs to happen and not
only does it need to happen the actual
further reaches his conversation and is
what next part of the health care sector
becomes public so that a
as an example which just privately sort
of accesses and make and it absorbs
public Commons most innovation and
medical research is publicly funded and
delivered and then form a profits off of
it almost essentially the intellectual
property and marketing companies we need
to stop that - and put healthcare in
democracies hands across the board
there's some very simple facts that
anytime someone who's talking about
dismantling this industry that you can
just point to and prove that it's been a
failure and that it needs to be
seriously reformed no none of this like
cow towing yes so 62% of bankruptcies
are due to medical debt 70% of those
people with that debt have insurance
that is astounding yep done and also one
in three fund drives fundraisers on
GoFundMe are for medical debt that's not
a functioning system we need
single-payer universal health care the
the case is overwhelmingly moral and I
want to make it on those terms it's also
if you want to go there it is the
obvious in disputed I mean there are
both social political historical but
also bureaucratic and logistical reasons
why every single other industrialized
country has some version of this -
greater or lesser degrees and that the
ones that perform best are more and more
public and and the chapel guys made a
good point on this talking about the
John's if you're if you're already you
know hedging on what your plan is and
your politics you're not in the room yet
you can't act like you're in the room
because that's what we did in 2016 and
lost because there is no driving message
behind Hillary Clinton's candidacy
you're not in the room you're on the
trail
