we did not have an opportunity to
comment on Donald Trump's would be I
guess July 4th military celebration as
it were
I will cop to not watching any of it
really I guess I saw some clips I saw
that it was raining I obviously saw that
he conflated some events time sequences
basically jumbling up things you know
there were probably about a hundred and
fifty years apart but that happens to
the best of us what what did you make of
that whole fiasco it didn't turn out to
be the sort of the firebrand speech that
people thought he would give the whole
thing was a bit of a dud well that's how
I saw it and I unfortunately did watch
the whole thing because I had to write
about it for my salon column the next
day so that was my July fourth was
having to first of all watch the lead-up
to it which everybody's wondering was
anybody going to show up and you know
what what are the people at the things
talking about and what have you so I was
watching that stuff all day it kind of
ruined my my holiday but yeah it was a
dud and it's kind of interesting I mean
one of the things I think and I keep
pointing this out and nobody ever ever
listens to me it's a myth that Trump
went to France and best deal day and saw
the big parade and was inspired at that
point that I you know I want to have one
of those myself he had wanted to have
one of those for ages and in fact had
tried to do it for his inaugural he had
act it was reported at the time that he
had asked for a military parade for the
inaugural one of the tanks and the
soldiers marching and all that stuff
when they told him it couldn't be done
but he'd always had that in his head and
I suspect he's liked those military
parades since he was a kid right I mean
he went to military school he loves that
kind of stuff so yeah I mean I don't
think that that was the inspiration for
it but of course when he saw what the
French could do he was you know
termined that he was going to try to
outdo them with a much better parade
showing how much better the US military
is which was the whole point you know to
kind of show off the military is if
nobody in the world understands that the
United States has an incredible you know
the most powerful military on earth yeah
he needs somehow feels we need to prove
that and so you know he planned this
thing and of course it was a dud because
it was nothing I mean he got a couple of
sad looking tank sitting there it was
just ridiculous and kind of pathetic
that you know that was supposed to prove
something and then he had some you know
these flyovers from the four branches of
government which were fine but I mean
I've seen that at baseball games you
know this isn't anything special so if
the point was to prove that the US
government to the US military's the
strongest most formidable in the world
boy it did the opposite it showed that
the u.s. if that was the point the US
has kind of kind of lame when it comes
to putting on at least putting on a
military parade which is fine with me
because I don't think we should be doing
that it's completely antithetical to
with the way the US you know has
traditionally viewed a the July 4th and
the idea of you know marching the
military all over the place because you
know we don't the point of doing that
and dictatorships and other
authoritarian regimes is that you're not
only telling the rest of the world that
you have a strong military you're
telling your own people you know which
is kind of instilling fear you know
saying hey look you know this is your
government here so you know be sure and
keep that in mind when you try and
dissent so you know the US has never
traditionally done that so truck tries
to do it and of course you know it's
raining he can't read the speech the
speech sounded like it was written for
somebody else and it's pretty clear it's
the first time he's ever he'd ever laid
eyes on it because he and he didn't know
any of the things that were in it so it
was a message it had at one point he
stumbled the teleprompter stumbled or
something stumbled and maybe he was ad
libbing and he was talking about how the
revolutionary forces took over the
airports
we don't have to explain draw very well
fam he will eat very well so this
happens all the time it's just that in
that case because he doesn't know
anything about American history and is
completely clueless when he misread it
as he does all the time he probably said
instead of port he said airport and then
he skipped over some part and the start
talked about you know Fort McHenry and
the Rockets red glare which was really
the war of 1812 not the Revolutionary
War or maybe they might have written
that in there I don't even know I mean
maybe the people who wrote him don't
know wrote the speech don't know
American history but the idea of Trump
sitting there talking about American
history and lofty terms and doing all
this is just not him it was the funniest
speech he's ever read and it clearly is
not what he thinks about America any
kind of discussion of any even the
military you know successes of of the
United States his view of successful
military action is you know blackjack
Pershing the apocryphal story of
blackjack Pershing dipping bullets and
pig's blood you know to to scare the
Muslims I mean that's that's the
military that he likes the one that
tortures no the one that steals
resources I mean this idea of you know
wrapped around freedom and you know
freeing other people around the world I
mean it has nothing to do with him and
it sounded like it had nothing to do
with him I mean it was clear Mike you
know I'm I thought was that in the
run-up to the speech there was and I and
I will I will cop to not paying much
attention to even the the build-up to
the speech because the only thing I
heard about was you know the tanks and
the idea that the Park Service was going
to have to spend millions of dollars to
service these tanks being brought in at
a time where the Park Service is already
being starved of funds but my sense is
is that there was a lot of concern that
you know along with the militarism that
he was going to be far more political
about the speech they did just hand out
VIP tickets only to members of the RNC
as opposed to the DNC which is you know
pretty ridiculous for July for the
celebration
but I can't help but wonder if they
almost at the last minute switch
speeches sweetie explain its which
speeches because he did seem unfamiliar
with that speech the speech did seem
sort of very atypical it did seem to be
written to sort of surprise people as
being almost as banal and mundane as it
was I I can't help but think that there
is a heightened sensitivity or some type
of notion of like a word in a camp an
election year we've got to be a little
bit careful with some of this stuff in
terms of the media but I don't know I
mean the you know I think they're
they're they are a little bit concerned
about stepping out of I don't know what
Lane it was maybe they just think there
was going to be more people paying
attention there that weren't necessarily
partisan but the whole thing two
thousand military I think it was the
military that I think that their
reluctance over this whole thing and
being used because there had been
discussions of pushing putting you know
all four Joint Chiefs and stuff up
behind him and all that and they did
bring up a couple but they didn't it
wasn't just a bunch of uniformed
surrounding him I think that may have
been what tempered them
