where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat homage
or a rapport with Sam Sita it is Friday
December 14 2018 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today it's casual Friday folks
joining me be the great digby from the
blog hullabaloo also on the program
today the great Kindler from Andy
Kindler calm
that's our tweet that said he was up
like four hours ago so I don't know
what's going on also on the program
today
Senate votes to end us Yemeni
involvement meanwhile Yemeni combatants
sign of truths the trump's inauguration
it turns out has a little bit of an
investigatory problem people are
wondering where did fifty million
dollars go meanwhile Trump may get his
shut down after all as Congress members
begin to filter out for Christmas
vacation
I mean holiday vacation
the US is holding 15,000 immigrant
children as a seven-year-old in custody
dies of dehydration the Chief Justice of
California Supreme Court has walked away
from the Republican Party and Kushner
Christie and Gingrich all possible chief
of staff's hard to decide which one we
want Gingrich hmm I want that that just
battle of narcissism meanwhile a David
pecker the publisher of The National
Enquirer has opened his safe and that's
not good for Trump just the most
juvenile show in the world is Mike Pence
a dead man walking The Weekly Standard
is just dead Oh goodbye and lawsuits
force Betsy DeVos to apply an abominable
that and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen it is Friday we are headed
into the Christmas season we are of
course here all next week but then we'll
be taking Christmas week off the members
of of Congress are already starting to
filter out I don't know how that's going
to work in terms of a potential
government shutdown we shall see
apparently Donald Trump was very upset
about his meeting with Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer the other day and
something happened in the US Senate
yesterday that as far as I know has
happened before the US Senate via the
War Powers Act voted 56 to 41 to limit
the president's war powers in the
executive branch's ability to send
assistance and weapons to the Saudis in
their assault on Yemen and in an attempt
and it's late and it's too late
obviously but to end the massive
suffering that's going on in Yemen right
now something like 80,000 I think it is
maybe the the number is slightly higher
children have died of starvation in
Yemen just for a moment contemplate that
magnitude of suffering to sit there and
watch your child die of starvation
to have to make the choice and there are
pieces I've read about this which of
your children are you going to allow to
starve to death because you have no
choice you want to save one or you want
to save two how do you make that choice
85 chil a thousand 80,000 children have
died not to mention the people who have
died by bombs and by war instruments and
this was a relationship to this war that
was started under Obama the Obama
administration the Trump administration
of course ratcheted up quite a bit
some have argued from the Obama
administration that the
it was an attempt to at least you know
serve I guess what you call constructive
engagement if we participate in some way
we'll have an ability to throttle their
efforts I'm a little bit skeptical of
that not just in terms of its strategic
or I should say tactical value but as to
whether that was in fact the intent I'm
sure that may have been part of it but
the other part of it was we're gonna
help you out here because we're making
some inroads to a less hostile stance
against Iran and we are beholden to
Saudi Arabia for any number of reasons
not the least of which that they have
all that oil and they have a tremendous
amount of money so Bernie Sanders and I
think was Mike Lee Chris Murphy and Mike
Lee oh yeah
sponsored a bill under the War Powers
Act and it passed and the number 56 to
41 is important because it suggests that
this is durable enough to be maintained
in January
now look obviously Donald Trump could
veto this and we know in the House Paul
Ryan and five Democrats and obviously
all the Republicans not all I mean 18 a
number oh yeah 18 crossed but we're able
to prevent a vote on the war on
Rokon as resolution similar resolution
Nancy Pelosi will have another bite at
that Apple in January and I think my
understanding is it might have to go
back to the Senate at that point unless
they can maybe adopt the exact same
resolution I'm not exactly sure how it
works
nevertheless Donald Trump may veto it
but he does have a bit of a problem with
the show
situation and I think that may be why we
saw what we did in the house but anytime
anybody tries to tell you that Paul Ryan
was hamstrung and that he was
constrained by his political future and
etc etc and I don't know why you'd be
talking to anybody who would ever tell
you that but if you find yourself in
that situation maybe at the holidays
just remind them that he didn't have to
do this other than he has a like a black
dying heart may I also just add really
briefly we talked about this yesterday
but here are the five Yemen genocide
caucus Democrats Jim Costa al Lawson
Colin Peterson
Dutch Ruppersberger and David Scott and
and I hope you're prepared to donate
heavily to their primary challenge which
is I would imagine already in the works
hopefully in those districts they're in
pretty safe for them seats to most of
them are in as far as what is their
justification for voting to continue
later Colin Peterson said it was a
tangent to talk about but my guest vote
for the farm bill yeah they're in areas
where the farm bill is prominent that's
what out ruffer's burger though he's in
Maryland and he's a he's just a national
security hawk there you go cool
thousands of starving kids a tangent
right here's Bernie Sanders discussing
the the resolution that has passed
yesterday in the Senate and it's a very
important breakthrough both progressives
and conservatives have made a profound
statement that 45 years after the
passage of the War Powers Act 45 years
later finally the United States Senate
has come together to use that or
Authority for the first time and say
that the responsibility for war the
constitutional responsibility for war
rest with the unite
States Congress not the president
whether that president is a Democrat or
a Republican and I think the historical
importance of today is not only moving
the United States out of that horrific
war what is having the country see that
their elected representatives are about
to take back their constitutional
responsibility on the issues of war one
of the most important functions that the
United States Congress has yeah and it's
important to keep that in mind I mean
regardless of what happens with the u.s.
involvement in in Yemen
and I'm not convinced that it's wholly
unrelated that the Senate made this move
and simultaneously in Sweden the warring
factions in Yemen this is not the Saudi
Arabia but these are forces that are
backed by Saudi Arabia I imagine that
they're not completely freelancing in
this situation agreed to at the least a
a truce under UN auspices but but
Sanders makes a good point here this
sets a precedent for that now for the
first time the Senate has exercised or
attempted to exercise this Authority and
you know it's one of those
use-it-or-lose-it type of situations and
this is a precedent and and particularly
in a place like the Senate where so much
of their thinking seems to be ossified
and in static to to have taken this turn
opens the door I think to the Senate
taking this action before 45 years pass
and I mean if we're lucky enough not to
have a involvement in a war before then
that would be great
unlikely but this is good for the sin
as an institution it's good for the
country and hopefully it will also help
create pressure on helping the Yemen
Yemenis people and next up really what
we should be doing is either paying for
some type of aid massive aid or forcing
the Saudis to do or do both and the
Emiratis alright let me just change
things up a little bit
remind you that one of today's sponsors
is Skillshare and the first 500 people
who go to sk l dot s h slash majority
are gonna get two whole months of
totally free access to skill shares
entire library of super quality online
courses and tutorials Skillshare is a
vibrant online learning community that
offers courses on everything from design
to video editing photography business
technology cooking mmm meditation and
everything in between
there are skill share courses for
everyone you'll have no problem finding
courses that will be useful to you in
both your personal and professional life
whether you want to sharpen your skills
with something you already love doing or
you want to learn how to do something
totally new Skillshare has you covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages photoshop you name it I've
discussed with you what my plan is for
for the Christmas break some accounting
classes what was the other thing I was
gonna do meditate I don't know about
that but definitely accounting I did my
knife cutting class it's been good it's
a great way to learn stuff I mean this
is like I mean I've I'm super psyched
about this actually you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to esque into these courses a week
you get two months to figure it out
that's sk l dot s h slash majority i put
a link underneath this video
put a link in the podcast description
check it out also as you know you spend
one third of your life and your in
your sheets this holiday season a great
time for a bedding upgrade for yourself
but frankly it's a great gift for a
loved one this is a good gift for your
kids if they like college kids or young
people a good gift because I can assure
you certainly when I was that age my
bedding I did not take very seriously
and I can only imagine Jamie while
you're smiling because Brooklyn and it
works directly with manufacturers and
customers they're able to offer
five-star hotel quality sheets that are
affordable and easy to order plus with
over 20 colors and patterns these sheets
don't just feel amazing they look great
too and they're super fast shipping
makes it so that you can get your
holiday gifts right on time
I now have I don't know half a dozen
different sets of sheets from Brooklyn I
think just everybody in the house now
has it and those of us outside the house
we don't need to get into that but I'm
extremely happy with the with Brooklyn
and I get them there they're the best
sheets the most comfortable sheets I've
ever slept on and now it's time for your
upgrade Brooke roll of drumroll please
Brooklyn linen has an exclusive offer
just for majority report listeners get
20 bucks off and free shipping when you
use the promo code majority at Brooklyn
and Comm Brooklyn and so confident their
product in their product that all their
sheets all their comforters their towels
their duvets come with a lifetime
warranty and the only way to get 20
bucks off and free shipping is to use
the promo code majority at Brooklyn
in.com
that's Brooklyn and be Roo kli n en
dot-com promo code majority Brooklyn and
these really are the best sheets ever
check them out
alright folks we're gonna take a quick
break when we come back we're gonna be
talking to Digby want to remind you we
are now Brendon what's the number are
you serious
there's only 15 more seats left for the
live
I am sorry folks I know I told you it
would last the Christmas but make that
the wait when is the equinox presenting
this 21st it's gonna be gone by then oh
gosh buy you tickets today so we just do
it just do it yeah I don't even need to
say anything at this point 15 tickets
left you can show your support for this
show and get extra content every day by
going to join the majority of report.com
head over to majority dot F M to get
those tickets also tickets
very few probably tickets left now for
Michael show what happens get them
coming to the neighborhood that's why
the restaurants all cluster together
folks there's a little tip because you
can't get into one you go and try the
other one that's the way it works all
right folks
quick break it's true it's true or if
you're a bon vivant you just go to all
of them well but then you know about
them because I've gone to the one the
first one close to act as advertised eh
other quick break come back with Digby
you
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is always a
pleasure to welcome our next guest from
one of the one of the earliest blogs I
ever read back in the day we would just
sometimes he would even have to say
things you could just say you didn't
have to write anything I think half I
would say half the blogs I read just
avoided having to to even post anything
because they would just say what Digby
said and then somebody wrote this there
you go wow that's a that's a the Digby
theme song hi Digby hi hi I love it
thank you so much
I didn't we didn't do it but we we
invited people to do it who was the do
we know it was hot Cologne yeah well
there you go hot Cologne
did we which totally makes sense all
right so Heather let's let's start with
this is we are now I mean obviously the
the Yemeni stuff is hugely important and
and I want to get your your sense of
that but before we do the the other sort
of ongoing sort of horror story is that
now the United States government is now
basically warehousing 15,000 kits some
of whom I mean I would say probably the
majority of whom have come here without
their parents but the reason why we are
housing them is because ice is basically
explicitly or implicitly threatening the
relatives of these kids and are keeping
them away from coming and and claiming
these kids and bringing them back home
and waiting for
some type of adjudication as to whether
they have legitimate claims to stay in
the country this is this is just
unbelievable and now we have this story
coming out of a this is last week I
think it was in New Mexico a
seven-year-old girl from Guatemala died
a dehydration and shocked about okay so
she was brought in to the Customs and
Border Protection facility at 10:00 p.m.
on December 6th she was part of a group
of 163 people who walked up to US border
agents to turn themselves in right they
seeking asylum this is the only way to
seek asylum you need to be in the
country to actually legally request
asylum so people should be very clear
about this eight hours later eight hours
later okay I mean you imagine that the
first thing the custom and Border Patrol
is going to do is assess the health of
the children and eight hours later she
began having seizures and emergency
responders arrived they measured her
body temperature at a hundred and five
almost a hundred and six degrees she had
reportedly not eaten or consumed water
for several days they took her to a
hospital in El Paso by helicopter child
when it's cardiac arrest and died 24
hours less than 24 hours later I mean
this is this is an outrage I mean this
is just this is just unbelievable and
and I want you digging and I want to get
your take on this here is Kristen
Nielsen on Fox and Friends and listen
- I mean this is just stunning to me
this is just stunning and you know she
is there calling Fox and Friends because
we need to provide we need to to
basically provide flak so that this
story doesn't get out of hand and this
is just it's just what do you know about
this little girl the seven-year-old
migrant girl that was taken into a
Border Patrol custody and then died of
dehydration and exhaustion yeah it's
it's heart-wrenching is what it is and
my heart goes out to the the family at
all of all of DHS you know this is just
a very sad example of the dangers of
this journey this family chose to cross
illegally what happened here was they
were 90 about 90 miles away from where
we could process them they came in such
a large crowd that it took our Border
Patrol folks a couple times to get them
all
we gave immediate care we'll continue to
look into the situation but again I
cannot stress how dangerous this journey
is when migrants choose to come here
illegally yeah I understand she had a
hundred and five fever and you guys got
her over to a hospital in El Paso were
unable to to save her life
Madame secretary tell us a little bit
about the status of the caravan right
yeah look they would quickly talk about
the caravan all right look I'm just
gonna quickly dispense with the with a
couple lies that we heard there 105
degree temperature happened six hours
eight hours after she was in custody the
hundred and sixty three people just
handed themselves in so didn't need to
be rounded up and just doesn't
discussing part of like my heart goes
out to the family and all of DHS yeah
it's really hard on DHS here I imagine
what do you say about this well I mean
it's obviously it's absolutely horrific
and it you know this this is an old
story about the crossing through the
dangerous parts of the desert down there
at the border which is what they are
consciously doing to these people by you
know creating all these roadblocks at
the normal crossings make it impossible
for people to cross over and ask for
asylum in the normal way so basically
they're forcing that you're going to
is not going to be the end of it it's
not the first time it's happened people
absolutely die of dehydration out there
in the in the desert and by the way the
Border Patrol goes out there are you
know good Samaritans who go out and
leave water and various you know sort of
protective gear for these folks and the
Border Patrol will arrest them for doing
that so I mean this is this is like it's
intentional cruelty and in this case you
know as far as I can tell from the story
and forgetting that you know just
absolutely reprehensible commentary from
Kirsten Nielsen well it's a very
dangerous journey and you know it's very
tough and we're very sorry well you know
it's ridiculous the Border Patrol
certainly has resources to give these
people water clearly this little girl
was dehydrated from wandering around in
the desert and you know it's obvious to
me that they didn't they didn't give
them water I mean if they had it's
highly unlikely she would have had 105
degree temperature hours after she'd
been she'd been you know in in Border
Patrol custody so I you know I'm sure
that this is gonna this is maybe even
uglier than we think look you know let's
step back here a little bit and look at
what's really happening I mean a lot of
people thought that Donald Trump when he
came in was going to be you know he
there may be many things he's very
ignorant he's nothing but at least he's
not a war President least he's not
somebody who's in his you know invading
countries that didn't attack us you know
you go well you know he I guess that's
an upside but the truth of the matter is
he is a war president and he's waging
war on the border of the United States
of America
he's waging a war inside our own country
dividing people into you know it's this
and I can't remember who said it but
they're calling it you know like a cold
civil war and there are casualties and
they're children
and it's not that different from the
horrors that we're seeing over in
another war that Donald Trump is helping
to wage in Yemen and I'm not you know
trying to give you know where we're
seeing the horror
even more horrifying pictures of little
children starving and and being the you
know
the targets of air raids over there I
mean this is you know this is something
that's happening this is a violence
that's being done right here in America
on I mean this little girl died in the
United States of America it wasn't you
know someplace else it wasn't even in
her home country we have you know we're
being absolutely totally lacking in
compassion for the conditions that are
making these people come up here better
that are forcing these people out of
their own countries to save their own
lives and we're making it more and more
and more difficult for them to live I
mean this isn't a matter of you know
stealing jobs or you know some kind of
an economic issue I mean that it really
isn't there's no no crisis it's a we can
handle a seven-year-old child I mean in
this country this is ridiculous and then
the fact that they're now housing them
in basically in camps yes and and doing
this you know their state they're doing
stains on me on these kids relatives
where they call and say you know come
out and pick up so-and-so and then they
get them to come in and then they arrest
them and deport them yep if the relative
is undocumented I mean this is really
nightmarish stuff and and you know it's
the holiday season you know you don't
want to have to have to feel this way
but you know I mean I find this just
thoroughly thoroughly depressing I mean
it's just this is just the worst and I
don't see an end to it I mean they'll
get rid of Kirsten Nielsen and put in
somebody worse that's rightfully gonna
help right and and you know the and we
should say that these policies are not
particularly new we have footage of
Border Patrol people dumping out water
and they've been doing this you know
this I think this footage is from like
six years ago the you know that or you
know certainly it predates the the Trump
era but it's sick
I mean it's sick the the there's there's
this is an in your point about you know
look you're not trying to sneak into the
country with a hundred and sixty-three P
when a hundred and six five thirty
people go up and give up the ghost it's
they're not trying to sneak into the
country they're trying to they're trying
to turn themselves in
and so the it is clearly one of those
examples and this is a state of policy
like you made I said the Trump
administration forced them into the
desert and because theoretically it will
discourage people from coming but of
course the reality is that their
situations are so bleak from where
they're coming from that they will they
they will take this chance
none of the attempts none of the family
separation none of that stuff in any way
inhibited the flow of people coming
north and we should say it's not that
many
we can certainly absorb these people but
it's just I don't know it's sickening
and what I know I think I think the
point you make is really important
though I mean look it probably has
inhibited plenty of people I mean there
are probably plenty of people who are
going this isn't really you know it's
not really worth it for me to come over
the border and work for a few months
while all this wild political stuff
happening in the US okay I mean maybe
there's some Mexican workers were saying
yeah yeah I'm not gonna I'm not going to
go through that right now
these are not those people who would do
this unless you absolutely had to
anybody who is is Marty you know walking
on foot all the way from Central America
to come to the border to try and they're
they're seeking their family members who
are here people that they know people
from their communities from their
country and trying to survive I mean you
would never do this who would do it
unless you absolutely had to I wish I
could understand why Americans see these
people as being such you know such veno
greedy you know kind of I mean Trump is
even by the way this week going on and
on about how they're bringing diseases I
mean they're backed right I mean right
you know saying that there's people
don't want to talk about all the medical
conditions and the diseases they're
bringing in I mean
that is really taking it to a new sick
level I think we all know what the
illusion there is and how you know in
the past that sort of thing has been
used
it's been used many times that there at
the at the US border too I mean there
was I don't know if people know this
story I'll just digress for just a
second because it's kind of interesting
yeah over the years they've always been
these crackdowns at the US you know the
American border with Mexico and you know
back in the 50s they had operation
 which Trump on the campaign
trail extolled as you know kind of a
model for what he wanted to do in which
they rounded up everybody who looked
like they were a Mexican many of them
American by the way and just dumped him
out in the desert and had left them
there people did die in that - that was
our you know our good guy Eisenhower who
did that one but this goes way way back
and in fact there was a period in the
early part of the century where this
disease thing was really a big deal you
know this was back during the eugenics
time and you know there was a lot of
this weird sort of scientific you know
quote scientific racialized you know
science that people were using that's
coming back incidentally but it is yeah
and and they used they used to bring you
know they would have Mexicans who cross
the border every day to work in you know
in the fields or who worked in in houses
in the in the south particularly in
Texas which is where this really
happened a lot and they insisted that
they be deloused right they would they
would round them up and basically force
them to you know take showers and then
they'd spray them with this powder and
there was a big riot that happened one
of the housemaids that big stage what
was a housemaids riot and they write it
and actually ended up ending the policy
because of it it's a really wild story
you can look it up but they used as a
powder on them and you know what that
powder was it was a powder known as
zyklon-b and in fact it was America who
used that that that compound first and
it was the Nazis who got the idea for it
and used it for much more in nefarious
and you know more concentrated purposes
in the concentration camp
in the death camps in in in Germany and
Eastern Europe and you know that's what
they used to do so this is a there's a
long history of doing this but you know
it doesn't make it right and in fact it
makes it even more wrong I mean you know
we used to exterminate Indians in this
country too we had slavery a lot of
things need to end and this border this
you know ongoing kind of churning at our
at our Mexican border has got to stop
too because this is this kind of
violence and unnecessary cruelty and an
absolute you know lack of compassion
when we don't have to do it it's as if
we kind of are wishing that we had the
same kind of immigrant issue that they
have in Europe where they really do have
an influx of people from the Middle East
at it you know it's causing a lot of you
know social problems you know rightly or
wrongly they do exist that's not true
here wait wait you know you go down to
the southwest or here in California
where I live you know we don't there's
no problem I mean we you know it's not a
problem
I mean people come over from Mexico they
go back they come from Central America
they go back we absorb a lot of them a
lot of them just go and and you know
spend some time here and then they want
to go back to their families in their
home country it's not a big deal we've
been doing it for years and there's no
need for all this you know angst over it
it's it's a made-up problem and it's
idiots to keep the right-wing honestly I
honestly think that a lot of it is just
the right needed another racial group
absolutely demonize they're picking on
the Hispanics well nobody's looking
unfashionable to be you know blatantly
racist against African American III
think that's absolutely right and we've
seen like the uptick in in Islamophobia
in this country I mean people don't
realize this but it went up during
Islamic you know anti-muslim rhetoric
and tax went up since the Bush
administration and when you wouldn't you
would have imagined it would have been
at its peak right and yeah I absolutely
think that's what it is you know
this is there has been a strong
anti-immigrant sentiment on the right
George Bush tried to to shake it and I
think Trump realized like this is a good
group to hate on because we lost the
gays you know we don't have the gays to
rely on anymore that's what George Bush
used in 2004 and you know and will and
will but we'll talk about that in a
moment but we'll circle back around to
that because there's a you had a piece
that was interesting about about white
evangelicals and that that that's what
brought out the folks for for George
Bush was we're gonna hate on the gays
right we're gonna write have
anti-marriage equality amendments and
whatnot one thing I will say is that the
broadly the support of immigrants in
this country seems to have gone up the
the depth of the anti-immigrant fervor
has deepened I think right it's me it's
like I think for people who are
anti-immigrant that issue has risen up
on their priorities in which they they
vote and they function in their life but
broadly speaking support for immigrants
has gone up in the country and you know
and I want to use that to pivot a little
bit to what's going on with with the the
Trump investigations because it's
starting to broaden out so much now the
investigations I think we're going to
see sort of round two where we see like
a nexus with what's going on with Saudi
Arabia and and perhaps Israel and the
UAE and we're seeing it in terms of
money laundering and this and that and
it remains to be seen I'm highly
skeptical that we're gonna see sort of
like some new broader ethos right in our
government and in terms of
accountability for very wealthy people
but who knows but you know Trump is by
making the implicit explicit is force
people to sort of make some hard choices
and to look at this stuff where it was
easier and set in the past just didn't
get the same attention frankly I think I
don't know that people didn't pay
attention to it as much as it just
didn't get the same sort of media focus
it'll be interesting to see if in what
we have seen with healthcare right where
the protection of the ACA sort of made
the the imperative for a single-payer
system a bigger structural change more
more relevant and more I guess evident I
wonder if the same things gonna happen
in terms of integration I hope so I hope
so too
you know I mean I feel like like
immigration what may be happening is
what happened in California I hope that
this said that that has you know because
I was a Pete sessions what was it yeah
yeah okay we Wilson sorry sorry yeah
yeah yeah remind people of this because
that I I was in California I think just
after that yeah back in the 90s Pete
Wilson and people may remember this he
was ran for governor and he ran on a
very hardcore very trumpet-style
anti-immigrant platform and there was a
you know an initiative on the ballot as
well to sort of you know deny public
schooling and deny driver's licenses and
basically make California a miserable
place to live for undocumented
immigrants now you know that's a lot of
people in this state I mean it's this is
a very heavily Hispanic evie Hispanic
state and he ran on that and he actually
won I think it was 1994 and he actually
won and the proposition that was on the
ballot also one very depressing time
we're just sitting there going oh my god
but what that did was first of all it
galvanized the Latino community the you
know American Latinos in California and
they organized and became politically
active and I think it also you know did
what is happening I think across the
country which is it made immigration a
salient issue for a whole lot of people
who really don't want to see
seven-year-old girls dying of thirst in
America they don't want to see babies in
cages
I mean it's that kind of they've taken
it so far as Pete Wilson did here in
California that other people who made
just sort of go yeah you know whatever
it's terrible but you know I care about
I don't know my taxes or they have other
issues that they find more prominence it
becomes a salient issue to them to vote
on and that's what it is in California
California now that has is completely
intolerant of this immigrant bashing
stuff that I mean there's just no room
for it in California politics they're
not doing it I mean of course there's a
pocket the head of the California State
Supreme Court the Chief Justice just
quit the Republican Party and in part it
was because of Cavanaugh but but largely
it seems that it was also in terms of
like all this anti-immigrant stuff
that's right it's just it's just not it
people in this state are just not
tolerant it's not an acceptable thing
here and you know for good reason I mean
we live look at you know this was Mexico
at one point so you know I mean this is
this is like you know this is one of
those things where you see in
evolutionary see somebody take it so far
it's as you point out right I mean they
go to such a limit that people sort of
wake up and go hey wait a minute who are
we and you know I I do see a lot of that
even among people who may not be
particularly political they don't like
this this thing with kids and these poor
people I mean if you unless you have no
compassion at all just completely
lacking an empathy like Donald Trump
you're gonna just don't Trump any
Kristin Nielsen I mean I there is AI III
don't want to wish pain and suffering on
her but I hope that she has a very
uncomfortable rest of her life I hope
she always is like a constant rash or
something I mean I this is someone and
and I'm probably holding back my I
probably have a little bit a little more
anger than that but all right well let's
say this I don't feel sorry for her
getting having her dinner interrupted
okay yeah I'm not gonna lose any sleep
over that such a shame that you can't go
out for deer alright let's let's turn to
this this week has been nuts in terms of
Criminal Investigations
michael cohen has basically and we have
some we'll play some more audio clips of
him a little bit later he isn't the sort
of a interesting figure let's to say the
least but what is also really
interesting i mean this week feels and
we I feel like we've said this before
but this week feels different in the
sense that the structures around Donald
Trump seem to be sort of like crumbling
a little bit and this clip that we have
and I want you to listen to it's long
but it really is fascinating Judge
Napolitano is on Fox & Friends and that
notion of the the of this structure sort
of follows this is like sort of like
he's explaining that on some level but
it's also we're witnessing it as they
all are just sort of slack-jawed as he's
basically telling them like yeah dumb
chop really did something wrong here and
here is the segment I love it they start
with a graphic of a lady to the scales
of justice and Fox outweighs friends on
the scale of justice justly you know I
never noticed that but that's pretty
funny
and I don't know who that face is
there's a weird that is a weird graphic
anyways so listen to this will stop it
and if you want to stop it just tell us
when to stop
president Trump's former lawyer Michael
Cohen sentenced to three years in prison
for tax fraud campaign finance
violations and lying to Congress Cohen
ripping into his former boss claiming to
Donald Trump claiming blind loyalty led
him to a path of darkness to cover up
Donald Trump's dirty deed anyone on and
on and on here to break it all down Fox
News senior day you he went on and on
and on yeah anyone on and on and on here
to break it all down Fox News senior
judicial analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano
judge Michael Cohen got off easy three
years it's pretty good he's got to be
happy about that well nobody is happy
about going to jail you guys look like
it's a lot less time than the government
wanted and a lot less time than we all
thought he would get look I've sentenced
over a thousand people in my career and
I've heard things defendants say
sentencing today is essentially a
mathematical function you're checking
boxes you're complying with guidelines
obviously there's some room for
deviation and judge Pauley the judge in
this case gave Michael Cohen a
substantial benefit it's interesting
remember he was prosecuted as a
cooperation correct he was prosecuted by
two officers prosecuted by the special
counseling in DC they wanted him to get
no jail time and he was prosecuted by
the US Attorney's here in New York they
want him to get four years judge Pauly
gave him three but a very very telling
statement came out of the judges mouth
yesterday after he read all the
documents and heard all the arguments
from the government prosecutors in DC
prosecutors in New York Michael Cohen
and his lawyers and that was about the
president the judge finding that the
President ordered and paid for Michael
Cohen to commit a crime that is very
telecom the intentional deception and
failure to report campaign of payments
Trump has said that that was not a
campaign violation because it wasn't
involving the campaign unfortunate
damage control payment unfortunately the
president wasn't in the courtroom and
the people who were the federal
prosecutors who had a statement from
David pecker the guy that owns the
National Enquirer said it was for the
campaign the prosecutor said it was
for the campaign Michael Cohen said it
was for the campaign the president
wasn't there maybe should have had
lawyers there so if you make an honest
mistake in failing to report something
or if you take a hundred thousand
dollars and you're only supposed to take
twenty five hundred you can correct that
by returning the money paying a fine and
correcting the report if you do this as
part of a scheme to hide it then it's
not a civil wrong then it's a crime
that's what the judge found yesterday
well if like for example Reverend Wright
is speaking out making President Obama
candidate Obama look bad and he and
someone walks up to Reverend Wright and
says hey could you stop making the
president the senator to look bet he's
running for president
but what does have to do with the
campaign but yet it is how well that
might influence how I vote positive one
second did you hear that Heather what
how desperate do you have to get at this
point to bring up Reverend Wright and to
equate going up a random person not
associated with the campaign walking up
to Reverend Wright and saying hey will
you please be quiet
and the it's stunning to me
the next thing they're gonna ask is
they're gonna demand that Barack Obama
be properly vetted and that dollar bill
about it what about Bill Ayers come up
but here is uh the the judge I mean this
is pretty funny this is sort of like it
sort of feels like I don't know if you
were to actually gather your children
around and say look guys there's no
Santa Claus but wait a second what about
who brought us the yeah no that was that
was your uncle he bought that what about
that time we heard the bells on the yeah
no that was just that was our neighbor
and they were just playing around here
we go continued influence how I vote
that would not be a campaign so this is
no difference this is a negative story
the president what happens going for
president I understand the president's
argument unfortunately the court and the
prosecutors who work for the president
disagree with it yeah but they went
after John Edwards for essentially the
same idea because there was a money paid
to a woman who he had had an affair with
and had a child that went to court
that went trial and he was found not
guilty at John Edwards case actually
hurts the president because John Edwards
lawyers made a motion to dismiss the
indictment saying it's not a crime and
the judge published an opinion saying
why it's a crime now the jury didn't
believe the government and believed John
Edwards but the fact of the matter is
any scheme to defraud the government by
failing to report what must be reported
is a crime unless it's an honest mistake
in which case if you have to serve all
three years no he'll have to serve 85
percent but if the criminal justice
reform Act that the president wants that
Democrats want that Republicans want
from Cory Booker to Rand Paul passes
one-third of his time will be a removed
and he'll Jack it'll be out in about a
year and nine months all right judge
thank you very much the practice law
again
no like doubt he'll ever practice law
yeah some people say you never really
practiced law oh my gosh that was really
rough for the Fox and Friends they I
feel like exactly I feel like Judge
Napolitano not a friend anymore
yeah I'm afraid not but I feel like that
moment like how many of those moments
you know look these three guys these
three stooges on this on this couch are
not that important but there is there's
like metaphorically speaking that that
conversation is probably happening in
people's minds or you know across the
country on some level I don't think a
lot of these people are in terms of
voters and whatnot are gonna walk away
for Donald Trump for that but I have a
feeling like people who you know flax
like you know I'll be very surprised if
chris Christie takes his job although I
could see him coming in at this point
like if you come in at this stage right
you probably won't have to do anything
criminal you'll just watch it all fall
yep
yeah you he may see himself as Alexander
Haig right the guy who came in and the
latter latter part of the Nixon
administration and kind of oversaw the
end right he sees himself as that you
know one thing I think is really
important
went out about this this what Napolitano
said and and he kept saying this but he
didn't really explain it but there was a
scheme you know I think people have been
up until now under the impression that
Trump and Cohen and pecker after the
Access Hollywood tape came out and then
you know stormy shows up and Karen
McDougal show up and they go hey you
know we're about to we're gonna go
public because this was all part of a
big you know sort of churn of a lot of
issues around women that were coming up
towards the end of the campaign and that
Trump and Cohen and Packer came up with
this idea to pay them off you know and
set up the shell companies and do all
that stuff
just to keep them quiet in you know
until the election now that would be
illegal
anyway what they did and we heard Trump
on tape basically talking about it so we
know that it happened and we know Trump
was involved I mean there's no doubt
about that but what has happened in the
last week is that we found out that this
scheme was hatched back in 2015 this
wasn't something that they came up with
at the last minute everything was a
flurry it was the end of the campaign
nobody knew what they were doing they
were doing this stuff since 2015 we
don't even know how many other
situations like this came up Donald
Trump called this was reported in Wall
Street Journal a while back and now it
was been confirmed that what pecker told
the prosecutors and Cohen confirmed and
I think there's documentary evidence
plus you know tapes and what-have-you to
back this up Trump called pecker in
there in in 2015 he's standing there was
Michael Cohen up in Trump Tower and said
literally this is the quote what can you
do for my campaign you know I mean it
doesn't get any more explicitly campaign
related than that and they came up with
this idea that what pecker would do was
try and and head off at the past any
kind of these negative information
particularly about about women but it
says in the in the document so the the
press release that it was all among
other things we don't even know what
else was running up right I mean that
may have been some of this apprentice
stuff that that has you know something's
come out
recent days maybe it's drugs maybe it's
you know who knows I mean I don't know
but you know and maybe it's some of its
bogus too you know there may have been
people there looking for a you know
looking to make a quick buck by selling
something to the Enquirer but whatever
this thing was was in place for you know
from the very beginning of the campaign
August of 2015 Trump came down the
escalator in June of 2015 so this stuff
was going on this was a scheme it was an
illegal scheme where they were trying to
protect Trump by you know paying money
to people who allegedly had negative
information and they weren't reporting
it as campaign contributions that is
illegal and it's a scheme as Napolitano
says it's not just something well gee we
we were all you know so busy we didn't
really know what we were doing I mean it
no one can say that no one can say that
somebody didn't have an obligation from
2015 on to go and ask dawn McGann by the
way who was the campaign lawyer for
Donald Trump from the very beginning and
who happened to be a you know an
election law expert he's one of the
leading experts in the Republican Party
on election law so nobody can say that
there wasn't anybody around they didn't
know who to turn to they didn't have any
any way of doing it so you know I think
this is very very serious for him
because you know this is just one
example well there's a kind of corrupt D
right team that he was up to and and and
I would imagine this is something that
he's probably not going to have to worry
about until the the moment he steps out
of the White House as not the president
and I think you know someone's going to
come up and shake his hand and then slap
a couple around him or something well
maybe you know I mean one thing one
thing that we should I mean god help us
if we get into another one of these you
know let's not look in the rearview
mirror we have to move forward and they
have a put you know enact our positive
agenda I mean this is going to be
nothing I find that battles are a lot of
us if they decide to do that oh I
wouldn't be surprised you know I really
wouldn't I mean all right so look I I
want to you know we're gonna see I think
there's going to be a lot more of this I
think they're starting with that
low-hanging fruit and then working up
and and sort of laying out like sort of
a certain pattern of criminality and
then are going to start getting a little
bit deeper and stuff but who knows and
you know I'm not convinced that the
Republican lawmakers are going to
diminish their support for him all right
but we're we just have a couple of
minutes left but I want to bring this
this theory you have up because I think
it's really interesting there was
polling that has recently been basically
digested from the midterms that has an
interesting lesson about who is
supporting Donald Trump but it is and
and you developed a theory about it that
has to deal with Mike Pence tell us what
the polling was and what the theory is
and people can go and read it but but I
want to just get it out there so that
people you know go and check out what
you've written well I mean I think first
of all you know remember the other day
when Chuck and Nancy oval office meeting
Mike Pence that they're you know like
frozen like a like a wax Robin you know
I mean it was it was kind of hilarious
but I actually think that that it was
sort of symbolic of maybe something
that's going on with pent according to
Gabriel Sherman
over over at Vanity Fair the president
was the president's political advisors
looking at 2020 came to him recently and
showed him polling which showed that
pence wasn't really bringing anything to
the table that as far as they could tell
he wasn't an advantage to Trump and I
think that they had always assumed that
he would be won because of his
evangelical background that he could
soothe the maybe the ruffled feathers of
the of the Republican base who might be
upset at Donald Trump's libertine ways
well as we know they don't care in fact
they actually seem to like him for it so
you know that has not been a problem in
pence doesn't really bring anything to
the table so there has been discussion
of perhaps replacing him with nikki
Haley and there's a reason for that and
the reason is is that while pence
doesn't bring anything to the table
because the evangelicals are solid the
exit polls from 2018 show the
the white working-class particularly
white working-class women but some white
working-class men as well the non
evangelicals among them are falling away
from Donald Trump what that means is is
that the only people that are that are
his base now his solid base are white
working-class well and some
college-educated evangelicals too in
other words the evangelicals are his
base that's it and and you know I don't
mean to underestimate that there are a
lot of them in this country and and you
know some of them are a good 50 percent
from what we can understand aren't
really religious they just sort of
identify as evangelicals so there are
millions of them particularly centered
in the south but what that means is is
that you know white working-class women
in particular who are not evangelicals
are falling away they're moving to they
voted Democratic in 2018 in in much
larger numbers than anybody expected so
that's an opening for the Democrats but
it also means that Mike Pence has got a
problem and I would not be surprised to
see him go and that may sort of explain
all this stuff that happened with Nick
Ayers which seemed really weird nobody
understood why he only wanted a
temporary assignment and why he didn't
you know he ended up turning down the
job and embarrassing the president and
all of that there may be within the you
know within the the White House within
the Trump orbit there some issue with
pence and you know and we don't even
know maybe you know what he we're
looking into the inaugural now in shrimp
was and pence was in charge of the of
the transition so who knows where all
that's going to so anyway I just wanted
to throw that out there because I think
I think that may be an issue and and you
know there may be something happening
under there that isn't you know it
exactly obvious and in fact it ends up
being sort of good news for the
Democrats because white working-class
women are a constituency that the
Democrats have a message for should push
it very hard and you know the non
evangelicals the people who don't those
women who don't vote on the issue of
abortion or gay rights that are actually
economic
you know voters they're the Democrats
have something to say to them so they I
hope they're looking at that I'm sure
they are have their pardon Digby
you I'm not sure if you're aware of this
but you are having your holiday
fundraiser at Big B's blog dot blog
spot.com at hullabaloo I cannot
encourage people more to head over to
your site and donate you have been a
really important voice for 15 years I
don't know how long you've been had your
blog and I I'm so happy that you're
there and appreciate you coming on to
this show so folks can head over there
we'll put a link obviously in in all of
our descriptions you just google
hullabaloo or Digby's blog and you will
find your way over there and Heather
thanks so much have a great holiday
season and Happy New Year I don't think
we'll talk to you until January oh I'm
sure thanks so much Sam and thank you
for for having me on the show and for
having majority report right back at you
we've been at this a long time I know
you know it doesn't get any better does
it well Hope Springs at Rainier hope
spreads absolutely hey Bob we're still
here anyway happy holidays everybody
bye-bye happy holidays of course of
course you can't bring yourself to say
Christmas all right folks
gonna take a quick break when we come
back Andy Kindler
you
ladies and gentlemen as you know today
is Friday and on Fridays one of the
traditions that we have that usually
falls this time of the year somewhere
very close to the equinox is to have as
someone who is an esteemed expert on
Dennis Miller on to make fun of him and
but before of course we do that it is
tradition to play this with a Jew you
know you can't go home his ancestors
god Bless America
[Music]
[Music]
Andy Kindler Andy let me just say this
in the hopes of starting a trend
reignite a trend what
what do you think
I think I'm not good I think we're
totally ready to bring it back oh man
that's not we're ready to bring it back
not all night wing knots awesome swing
it weed me wait we get another knot God
do it not gonna do knocking apart in
that kid that I set up in the cat crack
deal and we're doing them we're doing
Dana Carvey though we're doing catch who
we love I know you I was loves you took
it I'm sorry we got to do more
catchphrase old phrases not really old I
think where's the bass where's the big
remember when he's egg Dukakis nail the
other person I remember which one who
did what does it was Gary Hart said that
to Mondale Mondale said that to Gary
Hart where's the beef
yep based upon that Wendy's ad that's
right
Wood I can't yeah 20 yeah like yeah
could have had a v-8 ginger ginger or
Mary Ann was my favorite that commercial
I'm sorry I apologize for me me too
see the pivots of George HW Bush without
that making fun of Dennis Miller and
thanks for joining right yes I do
remember though like back in the early
aughts we did excuse me in the early 90s
on cross comedy cross we were trying to
we were trying to get that we couldn't
nothing would trend at that point
because and it was much harder to do but
the we were I think the they were trying
to get a push a cash phrase the dishes
are done that was the same time here
where I was going with same old same old
yeah well that's I mean that was good
let me keep on truck and had some
durability anybody else to go you did
not ever say that one all the young
people are looking very confused right
now
well let me tell you guys
we didn't have memes when we were your
age we didn't have them we had to do
them audio now it could only be Wario
and you it was an oral tradition of
memes half my act was about was jokes
about vinyl records when that what's up
with these edison spools Andy let's
start with this before we get on to the
real festivities what are you doing
awake at 4:00 in the morning 5:00 in the
morning what was I doing last night
yeah I'm looking at my Twitter feed and
you were you were tweeting out it like
5:00 a.m. did that he drew my absolute
looking for a backhanded way to slam
gervase okay I don't want to engage him
anymore so you looking or I was putting
while I was googling Dave Rubin
but I'd love to hate that Dave Rubin if
you stay up do you stay up super super
late just so that you can like give
grief to Ricky Gervais cuz he's on like
a London time is that what what's going
on they're like you stay up you know
like that to the wee hours of the
morning so that you get him right around
lunch in in London
good morning Mikey I blocked him I
blocked him a long time ago not that I
don't still go and see what he's saying
but I so I stopped engaging with him
about a year and a half ago and now I
just look and see how if he's improved
his stupidity oh my god he knew heard me
we did he just put how when did he do
this oh my god with that he did this
like within a day or two ago he posted a
picture of himself laughing and he says
this is me laughing at that thing you
think no one should ever laugh about my
legacy is him rather in the office every
heading into the IDW right like I'm I
know I'm laughing
the same of the IDW I knew yeah well if
you scroll one day of it even like six
or seven tweets there's all these tweets
from other accounts that praise him like
he's a rich way tomorrow what's this I
love the Ricky Gervais is more than life
itself what are they saying today and
then constantly thank you the biggest
selling this I got paid that I'm the
best literally every day if someone
makes for me goes that's okay I have
imagine I'm rich I'm wealthy
Netflix forty million dollars so it's
hard to stay away yeah I understand
there must be very compelling but Andy
what is there anything new that we
should discuss before we get into the
main event yes it is something very
important that I never I'm starting now
to go heavy and heavy rotation of
promoting my own podcast which is called
thought spiral with J Elvis Weinstein
and it's mayhem to Jews to mics two
hours and it's ripping up it's a is it
it's right next it's just below bagman
on the top that is the Rachel Maddow now
is yours historically based or is it
really just like the his mom it
basically is whatever happened in the
last two half-hour or two days I would
love to hear it so meadow and these
pockets no guess still am I asking that
Amaya did I just say the did I ask the
question was a was with was that a
question
oh all right no no more no Ellis NBC
making fun of we don't want to bite the
hand that is currently feeding one of us
I believe me I'm not getting fed that
much if that's what you got he's not
getting fed enough don't agree Matthew
Limon believe me
I noticed that your your suit we haven't
when you were in the other night you
suit was like I'm getting tired of
having this dry plank was actually the
my the not so good sport coat you look
good you look like you actually grew up
you're an adult I never I'm outside the
window looking in
trying to mainstream myself this is
Rachel Maddow
god I hate Ricky Gervais he's obnoxious
and he's always tweeting about stand-up
he's not even a real stand-up is he Andy
no no he is not he but much like Hitler
like to show large commits large rallies
do you think it's hilarious to show him
in a room of 50,000 people much like
Hitler much like Hitler bragged about
numbers I blocked Ricky Gervais so I'd
stop thinking about him but then I
started following him on an incognito
account right exactly
yes I can't I can't bring myself to
block him on my fourth sock puppet
account that was set up to follow him
all right so Andy I got good news
dennis is back he back and back with a
vengeance Andy we have talked in the
past a couple of weeks ago maybe it was
a month ago maybe it was two months ago
I can't I can't keep track of time times
dilating
we talked one oh thank you we talked
about Dennis Miller announcing that he
wanted to get less political and we are
seeing we are now all blessed with the
fruits of that endeavor he has gone on
to Jimmy Fallon
now listen I want you to just be calm
okay
because these two together in the same
sort of like clip could be too much for
you I don't want you to I don't want I
don't want to be responsible for
anything horrible that happens it's
always he's it's gonna be when he goes
on our shows now it's always gonna be
casual Friday it's always gay and well
here's the thing the first joke he tells
is actually sort of funny and he clearly
whoever you know somebody wrote that
joke for him and he said and that was
basically when he's like I just need
that one and then I'll wing it myself
here is with Jimmy Fallon how many
specials have you done Stannis
I've done nine now and nine specials
well I can we just give me can we just
nine
so I Hitler how many years you've been
in power for oh my gosh that's one
bigger than age and Jimmy Fallon you can
tell is in a hyper obsequious mode yeah
what's that about why do you think that
is he's trying to laugh he because he
knows he has know he's probably afraid -
doesn't get political he's he hasn't
know what Dennis Miller is saying he's
just like big fan big it looked like he
was disconnected and just told himself
I'm gonna laughs big fan please don't
make fun of migrants getting kills in
the border that will make the right well
I listen you've got the nightly gig so
you've got to work hard but I've been
branching out trying to do other things
I'm working on writing some some
different kind of things like for
instance tonight on the Hallmark Channel
I have a Christmas thing that I've
written I didn't know that yeah it's
about very touching Hallmark Channel
Christmas special about a blind teenager
who whose self pleasures while looking
directly in an eclipse and miraculously
regains a sight it's called a for Joey
that was the pea back that was the peak
let me tell you something that's not a
bad joke about and jerking off into an
eclipse do you really need any more
content what's the joke I think there's
some Christmas special with Joey right
there no no a little something-something
for Joey I'm Rachel Maddow I'm writing a
Hallmark it's a yellow Christmas a teen
who jerks off until he regains his sight
I was expecting an actual joke when you
guys said he started off well die
there's no joke there the beginning Sam
did a little mislead there you go all
right but it gets better
that's amazing
working on a reality show about hoarders
with what's really impeccable taste are
you going back on tour in February I'm
gonna go out with Mark Steyn he's a
political commentator but also funny cat
we were sitting at dinner one night he
was making me laugh so hard I said we
should go out together so late February
and early March we're gonna go out and
try a few days all right can we just
pause it here first of all this is you
know he's being jovial about it but this
is so sad he's thrown over Bill O'Reilly
for Mark Steyn who went to mark Stein I
would love anyone okay what I'm so glad
you said any people in media
he is a I think a British guy lives in
Canada but he is Canadian he's literally
it's like Madonna like he studied there
and got okay you got it he's got a weird
accent and but the interesting thing
about this guy is you have no idea who
he is he fills in for Limbaugh
occasionally he recently through
arbitration through a mediated
settlement with Mark Levine's station
got four million dollars because his
show never got off the ground after a
month or two they had to pay him out
four million dollars now it was an
arbitration and that means that he had
some type of pay or play type a deal for
four million dollars and unless like
unless that contract was for 75 years
there's no way that guy was gonna
generate four million dollars so just an
example of like of just right-wing money
going dumped in there but do we have is
this okay yeah here we have some footage
of Mark Steyn he did a music video
called
tat it was about a cat I am not kidding
here it is the visuals horrified I
thought I saw a pussycat a creeping up
on me
[Music]
should be just this video should just be
like an Interpol I thought I thought I
saw a pussycat I thought I saw her first
and I thought I saw a pussycat of
creeping up on me I did I saw a pussycat
as plain as he could be
that pussycat is very bad sneaks up from
behind okay you're a lightweight my god
I didn't know it's gonna be good I love
you show me show me something where he's
not hilarious and singing well you know
I'll tell you something I know we played
that like like a couple of years ago
right or did we
and was it months ago times dial is but
I gotta say like it's gotten crazier
since then it is not aged well I think
things might have been just like we were
so shocked by Trump that we watched that
thing and it was all right here's um
here he is it was always there
well that is here he is he's got another
one and it also has to do with another
cat he's got some type of cat obsession
this is Mark Steyn she only talks that
way to the cat his son
I was snoozin on the soap for when she
came in from work she started baby
talking and she sure didn't shirt has
mamas Pooky Wooky house a big sweetie
pie
I kinda smiled and I opened one
yeah shut up break into Columbus stop
with the baby cottage I was just about
to answer when I heard us say you so fat
and lazy but you sweet as can be
that's when I knew she was and looked
and at me
okay we get it studies I don't know mark
Stein is literally cooked by a cat but
this guy must have had money beforehand
right he's producing nice videos like
what did I understand it is he William F
Buckley son no that's it no I can't even
believe it what category what category
would you put this entertainment in I
well the first one is creepy because
it's a kid's song but it's it's done in
a creepy way so is it meant for kids or
whose event for I feel like thought I
saw up UGK I feel like it's meant for
Mark Steyn and then everyone else who
wants to look at it and go what the hell
is that
it's my art and the second one is it
supposed to be self-deprecating because
he should thank the woman for clearly
working a job that allows him to nap on
the couch all day under a bunch of
newspapers yeah she cares about the cat
well it pays off doesn't it so anyways
anyways did we cut before the punchline
well the ìiî
we wanted to just give you a sense of
why he's going on the road with as you
can see this guy's a funny cat this
guy's funny just like you said a
political commentator but also very
funny doesn't Bill O'Reilly of a right
to be absolutely pissed if I'm big you
got ditched for that guy that's the most
insulting thing imaginable and it solo
Reilly may be a lecherous almost certain
you know rampant drunk but he is a
broadcast out do you think he's sitting
in his in Bill O'Reilly sitting in his
office right now just the guy I've been
stabbed in the back what is it what is
not a German think is your fault Irving
the cat is it he left me how much John
guy likes though he's saying someone get
me Greg Gutfeld on the phone I got a
replay yeah alright so here's here's
Miller we just took a little diversion
there political commentator we're also
funny cat we were sitting at dinner one
night he was making me laugh so hard I
said we should go out together so late
February and
early March we're gonna go out and try a
few dates in the Northeast Corridor I
think it's like Rochester New York and
Syracuse and I just find out I'm looking
at the Syracuse ticket dates and it's
not sewing that well but the other three
are doing why I look at Syracuse we're
in the small town of Syracuse and the
same night they've booked us in there
Syracuse is college basketball teams
playing Duke booty the day they sign the
armistice there so you know it's just
like that it's the silliest Syracuse
tape the game yeah no one telling no
spoilers and go see Dennis Miller yeah
wait a sec I signed up for alerts and
this one just came in it's be good I get
notification on what's gonna happen that
day for the Priyanka Chopra and Nick
Jonas writing and then tomorrow Jim
we're playing footage against Hogwarts
and it says here that it's not more
footage its actual airborne because Nick
got a trade I wouldn't let Jess
[Applause]
Fallon looked like he wasn't even Fowler
camel the old I'm getting alerts on my
phone I phone about Quidditch joke
there's a hundred and forty four
thousand people in Syracuse is is that
what he's claiming he can't draw more
than him in a basketball game I wonder
how big of a room well he's actually he
booked out a twenty five thousand person
stayed within this century if you could
look at the faces on everyone in this
studio like Matt and Jamie in particular
just looks so confused like how is this
like actual entertainment and like what
how did any of these people should end
up politics anymore I'm doing really the
cool cat who does really bizarre cat
videos and for some reason people prefer
to see the Duke game it's a cautionary
tale for all of us isn't it oh you could
happen to any of
now we also have don't we have another
clip of Dennis Miller in a different
show are we done with that one that one
wait I had some what did you do where he
goes the rocket raccoon is this plastic
oh is that coming up next
now it's really not a macaque that
Chopra was I was that guy
who what are you talking about this is a
simply react that jump our neck counted
yeah must be somebody marrying one of
the Jonas Brothers
oh yes how many summer that gift give me
some names of new people he has a
popular culture alert on Google yeah
give me some names and new people Oh
if you don't show any more from this
they do show a chunk for Dennis Miller
where he doesn't you know coming up next
year they're gonna have a cat the Apple
cufflinks and then they're gonna have
the Apple catheter all right we have
more Fallon we have more from found I
realize that went on for longer than
that okay here we go
still going on oh yeah I'm happy to have
you here in the building in New York do
you love don't you love the city during
the holidays New York beautiful
beautiful I'm glad it's not snowing yeah
de Blasio not good with snow obviously I
mean I was like the Donner Party when it
snows you know a campout at the bottom
of the mountain in each or can I just
say huh at the beginning you that
premise I don't get the joke bill de
blasio on the first snow I think of the
of his mayor mayor allottee the because
of I can't remember if it was a function
of like a lot of the snowplow stuff had
been privatized at that point and what
happens is they're not exclusive to the
city and unless they get an order early
they don't they go off and take other
gigs and so there was some talk that
supposedly he didn't do the Upper East
Side I think romilda Blasio's would he
privatize the snow plow no no okay the
joke doesn't make sense logically I
talked to Walter years old
winter right it's not two years rated no
this is like five years all its 2013
yeah that's 2000 real which again I
think by Dennis Miller standards is
highly I brought this into uh this is
out of the aughts I think I'm doing
pretty good
he's evergreen yeah I'm backup I'm
refreshed and ready to go I have
references to 2010 I got I got choked so
inside about Bill DeBlasio New Yorkers
don't get it
he saw that is like a tip of the hat to
the old political comedian that he was
yeah that's what I used to do stuff like
de Blasio snow jokes and now let me
segue into my new family-friendly I
would want a bat hold on but I do like
go up to Jimmy Fallon right then and
just walk across the stage and go I will
give you $500,000 if you could tell me
what he's what that reference was and he
would even though he laughed as hard as
he did like he wouldn't be able to for a
moment even know what that was about
they made a weird choice this year
they've gone with Bernie Sanders as
Santa Claus
all the children line up they get up
there hey hop up on his lap and then he
tells each kid what he would like from
them can we take that's amazing as a
drop please again because socialism the
flight was lovely but the plane made the
ultimate mistake it arrived early at the
gate you know it were harder to get in
to your Airport when you arrived earlier
at the gate than a visit to get into the
country they take us all the way back
out to the end of the runway they turn
off all the lights you got to sit there
you can't move I've got a weak bladder
I've got to go to the bathroom
so I'm waiting you know guy goes in from
row 1 and I'm thinking I've got to get
in there when I'm in row 4 so I've got a
look for a diversion he comes out I use
that
the no flight attendant attention away I
go up boom I'm in like a shot I pulled
the door great but then I realized that
he has had what I can only assume is a
like a silhouette altering bowel
movement and now the most disgusting
joke I've ever heard in my life
and then Jimmy's trying to justify it
because he said silhouette I attend that
I literally can't believe he's doing and
arrived at the gate early into a
bathroom junk humor is funnier than
anything he's joked about so far shadow
changed within for half an hour we start
moving back to the terminal I come out
because you returned to your scene I
gotta make that face like you know for
all the people in the waffle zone don't
look at me I like having you in the
building I feel like this is like well
have you been and back to then back in a
long time Jimmy you know we used to work
for Saturday Night Live on 8:00 right
and Letterman was here yeah it was here
are you remember yeah and you know when
I first saw you on Saturday Night Live I
thought well this is the guy who should
do it I mean you were absolutely great
at it and I remember at some point I was
honored I think you did an impression to
me at some point yeah I did absolutely
oh do we have a photo after they have it
but I organic but I tried to do an
impression of you
uh yeah but I was I was a fan this was
more yeah I was honoring bad we have to
tell him I was a fan I was on SNL in the
Gandhis last several years I've been on
YouTube channels complaining about Nancy
Pelosi being a yeah so thank you
how about Bill DeBlasio how about Bill
DeBlasio in that snowstorm right 2013 am
i right
remember we're still in the top of
everyone's minds I haven't seen a
misstep like that says Muriel polka
Chino made it on fact comic-con Lindsey
Mac said a beam came down from the back
love like you know he could have I mean
he wouldn't cuz he's so far right but I
mean he could have taken some type of he
could have taken an Amazon shot at de
Blasio its current everybody would have
liked it no taking a current shot great
this is the greatest thing I ever saw I
saw it last night in chunks oh no great
I've never seen a get out of me if you
try oh yeah
catch you that'll Rock Padgett raccoon
from guardians of the galaxy Wow yeah
yeah in New York I don't understand what
just happened okay I'm supposed to know
who Rocket Raccoon is well I thought you
would though I thought that was a
current reference they know I know who
it is it was a it was a movie it's
actually we're in I think the third
iteration of that movie and kids know it
and he was going to do an impression and
then said now I'm joking yes but he was
saying that's the f4
that is the ultimate and they say I'm a
comedians Covidien this guy's really
tearing it apart
tear it apart watch the cut here bye-bye
the crew yeah I'm just not gonna fly in
from California in New York
[Laughter]
it wasn't funny so they cut this this
was they cut this out now as you know
Andy this show is not live they air it
they shoot it around five or six and
then they air it later that night they
cut after Fallon says it's so you and
then they cut to Dennis Miller just
going like what I want you I always
think you seem to inhabit when you were
on Saturday Night Live doing the news
and I thought this kids was it a dream
of yours or what yeah yeah I could I've
watched every siren live I was
religiously that's the only thing I ever
wanted to do I just loved it so much I
remember when it happened for me I was
writing jokes in Pittsburgh I was
working at a comedy club and a kid came
into town I won't say his name but he
brought some jokes off me and then I
went back to my apartment I'm living in
this crap 60 buck a month apartment with
a hot plate you know I'm eating ramen
off a double album cover and I'm sitting
there watching this guy on The Tonight
Show with Johnny and he tells a joke
that I've written and Johnny Carson like
falls out and I'm sitting there leading
the crappiest life imaginable I don't
know about you at that point I thought I
have to become the conduit for these
jokes even though I was reticent upfront
you know it's kind of shy about doing it
but it's sort of like living in East
Berlin and you're walking on your side
of the wall and they're shooting
snitches and on the other side of the
wall you know they're playing
racquetball everybody's getting laid you
think
positive one second now just if you
don't know the wall came down
25 years ago not to be pedantic about it
but people definitely got laid more on
the east side of the wall
they've done studies is that right yeah
interests women had more work oh you
know that I think maybe what maybe it's
not so bleak in North Korea we should
say we have an update the little
something-something for Joey something
for Joey
it was a made-for-tv movie about John
cappelletti a Penn State football player
who gave his Heisman award to his
brother Joey who was dying of leukemia
that was from see John first and on
Twitter we should also tell you that
movie was made in 1975 oh I'd show Jimmy
Fallon is fake remembering the reference
I'm sure Jimmy Fallon remembers a movie
from when he was one amazing TV movie
show and when he was one for Dennis
comes on like all right Jimmy like here
the references they range oh sure I'm
sure James lobbied in 1977 yeah
1975 reference that was 40 years ago I
love the look on Jimmy Fallon's face
when he eats the almost game going what
am i what am i trying one of my fake
laughing at now I don't even I need more
focus from my fake laugh I know it's not
it's not funny but there's got to be a
way in from why I'm cackling exactly
waiter I gonna wrap this round Oh some
some for Joey it's so you it's no you
yeah that was I enjoyed that moment when
Dennis I was like really okay
mental note got to go that direction
with more got to do that more like bass
or sad and man more pretending I'm gonna
do an impression that's the new thing
I'm gonna pretend that I'm gonna do an
impression
he's so delightful now that's the thing
now Maddie's got away from the politic
you just see the pure joy that Dennis
has of life and he just wants to
communicate it it really comes across he
was laughing with Mark Steyn at dinner
and happened you not and he said let's
go out together where we going Rochester
Ithaca Utica and Almira just dropped out
cha-cha imagine them sitting at the
table together maybe singing back and
forth like a duet to I thought I Tom
this is incredible the cat material we
got a book of room in Kingston ASAP this
is gonna light up an audience at Central
Islip I just got a booking we're gonna
have to shoot down to Pennsylvania but
on i-80 in between Pittsburgh and Philly
when I got a truck stop it's huge no
sporting events for miles
hey this is the only time I eat I've
laughed while I've eaten since 1993
let's go out though to be fair I mean
just think of the poor Syracuse
undergrads that are like I can't miss
Syracuse and Duke that's gonna be an
incredible game but these guys are only
coming twice this year to Sarah and
Dennis Miller is the Zion Williamson of
Comedy but I want to just like break
this down for a moment
what a break way yeah I admit them I
reached the reference Zion what now is a
really good Duke player okay I'm chasing
the head of comedy three her Enrico or
month ago there's a story in The Wall
Street Journal he wants to get away from
politics out of politics and into the
arm out of our spy in into East going on
tour with Mark Steyn like you gotta ask
yourself like does it guy not know
anybody like his no one else eating
lunch with him Betty can clearly oh yeah
I mean look at this this this whole
interview you can't even get Greg
Gutfeld go on there's always pathos with
Miller because this whole interview as
big as much of a just massive is
I go through this interview and I'm like
this is so sad this clear type of favor
called in he gets an opportunity to be
back in the big leagues but he's go to
switch to baseball analogies his
throwing arm is just off right it isn't
happening
falen clearly I can tell through his
nice guy stick he resents having to
struggle this much to pretend it's funny
and and it's just so much pathos man I
mean and it's like yeah I want to get
out of this politics let me call my good
show business buddies up and you end up
with a favor delivered by Fallon and its
 with Mark Steyn which is a
downgrade from Newsmax Bill O'Reilly I
think that somebody probably went to
found and said look Jimmy someday could
be you probably will you give now to get
back from the Jimmy of using anything
Fallon I don't think it'll be politics
though just be sort of like a general
but it'd be really funny if Fallon all
of a sudden just becomes incredibly
hostile I could say yeah yeah yeah
you like washes and Trump's hair and
where did you start mussing mussing
everybody's hair up very aggressively
yes and angrily first arts career holds
it out
Andy yeah I cannot tell you how happy I
am that you have joined us repeatedly in
the year 2018 I think you have made it a
much easier year to get through I don't
know why I want to put it in that way
that we all have to get through a year
well everyone I have to say everywhere I
go and I'm not I'm not just blowing
smoke up my own Sh'ma doopy but
everywhere I go people tell me they love
they love silhouette has changed I was
in the watch I can loose
so large sub-matrix 3 came out well I
haven't seen it's it's great to have you
now just we should give you tour dates
Utica if the carbine you yeah mm-hmm
Sarah can I learn about the Syracuse
Duke game I will be in Binghamton but
not when the Binghamton Colonials are
playing the Hofstra and nums rocks
I should be able to draw you know you
don't want to be up there well I own a
Gaelic sore up there playing Andy I love
you guys so much I really appreciate you
having me on this year and it's really
been great I mean yes I have to get up
way earlier than I normally would West
Coast time 9:30 sometimes I have to give
up no I know if I really loved it I love
it
well we love you thank you so much Andy
have a great new year talk to you soon
okay all right folks
that is the second-to-last free Friday
show of the year life running a hallmark
series I'll I'm liking this Rachel
Maddow Dennis Miller 30% off just coffee
ends on Tuesday so head there you don't
even need to coupon just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate this
is the time to practic offi folks this
is the time to try it out also support
this program by becoming a member join
the majority of poor calm today is
Friday gosh now I remember Michael you
were sick on Tuesday but you made it in
T MBS how did that go tan relaxed and
rested it was so weird how healthy you
were ya know feel pretty good that's how
a Busey
hair blown dry yeah everything was great
I got it it was a spa day Matt Taibbi
came in we talked about Facebook
the Assange case why if he's true
charged you need to care even if you
don't like the guy now wait a second
yeah I did not catch that segment
what if he's charged for something has
nothing to do with his work before that
has exclusively to do with stuff that
took place since let's say 2016 um what
what stuff oh well look if he's if he's
charged with I mean specifically we were
saying if they choose to charge enticing
leakers it for enticing leakers that's
this that was the specifics of the
conversation oh yeah charged with
anything I've ever written
my sense is what was released in that
and that accidental filing a couple of
weeks ago if that Israel that's very
disturbing well what was released in
that accidental firing his name was just
in there I thought it's Morrissey jurel
well I mean people like Greenwald and
Taibbi you follow this closely are very
concerned about the enticer I'd saw
exchange with would tie bean Marcy
wheeler about that and I have a feeling
that Marcy wheeler knows something about
this dynamic that maybe some of us don't
we shall see we shall see we talked
about that we're good and actually in
fact I think but I get I agree with the
premise yeah I mean earlier stuff
applies beyond the sonj
and we also talked about the definitely
applies to being on Assange and we
talked about the Trump and Obama
administration's wars on journalism the
problem with how Facebook a Facebook's
because there isn't regulation the
models that they're doing to clamp down
on fake news is gonna basically
undermine dissenting voices a bunch of
other stuff then on some deep dive
coverage on McCrone this Sunday for
patrons an illicit history of bata
O'Rourke with Liz breunig and get the
whole thing patreon.com slash T MBS and
Michael Brooke show on YouTube and
iTunes Jamie yeah so this week on the
anti fada we talked with Justin Akers
Chacon about how the criminalization of
migration has only ever served to hurt
the workers and help the bosses which
ties in with a lot of what you and Digby
were talking
earlier and we we also talked a little
bit about the yellow vest movement in
France and how McCrone is just a
psychotic neoliberal shitbird
tomorrow I don't know literary hangover
did democracy in Chains
tonight we're recording on Anne
Bradstreet the first poet of America
really well maybe not the first poet .
but definitely the first female poet and
probably the first notable one so yeah
and also if you watch it on YouTube
those are coming up to it just a little
bit of a leg for computing power but
check it out YouTube literary hangover
there you go wait leg for what YouTube
for literary hangover what did you say
before that computering power leg Oh a
lag yeah there's a leg and not a leg a
lag leg
I never heard your iPad before really I
never heard his accent before I serious
yeah most people find it very charming
I'd never think they are paying to hear
him read them books in that accent I've
never heard it before
wow I had no idea what you're talking
about leg all right see the fun half
you
you
[Music]
conflated ladies and gentlemen it is the
fun half wherein we have fun that's what
we do on the fun half that's in fact oh
oh I forgot to turn the voicemail off
wait we want it on I thought we wanted
it on yeah we want it on right except
for during now when we take some Goods
Don will folks at number six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty let's
this is unbelie-- do you know that guy
Jonathan Solomon did anybody know this
guy's name he was oh he used to work for
the AP years ago a lot of people know
that guy's name and face when I saw this
I realized I've been doing this job for
about three years and I don't know if
I've seen his name or face doesn't tell
you okay Jonathan Thomas John Solomon he
was I mean he was never a big name
because he was just a reporter AP but
his reports were always very very
slanted and then I think he went to work
for the AEI I think I'm not a hundred
percent sure about that but now
apparently works for the hill and listen
to this let's do the test I can't tell
if he's in the New York office or the
Washington office I wonder where he's
he's based out of but here is a John
Solomon and everybody's getting into the
act folks over at Fox in terms of what's
let's listen to this report you tell me
if you believe this as I came here
tonight I'll tell you these guys they're
all I guess they're laughing about the
the rush of stuff there is in the
right-wing world the the news that's
about to break about the investigations
is of course about
the Clinton Foundation and the enormous
scandal that's about to explode but here
is on Sean Hannity here's John Solomon
talking about I'll tell you what's not
funny on the way here tonight a woman
stopped me on the street angry and
screaming at me and tossed her tacos on
me I did come in smelling like taco dip
tonight I apologize but this sort of
vitriol and silliness that goes on we
ought to just stay focused on the facts
and what happens every day in our lives
there's so somebody's walking around the
streets of new of Washington or New York
with a taco eating a taco the
temperature last night or two days ago
was I think well 30s they were putting
uh you know in New York maybe he's in
Washington DC and it's warmer and boy
she must have had some pretty bad aim
with that taco sauce that she had
because he doesn't look like he has any
taco I saw you on a c-span Journal at
3:00 a.m. in 2002 and you are very bad
costly for reporting biased news I'm
gonna throw this dusty you know at you I
have been I have been aware of this guy
for over a decade and I have know if he
was sitting right where you are Michael
I wouldn't know who he was I saw Brian
lamb in 2007 you were always distorted
the Bush administration's record on the
invasion of Iraq I'm gonna throw a taco
at you before you go on with Hannity I
know your schedule the idea that there
is any individual in the entire country
who John Solomon doesn't know right like
is he could be there could be people who
know his work well enough that are like
you're a horrible human being I'm gonna
throw a taco at you and in Jon's like
hey Bill come on we used to be
colleagues but the idea that there's
anybody in anybody in the country who
knows who this guy is to have enough
anger to take their food that they're
eating in the middle of the day on the
street the taco they're eating in the
street one of those classic street foods
and throw it at him is just beyond
believe I reminisce about rush limbaugh
or even the new guys like a Dave Rubin
or Jordan Pederson but if you really
follow the news it's John Solomon and
you know normally I believe in the Rules
of Civility
but if it's jus I'm throwing a taco at
you John Solomon because you are the
most important right-wing propaganda and
the United States they mobilize and like
breaking his door like John Solomon kid
oh yeah why everybody's protesting a
total waste of time
why is everybody protesting at Tucker
Carlson's house when John Solomon is
still running around without any public
accountability I mean this guy's really
important
I saw him during a calling segment in
Washington journal at 3:45 a.m. in 1999
and it was just the atrocious the way he
talked about the contract of the America
let's throw a taco at him it doesn't
look like he was at AEI but this is a no
I never heard this circa news anybody
now after leaving the Washington time
Solomon became chief creative officer
for circa news circa as a mobile news
application filing 2011 that streams
updates on big news events to users in
June 2015 it shut down but its relaunch
was announced after its acquisition by
Sinclair broadcasting as yeah as chief
of circa he wrote and published a number
of political art that's when people
really got mad at him when you made the
Sinclair watch Sinclair and you became a
household face a name that was when who
really changed let's go to the phone
does actually have an air about him of
somebody who should have a taco thrown
it there's no doubt no I don't know
don't misjudge me if anybody was to get
a taco thrown at him I would put him on
the list but it wasn't for his
professional no it's just because he
looks like an Interpol looks like a
target for Tom yeah he just looks like I
have a feels like an Interpol notice for
doing bad more lightly like country
what's the German word for a face in
need of a taco
exactly I have a feeling this guy
probably parked in like a handicap zone
and walked out and somebody's like hey
dude you're not supposed to parked and
he goes the right wing is like the left
is so angry that this woman who's
gradually
was pissed I part to do space they're so
filled with anger let's focus on facts
enough time to throw it okay call it
from a 509 area code who's this where
you come from you guys act like you need
a reason to throw a taco at someone the
pole position today good for you just
the way of life good to you Freddy
try driving down North first in Yakima
you're gonna get attack of thrown a it's
just how we roll
damn this is Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan
yes I know
post Mormonism hold on you've lost your
auto that start against are you okay
in post Mormonism there's an idea of a
shelf where you put your doubts and your
concerns over the years you know things
that bother you I think they don't make
sense and you're told to just live put
them over there and ex-mormon describe
the thing that caused their shelf to
fall down and to break into you know
sort of explode their worldview and my
majority report shall fell and broke
after your debate with this Adam guy on
Wednesday really that was that was so
I've just been accumulating these doubts
over the years you know what their
blocks makes some good pulling
knocking Greg and you go no it's okay
Sam knows what he's talking about you
know just we'll deal with that in the
afterlife when when things become more
clear and you know Adam really I just
you know I I don't know that I can see
the world the same way and I wanted to
describe to you a little bit about my
new philosophy in life okay yeah all
right why don't the first of
oh yeah so first of all freedom is like
that's the bedrock and by freedom I mean
I get to do everything I want whenever I
want without any impediment whatsoever
that's freedom okay so that's the
number one
that's that informs everything else
flows from that number to violence is
bad and by violence I mean anything I
don't like and that can include things
like murder and rape but also like
blockbuster late fees or traffic on my
way to work it's all just violence and
it's bad right and so basically all the
laws in like political philosophy over
thousands of years that have been
developed to help us live peacefully and
despite our differences all that goes
out the window and now I think our our
whole society should be structured and
that around me getting everything I want
without even like minor and convenience
so like when I want something I need it
right now no matter what and don't get
my way because that's that's a violence
against me and the cool thing is like
the main thing is that I get it right
for me right like also everyone else
everyone else could just live that way
awesome right okay so everybody everyone
else gets freedom the main thing is that
I get freedom
well for me when you get freedom we all
get freedom is that what you're saying
yeah mm-hmm let me ask you this what's
going on
that you still taking videos out of
Blockbuster just an example Sam oh okay
all right I'm sorry I just wanted to
check on that one
at what moment during the debate did his
worldview I'll tell you I'll tell you
this the exact moment when myself
collapsed for the ground I'd you
spilling years of doubts all over the
floor when he was like hey an oil
company wants to drill my land I'll go
talk to the CEO and be like hey man
what's up with that let's work this out
and I was like that made me feel good
that was like yeah totally and then you
were like Exxon CEOs who did it and he
was like Sam not everyone's a dick like
oh yeah it's so true like the problem
with our current society is people don't
just sit down to be like hey you know
let's let's like just work this out you
know and if people anyways like the main
thing is like I just get to have my land
right right
but yeah so all right well but you you
and you insist you insisting that Exxon
and all these companies are dicks I was
like no that doesn't feel good just like
climate change doesn't feel good
what's not believing in it there you go
all right well Ron Reagan I guess it was
it was great while it lasted
and I guess if we tune into like Prager
or something like that we can hear you
on there yeah I'm putting some feelers
out so if you know if you have any leads
if you need a recipe prison block you
ready it's pretty good for some
libertarian call-in shows I'm happy to
provide okay I can't wait for your well
what you knew what's gonna be your new
way that you're new
num to call like Nancy Pelosi
well good one Chuck Luthor I actually
like that
I think chuckling others should just be
it
schmuck charm schmuck loser all right
well you think about it alright thanks
for Reagan there you go
I told you yeah no I mean I had to say I
got me on the old excellent thing call
from a two one five area code who's this
hey Sam it's Cindy Hendy how are you
Mindy hi I'm good
listen a few things yeah
can you help us possibly break down the
fact that Trump freakin guilty of all
kinds of horrible and he's still
allowed to be President and I know we
still allow to be President but can we
like do we have to respect him I mean
not that we ever respected him but do we
have to do we have to like even
acknowledge he's the president now to
not have been like like hell I'm gonna
take that we have to see all this pain
well I mean I and II my suggestion would
be you know you do you you got to do
what's gonna get you through through the
next couple years but the do J's
guidelines are that a sitting president
cannot be indicted now I guess that
could theoretically be challenged but at
the end of the day I'm a weight I can
never sit down again I can never sit I'm
good at Stan wait oh man knows ending
Stan I mean look it's a political
process and I think what's gonna happen
is there's gonna be like a series of
these things like we're gonna find out
like almost different silos of
criminality that Donald Trump has been
involved with and I know those like key
Lou
Keeler's diversify your crimes uh the
really interesting thing is going to be
if we see the children indicted and if
they people think that go to suit your
children because they're your children
but these are people I barely know
exactly look you don't get to pick them
and you can't kick them out of the house
I mean you can I have but at any time I
and I gave them reused Christmas
presents I mean he said sometimes you
take a call or something maybe go on a
date with the daughter but these are
people that not close to you it's I mean
this is this is what it's gonna be like
going forward I mean the best that we
can do is hope for you know this process
is going to keep going forward I think
there is you know some value in trying
to leverage it you know for political
purposes against the Republicans but I
think this I don't think that many of
them are gonna cave in any fashion I
think or cave is probably the wrong term
it's just like these are who they are
this is who their base is this is who
their voters are and I think you know
the thing to focus on is you know
pushing policy you know solutions to
issues that we care about and you know
hang in there yeah I get I got that it's
just it's just really hard to watch this
train wreck and and to watch them do
policy now and like the kid yesterday
that or the other day two died it's just
it's just getting so hard to even and
you feel like I don't know I feel like
if I don't pay attention to it
missing I'm gonna miss some stuff that I
should be listening to and if I am
watching it I like can't sleep I mean
it's not that bad but all right well you
know it's just it's just really it's
just really up and and it's just
I just don't know how much longer people
can you know deal with it yeah it's just
should we take shifts I mean I don't
know there's blazing idea that is an
idea
rotating type of situation I mean look
he's gonna go tomorrow logo for 12 days
you take this opportunity to 16 days
take this opportunity to take a break
yourself and then we'll see well this is
my life 24/7 I want you to know that I
mean a Twitter life but it's just it's
just upsetting and then the other thing
I was just the funny thing I wanted to
say is don't we run Christmas Day to be
chief of staff I really want Newt
Gingrich to be chief of staff okay don't
you think they're like kind of
interchangeable no I think Newt Gingrich
is I think Chris Christie would actually
do a fairly decent job I think he
already said no he's already out oh you
did sir I didn't see he's Christie said
oh yeah yeah the reason why that would
be Chris Christie had said no and and
which is this is one of those things
where you can tell who would be a good
candidate for this job by their turning
it down this is like one of those
situations where anybody who takes this
job is gonna net almost definitionally
be bad at it because they don't
understand what they're getting into and
they're getting into it for the wrong
reasons no one in their right mind would
take this job we want to be part of any
club that would have me isn't so we're
probably gonna have a Jerrod chief of
staff I mean it could be Jared could end
up being the chief of staff I mean but
that also like yes it could be Jared it
could be news Oh Jared I'm standing up
and it was all Jared Jared did
everything I feel like Newt Gingrich oh
they would do it too just
I mean Newt Gingrich's as warped as
Trump is he's obviously a little smarter
right there at like who's more
narcissistic I mean yeah when does that
be like a power play that would last
like maybe two weeks yep yes now be fun
and it would mess up everything
yeah laughing okay so now everybody on
Twitter seems to all these Republican
people professional whatever pundit
jerk-off
on the right side that are never Trump
errs are now floating out all these
ideas to run some type of multi ticket
where they and it's not just one person
I mean like somebody had an article in
Politico about it they're trying to run
this thought-out process where we take
like a Biden and Romney or like Biden
and a Kasich or something like that
have you seen yeah yeah it happens every
year they do this every year I mean this
year's gonna be there's gonna be I think
I think this year there could be a
little bit more traction to that idea so
that it may actually last like six weeks
as opposed to like three weeks but this
is ridiculous
nobody will do this and it's a bad idea
it's listen here's the thing the problem
isn't Donald Trump the problem is the
political party that birthed and
nurtured a significant portion of the
country that allowed his descendants
that's the bottom line the Republican
Party is a wasteland I think they're
scared I think they're freaking out and
I think we're gonna see the good faith
liberals separate from the bad if bernie
is the nominee i I think that you don't
think that like any Republicans are even
gonna like entertain this idea in any
way shape or form I mean this is just
like their dream idea to get back I mean
the party leadership which is pretty out
of touch with the base I think would
entertain breaking for the right rather
than the left if they have to choose I
don't think that their I don't think
their I think they would I think what
your scenario is is different than the
idea that they would do this type of
unity ticket but I I always go to find
like a Bloomberg or someone well yeah I
mean I I it's not inconceivable to me
you'd see a third party a third party
candidate from like a new labels type of
situation
are gonna do all the stuff that they got
mad at Jill Stein for doing the last
time around except for the problem was
the problem is they run the same risk
and that's the thing that I would think
would prevent him
I think the first inclination if aber
well didn't we put this way
I was quite convinced that if Bernie had
won the nomination there would be more
Clinton voters who didn't vote for
Bernie Democrats than vice-versa and I
think that if Bernie was to win the
nomination at one point there would be
that the impetus to do what you're
saying but I think that the risk would
be too great well they care about
stopping trying right like a very very
very less subject now I'm sorry I went
for but the very last subject so now Jon
Kyl is did you talk about that yet the
the lobbying no Chuck yet no Jon Kyl is
stepping down from John McCain's
appointed seat in Arizona and now
they're like floating the idea of giving
it to mcsalley right I mean so you don't
win the seat but then you get you saying
you just get appointed to it tip said
yeah that's pretty nuts you think that's
possible of course I mean I mean Mindy
Mindy look what these people are doing
in Wisconsin Michigan and North Carolina
this is like the least of it yeah it's
just yeah dad but do you think she could
they would put her in really you think
Jon Kyl Jon Kyl is a lobbyist and he was
sworn in as Senator as a lobbyist and
literally just like it was I don't know
what the equivalent of a it's like it
was it would literally be like MSNBC
saying hey Sam we're going to give you a
two-month run on MSNBC to do the
majority report
I'll be like yeah sweet because when I'm
done with that two-month run I'm gonna
have a whole host of new new audience to
come in for my YouTube show and that's
basically what happened with John Kyle
he's a lobbyist so he got he got enough
business that he now can quit well you
know get ongoing business it enhances
it's a huge it's like it's like pumping
steroids into his business you just come
in so he got basically got it and I just
want to understand this because I don't
I think that I speak for a lot of people
that don't understand the way this works
I don't know maybe I'm wrong but so it's
basically like he got he just got enough
exposure now that no no not exposure
honey contemplate this Mindy okay surely
you are involved I don't want you to
take this wrong way but in like some
like low-level corruption right like
okay I have a friend who works at the
theatre and they get me in for free or I
get half-price tickets or something like
that right my point being that like you
know I know you know like you know like
I I know the guy who runs my shift and
so he lets me clock in late or something
like that this is the same type of deal
it's the same type of deal it's just he
goes in there he you know he finds out
he's got he's on the inside he builds
some relationships he does some favors
for some people on the outside and it
all comes back that's all it is that's
great so you think mcsalley is been
putting her in there is better than him
no no no that's horrible
say no appreciate you call Mindy just
wanted to hmm appreciate the call all
right have a great weekend hang in there
thank you bye
oh this is unbelievable so Michael Cohen
this poor guy and I don't mean I have
any sympathy for him I would be if
someone someone told
he's going to go to jail actually the
you heard 33 years it's actually gonna
be 30 years I would be fine with that
III don't I'm not when I say this poor
guy I'm not being sympathetic I'm like
this guy using so deluded that it is
stunning here is here is a Michael Cohen
with George Stephanopoulos sort of
characterizing why he cooperated when
did it change you know I can't give you
a specific time that it went from point
A to point B it was just a change I will
tell you was it I feel like the change
they're talking about is like when did
you just go from the guy who would take
a bullet for Donald Trump to the guy
who's willing to provide evidence about
what he's done wrong now remember
Michael Cohen did not provide evidence
about what Michael Cohen did wrong
beyond what implicated Trump that's why
the Southern District of New York said
he was not cooperative with us he might
have been cooperative with Muller but he
was not cooperative with us I would
submit that that moment of that change
was the moment he realized he's not
gonna give me a pardon
he thinks he's insulated from this and
he doesn't think I'm enough of a
liability to pardon that son of a
he was like my dad disingenuous base
yeah you know my dad anymore
he it was just a change I will tell you
that the gentleman that is sitting now
in the Oval Office 1600 Pennsylvania
Avenue is not the Donald Trump that I
remember from Trump Tower
Donald Trump Tower was a piece of
garbage a racist piece of garbage who
didn't pay people who worked for him and
that this guy would call up and threaten
reporters if they wrote about him
he's a very different individual what's
happened to him I think the pressure of
the job is much more than what he
thought it was going to be it's not like
the Trump Organization where he would
bark out orders and people would blindly
follow what he wanted done good guy
there's a system here he doesn't
understand the system and it's sad
because the country has never been more
divisive and one of the hopes that I
have out of the punishment that I've
received as well as the cooperation that
I have given I will be remembered in
history as helping to bring this country
back together who's gonna tell him who's
gonna tell them
I think Dario you remembered from
medallion scams right yeah who's gonna
tell him Michael I'm sorry it turns out
that the historians they don't even need
time to go by they don't even need
hindsight to tell you in fact we have a
panel of a hundred and fifty historians
who have we've gathered and for every
other question we presented to them they
said we need more time the only thing
they came back and when we asked is my
is Michael Cohen going to be remembered
as the guy who brought the country
together and the answer was hysterical
laughter and I mean that's that that
level of delusion is why I feel sorry
for the guy I feel bad for him like
somewhere around like month three he's
gonna be sitting in prison going like
nobody wants to write a book about me
it's like dim-witted Michael Clinton
here is here he goes on the the level of
delusion here is pretty good pretty high
but you have to keep reminding us out of
red America and a blue America there's a
 United States of America
you got to remember as you listen to
this and you're like wait how could this
guy actually
think this you got to remember he also
said at one point that he was willing to
take a bullet for Donald Trump so like
here we go president Trump is lashing
out against you in such a personal way
daily almost now calling you weak
calling you a liar is he afraid seems
like it that's what he does
that's what he does are you afraid of
him it's never good to be on the wrong
side of the President of the United
States of America but somehow or another
this task has now fallen onto my
shoulders and as I also stated that I
will spend the rest of my life in order
to fix the mistake that I made how you
don't know I mean listen I'm gonna I'm
gonna give this guy a break
insofar as that maybe he's thinking I
got to do this for my kids I got to make
them think that dad is a hero because
it's important for my kids and I can
appreciate that like sometimes you'll
say to your kids like if they're young
like know there is an Easter Bunny or
there really is a tooth fairy or
something like that you don't want to be
the one to sort of like shatter but that
is I was in Bensonhurst doing a little
bit of a business project where we
smashed cars into each other for the
insurance of whatnot somehow through a
series of events by business ventures
this historic task of restoring the
promise that is America fun to
mentally
fell on my shoulders by the way my
daughter's a piece ass too not just the
vodka it's totally unfair did you hear
the comedian who worked on The
Apprentice who said that yeah we talked
about it about 15 minutes we were very
very where are we talking about the
adderall being the issue yeah we've
talked about we've talked about and the
diet pills specifically yeah that type
of thing I I really want whoever the
Democratic nominee
to say something along those lines in a
debate to trigger Trump because I think
like if you hinted at it enough for him
to know what you were talking I don't
know I don't think there is any
triggering Trump I mean I think Oh
kidding me
you're the adderall snorter why you're
the adder you snort I just I think if we
know the way through that our own way
you do this is just like you say you
know you've done nothing in terms of the
disaster that is opioids we need to
provide you know money for to help
people addicted to this we need to have
more stringent laws and even things like
adderall for instance like it's got sick
that's what I was thinking something
like that or if you want it to be way
more chintzy you go and I find it
stunning that you campaigned on
addressing this crisis and you did
nothing about it and especially given
your own personal background that you
would sell out this kids issue what
personal back I would just say like what
about all the people that are crushing
up adderall and snorting it mr.
president what do you have to say about
those people you go you go on a Kasich
and except there's a purpose to it but
it just sounds like a random like you
know people are crushing adderall
snorting it right now you realize people
are snorting yeah adderall off of
executives they're sorting it off of
executive desk because they can't read
and they're having it an anxiety attack
right now
they don't know where their daughter is
they don't know where their daughter is
they're afraid of getting a statutory
rape charge that's happening right now
special lectures on their ass you trying
to feed up his dose a little bit cuz
it's not working he's gonna need a
little bit more I have a feeling in the
coming weeks
Jonathan Armstead Sam I want to alert
people that I side with as opposed to
their 20/20 presidential survey via a
multiple-choice quiz and about 50 issues
they'll match you with the announced
candidate that best fits you
I got Bernie as number four but
Elizabeth Warren Tulsi and Kamala Harris
is my top three matching 84 to 81
percent of the time but I have a
question about something Mike from PA
said the other day about Kamala he said
she would back down in a tough tight
fight I was talking to you Chi wali
about this months ago when he said that
she did that with not prosecuting
minuchin s bank yes that's true I
counter by saying she was probably a
member of the chicken ship Club someone
who only goes into fights when she has
the numbers on her side do you think
that's a case where am i giving the
sisters some slack look all I can tell
you is that it appeared in that office
that there was a lot of reason to at
least go down that road and she did more
than not did more than get afraid she
stymied it before it even grew at all
it's one thing to not bring a case
because you don't think you have the
evidence it's another to have
substantial amount of reason to start an
investigation and not doing it and and
I'm looking more into Kamala Harris and
I III think some of the like just sort
of glib like she's a hat she's a cop
gets hacked need to be honest and I
understand she's pivoted her positions
which is great but she was on the wrong
side like not only is she late to the
party in terms of criminal justice
reform she was a very active punitive
and someone who even opposed reforming
three-strikes laws like her record
especially juxtaposed with what she do
with minuchin is atrocious she bragged
about putting parents to jail whose kids
were Truett's from school which is just
yeah awful and you have to look at where
she gets her bunny from as well but I
just don't trust her to do any of these
things like minuchin being the only her
being the only Democrat that got money
from minuchin the DX fool hello
proletariat's your work life Digby
didn't mention that there was a Honduran
asylum seeker who died in Albuquerque
Hospital last month while in ice custody
an independent medical examiner hired by
our family concluded shoes was
physically abused within the last few
days probably then in in the last few
days probably by ice agents DHS claims
she died from AIDS by the way she was
una mujer latina trans Janeiro meanwhile
did you see The Advocate commentary
about why Sarah Silverman can say the
f-word slur for gay men but not Kevin
Hart rebutting Nick Cannon's trolling I
didn't I mean I you know for me you know
words must be seen within a context and
an intent and part of that context is
you know what the I don't I don't know
I didn't even wasn't aware of Kevin
Hart's there being an issue about Kevin
Hart saying that but for me it's about
context and and sort of part of that
context is like where the individual
saying these things have been in the
past like you can divine I mean it's not
unlike I think my example was an extreme
one but my my tweet
I guess if there had been in my past a
history of wanting to have people rape
my daughter then that people would have
had been right to take a jaundiced eye
to that tweet but your only point was
that Roman Polanski was so good it
doesn't matter right where did I
misinterpret that and you might have SBG
Sam something for Joey was a movie yes
we already talked about that Colin from
Nebraska last night dave rubin was
questioned on his livestream about
whether less speakers using facts and
logic rather than feelings exist Rubin
said yes but he will not debate certain
youtubers who make fun of him and lie
about him I wonder who those youtubers
are questioned at the 43-yard
43 minute mark Oh snowflake snowflake
forty three minute mark let's pull that
for next week if we can left deaded
question for Jamie when the government
shuts down and stops sending Emmy
paychecks will your mom and dad keep me
okay whatever
left is best I feel like I did a bad job
explaining my politics the other day I
made a funny joke and then
let's say I ruin it by baiting me into a
conversation that I wasn't prepared to
have at that exact point I did not mean
to be yeah I didn't realize I didn't
realize that was my bad I'm sorry JJ
cool today is the 10 year anniversary of
Bush getting a shoe thrown at him that's
right did we pull that well we'll get
that a / is glad to see the Dennis
Miller is banishing himself and Mark
Steyn to the Cimmeria of continent the
United States so no one else has to
central western New York a lovely areas
but holy crap does it snow a lot there
it certainly does
oh this was pretty good you know back in
the day oh yeah let's play this highly
disrespectful to have a shoe thrown at
you in in the Iraqi culture it may have
a like a broader culture and here is
George Bush an Iraqi journalist throws a
shoe at him during a press conference
ten years ago reflexes ten years ago
right maybe where he's about to leave
the other there are some who feel like
that you know the conditions are such
that they can attack us there well my
answers bring them on there are some who
feel like that you know the conditions
are such that they can attack us there
I answered bring them on Malachy just
let me swap this that was a good toss
too in terms of the everybody performed
well except for Maliki it was a great
throw excellent reflexes by Bush and
Maliki was kind of I mean the choices do
you go for the header for the body right
I think you splitting the difference
with the next shot this is look I'm not
a big hypocricy guy Rick Santorum's
entire career was built on a this faux
morality like people don't remember this
when the Catholic Church when we first
started getting revelations or at least
broader revelations about what had been
going on the Catholic Church in terms of
abuse of
kids Rick Santorum in Boston Rick
Santorum blamed the the sexual
proclivity of the City of Boston as a as
a reason why this took place I need to
start talking to little boys Tommy
mcfinnegan because there's just so much
sexual tension here in our city of
Boston honestly I called up a job actual
place I called up his office in one of
those prank phone calls and spoke to
person they're asking if I could get a
list of all the names of from that
area what's here I'm gonna need to start
dating children because I had gotten
something from an ex-girlfriend I want
to see if she was on the list from that
area it probably was there like what I
don't get what a list anyways here is
and it's it's super important for people
particularly like on the cable news
realm it seems to me to not to hold
these people to account for where
they've been in the past
I'm not a big hypocrisy guy but if you
can neutralize some of these people and
make them embarrassed and publicly
embarrass them and make them miss shamed
I think that's healthy for society here
is Jeffrey Toobin doing that with Rick
Santorum and good the most damaging
thing is the fact that president isn't
coming hasn't come clean over over the
course of time Anderson Anderson
Anderson putting aside the whole issue
of how amazing it is to listen to Rick
Santorum who made his entire career
successful for a time on the basis of
morality in politics making excuses for
paying off porn stars and women with
whom you've had affairs putting that to
one side isn't the real Jeffrey if
you're not not you're not going to put
that to the side I'm not I'm not making
excuses for Donald Trump having affair
with a porn star I mean that's it's
disgusting it's tawdry I'm saying
whether it's a lie I'm addressing the
question as to what is the illegality
involved here and the illegality is not
the contribution the illegality is not
reporting it and now you can do it and
don't suggest that I am and what you
keep saying is that you know his problem
that he keeps lying in his explanations
about it isn't the
and he's lying because he did something
bad in the first place if he did nothing
wrong why doesn't he stole a
straightforward version of the truth
well he did something bad and having an
affair with a porn star I agree with you
that's horrible I think the best thing
he did was having an affair with the
points are probably nailed it
look at that Samantha I just saw a
fairly good go holy thing about it being
a porn star right
Oh illegal they the the the whole issue
of it being porn star I find just sort
of ridiculous I mean the bottom line is
the guy was cheating on his pregnant
wife and nymi you know and the guy is
also a serial groper and assaulter of
women and he didn't even want that to
what somehow my series trying to do some
book series trying to do some booking
for me the the the problem is he's just
a horrible human being
and to the extent that I mean if you're
someone who's a moralist like Rick
Santorum the idea that you could even go
on television once and defend this guy
never mind try and make a second career
out of it is stunning it is absolutely
stunning and I'm glad I'm glad Toobin
called him out on it
subin's been ready to retirement he's
just like yeah he's good I'm done I'm
there you know I'm done I'm done playing
with this stuff I think there is
occasionally the the people who did have
more faith in these and some of the
steadiness of these institutions when
they've actually accepted the reality
what's he having on their anger is very
it's fresh yeah it's interesting to see
all right I only have time for one more
call I know we got a lot of people
hanging on for a long time I'm sorry
folks call from a 6-3 one area code
who's this where he come from
hi yeah I'm I'm on right yeah who's this
all right cool uh well I'd rather remain
nameless to the story I'm about to tell
us so 631 Long Island I won't name the
town either okay I was doing a little
impromptu protest I had a black lives
matter son a guy came up to me pulled
his car around on a bridge made a full
180 turn used the lane or whatever and
it turned
down to a you know he threatens me with
a baton one of those police batons you
whip out like the Star Wars toys those
kids have yeah and you know and I mean
of course I got his plate and everything
I did nothing and I find out he's
involved with the fire department and
has cop friends so that made me feel
wonderful about living where I live so
long really like holy yeah yeah I know I
know everyone New York such a liberal
place and well not exactly on Long
Island but um so yeah it's I wanted to
talk about it at the time limit is a
racial bubble I would call it raise it
90% white I've done a bunch of different
looks online and it's about 2% black I
mean I remember me 20 kids in my high
school and it's just it's just growing
up in that town
and then becoming politically aware
maybe 18 20 or so seeing the way I was
brought up and also we had a Nazi
presence back the 30s late 30s before
you know when Long Island was doing that
and the whole the whole thing is is that
the kid brought in a thing showing the
Nazis marching on the Main Street and he
got suspended from school because they
thought it realized I mean this is 2004
what happened so so yeah it's just to me
like I just how it affects me being
someone you know not realizing all the
racial and you know ethnic stereotypes
and you know especially at the 9/11
living Island Island yeah everyone knows
at least someone who's died or is dying
currently so it's you know and it's just
the whole racial bubble thing it
definitely affected me and you know I
held you know beliefs that definitely
don't coincide what I believe today and
I you know I definitely think it had to
do with my environment so yeah I think
that's a really good point
I mean people grow up in a I don't want
to say isolated but in these parochial
settings and
to a large extent people are a product
of their environment and that type of
racism is pretty durable I mean you know
people forget their you know Long Island
in particular is it's pretty
conservative and mm-hmm that's where
Sean Hannity comes from I mean that's
that that whole pedigree Bill O'Reilly
as well and you know we had two counties
in New York that were I don't know if
they were counted full counties but that
were under DOJ preclearance for you know
for for having problems in the history
of suppressing minority votes I mean oh
yeah I'm sure you know yeah well listen
I appreciate it absolutely absurd yeah
just just end on a bright note Long
Island also has a chapter of redneck
revolt which yeah which you know tends
to cluster in places that are dominated
by right populism but they are an
explicitly anti-racist and radical
socialist groups check them out check
them out long also pretty yet oh
redneck revolt redneck revolt I will
definitely google that right after the
song call it done hell yeah all right
all right thanks man all right I had no
oh all right folks that's it for the
phone calls I'm sorry apologize I know
people we've been hanging on there for
almost an hour we'll do a couple more
IMS and I get going here Chris verdict
says a lot about em our production
budget that you look at a Mark Steyn
video that features a lady a couch and a
cat and say where did they get the money
to do this but I'm just I guess like no
the other one is really well done but
it's how pretty tad it's not even like
that the production value is that high
but it's like he's just doing this for
fun right yes forty two albums going to
rate the black and white video with the
backup singers like that that took I
mean how much would you guess that
I don't know 20 2015 well yeah I guess
that maybe it's cheaper maybe 20,000
maybe get it I don't know maybe be as a
friend
Ayesha happy shoe throwing day Winnipeg
Craig a little worried that Dennis
Miller knows who rocket racoon is and
the M our crew doesn't he's the
character the guardians of galaxy voice
by Bradley Cooper oh I did I knew yeah
bad I tcid bad idea Society Dennis
Miller is like a remote-control robot
Butler much sought after in the 80s but
baffling to people today bop-bop-bop
black marks it's not sure why socialists
have to reference other countries when
we can point to Truman and FDR
presidencies as success stories also
does mr crew think comedians can be
offensive or no of course I mean I yeah
sure I mean I don't know what that means
for I don't know I mean sometimes
comedies offensive and that is amazing
and awesome I don't know yeah yeah it
depends a lot on a lot of different
things I don't know if we could say in a
blanket way X is offensive I certainly
don't Sam a Miami Dave Miami Dave Sam
were you always a liberal or did you get
interested in politics through a
different political philosophy no I know
I've always been on the Left I don't
know that I particularly suppose you but
in high school I you know was working on
a what Matt just remember there's a Tomi
Loren video of her going back to high
school that we're gonna play next week
alright we'll play on Monday that's
alright in high school I worked on a
proposal for the Charter Commission and
it was I think you could consider it on
the left easily in terms of what they
were we were looking for more
proportional representation but I don't
know that how sort of economically aware
I was
Cavanaugh's triangle always listen to
the podcast at 2 times speed I'm
listening live for the first time and
now it's disturbingly slow can you pick
up the pace a bit thanks demon alien
that Mark Steyn cat video could be seen
as a short absurdist horror film noir
short movie and Jimmy Fallon's
impression at death's Miller it looks
like a mid 80s Tim Curry Kindergarten
Cop should Democrats be at all concerned
by Trump's rising approval ratings among
black voters criminal justice reform
black unemployment will all help these
numbers I wouldn't worry too much no
christos something for Joey yes we know
majority report thought you make my taco
dip JC Ivo and trying to envision an
electric wheelchair within a catapult
arm they throws allows quadriplegics
throw tacos it's in clear news
okay it's been trademarked chappie since
Adam was brought up next time perhaps
you may ask a libertarian where 50% of
Americans living in apartments and
cities get their freedom from for me Sam
superb leader 12 hello Sam and crew I'm
a book nerd and I was wondering if you
all could go around the room and name
three books you've recommended all the
time or books that influenced you a lot
let's do one I would say for me okay -
two fiction books
of Human Bondage and what was that both
one I can't remember I can't remember
somerset mom somerset mom was of Human
Bondage end to the line
the Barthel I can't remember but I'll
take that influenced me alright I'll
just you know I'll try to I'll just be
more current with what I've been reading
recently so capitalist realism by Mark
Fisher I think everybody should read
that's an excellent book and um shame by
Salman Rushdie which is a really
interesting novel about Pakistan
I feel like people probably know what
I'm gonna say but the dispossessed by
ursula quinn definitely served as a way
into thinking harder about socialism
than i had in the past also i'm
finishing it up right now but the red
Mars trilogy by Kim Stanley Robinson is
a really good sci-fi trilogy that
envisions not just the Kullen is they
not just like the scientific and
technical aspects of colonizing Mars but
also the political ones and Kim is
definitely a comrade we actually want to
have him on the anti Fattah soon so stay
tuned I'll say Thomas Pynchon's Mason
and Dickson's my favorite novel of all
time Freddie wants to go out in the
literary come on down I would say to
fiction books very much of my alley for
those who are more historically inclined
shadow country by Peter Matheson it's
like three books in one about bloody
watson and maybe that could be on
literary hangover at some point and
Jesus son by Denis Johnson's the best
book about the boomers I think in a
pretty way
Bobo's in paradise is unintentionally
funny
that's about boomers end to the road
[Music]
Jeff from Regina
I hope you guys got their dicks in the
world and they don't care about your
lettuce as a drop not sure when you use
it but still funny oh oh I was that from
the the codebase debate a debate as I
know I zoned out during a lot of it to
Matt I feel you Chris lapacho
Chuck Schumer more like fu sir happy
holidays
that's just great what do you think of
the Weekly Standard going out of
business
my hell yeah Louis seventy-seven with
the never-ending show that is a
trump administration it surprised me
they haven't wheeled out a sock puppet
named John Miller for chief of staff yet
and the final I am of
de vera heck is that thing
woo tech clang Jamie any advice to raise
class consciousness on campus answer on
quick oh my god so many things Monday
unionized the student workers
no son
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
