[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Monday April 22nd 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn u.s.a oh yes ladies and
gentlemen it is Earth Day people don't
pay attention to it as much as they used
to
feels like we need more than a day they
yeah and we also need a society that is
willing to recognize the dire urgency of
what's going on with the planet climate
change and as a way to recognize that
we've got a guest today this is a
pre-taped show we're on vacation it's
one of our famous vacation style guest
interviews so famous we don't even name
it in a way that can be uttered by by
humans in a casual way you get an almost
rename at every time you utter it so
like I say it is our famous vacation
great guest week see that new different
name better come up with a different
name each time today on the program
Hannah Holman on dust bowls of empire
Hannah Holloman is a an assistant
professor of sociology to Amherst
College and the author of dust bowls of
Empire put out on Yale University Press
it it is fascinating
[Music]
when we see that things like the Dust
Bowl is a function of the way that we
structure society and the way that we
pursue really human development in some
fashion brings us these catastrophes and
we could I don't want to be a spoiler
spoiler alert more coming so we talked
to Hannah Holmen about this
we should tell you this week we have all
new interviews all week make sure you
check them out believe me all these are
fascinating interviews that we have done
we just managed to find sometimes you
get lucky we got a lucky streak a lot of
interesting stuff this week check it out
I think tomorrow we're talking to
somebody about Sandra Day O'Connor and I
get a my hobbyhorse about the about the
Supreme Court Oh in fact there was a
little bit of controversy at the end of
that I remember Brendan we got to remind
me about that when we we record that
because I claimed something to a guest
and the guest was like no he was
literally one of those what was it was a
Malcolm McLaren moment in was a mclaurel
McLuhan McLuhan I always get mixed up
between McLaren and McLuhan in that
Woody Allen film it's like I wish
McLuhan was right here then McLuhan
steps out well I claim something about
Newsweek and a reporting piece they were
gonna do in the wake of 9/11 about the
Supreme Court or that was planned before
the before 9/11 and got bumped because
of of 9/11 and he's like I was the
managing editor of Newsweek that didn't
happen and then and then after the
interview ended I had him on him like I
could have sworn that happen and I
googled it and I found that at least the
article so
I didn't what what's that you were right
I was right but why did I get the gong I
don't know we don't use the gong enough
yeah but Gong is usually when I get
maybe I just had that from the gong show
that's when you get pulled off
oh I've know where I was right about the
article but I was wrong that it was
gonna be on the cover but I'm not sure
when you're wrong about the existence of
the article I'm not mmm
anyways but it's a fascinating story of
Sandra Day O'Connor Supreme Court very
quaint it'll be much even much more
quaint in years to come so right now
ladies and gentlemen is Monday we left
and I speaking about me and my two kids
on a jet plane yesterday flew down to
Florida
I drove inland from West Palm Beach
hopefully things are going well for me
so I don't know there's a lot of
alligators around there too so we'll see
I may be having a problem doing a little
barnstorming around Florida so I should
come back tan and exhausted meanwhile I
should tell you the majority part is
being supported in part by simple habit
simple habit is a mobile app that
provides a massive and diverse library
of five-minute guided meditations and
the majority report audience can try
simple habit totally free for an entire
week when you go to simple habit calm
slash majority look there's a huge
amount of scientific evidence it's come
out about the benefits of meditating
people have been saying this for a long
time and if you've had any experience
meditating you know that it can be
incredibly calming and clarifying simple
habit as over 2,000 guided meditation
specific is specifically designed for
different parts of your day just about
anything you might be dealing with in
life they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression or if when you're having
trouble falling asleep meditations for
when you wanted to overcome
procrastination or when you have
something important going on at work
meditations designed for parents I'm
gonna be testing out the meditations
designed for parents if I can get five
minutes in to maybe just not lose my
stack with my kids because they're being
so obnoxious they have meditations
specifically from when you're waking up
or your lunch break and we've just
gotten
from working when you're going to bed
and this is the thing I like about
simple simple habit is that it makes it
easy I don't know when I'm gonna have
time to do my parenting meditation with
the kids you get different people are
trying to accomplish different things
with meditation simple habit is able to
cater just about anyone doesn't matter
what your goals are doesn't matter how
much past experience you've had with
meditation the variety of guided
meditations on simple habit is what sets
it apart simple habit just one the 2018
Google Play award for best well-being
app it's available on iOS Android and
web browser and the majority report
audience could try it for free for a
week by going to simple habit calm /
majority if you're watching on youtube
if you're listening we put descriptions
in or I should say we put links in the
descriptions of both check it out also
one of today's sponsors is Skillshare
and anyone who goes to sk l dot sh
majority report - it's the number two
it's gonna get - as in the number two
whole months of totally free access to
skill shares entire library of super
quality online courses and tutorials
Skillshare is a vibrant online learning
community offers courses on everything
we design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
everything in between they're Skillshare
courses for everyone you have no problem
finding course is it gonna be useful for
you both in your personal life and your
business life whether you want to watch
sharpen your skills with something you
already - love doing or you want to
learn how to do something totally new
skills share has you covered
I mean I learned to code of course is
for entrepreneurs course on computer
coding web development personal
nutrition I could use that to learning
new languages Jamie wants to do that
Photoshop you name it you want to learn
how to illustrate and procreate I don't
even know what that is but I bet you a
lot of people who work with a with
illustrating do gives you it teaches you
how to draw a shareable time-lapse photo
and film you can get the fundamentals of
photo editing
or how to take pro pictures on your
phone everybody's got a phone just even
watching stuff like that is like above
you're sort of like paygrade like you
know do yourself cinematography make
your videos look more like a movie and
the beauty of this is you get two months
free so there's really no like waste you
can you could do stuff that you're only
gonna take me one thing away from and
it's still worth it building an Etsy
shop that sells productivity habits I
could use that you can get two entire
months of free access to every single
course offered by Skillshare by going to
sk l dot s H slash majority report to
just think of everything you're gonna
have at your fingertips for two whole
months
again that's sk l dot s H slash majority
report - I put a link underneath this
video on YouTube I put a link underneath
this podcast in our podcast description
check it out sk l dot s H slash majority
report - all right quick break when we
come back we're going to be talking to
Professor Hannah Holloman about empires
and dust bowls and ecological disasters
and lessons of history
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program assistant
professor of sociology at Amherst
College author of dust bowls of empire
imperialism environmental politics and
the injustice of green capitalism Anna
Hallman welcome to the program thank you
so much for having me so Hannah let's
start with first off because I think I
think there are probably more folks than
we would imagine who are just simply not
aware or to the extent that they are not
deeply aware of what the Dust Bowl was
sure well so the Dust Bowl is a term
that's used to refer to an ecological
crisis that was situated in the southern
plains region of the United States and
that really reached its peak in the
1930s and so when most people refer to
the Dust Bowl they're talking about the
crisis of soil erosion that followed and
that was exacerbated by drought in the
1930s but that followed the expansion of
cash crop agriculture in the southern
plains region and so the southern plains
region a lot of the ecology there are
these incredible grasslands and I don't
know if your listeners are not familiar
these these make grasses that developed
on the southern plains have roots that
are you know go down eight twelve
fourteen feet underground when all of
that was plowed up to expand agriculture
and ranching it left the soil loose and
bare and so that expand the cash crop
agriculture expanded really rapidly in
the region in the late 1800s but
especially in the early 1900s
and during World War one and when
drought descended on the region in the
1930s that loosened dried soil just
lifted into the air and wreaked havoc
across the land and so your listeners
may be familiar with images of the Okies
or folks from Texas going out west
because they were displaced from the
land because of the Dust Bowl and Ken
Burns made a
kind of famous documentary about it but
a lot of those images that we associate
with the 1930s especially displaced
farmers from that region the the cause
of that was the combination of the Dust
Bowl and obviously this was taking place
at the same time as the Great Depression
and so it was a it was a serious social
and ecological crisis in the southern
plains region in the 1930s how much of
the the I mean I guess you know some
data points I'm curious about like I
mean how many how many people are we
talking about vaguely or specifically I
guess who were displaced essentially in
many respects becoming internal refugees
right and and to what extent did this
exacerbate the the Great Depression
right well so for farmers that were on
the affected land it was obviously
devastating you already have an economic
collapse that that led to displacement
of peoples from many parts of the United
States people were roaming around
looking for work whether they were
living in rural areas or living in
cities but the combination of depression
and then this ecological crisis where
these farms like literally dried up and
blew away and led to especially hard
times in that region which I don't know
if I mentioned encompassed parts of New
Mexico Colorado Kansas Oklahoma and
Texas and so tens of thousands of people
were displaced and but due to a
combination of factors
there's the Dust Bowl and that
ecological crisis making them really
environmental refugees or ecological
refugees and then some of them also were
displaced by economic factors but it was
a massive crisis one of the largest in
scale in US history I mean we're talking
about a couple of million people right I
mean from like Texas New Mexico Oklahoma
Nebraska Kansas and so and people just
completely uprooting their lives
and going to places that they have they
don't obviously don't know what's on the
other end in many respects mm-hmm so
there were so there is in terms of this
specific number and there but I'm not
sure that it it's a couple of minute
just a million just due to the
ecological crisis but yeah tens of
thousands are definitely displaced and
people yeah literally lost their
livelihoods and because of the economic
conditions that they were already living
in even before the depression and before
the major droughts of the 1930s people
really didn't have anything to to leave
with or a lot of people didn't and so
they were really down and out and going
places out west during a depression
where you already have a lot of people
in places like California out of work
caused all kinds of enmity between the
local California workers and the new
kind of Okies who are streaming in
willing to do any kind of work just to
try to survive during that period okay
and so we have a sense of the size of
this catastrophe and it becomes relevant
because I think there's you know there's
an argument that at one point I don't
know when in the future we may see more
of this in to a certain extent not
necessarily in this country but around
the world we're already seeing some of
this but let's go back and and I guess
talk about the the sort of the run-up to
the Dust Bowl but specifically in the
context of what what has been our
understanding of the phenomena of the
Dust Bowl and what has been wrong with
that understanding sure so that's really
a big part of the book was
reinterpreting the Dust Bowl because it
because of the the issues you just
mentioned especially climate change
leading to the sort of the desert off'
occation of areas around the world and
in that coupled with the increasing
problem of soil degradation that we
still have today you're starting to see
people displaced from agricultural
regions air in semi-arid and arid
regions especially around the world
and so that has led to this renewed
interest in the Dust Bowl so you have
all kinds of scientists scholars
policymakers journalists referring to
the Dust Bowl because that is the
historical episode that looks most like
what we are expected to see more of in
the future under climate change so the
Dust Bowl has become this very prominent
historical reference in the climate
change era but the problem with that is
that the majority of people who write
about it and who talk about it they they
don't know that much about what was
going on at the time and have a very
limited understanding of the drivers of
it and that was what I wanted to deal
with in my book because the Dust Bowl is
often treated as a very specific
regional phenomena that agricultural
methods that were more suited to human
regions were imported to an arid region
and that was one of the predominant
drivers of the crisis as well as the
sort of economic pressures of the period
but what I do in my book is actually
look what look at what was happening in
the global context and so where as some
scholars have attributed the what they
call the great plow up in the southern
plains to the ignorance of the farmers
to bad policy in the United States
too bad agricultural technique I
actually situated within the expansion
in the late 1800s and early 1900s via
colonialism and imperialism of cash crop
agriculture and the integration of the
first global food regime that really
takes place during that late 19th
century early 20th century so let me
just stop here just so that we can sort
of you know I can put a finer point on
this so the analysis that we have seen
of the Dust Bowl heretofore has been
that there were mistakes that were made
that were technological in their nature
or you know specifically agricultural in
their nature mistakes that are
untethered to
any other sort of major driving forces
but rather you know we were
technologically or I guess
agriculturally limited in our knowledge
and we and by we I mean obviously the
farmers applied you know miss applied
techniques or misunderstood the
techniques that they had acquired or we
you know there was just these were
technological mistakes rather than
driven by a compulsion that rather than
driven by a broader set of values that
made it almost impossible not to make
these mistakes exactly exactly so yet
that's led to a pretty limited idea of
what the what the root causes were and
also than what the solutions were so if
you have a technological diagnosis of a
problems in the solution is to change
the technology or change the technique
or change policy you know towards better
conservation practices and so on but
what a lot of people don't know even
though some scholars have pointed to
broader economic factors like Donald
werster's one of the great historian of
the dustbowl he did look at the broader
sort of economy and the ruling
capitalist ethos as he called it that
brought Henry Ford is into the plains
which is how he put it so he did look at
those he looked at those economic
factors but overlooked even in his
analysis was a sort of broader global
perspective that looked at colonial and
Imperial policies on the part of not
just the United States but Britain
European powers and even Japan in that
era that led to a particular
maltreatment of the land in frontier
regions around the globe in the late
1900s and early 20s early 20th century
and so and let me just be clear on what
you're saying there is that it was not
necessarily that there that that all of
these that that there were that all of
these different players internationally
were implicated in the Dust Bowl per se
but rather they were all engaged
practices that were that that could have
theoretically turned into their own dust
bowls and that these practices that they
were similar is indicative of a broader
sort of societal ideological perspective
that would lead to these things in other
words that like these the Dust Bowl
naturally accrued and part of the
evidence is that internationally other
entities were engaging in stuff that
could have easily turned into dust bowls
well and other places did turn into dust
bowls that's it that's one of the big
issues that sort of left out of most
contemporary analysis of the Dust Bowl
in the United States is that the problem
of soil erosion was actually I would
argue one of the first if not the first
global environmental problem so with the
if you think about it and I'll just walk
everybody back a little bit in history
but in the late 1800s you have this
massive global land grab on the part of
the major imperial powers they were
particularly interested in resources in
land for the expansion of cash crop
agriculture and in cheap labor and so
with the expansion of cash crop
agriculture around the world at that
time at this time on the part of these
imperial powers and this kind of massive
land grab that was justified obviously
through quite supremacist logic and all
of the other corneal justifications for
these practices you have in in all of
the areas around the world where this
expansion took place you you develop a
problem with soil erosion and land
degradation more broadly and so by the
early 1900's you have colonial officials
around the world and in mainstream
newspapers around the world reporting on
a global crisis of soil erosion so by
the time you get to the 1930s and and
the Dust Bowl in the southern plains if
you look back at the literature and
historical documents from that period
everybody writing was very clear that
this was not a local problem and that
was just a product of practices
the southern plains that this was
actually a global problem associated
with the expansion of white territorial
control and cash crop agriculture okay
so when the the concurrent writing was
about this phenomena what did they did
did the writing reflect that it was a
function of I mean how did they
contextualize it in real time I mean was
it in the 1930s yeah I mean if it is the
case that the the evidence that this was
international was that's the way people
were writing about it like this is a
phenomenon that's happening around the
world did they simply say like as a
species we need to develop better
technologies to deal with this or was it
like wow what a coincidence the weather
is all like this or was it or was it
just looking at the the reality of the
situation like how much of the analysis
that you're talking about with it being
driven by a form of white supremacy and
colonialism how much of that was like
sort of how much of that awareness was
was embedded in the coverage if you will
at the time so if you if you read
newspapers from that time period like
international newspapers if you read the
work of even soil scientist like there
and I documents all of this in my book
pin it and pull out a lot of examples
from the literature at that time I mean
it was it was very mainstream to
understand this problem this global
problem of soil erosion as a product of
colonial expansion and it was talked
about in those terms that this is an
outcome of colonial expansion because we
are now in control of these different
parts of the world we need to figure out
what to do about it there was a lot of
anxiety about recently acquired
territory being lost if they didn't
address the issue of soil erosion and
obviously the the kind of investments in
the development of this land
internationally was at stake for um you
know the people who were profiting from
khat the expansion of cash crop
agriculture so there for colonial
officials for soil scientists for
journalists writing at the time it was
actually
bride even in a newspaper in Springfield
Massachusetts close to where I live now
as another white man's burden on a world
scale and so what a couple of soil
scientists for example who are very
well-known well-respected in Britain and
they wrote a famous book called the rape
of the earth that was its British title
it was also published in the United
States but they said that the white
man's burden in the future will be to
come to terms with the soil and that may
be just as difficult as coming to terms
with the native and they talked about
the fact that everywhere that the sort
of Anglo European approach to
agriculture had spread which basically
was the spread of capitalist agriculture
and industrial at increasingly
industrialized agriculture was
experiencing these problems so that they
had that was well understood there was
no reason to you know they they were
dealing with a lot of other problems
associated with colonial expansion and
so this was just seen as another crisis
that they needed to deal with and to do
so were sharing expertise across the
different colonial context so it so that
was considered as as a most like a
logistical challenge to the the
expansion that you know we know there
was no questioning of the expansion in
policies it was just like this is a
logistical and maybe technological
challenge to our desire to increase our
growth and it is an urgent one because
of the tremendous amount of investment
that we have made to make this expansion
exactly okay and so so there isn't and
and I imagine they to the extent that
there's there's white supremacy and in
sort of I guess
colonialism expressed in this it is not
in a self-conscious way it is white
supremacy insofar as like you know this
is our job taken for
granted right yeah white supremacy has
taken for granted I mean and this is
what this or I mean when you read some
of the writing of these soil scientists
this is basically what they say they're
saying well you know it's it's the as
the white man it's our job we're the
only ones that can do it even though
we've caused the problems we're the only
ones in a position to solve it so
there's almost that may mean there's
almost like a religious quality to this
right I mean which I guess is going to
Spurs a lot of this colonialism and
imperialism anyways which is you know it
is our put here on the earth to exploit
all of it and to and if there's any
obstacles to that exploitation it is our
obligation and we can't shirk from it to
figure it out exactly and that is not an
exaggeration anyone familiar with
literature from that time period would
say you could not over state the fact
that that's the way that that was the
predominant view at the time and so WB
Dubois the famous sociologist and
activist writing in that time period he
said whiteness is the ownership of the
earth forever and ever amen that that
was the ideology of the period called
known as the New Imperialism
and which is generally dated from like
1870s to the first couple of decades of
the 1900s and so that yes you're it's
not an exaggeration it's not just a
theoretical perspective that I have that
was the way policy and the role
especially of Anglo European and US
officials that's the way they saw
themselves and what their role was what
their destiny was in on this planet and
so that that ideology leads us to do
things that in some ways are impossible
like you cannot exploit a finite
resource without depleting it and I mean
it almost gets down to that right and
it's like the the these are not I mean I
mean is that ultimately where we're at
when the Dust Bowl hits is just simply
too much
the
the that compulsion that is justified by
the fact that you know we're white and
this is what we were put on earth to do
but the compulsion to increase in size
and to expand the the land literally
cannot sustain it exactly and I think
that this is the problem we still have
today and that wasn't challenged during
that period which is why the problem in
Seville arose just as much as we know
about it as much as we've known about it
for literally a hundred years I mean
they were studying the problem of soil
erosion in there I mean I mean really
going back such a long time like so what
why why wasn't it addressed and that
idea that we are put on earth to control
to exploit for profit and to and it's
not it's our right and our duty to
develop the land and that's a major
problem and I think that the today I
mean people ask me so what's the point
of talking about the dustbowl as an
outcome of colonialism and white
supremacy what does that have to do with
today and I think that today we still
have this idea that's very problematic
that's tied up I think with the history
of colonial ideology that some places
and some people are are disposable but
it's ok you know like we talked about
climate change in the United States for
example we talked about climate policy
is this we're just making a choice about
our own greenhouse gas emissions and we
know we have a impact on on the broader
world but it's always a debate whether
we it's going to cost us too much to
make any changes as if we even have the
right to make that decision and impose
that on the rest of the world that's a
very colonial perspective on your own
environment on an environmental policy
in this country and I think that comes
straight out of that colonial era and
you're sitting debating the cost you and
admitting kind of at the same time it's
going to cause problem you know not
doing something about climate change or
emissions is going to cause problems
around the world but maybe we can't
maybe it's better for us though if we
carry on as we are it's just an
incredible
kubera sand and incredible like horrible
perspective and attitude towards other
people and places on the planet that I
think comes straight out of that same
tradition well exactly before we I don't
want to get too ahead of ourselves but
and because I want to go back and talk
about the response to the Dust Bowl you
know in a more material way as well as I
mean because I think you've just
articulated that the response at least
in terms of an ideological one was just
simply to look at it as a technological
issue but even looking at the concept of
it costing us right presumes that the
that what we're doing is really just
forgoing a that it's actually that we're
paying out as opposed to foregoing a
future profit that no isn't necessarily
ours right does that make sense I mean
the and and that is like that even it
seems to me the the frame of what's it
gonna cost us on some level implicates
you know is indicates that we have a
certain supremacy and that we're
spending that the that it's it's a cost
as opposed to our being foreclosed from
expending other people's assets and
whether that future assets or other
people around the world right right and
it gets primacy to the kind of really
narrow quantitative I mean quantitative
a narrow view of what cost even means
like who's paying the cost and and what
that even means it's all expressed in in
tends to be expressed in monetary terms
but obviously the higher reality of our
ecological existence is complete and not
just ours like you said everybody else
on the planet and all living beings not
just humans is completely ignored and so
the fact that that's even brought it
subject to cost-benefit analysis is is
outrageous when you start looking at it
from a more ecologically and socially
realistic perspective well I mean is the
problem and you know because this is
really about I mean this is all
addresses right how how we responded to
the dustbowl and that response is not I
mean changed I mean there was there was
investment in trying to to fix it and
and I do want to get there because I
just want I want to just illustrate that
but is it is it the case that a
cost-benefit analysis is inherently
problematic or is it that we're not
properly filling up those Ledger's and
the costs aren't necessarily you know
that we're the the benefits aren't
necessarily ones that are ours right
that that we should that we are do I
mean I mean can we do a cost-benefit
analysis that does not exclude
externalities that don't directly
implicate us or external is that we have
just decided subjectively oh that's not
really a cost that's just that's just
nature or you know or that that happens
across the border so that doesn't that's
not a cost that that that we need to
count you have to bear right right
exactly well I mean I think that there
are some some difference in what we mean
by cost-benefit analysis I guess but I
would say like monetary cost benefit
analysis is completely inadequate to
addressing any major ecological or
social issue
it'll never seem given the way economic
accounting works in the current and in
the world that we currently live in that
it can never accommodate the range of
ethical and social questions that we
have to ask ourselves when making
decisions as a society about how we're
going to organize society and and what
that means for the rest of the world and
for the broader ecological basis of our
existence so I don't think even there
there are a lot of proposals to
internalize the sort of externalities in
the sense of costing natures
so can we really try to put a monetary
value on all of those externalities that
you're talking about and I think even
that is is problematic because it
ignores the sort of political and
ethical aspects of these questions
it can't be reduced to a monetary
framework and so there was the great
ecologist
Howard Odom he was concerned about the
development of environmental economics
because he said that their entire goal
was to internalize the externalities and
he said what we really needed to do was
externalize the internality I'm quit
subjecting so much of the planet to
economic calculus and start talking
about the real the sort of the political
and ethical aspects that are hidden when
we put things in that framework so
rather than impose our value on on the
you know we're taking in the the globe
essentially as an input into our values
rather we take the values that are
outside of us and impose them upon our
calculations exactly all right so what
so just I mean briefly and this may be
going backwards just a little bit but
what the response to the dustbowl I mean
what how was it adequate for the moment
perhaps but inadequate for and I think
we've just explained to a certain extent
how it's inadequate for our future and
for society at large but but just
briefly let me go back if you will in
because I know the second half of the
book in many respects is to sort of
address this question mm-hmm so there is
so there were many responses to the Dust
Bowl that were tied up with responses
during the New Deal era to the
depression overall and so those are
those are very intertwined and it's
there were so many different programs I
I can't give a thorough kind of analysis
and in a short amount of time but I will
say that some of the most important
responses to the Dust Bowl in particular
were more government support for
conservation more education and programs
meant to teach farmers
agricultural technique some land was
purchased by the government or farmers
were paid to take it completely out of
production which needed to happen
because some of the land shouldn't have
been farmed to begin with or shouldn't
have been farmed as intensively as it
was and so a lot of those programs
educational programs conservation
programs teaching new techniques taking
marginal land out of production those
were successful in a lot of areas in the
sense of halting some of the worst
aspects of the crisis like they
replanted grasslands there in okay I'm
actually from Oklahoma you can still see
signs where they put in shelter tree
shelter belts of trees and things like
that and so they were able to deal with
some of the more immediate aspects of
the problem and also there were some
supports that helped rural communities
out of economic kind of complete
calamity and so on so all of those were
were great programs and there were
proposals for even more radical
conservation programs and and more
radical approaches to sort of
agricultural and rural community
planning that are that were very
exciting a lot of those got squashed in
the end or defunded and so they couldn't
be implemented so the response was not
as robust as it as it could have been
based on the ideas that were around at
the time but but there were some
improvements in regional economic and
ecological conditions and as a result of
these government programs however they
were not adequate in the sense of they
did not check the further kind of
development industrialization of
Agriculture in that region so by the
1950s when you have another series of
major droughts you can see a lot of the
same problems that were evident in the
1930s become evident again the state of
the land and so on and so that's
happened periodically again and again in
that region and today for example
there's a
of crisis people are very concerned in
the long term about the state of water
of the state of the land and so on and
so what we talked about earlier the fact
that there are people being displaced
around the world because of changes in
rural conditions and a climate change
like that's actually already happening
in the southern plains region again so
okay so there's two different types of
responses that can be effective and to
varying degrees like the idea of of of
saying to farmers like don't you know
you're getting paid to not grow here or
of baking land and saying these are
conservation areas that is fundamentally
anti-colonial right and because it is
anti imperialistic I mean obviously
we're you know because it is narrowing
the sort of the natural resources that
can be consumed by the the machine as it
were right that wants to profit eyes
these then there is a more and and to
the extent that we didn't go further
with those sort of material projects are
why we continue to have this problem but
then there's also a more sort of I guess
metaphorical response that could have
been we need to fundamentally alter the
dynamic between this need for expansive
profit if we're going to protect the
environment more broadly exactly and I
mean this is I didn't mention it earlier
but one of the develop a little bit
later development in the southern plains
region to address the problem of of
drought and and soil issues in that
region was the development of aquifers
and groundwater and building of large
reservoirs and all sorts of other types
of water development programs and one of
the things you see so that was meant to
try to address the fact that they're
still growing crops in that region that
actually shouldn't be grown there like
cotton you know corn things that are
really water intensive
crops that have no business being grown
there from an ecological perspective but
if you have these sort of unsustainable
props to that development through these
different sort of like especially
exploiting the aquifers then you can
sustain an unsustainable system over
time but now you see the consequences of
that over the long term are that now
there are some scholars who have done
work on you know the depletion of the
aquifers and you all have probably heard
of the Ogallala Aquifer which is a
massive source of groundwater that goes
under a number of states in the center
of the country but that now is getting
completely drained and with the climate
heating up and the ground drying out and
the depletion of that aquifer we're kind
of back into in the same position in
that area that we were in not exactly in
the 1930s but there were some scholars I
think based at the University of Chicago
or some scientists who did a study in
2016 that showed if there was another
drought on the same scale as that that
happened in the 1930s the region was
just as susceptible to drought as it was
at that time because conservation has
never gone far enough
and we should say like those aquifers
you know and this this word gets
bounding around I think too much but
that is the ultimate sort of neoliberal
response right like literally like
almost down to the textbook we will we
have this problem that's been created by
our technology and by our search for
profit
we will expend money but have the
government do it to enable future profit
making to fix that problem so we create
a problem with this technology we will
solve the problem with other technology
we will get the government to pay for it
which is you know really full-on Mont
Pelerin type of style of neoliberalism
and and then we will wait to this
problem occurs again and theoretically
we'll come up with another technological
solution the problem is we've run out
on some level right I mean or I mean
that that that's sort of the the the
analogy that and maybe it's not even
analogy I mean that's the situation
we're in today that's a history right it
happens over and over again instead of
actually resolving the problem we come
up with the technological fix that
basically kicks the can further down the
road and masks the unsustainability of
the situation overall and so in in a
1-point region at one point it's the
game musical chairs and the music ends
right and I think if you if you drive
through the southern plains region right
now or you drive through especially
further in the southwest you can see
that the music has ended I mean if you
look at that I was in New Mexico a few
years ago for a talk and I mean the dust
that just the constant sort of dust
blowing everything that there ridah
fication that's happening there is
really dramatic and NASA scientists and
scientists working at Columbia have said
because of climate change you know
because of climate change and these
other problems that have developed
ecologically in that region we're going
to see things like droughts and and
problems with soil that we saw in the
1930s but this time for decades at a
time but now we should expect to see it
for decades at a time yeah and the
depletion of the groundwater means one
of the ways that we've coped with that
over time is less and less available to
us and so if you go to water I've been
to some water planning meetings like
Oklahoma State water planning meetings
or Texas regional water planning
meetings and they're having a really
hard time thinking about where is this
water going to come from what's what
what are we going to do like the entire
model there is highly threatened and a
lot of counties in those states they're
just there they're losing population
because people can't make a living there
the way that they could in the past and
so it is it isn't a let's kind of wait
and see what happens it's like we're
already seeing the consequences of
having shifted those problems down the
road instead of having actually
developed a more
stainable economic and ecologically
sensible model in the in response to the
crisis in the early 1900s well the book
is dust bowls of empire imperialism
environmental politics and the injustice
of green capitalism Hannah Holloman
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you so much
is a great conversation
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel in defense
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
