I mean look I I in the main people make
mistakes and the problem with Joe
Biden's gaffes is that they are of a
kind that suggests this is not a guy who
is up in what everybody seems to agree
is a all hands on deck
ring the fire alarms type of an election
this does not seem like the guy that you
want to go into this type of battle with
it just seems risky and here he is
speaking to an event of gun activists in
Iowa and does not seem to realize that
the Parkland shooting in Florida took
place like a year and a half after he
left office which is weird i watch what
happened when the kids from parkland
marched up to and I met with him and
then they went off to up on the hill I
was vice president they went off the
hill to go into those neighborhoods all
those congressmen were like no I'm not
here I'm not here don't tell him I'm
around what's weird about this is this
it's like it's not he's not there
there's a whole narrative that he's
constructed here this is not like I met
the Parkland kids when I was vice
president and I'll tell you I was very
impressed by those kids and I thought
they did great work he has a whole story
that they showed up at the White House
and then went across the hill and he saw
what happen look and I don't know if
this is just a function you know like I
do think there are some issues with his
age or the way that he's aging I should
say
like I don't think his I happen to
subscribe to the idea that age is a
number doesn't necessarily peg you
people tend to think that I'm younger
than I am great I hope I can sustain
that when I'm Biden's age
Bernie's age warns age whatever but this
is also a guy and granted it was 25
years ago 30 years ago but when he
plagiarized from Neal Koenig he was not
taking Neil Kinnock was a labor leader
he was not taking language that was
about that was not that was
depersonalized he was not taking
language about you know the struggle of
labour or the struggle of ordinary guys
or here's a story about Joe Sixpack or
or even or even like I met a guy who
came to me with a with a lunch bag and
he said I want this lunch bag to be my
dad gave me this lunch pack you know
he's not even doing that the part that
he took from Neil Kinnick with Neil
Kennex personal story about growing up
the son of of a coal miner or something
it's very like he took the personal
stuff and adopted it who hasn't been at
a party telling a story and you realize
halfway through oops that story happened
to someone else yeah well I you know I
think that happens to people when they
get confirmed but it's not like he was
hanging out with Neil kenick
and it was a written script yeah was
about how how how am I the first person
to go to university here it was where my
parents thick like it was it's very
weird to look at sometimes he loses
track of the boundaries between himself
and other people
yeah exactly I have sometimes I find
myself speaking with a British accent
but that's that's the weird part about
about Joe Biden but you know we'll wait
till after Labor Day when you when you
can get a real good look at that he's
going down I I mean I I
continue to believe that but we'll see
this could be the big chapter the the
biggest chapter of my book and blame the
voters that might be the moment you
finally get me to blame the electorate
their eagerness Lee
