so Dena when we broke you had walked us
through this dynamic as to why how
digital advertising is sold is so
important to us not just as consumers
but as citizens and why we have a
dynamic now where two companies
essentially Google and Facebook dominate
this this market I mean in a way that is
it's stunning it almost it's almost as
that was you don't even need to say a
market you just need to say these two
companies and you've covered just about
all the bases and how their domination
and their tracking of us which is tied
into their domination of advertising
fundamentally undercuts a huge important
element of society and that is a vibrant
media and press so pick it up from there
we had we had stop there where you were
going to explain to us why this tracking
of my online activity or anyone's online
activity begins to undermine local
newspapers national newspapers I guess
you know TV outlets in any way that
people get their their news in order to
understand this concept we we have to
understand how the ads are bought and
sold at an individual level so I'm going
to run through this scenario really
quick if you go to a website let's say
you land on the New York Times in the
morning and you're and you're reading an
article in the milliseconds that it
takes that page to load information
about your identity and other
information that companies can tie to
your identity let's say that's credit
card data or Purchase History data gets
sent to mine ad auction and thousands of
companies can bid on the ability to show
you an ad at that particular moment in
time and one of those companies wins
and then the New York Times displays the
ad on your screen and you don't know
that all this happened you just see the
content on the page and you just see the
ads on the page so but this is this is
the process that's happening every time
you see an ad online
everything gets traded in real time
auctions and in real time environments
so one of the reasons we have dominance
problems in the industry is because of
what Facebook and Google are able to
force independent news publishers to do
from a privacy perspective so let's run
through this you go to the New York
Times you read the let's say you read
the automotive section right so the New
York Times knows that you are reading
the automotive section and you're
interested in a particular type of car
and it can take that information and
send out those that that information to
automotive manufacturers that might want
to bid on the opportunity to show you an
ad at that instant let's say the
clearing price for those types of ads
for cars if you're in the market for a
new car let's say it's like a a forty
dollar cost per thousand Frances how ad
there so so a forty dollar CPM now
imagine that you later go in the
afternoon and you go onto Facebook and
you're looking at family photos Facebook
knows you're on Facebook you're looking
at family photos and Facebook wants to
now show you ads but let's say they can
only they can only sell those ads for
let's say a five dollar CPM because it
can only target you with ads for what
they tied laundry detergent or other
household goods because you're looking
at lots of ads have lots of babies in it
so what happens is Facebook goes to the
New York Times and other publishers and
says hey if you want to use our social
network and you want to plug into our
social network you have to give us the
right to watch and record what your
readers are reading on your site and
by the way we're going to use that data
and we can price undercut your
advertising using that data so now this
is this looks like a monopoly wrench and
what happens is you go to the New York
Times you're reading out a motive
section and New York Times can sell that
sale ads to you for motive manufacturers
at $40 CPM but now you go to Facebook in
the afternoon and Facebook because it
has watched and recorded what you're
reading on another site can now also
monetize you by showing you automotive
ads because it now knows that
information about you and if it wants it
can sell those targeted ads to you for
$30 price undercutting the New York
Times instead of what the New York Times
charges of $40 now of course the New
York Times has to charge more because
they paid the writers to create the
content and the first place and
Facebook's looks like it just got an
unfair advantage by being able to sort
of scrape and track you on other sites
and now use it when it's selling its own
advertising so we have a situation here
where it's almost like the the media
outside of Facebook and Google is are
almost like workers in a in a in a you
know in an industry own town where they
really only get script in some respects
and they ultimately because of this
dynamic have to buy from the company
that they're working for in some
respects I mean that's basically what
that Delta is right that's the New York
Times you know providing a kickback to
Facebook but it's one that ultimately
undercuts the ability for the New York
Times to compete in the marketplace
which is why we're seeing the failure of
so many these media companies on top of
which I guess it also undermines you
know what what kind of content that they
put out and so this dynamic is ongoing
and and I guess we see this too in
Google and YouTube you cannot compete
with the YouTube platform because Google
has all this extra
information that they have basically and
records we see this also this dynamic we
saw this dynamic with Walmart and their
suppliers they have this monopsony I
guess it is and they forced the the
suppliers to do some I guess you know
basically push their quality down or to
limit you know how they how they produce
things so that the they can sell to
Walmart because Walmart is the only
buyer in town in this instance part of
the problem is at that point when you
only have one competitor is you can't
have then you get into all these
questions of like censorship on Facebook
and YouTube because they're the only
game in town so we just have about a
minute and a half left here broad
strokes what do we do to deal with this
problem I think the easiest way to deal
with all of these different problems in
one stroke is to prohibit companies from
tracking consumers after they leave
their own site unless the consumer
option or give consumers the right to
opt out of tracking which is something
that Senator Holly recently proposed
that we do not track though
let them opt out of being tracked just
like they had once the right to wear
they still do to opt out of receiving
telemarketing calls at the home and you
know we could see mass adoption of
consumers you know signing up for a do
not tracklist and that would solve the
problems for consumers from a privacy
perspective it would solve the problem
for news publishers it would solve the
problem of other independent journalists
that's probably the easiest way to fix
all of the problems that we're seeing
and we've recently seen the association
that represents news publishers in DC
come out and support you know this very
idea
