so Peter at the break I had made a maybe
a slightly laborious no pun intended
metaphor about about carpenters that I
think if people who don't do it would
work don't realize that a lot of the
time the Carpenters spend is you know
when they're when they're building
cabinets or pieces of furniture is
building the tools necessary to build
the final product they'll build a jig
that you know it's basically building a
mold in some respects or something to
help them with other tools and in in in
in to a large extent that's what you're
writing about here in in Jacobin is how
do you what things what are the
preliminary almost objectives that will
give you the power to achieve the larger
goals those goals may be single-payer
health care they may be universal pre-k
or a universal daycare they may be
breaking up the banks they may be
breaking up big companies a whole host
of a progressive Democratic Socialist
this last socialist agenda but there has
to be an infrastructure that's created
first what where do you what's the plan
for that so I think that you need to so
first of all we do we need to start
building durable political institutions
on their City
so we significant progress on this stuff
with all the groups organizing around
the green New Deal we need to see things
like what we saw at the very beginning
of Congress with protesters and Nancy
Pelosi's office if we start seeing our
agenda blocks we need that to start
happening every single day in every
single office and we need the
infrastructure to allow that to happen
we need activists to have the resources
they need to have the training to really
put a whole lot of pressure on
politicians we need to start working
with in labor unions and other sort of
more traditional progressive allies who
have sometimes gone off course I don't
know if you recently saw that a lot of
trade unions came out against the green
New Deal
we need to start first of all talking to
the people in them but also of activists
within unions if you're a wood worker
into a carpenter then you should be
talking to people within your union that
just trying to push for them to support
more progressive things and then from
and then when the administration gets
into power they need to start thinking
about staging their policy and rolling
out policies from the very GetGo das
bild
long term powers not just going with the
immediate sort of most flashy item but
what can we do right now that's going to
help us in the future what's going to
mobilize people in support of our agenda
as it goes on you know when you read any
sort of history of the people who got
into power and privatize all the things
and sold off assets and riff back the
welfare state people very very carefully
about what's the way that we can stays
out our agenda sort of step-by-step plan
to dismantle the welfare state and he
sort of ripped the heart out of the
public sector but it was very deliberate
and we might to be exactly the same way
we need to think about us for what
institutions can we create in the first
hundred days in the first year of office
that are going to be a full force
multiplier for us over the entire rest
of whatever presidency that Bernie
Sanders or Elizabeth Warren or whoever
in order to allow us to exert further
power and get the rest of our agenda
through because there's a huge amount of
policies that we need to pass in order
to bring this country up to decent
Society that we all need so ok so we
have about three and a half minutes left
and you you you cite you know that there
are and there are models in turn you
know that we have seen historically and
internationally
one is the Meitner plan just you know in
just about two or three minutes left
just give us a broad overview of what
that is it involves like
sectors correct so basically what the
minor plan would have done and what I'm
proposing should be revived is a scheme
by which companies large companies every
year would have to give a certain
percentage of their shares for no
compensation to funds owned by workers
and those who the workers would get
evidence enough funds so they would
immediately benefit from that they see
the benefits of social ownership and
they'd be able to vote on internal
matters in the company they have these
sort of oversight rights of shareholders
- and over time they move towards the
significant share of the company and
would be able to block the nasty things
layoffs environmental destruction so
this is from frozen Sweden in the 70s it
was passed in sort of a watered-down
form in the 80s it ended up by the early
nineteen nineties controlling about ten
percent of the economy before it was
sold off by a right-wing government
because there wasn't a favored end out
of it so we want to give a dividend to
people so that they know about it and so
they want to protect it so that's like
what I'm saying now need to phase it so
that people understand the benefits
they're getting from it immediately is
this something that is legislated though
I mean is this like you know how does a
president with maybe a recalcitrant
legislator get that have that happen in
this country so uh so I so I said it in
the beginning of the piece that really
this might be something that happens a
bit of the way down the road but once
you introduced us and it's really hard
to get rid of so I I'm proposing this is
something that you can do like when you
end up having a legislature that's going
to cooperate with your agenda once
you're not Franklin Roosevelt with a
Congress hostile to him but that you're
someone with a new deal Congress who can
pass all of those policies there like
there's a lot of examples of
administration's coming into power with
all with that with the hostile Cobblers
with a hostile Parliament that end up
sort of coming back and being more
successful the second time around maybe
it's after the midterms maybe it's in
his second term or maybe it's the person
after him I don't know if
immediately but I do think that once you
start that you need to think of how
building institutions that create a
democratic heartbeat in the economy and
this is what this is one of them we have
I say that in my day job I work at the
next system project it's democracy
collaborative we have lots of other
models like this on our website the next
systems org well since people kiss me
through great well folks can check out
your piece in Jacobin and they can check
it out at the website inter Gowen
fascinating a underlooked perspective on
on what success what the challenges are
involved in success in this twenty
twenty election thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it
