[Music]
Bernie's announcement in addition to
saying at one point this time is gonna
be different because we're gonna win and
you know look I am most partial to the
proposals that Bernie Sanders has
proposed and Elizabeth Warren more or
less by far they just they seem to be
putting forward and Bernie is yet to
really I think roll out any new
proposals but certainly the Medicare for
all that many of the other candidates
have signed onto and warned putting out
proposals like producing generic drugs
like the one that she announced we'll
talk about it in a bit
universal daycare these are important
proposals to get out into the
conversation and part of the reason why
and I've spoken to a lot of people about
this who have said in many different
ways that were the campaign two or three
months longer that primary campaign had
Bernie Sanders gotten into the and
decided to run three to six months
earlier and genuinely believed he had a
shot at winning what he entered or even
three just monk you know if he had gone
in three months earlier and he would
have picked up the that awareness
earlier he could have very well want
that that primary in 2016 and this time
he's going in and he's going in to win
it and and that's what he said in his
you know interview and and that is that
is not I think people should you know
have interpreted that as like some type
of measure of of confidence and I think
the guy is confidence and
and whatnot but I think what it is is it
is a tacit admission that the last time
he entered the race was because he was
running a message campaign and this time
he's running a race to become the
nominee not to mention the president
well and then ultimately the president
hashtag Bernie would have won well like
I say Bernie will win Martin O'Malley
would have won too I think
but be that as it may that was then this
is now
here is Bernie Sanders talking
specifically about Howard Schultz and he
had been quiet up to this point about
Howard Schultz Howard Schultz has now
said he would not run as an independent
if the Democrats moderate why is Howard
Schultz on every television station in
this country why are you quoting Howard
Schultz because he was a billionaire
all right there are a lot of people I
know personally who work hard for a
living to make 40 $50,000 eeeh who know
a lot more about politics than all due
respect as mr. Schultz but because we
have a corrupt political system anybody
who is a billionaire who can throw a lot
of TV ads on television suddenly becomes
very very credible
so what mr. Schultz but is he
blackmailing the Democratic Party if you
don't nominate Bernie Sanders he's not
going to run well I don't think we
should succumb to that kind of blackmail
the other reason is that he represents
an argument that some people make which
is if you're worried about Donald Trump
the Democratic Party to win voters in
various parts of the country needs to
pick somebody who is not so radical
that's also what his theory well I think
his deeper theory is hey I'm a
billionaire leave me alone and let me
make as much money as I can without
paying my fair share of taxes he's a
billionaire it's thinking of running for
president something's a very famous guy
that's that is a problem with our
political system I mean they're you know
not terribly different than what we were
saying on the day that Howard Schultz
was like all of a sudden on every single
TV show suddenly because he
built up a coffee shop into a big
business that which other people have
also done yes that he is perfectly
primed to step in and become president
and is treated as if he's a serious guy
as opposed to let's say Donald Trump and
without any sort of prior without any
prior policy work it's just that he went
in and he bought Steve Schmidt and he
bought Bill Burton literally bought them
for millions of dollars and he bought
his credibility and he bought ads and he
bought media time five five by I Got
News for you if I go by a three-page
spread in the New York Times guess what
I'm gonna get somebody's gonna write a
story about the majority report that's
just the fact and that in and of itself
if it's something as benign as oh they
did a profile on Sam because he maybe
it's related to his you know two million
dollar buy of ads or whatever it is but
they did a profile on him you know what
that doesn't have that grade of its
corrupt but it's not that relevant
nobody cares so what but when it's
they're doing a profile on this guy
because he's going to try and run for
president that's that's where you have
the corruption of the political process
and that is I mean it's as if Howard
Schultz showed up to provide the subtext
for a lot of why
Bernie's running which is that we have a
system that we have people who have
amassed so much money that they now are
they have turned us to you know their
plutocrats now they're they they had
garnered so much money that they have an
outsized power significantly outside
power political
and socially and that's the problem
so I don't know Bernie I'm hope sent him
a muffin basket seriously God just to
watch that
what's whatever his name is news guy sit
there with a straight face saying Howard
Schultz represents an argument that a
third party billionaire is gonna beat
Trump like goddammit that sucks
well the the and the only the the only
like even sort of like rationale or
rationale I should say for Schultz's and
candidacy is this idea that the
Democrats can't become too economically
laughed because that won't appeal to the
voters who supposedly voted Trump
because they wanted to screw over the
establishment right like that's the
argument and even in articulating it it
makes no sense
yeah how'd that go the last time around
well but I mean put that aside for a
moment just just the argument because
it's always put out there without any
data there's no there's no like this
poll says that it's just an argument
that ostensibly sounds reasonable but if
you genuinely articulate the argument of
course it's absurd yeah and actually
there is data that contradicts that well
of course but they can't get into data
when they talk about it or that's they
won't be able to get the question out of
their mouth because it's not the data
that's leading to the prominence of the
arguments it's the money behind him yes
and this is what is both so gross and so
powerful about Bernie Sanders ability to
raise the kind of money that he raised
in the first 24 hours and in the week
subsequent to his announcement like this
is if you tell me how much money the
candidates have on hand in terms of cash
nine months from now ten months from now
after Iowa after New Hampshire 13 14
months out after super to 12 months out
now basically if you tell me how much
money cash on hand the candidates have
on March 10th or March 6th I can tell
you who the top four candidates are
gonna be and maybe three that's just the
reality of this process when people get
out of the race it's going to be because
they don't have cash
Sanders has announced he has over 1
million volunteers that have signed up
oh yeah for the 2020 campaign and they
are in every single congressional
district a million volunteers all right
that's nuts
so we'll see you know this is and and
I'll tell you that you look at there was
polls that came out in New Hampshire and
he's got a decent sized lead they're
probably bigger than most of the states
that he will have have leads in but 20
to 25 percent is a number that could win
a lot of these primaries
Kamla Harris is going to be has has a
structural advantage on some level
because of California is part of Super
Tuesday and although you know Iowa and
New Hampshire then South Carolina then
Super Tuesday March 3rd I believe it is
next year 2019-20 excuse me 2020 and
coming out of those it's not a
winner-take-all type of situation coming
out of those Super Tuesday we're gonna
have a very good sense of like who the
top five or six candidates are
and money plays a big part and obviously
volunteers do too but I think Kamala
Harris is the one to beat
I think Bernie and her are gonna fight
it out you know it's tough you never
know you never know like somebody could
pop out of Iowa that could be surprising
coming in like a surprising set a second
a Rick Santorum situation and I've been
there
who knows I've had those I don't even
want to
oh geez
