[Music]
with Sam's PETA the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
the conference rooms of an ele
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday November 13th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of political science at George
Washington University John sides
co-author of identity crisis
the 28th 2016 presidential campaign and
the battle for meaning of America also
on the program today the Blue Wave got
little wavier christened cinema declared
the winner in Arizona as the Republican
candidate refuses to pretend that there
was voter fraud there meanwhile speaking
of fraud Matt Whitaker's appointment
faces a new court challenge as he is
pretending to be acting Attorney General
Rick Scott speaking of pretending again
about voter fraud tries to end the
recount in Florida but fails meanwhile
in Georgia a judge orders a halt to the
election certification so that
provisional ballots may be reviewed
reports are trump going to fire
Christian Nielsen wants Chris
Kobach meanwhile jerome corsi and Roger
stone think they'll be indicted today we
should be so lucky
Democrats announced their early
legislative agenda and it's smart
meanwhile Alexandra Ocasio Cortez calls
for more stringent requirements on
Amazon's invasion of Queens Trump Bree
ups his covering for Mohammed bin Salman
and Gavin McGinnis is having a tough
time in Larchmont all this and more on
today's program
ladies and gentlemen sorry for the
slight delay today in the beginning of
the show having technical sorts of
technical difficulties and it's there's
nothing there's really nothing that
irritates me more if it goes past like
an hour's worth the technical
difficulties then I think it's basically
my whole day of shot so if there were
one other thing and it's that in there
irritates you more if I may well that
that's possibly true dishonouring white
women and they that's a reference to
call them yesterday
so this interview is going to be
fascinating today there was just a
couple of just general statistics that I
had just was unaware of and this dynamic
that the argument that this book makes
in terms of what Barack Obama and Donald
Trump did to the to the to what identity
was activated by people in terms of race
is fascinating I'll explain that more
when we get into the show but as we
speak
the votes are being counted recounted in
Florida very close in the Senate race a
little bit less so in the Gov
race but obviously close enough for a
recount it's unclear to me how it's
going to work in terms of the recount
with the Senate at this point I can't
quite tell if it's going to be a machine
recount and if the machine recount
brings it down to a certain level then
it becomes a hand recount conceivably
that could happen in the governor's race
too seems unlikely but there is a
certain amount of under votes for the
Senate race in Broward County and I have
seen two forms of speculation one is
that it was the flaw and the ballot
design so people missed voting for the
Senate the second was that there was a
flaw in the ballot design and the
Machine missed recording that people had
voted for so we'll see I mean it it
feels at the very least it feels that
the Democrats are slightly more prepared
for this it's absurd that there could
ever be any voting problems in Florida
again after 2000 I mean this would be
like we're gonna build another badly
levy in New Orleans
that's up next okay so people went back
and there was a documentary called
unprecedented not to be confused with
cliff schecter podcast and it was the
2000 presidential election documentary
that looked at the voting irregularities
West Palm Beach Palm Beach and somebody
went back watched it saw a recognizable
individual who was interviewed at the
time at that time he was involved in
student government this is Wow
there's only 18 years ago I guess
there were unexpected obstacles as the
precincts closed later that evening
we begin to get reports here in the
Student Government Association from just
different students about either not
having their voter registration card
going to the precinct that they voted at
before and now being told that they
weren't on the roster that their names
have been purged many more
irregularities were confirmed when the
NAACP held hearings a few days yeah I'll
say
but there it is Andrew Gilliam at the
time involved in student government
that's crazy
not a single word about single payer
there you Goit see the recent loss right
there single word about free college
tuition there it is Andrew Gilliam full
circle right ignoring the key issues
back then and today it is whining about
voter suppression but it is ignoring you
can have autonomy it is stunning
that we still have election that we
could possibly have election problems in
Florida in the same areas that the laws
have not have been amended in any way
that if you're up against the deadline
you haven't finished counting votes
because there's been screw-ups that
those votes don't count it's absurd it's
absolutely absurd well and clearly it's
working for some people it well did you
indeed and I the let me just finish here
the the Democrats have announced their
legislative agenda at least they're
early one and they will be introducing
legislation to do some things that I
actually also mentioned would be a good
idea to do so I may even give myself a
little bit of a do a little bit of a DAB
here the bill would establish automatic
voter registration and vien reinvigorate
the Voting Rights Acts you'll recall I
was
thing that the Democrats would do that
so this right there if you make it a
little more enthusiastic there we got a
little upper look whoa wait so wait till
they throw it away you throw it away
sure that he said it would take
redistricting power away from state
legislatures and give it to independent
commissions it would go on other
provisions overturn Supreme Court's
Citizens United ruling not quite sure
how they could go about doing that but
they could mandate more disclosure of
outside money and establish public
financing match for small contributions
that to me seems to be fine but I think
basically you know they understand and
then there's some ethics issues too that
seem to be focused on Donald Trump but
you would imagine no one would have a
problem with expanding anti-bribery laws
one would imagine one would probably be
wrong but we'll see
the bottom line though however is that
the Democrats are stepping forward with
an agenda that does two things one
because this is not going to pass right
the the Senate is not going to pass this
it's controlled by the Republicans but
it does two things one if it was to be
passed it would make structural reforms
that would enhance the power of
Democrats and their ability to get
elected and neutralize at least to some
extent the ability of Republicans from
disenfranchising tens to hundreds of
thousands to millions of people across
the country and keeping them from voting
that's a B what if it does not pass it's
going to force Republican senators to
vote against things like fixing the
Voting Rights Act like making it easier
to vote like anti bribery statutes it's
going to draw some clear lines as to
what the Republicans are for and against
and what the Democrats are for and
against so it's a smart piece of
legislation I might break it up
personally but I don't know how they're
going to to introduce it but they have a
large package they may do it as an
omnibus bill which it makes some votes
more difficult for the Republicans they
may not so we'll see I've on them haters
[Applause]
meanwhile folks it is the flu and cold
season staying properly hydrated is one
of the most important factors in
recovering from the flu and cold and
frankly from avoiding it thankfully
liquid IV provides the same hydration as
drinking two to three bottles of water
liquid IV is not your average
electrolyte drink mix as 110 percent
daily value of vitamin C and b12 it's
non-gmo clean ingredients healthy
alternative to traditional sports drinks
and it delivers hydration to the
bloodstream faster and more efficiently
than water does that's because of
chemistry
I think b12 causes like stuff like
vitamin C and some of the nutrients to
be absorbed quicker I don't know
I'm not I'm not a scientist not a doctor
with five essential vitamins it has more
vitamin C than an orange it is much
potassium as a banana whenever I travel
now I grab a handful I dry I take one on
the plane I take one when I get off the
plane sometimes I'll do one when I get
on the plane I stay properly hydrated
don't have jet lag and occasionally when
I travel I will drink a little too much
and so I will drink one that night it
feels good for my tummy blitz that have
played it's trying to start I don't
drink I don't drink alcohol about zero
sum with somebody across the aisle
I love liquid IV and I know you will too
is Michael just did my voice when I
drink it right now my listeners get 20%
off at liquid IV dot-com
so it's liquid - IV dot-com when you use
my code majority a check out that's 20%
off anything you order on liquid IVs
website go to
would - IV dot-com and enter my promo
code majority to get your savings start
getting better hydration that's liquid -
IV dot-com promo code majority don't
wait get hydrated today also support for
today's show comes from third love using
millions of real women's measurements
third love designs its bras with breast
size and shape in mind for an impeccable
fit and incredible feel all you do is
you answer a few simple questions from
third loves fit finder quiz to find your
perfect fit third love offers double the
number of sizes that most brands offer
cups a through H bands up to 48 and with
lightweight memory foam cup straps that
won't slip tagless labels you want to
wear these soft and breathable bras and
underwear every day especially the new
cotton t-shirt bras and underwear
thanks to 100% fit guarantee returns and
exchanges are free and easy I have a
testimonial about third love well I you
you for I think actually a little like
maybe more like nine nine yeah I would
say okay so this is a close friend of
mine who who tried out the brush I like
they don't have a seal a zillion options
so it's easy to choose something quickly
the fit is great I usually have to
return most bras I order online even
though they're in my size I ordered to
both fit that almost never happens I'm I
am don't have the experience to know if
she's just you know talking or what but
she says that almost never happens super
comfortable for an everyday bra but not
as boring as most t-shirt bras subtle
cute details so I don't feel basic there
you go third love folks they know
there's a perfect bra for everyone so
right now they're offering my listeners
15% off your first order go to 3rd
love.com slash majority now and find
your perfect fitting bra they get 15%
off your first purchase
that's third love
spelled-out third love.com / majority
for 15% off today and lastly I think you
all know that 2018 has been a rather
difficult year for Human Rights frankly
2017 2016 2015 we go on has not been so
great either but have you ever wondered
how rights abuses are documented around
the world you probably have the sheer
volume of global crisis we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing in Miramar to the
caging of children on US borders it's
critical we exposed the truth in order
to defend the rights of all and bring
those responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that I
can't tell you how many times in this
program I have quoted Human Rights Watch
numbers for this program and frankly 15
15 some odd years I've been doing this
they're an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy often in partnership
with local activists and human rights
groups they accept no money from any
government but rely on the support of
informed dedicated people just like you
so if human rights are important to you
go to HRW org slash majority make a
donation support it's vital work around
the world
that's HRW org slash majority when you
do not only is your gift tax deductible
it will be matched dollar for dollar
until 2019 that means your donation will
go twice as far to advance justice and
defend the basic dignity of people who
need it most
again that's HRW org slash majority it's
it's a great thing to do to sit down
with your kids and you know this as we
enter into sort of like the gift gearing
a giving season to sit down with them
and I mean I'm gonna tell you what do
but what I do with with with my kids we
take a night of Chanukah and instead of
getting a toy the cash they get to
choose
look at a couple of charities charitable
organizations and so you a great way to
sort of enter into some conversations
with kids HRW org slash majority alright
we're going to take a quick break when
we come back John sides
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
political science at George Washington
University co-author with Michael
tesslar in Lynn Vava rec of identity
crisis the 2016 presidential campaign in
the battle for the meaning of America
John sides welcome to the program thank
you so much for having me
so let's start the this story of the of
the 2016 election really starts closer
to 2008 and I want to start with one
fact that I just did sort of blew me
away was that less than 50% of of
non-college educated white voters could
could place the Democrats to the left of
the Republicans on the question of which
party was more supportive of government
assistance I guess broadly help for
African Americans is is that right and
what are the implications of that at
that time what that showing you is of
course that that lots of people just
don't pay close attention to politics
and don't register features of political
parties that to most political observers
are well known and had been well known
for years if not decades the reason that
this changes though
has to do with the presidency of Barack
Obama and in some sense Barack Obama
clarifies the party politics of race and
this helps voters who may have been
paying less attention to politics come
to realize that the Democratic Party is
to the left of the Republican Party on
these issues that to me is stunning
because there was plenty of there I mean
I've seen studies that suggest that I
guess the the idea of like of of
government support becomes racialized
right before this but it's not
lined up with with the parties until
essentially people see that a black eye
is the Democratic nominee yeah therefore
especially for voters who had less
formal education the alignment of their
partisanship and their racial attitudes
really was a feature of the Obama era
and what that did of course
overall was just to strengthen the
correlation in the American population
more generally so that people who have
used immigration that are more favorable
or want more immigration or people that
have use of racial inequality that think
that it has mostly to do with slavery
and discrimination those people are
increasingly Democrats and if you have a
view that is more concerned about the
level of immigration wants to reduce it
or if you have a view of racial
inequality that says that it's mostly
about blacks not trying hard enough or
not working hard enough then those
people are increasingly Republicans you
know so maybe the part of it maybe
people are changing their views about
immigration to match their partisanship
or maybe they're updating their
partisanship to align with their views
of race in the integration but either
way you know we end up with a country
where the standard way that we can test
elections you know Democrat versus
Republican is now not just a debate
about what's a how large government
should be which it has been for years
and years and years now it's a debate
about you know what kind of country were
going to be how exclusive or inclusive
we're going to be toward these different
kinds of groups and I mean in some ways
like I feel that some of us here
speaking literally in this room I have
been guilty of assuming that these
things were already racialized right I
mean - because race has played such an
enormous part in our politics but I
guess so the big difference is really
just sort of this this new level of
sorting that that's taking place right
that that has been really a basically an
eight to ten year process that's
absolutely right
no question that racial politics have
been endemic in American politics from
the founding but the ways in which
people's views about race and their own
racial identities aligned with
partisanship as a much more recent
phenomenon and even even like in the
context of like the Dixiecrats and
whatnot and then LBJ saying we're gonna
lose the south because of these issues
for a decade he turned out to be a
little bit a little bit off but but even
then I mean this is so it all comes down
to well let's let's just start with this
I mean where do you guys I'm what tell
us about the research that you did that
you started to come across this notion
did you enter into this work with with
an awareness that this dynamic had taken
place yes I mean in part because my
co-author Michael tesslar had previously
written two different books about the
politics of race during the Obama era
one about his 2008 presidential
campaigns and then a second book about
his not only his presidential campaigns
but his presidency more generally and we
knew this was happening and there are
some you know there's a little bit a lot
of attention in the political science
literature to this concept of sorting
and to the ways in which Democrats and
Republicans and you know it may
increasingly differ from each other on a
variety of policy issues but what
Michael was able to show in his work on
the Obama era was that this sorting came
to encompass racial issues as well as
more general kinds of ideological issues
however I think that this more general
trend toward sorting may or may not have
been as consequential in 2016
had it not been for the 2016 campaign
itself I mean there was plenty of
sorting already underway about 2012 but
yet the role of issues like immigration
and race in 2016 was clearly greater
than in 2012 where that's what our
evidence suggests and that tells you to
a lot of it had to do with the the
specific choices of the candidates in
terms of their ideas and messages in
2016 and how there was different from
other recent presidential elections
okay so conceptually to understand this
it's almost as if there was like a there
was something like a like a like a
dormant I don't know virus embedded in
all of us and the environment in 2012 or
2008 brought that to the fore and and
then in 2012 that was a little bit less
the environment was a little bit less
stimulating to that virus and then in
2016 that virus or allergy or however
you want to conceptualize it what was
even magnified because of of the context
is that sort of like conceptually the
right iwait way to think about that I
think that's right I mean sometimes we
talk about it with kind of an
agricultural metaphor which is you know
aspects of the Obama era kind of
fertilized the soil for more racially
charged politics and the that made the
probably increased the likelihood that
that kind of racially charged politics
could be potent if the candidates were
to really embrace that and Obama
obviously didn't he was always trying to
moderate on questions of race didn't
talk about it as frequently as some
other Democratic presidents he took very
careful positions you know McCain and
Romney you know really did not want to
run heavily racialized campaigns and you
know explicitly rejected certain kinds
of tactics that might have played the
race card in a more explicit way but of
course for Trump and Clinton it was a
very different kind of election all
together all right well let's I mean
let's talk about that in terms of you
know because my understanding is that
Clinton found herself relative from 2008
to 2016 the way that she was perceived
on race and as reflected in her
supporters almost flipped
is that right yes basically of course in
2008 you know her coalition was built
around primarily white voters in the
Democratic primaries and especially
white voters who had more conservative
views on racial issues and in 2016 it
flips that now her coalition she
actually she gains all the support among
African Americans loses some support
among whites overall and the role of
white primary voters racial attitudes
just doesn't really matter as much
anymore because there's no African
American candidate in the ballot and and
Clinton and Sanders are not really
different on their in their own views
about about racial inequality so yeah it
was basically a coalition that became
the inverse of itself so how do you
measure this stuff I mean how I mean cuz
2008 you know it's not we had our first
black president or candidate we also
were coming out of or entering into you
know the most severe economic I guess
event in generations how do you how do
you sort of parse this stuff out like
how do you determine what is operative
what is because I imagine there's a lot
of things that go into you know the
question of who am I gonna vote for how
do you parse these out and how do you
determine what is the sort of the
driving factor sure what we did in
looking at the 2016 election was we we
did as many comparisons to recent
presidential elections as we could
because we wanted to distinguish what is
distinctive about 2016 from what is kind
of a chronically important factor in
presidential elections in which case if
it's if it's chronically important then
the story isn't really about 2016 it's
just a broader story about American
presidential elections one of the ways
that we did this was with a unique
survey that interviewed
same group of voters first in the 2012
election we talked to them in December
2011 so you know almost a year before
they voted we talked to them in November
2012 after they inverted we asked them
you know did you vote Obama or did you
vote Romney and then four years later
right after the 2016 election we were
able to reintroduce the same voters and
so we could see you know how they voted
in both elections and who shifted from
Obama to Trump or from Romney to Clinton
and we could compare the relative impact
their views about a variety of different
issues that we had measured way back in
2011 you know well before you know both
campaigns but especially 2016 and we
found that it was these things about
race and immigration that that although
in some cases they certainly appeared to
correlate strongly with your choice from
between Obama and Romney that those
correlations increased in 2016
other factors didn't necessarily show
that same pattern how do you I mean what
are the type of questions that you ask
to to make that determination where you
pull out a very good question very good
question so like what we can break up a
couple different topics take racial
inequality you know we're asking people
whether they agree or disagree with a
series of statements and the statements
are designed to get at do you attribute
racial inequality to structural forces
like discrimination or do you attribute
it to the fact that you know into your
beliefs that blacks don't work hard
enough so yeah generations of slavery
and discrimination have made it
difficult for blacks to get ahead that's
you know do you agree or disagree or you
may ask them it's just a question of
trying harder blacks only try hard
enough they could be as well-off as
whites do you agree or disagree so we
ask those kinds of questions to measure
use of immigration you know it's it's in
the three questions that we had in the
survey when we first dated in 2011 where
do you want to increase or decrease
immigration do you want to or keep it
the same you know and then do you
support a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants and then thirdly
do you think that undocumented
immigrants are been a federal Society so
you know you know we combined these
questions together to get you know kind
of indexes or scales that measure
people's views on these issues to do one
more example where there's a lot of
discussion about
roll of economics and economic anxiety
and so in both twelve and sixteen
this is now in a different survey
project but a really nice battery of
questions how worried are you about
losing your job how likely is it that
you're not going to be able to make a
mortgage or rent payment in the coming
months or not be able to make a
healthcare payment several questions of
that nature so really designed to get it
the way I think people really thought
were the driving insecurities even after
eight years of economic recovery since
the recession and we just found that
those economic anxiety measures really
didn't strongly correlate with your vote
in either election twelve or sixteen and
didn't correlate more strongly at
sixteen than twelve do you were there
significant differences in the way that
people answered those questions too so
you're asking the same people in 2011
that you are in 2016 I do their answers
change at all I mean did you see any
like it did people become more or less
Express more or less I guess racist
views or you know however you have a
good question
overall no there aren't really big
shifts in in people's overall views
about immigration or race or things like
that one of the metaphors that we use to
illustrate this sometimes people talk
about Trump's victory or the success of
right-wing populist parties and European
countries as a wave it's reflecting it's
a wave of populist sentiment but if you
if I pop ulis sentiment you mean things
like concern about immigration you know
there is no way it's not that like the
public was becoming less open to
immigration and that's what Trump was
able to ride to victory what we would
say is that public opinion on questions
like race and immigration and the other
issues is really more like a reservoir
you know there's a there's a range of
sentiments from positive to negative or
favorable to unfavorable and the
question is are those sentiments going
to be mobilized and therefore become
more
awfully predictive of people's choices
and again that's where the that's where
the decisions are the candidates come in
so it's in in let me ask the same
question about the economic the economic
anxiety measures was there any movement
from from 2011 to 2016
yeah the American public became less
economically anxious which again isn't
it's a mystery to me why this was so
under covered going into the 2016
election but you there have been you
know 50 years of survey data that ask
people things like you know how your
personal finance is doing are they
getting better or worse what about the
national economy do you think it's
getting better or worse what about in a
year from now do you think you'll be
better than or worse off then you know
the the standard battery of questions
showed pretty clearly that the public
was getting more economically confident
and this is just tracking the actual
recovery from the recession it's not to
suggest that like every problem had been
solved right but in terms of what the
public was seeing it clearly reflected a
belief that the economy was getting
better
what's written remarkable to me is that
since Trump's gotten elected there's
much more news coverage now about the
economic recovery the growth rate the
unemployment rate people's positive
views now the question is why isn't the
positive economy helping Trump or
helping the Republican Party but if you
look at people's actual views about the
economy they're only a little bit better
than they were in 2016 so again we I
think in some sense the popular
impression of the campaign really missed
the boat on what was happening in public
opinion overall and and it was that sort
of you know I guess improved perspective
on the economy was that equally
distributed across you know different
income levels and wealth levels and all
different sort of subgroups that you
would you would look at very good
question so
the answer is yes that you can you can
segment the public based on how much
formal education they have you can
segment them based on their income level
and the trends are moving in parallel so
like every group every educational group
an income group is becoming more
favorable about the economy and in fact
the ironic thing about the the
comparisons across the income groups is
that during the Obama years there were
actually fewer differences between the
wealthiest and the least wealthy
Americans and there's the use of the
economy so in some sense the the income
differences shrank during Obama far from
it being the case that they were growing
because the wealthy people thought the
economy was doing much better but the
poor people thought it wasn't the only
really thing that differentiates
people's perceptions of the economy
overall it's just partisanship and you
know Democrats and Democratic leaning
people were much more likely to perceive
that economic growth in Republicans
because the Republicans didn't want to
give credit to a Democratic president I
mean this kind of partisan bias and
economic perceptions is a pretty chronic
feature of contemporary American
politics so that if you wanted to find
the really angry people or the so-called
economically anxious people it was
really the Republicans tired of being
out on the White House for eight years
you know it wasn't due to social class
or income or anything like that and in
much your research suggests that that
that that race or that party becomes a
surrogate for racial questions is that
right I mean is that is that is that
yeah okay so yeah we so so explain that
to us the party becomes a surrogate for
for the virtually yeah race racial views
that you have that like the more things
become racialized I mean it's just even
getting back to the immigration point
you were making people had the same
feelings towards immigration it's just
that they didn't realize they could
express them in like the political arena
like I
is that is that like a way of conceiving
how would I make maybe put it slightly
differently I mean they express them I
mean they'll tell you their views mainly
Lisa do you believe survey data but
again like but you can't act out of mime
you can actually act on them
within the context of politics and they
didn't understand that before well I
mean I think what they what from from
from the standpoint of social science
right if there's a lot of different
ingredients that can go into my choice
between a Democratic and Republican
candidate and we know that partisanship
is always going to be a factor it's been
it was a strong factor in 2016 as it has
been in previous elections but the
question is other factors well it
depends right it depends on first of all
what are the candidates talking about
are you getting enough information to
think that this is an important issue
what positions are the candidates taking
if they're taking the same position then
it doesn't really help you choose to
think about that issue because they're
not you know they're carbon copies of
each other so again what I think makes a
difference for voters is to see first of
all a lot of discussion about an issue
which brings it to the top of your head
and makes it a more salient part of your
thinking and then to see the candidates
sharply differ on that question and so
what you saw in 2016 that was different
than 2012 or 2008 was both this
extraordinary emphasis on all of these
issues tied to race ethnicity
immigration and also very very sharp
differences between Trump's positions of
course which attracted controversy for
the entire duration of the campaign and
Clinton's positions which we argue were
to the left of Obama's probably and more
generally of course she was structuring
her entire campaign in many ways is the
projection of top and so I think if you
were a voter now you had a very clear
contrast on an issue that was being
discussed more frequently than it had
been so that's what makes your own views
about immigration now become activated
and a more more important influence on
your choice
I see so as I grow older I may think
that
no tax deductions from mortgages on
homes are more important than I did when
I was you know 22 I guess but in this
instance it is outside of me that
remains a constant
and suddenly the candidates are talking
about tax deductions on home mortgages
and how important they are and I may be
become more attuned to it
at an earlier age just for example yeah
and it and it's not to say that people
don't make choices based on factors that
are you know kind of intrinsic or
idiosyncratic to them right I certainly
I certainly also care a lot more about
the mortgage interest deduction than I
did 20 years ago but and it's not to say
that we can reduce people's choices in
2016 or any election to one factor or
one set of factors but what I would
typically say again is if we want to see
what what is distinctively important
about voting behavior in one election as
opposed to other elections that a lot of
that's going to depend on the choices
and the messages of the candidate and so
and this is a and this was one of those
things that was different than the other
essentially is what what stuck out right
so alright let's talk about Muslims
because during the Bush administration
there was we've actually had in the past
couple years and maybe really I mean
starting well I think you know this I
mean during the Obama years it was sort
of I mean it was upsetting but also
fascinating to see that during the close
close proximity temporarily to 9/11 did
not provide more hate attacks against
Muslims it was really as we got further
out it was basically Obama in some way
energized Islamophobia is that is that
well your data shows I certainly feel
like I experienced that that way yeah I
mean I think one of the things that
Michael tester talks about in his work
on the Obama era in particular
that views of Muslims became more
associated with views of Obama than was
true for other candidates or that had
been true in the past and part of this
probably reflects the idea that some
people perceived Obama himself or
suspected he was a Muslim and we could
show in the chapter that in this may
help explain why Democratic and
Republican voters are now further apart
in their views of Muslims and Islam than
they once were so in some sense it's
lawmen and Muslims is another issue on
which the parties are now better sorted
but then again here comes 2016 and and
shows that we can have a campaign that
activates your your underlying view of
views of Muslims more so than was true
even in the Obama era and this of course
is largely due to the fact that Trump
targeted Muslims for you know and
suggested we needed new policies to deal
with travel and and and to deal with
homeland security and you know he's
widely criticized for those views
including within his own party but again
it makes the contrast between him and
Clinton starker and it brings that issue
to the forefront of people's minds in a
ways that it might not have been let's
talk about the sort of the the how Trump
acted upon those from I guess the the
center to the left sort of in an inverse
way to Obama I mean it so if Obama
basically activated people's
pre-existing racial biases and in
Islamophobia Trump has sort of done the
opposite for people who had maybe a
reservoir of less discriminatory how
would how would you express that well I
think what you're pointing to is it
really is a really important trend
that's that's happened during but
especially since the 2016 campaign and
what we've observed in public polling
data is a
a remarkable leftward shift of Democrats
on these issues
really I mean in a very short amount of
time two to three years we're talking
about 15 point or even 20 point
increases and the percentage of
Democrats who you know express a
favorable view of immigrants increases
in the percentage of Democrats who
attribute racial inequality to
discrimination we're also seeing I think
a a similar sort of partisan difference
in views of Islam we you know it's
always the case that public opinion
reacts against presidents I mean it's
kind of a chronic feature the president
sort of tries to shift policy in one
direction and the public goes in the
other direction almost as a reaction but
what's happened in particular under
Trump is there is a shift on these
issues that are the bread and butter of
his presidency which are the ones that
have to do with race and immigration and
that's what that's been done is it's
pushed Democrats and Republicans even
farther apart now the parties are even
better sorted than they were and so you
know and aggregate it looks like
Americans are turning against Trump but
in what that conceals is that it's it's
mostly the movement of of Democrats and
so we know that's kind of what makes the
identity crisis that we use in the title
of the book even more intense because
now you can really see even more reasons
why there could be intense partisan
conflict on these issues so how much I
mean if you were if if there was some
type of baseline right if we're starting
at zero and the Obama pushes the or
activates however you want to
contemplate that these sort of the
racial biases of certain people I want
to say on the right but you know it's
also some Democrats too right and but on
the right I guess of the racial scale
how much further did they move from zero
relative to Democrats moving the other
direction from zero do you know what I'm
saying like I think like we're creating
more polarization
both parties if there are two separate
parties here are moving to their
respective corners what was the distance
that they traveled to those corners yeah
that's a very good question and actually
now I have to retreat and to a very sort
of carefully caveat it's social science
kind of answer you know it it depends on
the specific kinds of questions that
you're looking at whether Democrats have
moved farther to the left or Republicans
with me farther to the right I think on
on questions of immigration I think the
the movement the Democratic Party has
been more notable and perhaps sharper
but I think if you looked at other
questions you know depending on the
exact literally the exact the exact
polling question you're looking at you
might see the opposite pattern or you
might see roughly parallel kinds of
movements to both parties removing a
similar distance I don't for that reason
I think we're fairly careful in not
trying to say that that this sorting or
polarization is primarily due to
movement in one party or the other I
think it's some of both and which one
looks to be moving further really just
depends do you do you have a list of
like what policies have become
racialized for both corners as it were I
mean anything that almost anything that
is connected to african-americans
connected immigration will show these
these partisan differences well I mean
the differences but I mean for me
because it seems like what happened was
during under Obama you you know like we
started off with you had whites without
a college education come to realize that
certain programs were associated with
with with black people and their
attitudes their racial attitudes
take in and they say I don't want to be
a so I don't want to vote for you no
Democrat because I didn't realize that's
where my money's going to I get the
sense under Trump for instance like that
housing for the right has become even
more racialized and maybe happen during
Obama but I get the feeling it was more
racialized and that I don't necessarily
see the left as conscious about housing
as a is a racial issue I mean do you
have a sense of questions like that I
mean maybe that maybe it is I don't know
but that's just you know I'm just trying
to sort of draw a distinction there to
see if there is anything in your data in
your research that suggests you know
dynamics along those lines yeah I mean
one of the things that I think
exemplifies what you're talking about
is something that we refer to as
racialized economics and it's the idea
that people are thinking about economic
outcomes and then therefore like the
government policies that affect people's
economic outcomes through a racial lens
so it's not that I'm economically
insecure and therefore I vote this way
or that way
the the really more potent perception is
that my group typically define in terms
of race and ethnicity is it's losing out
to those other racial groups who are
getting unfair help and are not playing
by the rules and so a lot of government
policies then or become nudists it's a
sort of implicitly racial policies if
they're perceived as helping undeserving
people get ahead and I think typically
you know especially for means-tested
programs housing sure if it's we're
talking about like federal housing
assistance for the poor or if we're
talking about any kind of social program
that primarily it seeks to benefit
lower-income Americans the risk is
always in American politics that these
policies are viewed as essentially you
know primarily benefiting racial and
ethnic minorities who you know are just
living off the government and not
working hard enough and trying hard
enough on their own
and I think something about you know
certainly nothing about the 2016
campaign you know changed this in any
form or fashion as far as I could tell I
feel like there was still this sort of
constant division particularly in
Trump's rhetoric between you know the us
the good people and them and them often
had a implicitly or explicitly racial or
religious character and so again to the
extent that we're going to frame
government policies in those terms it's
going to be of course increasingly
difficult to reach any kind of you know
agreement on those policies and when we
we're talking in generalities but
specifically it's like white people
saying I don't want people of color to
get this stuff right I mean it doesn't
yeah it doesn't quite go the other way
the the some of the interesting
ethnographic work that was done and it
even though this is before the 2016
election you know definitely talking to
to certain groups of white Americans
found exactly that perception so one
book that got a lot of attention a
couple of years ago was by a sociologist
named Charlie Russell Hawk shield called
strangers in their own land and she went
to rural Louisiana and she talked to
folks there and what she found was that
they had a story that they kind of was
embedded in their their consciousness
and the story was in a metaphorical
sense is I'm in line to get what I
deserve I've worked hard and I've played
by the rules but look what's happening
up ahead of me in line hey who are those
people
they're cutting in line you know they
got these are african-americans who
benefited from affirmative action or
these are undocumented immigrants that
wouldn't wait their place you know and
came into the country anyway and so
there's a there I think the one of the
challenging things that comes out of the
2016 election but it's clearly endemic
in a lot of people's political attitudes
especially among whites is that there's
always a zero-sum game here which we're
I know I'm doing the right thing and I'm
not getting ahead and the reason I'm not
getting ahead is because they're taking
it from me and I think one of the real
and nothing about the 2016 campaign
makes this
any better and one of the real
challenges about having a more
racialized politics going forward is to
try to figure out a way that we can have
conversations around issues like this
without having them inevitably viewed as
a competition between different racial
groups what if I mean what if the
solution to that is to just make sure
there's no line like I mean what if you
know would these people if if these
people were feeling like I'm not in line
actually I got to the front because it
turns out there was no line it was just
like one we got a whole very wide window
where everybody could just walk up and
get it what I mean what would do we have
a sense of what would happen in that
instance yeah it's almost uh it's a
politics it's difficult to convey well I
mean it's universal right like I mean
it's yeah it's not I mean it's it's a
universality like this is available to
everyone we're not going and that's why
the palette that's what the politics is
Social Security Medicare somewhere
different because those are you know
Universal benefits for for seniors but
of course it's impossible to make all
these you know it's a challenge to make
all these benefits Universal and so I
think you know basically what I think is
important is to to make clear that I
think my version of what you're saying
there's not there's no line is to say
that to people and you know this is what
politicians have to try to communicate
that you know the challenges that you
feel that you're facing are not because
of other groups you know that's not who
you should be attributing your own
challenges to you have to be we have to
find a way to sort of sever this this
perception that maybe I'm not getting
ahead the way I want to or I'm achieving
what I want to achieve from this
perception that the reason for that has
to be those undeserving groups over
there if we can sort of sever that link
that would be helpful
in terms of I think of changing the way
that we have conversations in and around
Economic Security and and government
social policies yeah I mean I wonder if
it's even if it's possible for humans
ever to you know not blame someone else
for what they feel they don't have or
they you know haven't gotten that they
deserve I mean I get because I guess you
know the the argument about that you
know that we heard I think you know
particularly in the context of like the
Clinton and Sanders race was sort of
sent around this idea that like well you
could you can you can try and sever that
cause you know that that a sense that
it's the fault of immigrants that you're
not getting this was fall to black
people that you're not getting this or
you can just try and give everybody more
so that they don't even have to blame
anybody I mean putting aside whether or
not it is feasible from a practical
standpoint I'm talking from a
hypothetical standpoint you know in just
in terms of social attitudes if one is
addressing who I'm gonna blame the other
is addressing the beef right yep I think
that that offers an avenue I think
you're right to having a different kind
of conversation around these issues the
of course the the risk the challenge it
seems to me is that that kind of Bernie
Sanders universal argument the question
is again whether that's going to be met
with a demagogue appeal you know that's
gonna portray a universal policy is
fundamentally a secret handout cuz I'm
observation about the way that these
debates unfold is that oftentimes you
know even policies that might have real
benefits for let's say lower-income
white people get portrayed as
fundamentally policies that
I said african-americans or other racial
and ethnic minority groups so the
question is can you can you win with the
Universalist argument if you have to
match it up against that
counter-argument and that's like a real
challenge but I would say I one of the
things that we talked about at the very
end of the book we have we had this
somewhat glimmer of optimistic note but
it's really just a glimmer is you know
we we talk about the fact that some of
the racialized politics that we observed
in 2016 was it was due to the choices of
the candidates and to the choices of
political leaders more generally and so
if we're going to have any kind of
politics that is with it where some of
these issues I don't know what you'd say
there's just a de-escalation right so
that it doesn't feel so emotionally
charged and fraud it's going to have to
come from political leaders making
different kinds of Appeals and finding
ways to articulate you know policy
attitudes and policy proposals that
don't have the don't stoke this kind of
group competition so I mean if it's
gonna change it's going to change a part
because politicians decide they want to
do it differently I'm not confident it's
gonna happen anytime soon
well that's what we think that's what we
think that's one of the things that we
think was really what made 2016
distinctive and it's what might make a
subsequent election not quite as broad
as 2016 if if if if I was looking at
your book and I was had the ability to
choose and I don't want to you know I
know this is sort of a maybe an unfair
question but it'll be the last one and
you can but if I was looking at these
attitudes and seeing what your data says
that you know maybe like the Obama to
Trump voters were at the very least you
know in in part pushed by this notion of
you know Clinton's talking about race
more than Obama did and and Trump is
speaking to my pre-existing biases and
I'm gonna go that way well I mean
demographically would it be how risky
how much has things change where it
would be that if a an african-american
went up against Trump like
would that look like it would have been
written would it be a function of like
you know because Obama was less racial
in terms of what his you know
programmatically at least of what he was
rhetorical II then then Clinton so you
know maybe that's not fair but to put it
that way but you know it did just the
existence of a black I drove the the
Trump base sort of I don't want to say
crazy but more crazy
so what meant or the question so the
question is ultimately good this change
well I mean has has have attitudes
changed enough that maybe we're past
that danger point or would or are things
I mean you know did we see some of that
play out maybe in races in 2016 2018 I
mean where where are we in terms of the
American public relative to our
susceptibility to these new factors ie a
guy like Trump coming out and getting
highly racialized
and an African American who doesn't
that's a very good question you know I
I'm not gonna give you a very optimistic
answer I don't know that we've gotten I
don't know I don't know that we've sort
of asked them the maximum level that we
could imagine in terms of our
racialization of our politics or having
a more emotionally charged politics
around issues like race and immigration
I thought maybe we had maxed it out in
2012 2800 2008 because we hadn't asked
American on the ticket but it turns out
that we didn't and 2016 there was even
more so and 2018 same thing that we did
some analysis that looked at voters in
2018 compared to 2014 2012 and their
views of immigration were now more
strongly related to how they voted for
Congress than they were and there's two
prior elections so this is happening
even in a midterm year when Sean's not
on the ballot so part of me is not sure
that we're gonna be able to back away
from this anytime soon
given what the nature of Trump's views
and and the way he's
basically I seemed gonna continue to her
about his presidency and candidacy and
based on my perceptions of where
Democrats are going to come from and
opposing him
I think the contrasts are going to be
pretty stark so you know that's not the
most optimistic note to end an interview
on but I really it really feels to me
like that the conditions are still quite
ripe for for a continuation of what we
would call the identity crisis
John sides thank you so much fascinating
work congratulations on it the book is
identity crisis the 2016 presidential
campaign in the battle for the meaning
of America will put a link to that at
majority dot F M thanks again for your
time I really appreciate it
thanks so much name I appreciate it to
you bye alright folks so it's Obama's
fault it was Obama thought we ought
thanks Obama I mean it's interesting I
remember
can't remember the name of the author
now he was a law professor at Harvard he
had written a book about Randall Kennedy
and I can't remember the name of the
book off the top of my head but his
argument was all about how Obama was
constrained by his race to talk about
things about race and and you know I
think there's maybe some indication that
that you know at least from this data
that yeah maybe had he gotten more
racialized like you get the sense that
the reason why some voters who could go
from Obama to Trump we're like well you
know I liked Obama because he talked
about personal responsibility oh the
time and now Hillary's just blaming
white people for it I mean that's that
seems to be at least you know part of
the dynamic that was going on at least
in the context of this book
but there does you know it is an
interesting question as to whether or
not you could say people are worried
that other people are cutting in front
of them in line there was no line and
everybody just had it dropped on him
maybe they would have a different that's
the strongest point that people like
Adolf Reid you know I think that people
like he's still totally right in his
critique of representational
neoliberalism and the only point that
people are getting caught up in is
really just debating the Trump vote I
don't think there's any contradiction
between accepting that of course it's
driven by racial sexual social backlash
and I still maintain that alongside
specific issues of course to address
maybe that's the argument people want to
have if you want to have an argument
about whether there's a specific
conversation and policy set dealing with
race then maybe that's a genuine
argument and I would say yes there
absolutely has to be but I also still
maintain that Universal programs are
both the right thing to do and we'll go
some ways on this stuff well yeah I mean
that's the argument right it's like
you're not going to cure people of their
racism you're just going to have it less
activated in their life because there's
gonna have enough things to blame people
that's true and is and there is some I
mean my understanding of even like the
sixties is that part of the reason that
sometimes some people were a bit more
willing to move in the right direction
on some aspects of social emancipation
was because they were doing really well
I mean I know that like I don't go
around cursing you for instance right no
there's something happens with my
computer and I'm like what did Michael
do and so it was actually amazed by your
growth today that you didn't whine and
 at me about your computer problems
you you know what yeah ample that's what
I'm saying oh you think so you were
having a delusional episode but what was
good was that you were actually blaming
the guy that messed up your computer
which is where the real enemy is right
versus your up transference on me
so that was gross well before he came in
well I'm sure you still will have your
little tantrums but like the white
electorate week
that is a great analogy Sam is totally
the white electorate of this office all
right everything's tailored to but
everything's against if you are the
white electorate of the office that is
amazing total so white electorate okay
don't get too carried away don't get too
carried away
sorry all right folks we're gonna head
into the fun half just a reminder oh do
we do we have any announcement today we
do oh all right so we have an
announcement ladies and gentlemen do I
have a piece of paper a piece of paper
on January 13th that is exactly two
months from today on a Sunday at 2:30
p.m. Eastern Time we will be doing a
live majority report show as part of the
Brooklyn pod fest and of course we're
obligated to do it where all the other
podcasts live shows are at the bell
house all right
and so our tickets on sale now the the
link is on the blog post right now how
much are the tickets $15 we're
undercutting all the other shows is that
right Michael what oh yeah you're
definitely undercutting my show but my
show is gonna be better yeah Michael
show was gonna be bailed but actually
you should go to both shows that's
awesome I well it's funny as I did not
know that we's happening until you told
me like the other day but I'm excited
are we have is it just gonna be us or
are we having guests of either side of
that wait I don't I'm starting to lean
towards no guests but maybe I think some
people would like just the majority
report maybe yes maybe we'll do like a
quick maybe we'll do like
no fun guest who knows I mean January
13th who knows what's gonna be going on
then right I mean but your tickets are
$15 and it's a live show how many does
it see how many how many people see it
in there 300 people
oh it's 350 350 I think 350 350 so get
your seats now it's 18 and over we're
allowing the kids in and so so check it
out that's exciting that's a big
advantage yeah because of the time sorry
- 18 year olds who've asked some night
show Sunday afternoon so you know it's
not as alcohol oriented and of course
you need to be a little but you need to
drink a little bit and enjoy Michael's
just a reminder this joke this program
what's now what is this this kind of
goes with what we were talking about
today this is a I'm trying to look for
that source of this writer but this is a
basically but she ended up voting for
DeSantis partially because she wanted to
see an end to racial divisions in
Cooper's eyes tension between races and
Madison only worsened after Obama's
election in 2008 black neighbors just
started seeing everything differently
she said they seemed consumed with Obama
as the first black president and less
concerned about how he was affecting the
economy in Florida that trickled down to
everything she said now everyone is so
worried about the other race she said
she felt that a vote for Gilliam who had
accused the Santis of using a racist
slur after he warned Florida's on TV to
not monkey up the state would worsen
those tensions yeah so there you go yep
exactly big tension I mean this you know
this is like it's all part of that sort
of dynamic of you know the loss of
privilege feels like oppression and you
know this is I mean Obama like Obama DUP
everything
now like Trump Trump likes there he just
like stays in his compartment yeah
you know selves into the rest of your
life on its the game Obama it was like
every day every minute the question
where are you from I'm going to seeing
them picnic that's the fake news take
the Obama White News because the white
news to call it the white news called
the devil news devil news sit-down devil
news sit down devil news you're a very
rude person even by devil standards get
back to your cave yeah cop is a very
good snapshot of some people's extremely
irrational thought patterns and this
seems to be a trend oh look it's a
racist white woman racist white woman
that was Jupitus questions I've ever
heard of my life that was in The
Washington Post by the way election
results in Florida and Georgia prompt
soul-searching for African American no
black people gonna salt search when they
don't have any maybe it was a little bit
early for us to want political
representation maybe we should maybe I
should think about the well I am more
sober depressing though do you remember
there was a moment I recall this vividly
actually because I was studying Pakistan
at the time and in 2007 right or in the
Democratic primaries I don't remember
precisely when benazir bhutto was
assassinated in Pakistan and it was like
a big they got an unusual amount of
coverage I would say and you know it's
for an event like that and it didn't
last but there was a slight tremor in
the polls or news reporting out of South
Carolina of african-american voters
being like essentially just that the the
image of the politician being murder
assassinated made them concerned and
anxious about the vote for Obama so
there's no I mean before I think that
kind of calculus the reason was it was
so important for Obama was prior to that
he did not have a true he had a
significant support in the black
community but certainly there was major
splits in the black community because
they
thought that he could not win and I
think there was also fears for like the
thought was there's no way this country
is gonna let a black guy be president
and it wasn't until he won Iowa where I
think people started to believe that he
could win got a green light from the
Huggies double country voted for
me
remember when Hillary implied she wasn't
gonna stop campaigning because someone
might shoot Obama yes I do I was quite
the moment you know and when MLK and
Bobby Kennedy and when they all get
clipped there's an LBJ waiting around
subtext uptick subtest failing to
prepare is preparing to fail yeah all
right care way too much about black
people let this black I win your support
makes this show possible folks you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report com every one of your
support is appreciated and extremely
helpful so we can keep buying new
computers that don't have Wi-Fi
connections so grid to Wi-Fi yeah we're
gonna get this Wi-Fi actually the big
upgrade is we're gonna actually get it
tethered to an Ethernet cable
we're going back to wide analog Emma
that is where things are gonna go pretty
soon pretty soon we're gonna move this
whole show to recording it on a cassette
tape and mailing it to you so get ready
for that folks in the meantime join the
majority reports calm also don't forget
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off sorry I hope that
whoever did this I'm not hurting and
obviously I don't even remember their
name but do you remember how they're
used to our the sound quality of our
interviews have undoubtedly drastically
improved yes I'm trying to upgrade you
remember that one guy though emailed us
and he was like it's a big problem
listening to sound qualities you're
otherwise created reviews and what you
should do and I'll help put investment
should buy a microphone and send it to
your guests and that they can send it to
the next
yes yeah this scheme that we would buy
at a bar bike for each of our guests and
the guests would just mail it to each
other like cross what we ended up doing
instead of that that's to hire someone
to actually transport the mic personally
so we have constantly a I can't remember
that guy's name anymore he's out there
just like flying around with make fun
yeah but he's always a day I think the
mic delivery he's always a day late
that's what the sad part is he shows up
and they're like we I did it yesterday
he's always one day this is the most
awesome email though cuz the guy really
really went into like he's like and what
will happen is probably the following
guests will receive really got upset
with the quality of some interview the
problem is some people don't have most
people don't have landlines and to the
extent they do it's those volt things
and they're horrible so like when we
have Bendixon on he's you know he's set
up to do this yeah he's great but you
know some people sound better than
others but meanwhile today is Tuesday
Michael it's almost Tuesday night
already so what the linkage ivali will
be joining us I would say an interesting
counterpoint and potential synthesis
coming out of this conversation and
echoing the sunday show which is
unlocked at Bill Fletcher jr. which
everybody should check out malaika
jubilee on the color of economic anxiety
and we're also going to doing as part of
a preview for a larger one for patrons a
little bit of a mini elicit history of
the 2000 florida election and what's
happening today and how voter
suppression fits into the broader
struggle for economic democracy did you
know I was starting to research more of
this Florida 2000 thing and I remember
the big takeaways about the stolen
election but what I did not remember or
maybe just didn't even know which makes
total sense is that a Republican senator
kit bond I don't remember what state he
was from he used the Florida election to
start introducing national voter ID laws
so not only did Republicans steal the
election they used it as an impetus to
actually try to do some federal
interventions and voting right we are
Heidi there was an awareness of where
things were going right he needed to
start suppressing totally anything and
he would do uh events with a dog and and
a dead person and he would say like hey
I love dogs and I respect the dead but I
want either of them voting that's right
so anyways that's that's happening
Friday contra point is here for a
special Friday episode patreon.com slash
t MBS patreon.com slash t NBS and of
course please go to both shows we are
selling at a very steady clip for the
february first show at the law at the
bell house
Jamie the Intifada all right
so out now we have our episode with Jay
Firestone who wrote an amazing piece
called three months inside all right New
York about his secret mission
infiltrating the alt-right and what he
learned from it we also just recorded a
new episode with Pavlos Rufus author of
a happy future as a thing of the past
the Greek crisis and other disasters we
talked to him about the Greek debt
crisis the rise and fall of syriza and
how it shows the limitations of butuan
electoral politics and confronting debt
and austerity whether he thinks that's
even possible to do without confronting
the wage system we also talked about
some good riots story is that he all of
which he observed from very far away and
I think that's going to be the a bonus
for our patrons that last part Matt uh
yeah literary hangover we did the
episode on the novel hope Leslie don't
be intimidated if you're not a fiction
person because it's about 75-percent
about history so you can just pretend
like you read the novel we're talking
about one of the themes we're tracing is
the hands ominous of the patriarchy in
early colonial America so like literally
people writing during the Pequod war
like can I get I noticed a large and
fair Indian woman can I just have her
and Winthrop being like yeah sure you
can have her and those documents still
exist and it's pretty amazing yeah how
how much it there in governorship time
was spent on basically putting domestic
servants into houses that they took from
the Pequots and this and then they would
trade the men to the Caribbean for
slaves so material benefits
so in honor of Thanksgiving you should
check out to the shows I'm putting out
this this month guys alright folks are
gonna take quick break head into the fun
half just a look forward either tomorrow
or Thursday we're gonna play an
interview I just did with a marcy
wheeler last night catch us up you know
we're gonna see what the developments
are at any moment we could be seen could
be seeing indictments unsealed maybe not
whitaker may be headed for a bit of a
fall we shall see
but either way we'll play that because
fascinating recap of what's going on all
right quick break
heading to the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you
there all right folks six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you in
the fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man
almost says what I am a total cut can we
bring back DJ Tanner Kisa yeah or a
couple of you put them in rotation easy
dance well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break
[Music]
Hawkins's and the alpha males Oh psych
all boss says what what
[Music]
the back
a lot of back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have a
thought experiment for the alpha males
companies to pay the price replies to be
around here I am a total
so this is interesting there's two
things that are going on right now that
are somewhat unrelated on some level
although AOC is the is the thread this
is an occupation in Democratic leaders
Nancy Pelosi's office basically calling
for efforts to fight climate change for
a new Green Deal if you would
strangely attempted by Democrats in
pressuring Democrats bucking and as you
can see a OC is in the is in the office
and encouraging them to sound what I
hope we all show that this moment it's
not just about confrontation but in a
way about real meaningful behind
[Applause]
so a couple of things about this one is
sort of related there's a lawsuit being
brought against the United States by by
a bunch of young people that Supreme
Court last week said could go forward
suing the the US government essentially
for failure to protect its citizens from
from climate change but the value of
having someone like AOC and this may
seem somewhat basic and obvious but we
would not have probably even read about
that occupation of Pelosi's office was
it not for the fact that she shows up
there possible we would have had maybe
gotten a press release but with there
would have been no mainstream news
coverage that was from ABC no sizzle no
sizzle as it were and it's not simply
because she is a person who was involved
in this it's because she is a
congresswoman elect she is a Democrat
and she is willing to pressure the
leader of her party and to do so in a
public way and that's the way that
momentum and pressure builds on in this
case the Democrats and the Congressional
Caucus and this is the way it builds and
ALC is going to be a pain in the ass to
a lot of people in the leadership and
the establishment and there's not a lot
they can do about it because she's going
to maintain her seat she doesn't need
their money I mean these are all the
constraints that they have and she's
already built you know a a small caucus
of support within the the house so this
is the way that you
take power do it slowly you build upon
successes and and then you translate
into you know into getting stuff done on
issues now it's just a question of
urgency when it comes to the Democrats
you know how urgent are they going to be
how dramatic are the steps that are
going to be taken or at least proposed
at this point and there's not Democrats
are in a position to implement this
stuff at least not on a federal level
now another story coming out of New York
her ALCS district she's in Congress
doesn't have a direct authority on this
but again you read about it she provides
cover she starts to shape the narrative
in New York as you know amazon has
decided has chosen this is like an
episode it's like an episode of The
Bachelorette right
Amazon has given us what do they do they
give the flower or something like that
or the ring the red rose Amazon has
given the red rose to a place in
Virginia essentially greater Washington
metro area and to Long Island City
Queens has Pro has bequeathed I guess
half a rose to each that the new second
Amazon headquarters will come to your
state New York you're welcome in
exchange for up to a billion dollars in
tax incentives now understand that it
wouldn't be clear about this when you
give a company like that a billion
dollars or any company or any
institution frankly a billion dollars
worth of tax incentives you're costing
the state a billion dollars particularly
you know Long Island City there's not
like it's not like this is we don't know
what to do with this territory
here maybe we should have farmland or
maybe you know we're just gonna like
this is extremely valuable property
community garden much more productive
for the people of New York City
nationalized houses well you would
actually still get benefits out of it
and to give a billion dollars worth of
tax incentives cost you a billion
dollars and it's not you know listen I I
don't know what kind of jobs are gonna
be there but they're gonna hire if they
bring in new people all its gonna do is
raise the cost of housing even more in a
place that's already prohibitively
expensive to live and you gonna drive
more people out I don't know if these
figures are right but someone was
ballparking like a 40k per job subsidy
for a hundred and twenty K job is going
to just drive up prices you're
subsidizing the rent increase for every
100 $5 for a sub for a subway ride poor
right also this is another thing just I
gotta just interject this is where we
can say like attacking rightfully
Wisconsin and Walker for the foxconn
deal and then you know a certain type of
corporate leaning liberal reveals it's
like oh it's just the sort of brand
identification like like Foxconn is down
market up Amazon's upscale market but
either way you're just luring you know
predatory corporations with our money
right and and so there is a shift though
because a year ago or six months ago
there was really not a heck of a lot
necessarily that you could pressure you
could bring to bear I mean of course if
people were reacting this net but now
there's actually something that can be
operable Democratic Assemblyman Ron Kim
announced that he's gonna introduce
legislation to slash New York's Economic
Development subsidies and use the money
to buy up and cancel student debt dive
on them haters
it would halt any Cuomo administration
offer of taxpayer money to Amazon and
here's the implications of the past
election there's a real opportunity for
this legislation to pass and to force
Andrew Cuomo to start making the
decisions the uncomfortable decisions
that he never wanted to make which is
why he supported and midwifed the
so-called IDC which is basically a way
of throwing the senate to republicans
even though more democrats had been
elected in in new york i'm sorry just
one fact check i believe his name is
amazon como now amazon cuomo Cuomo's an
o andrew amazon i am amazone i am the
real estate industry I am a Wall Street
bank that wants anything anytime
anywhere any place now I mean you have
to look at the sort of the way that
everything is building upon each other
when a OC comes out and says we need to
you know put more stringent requirements
on Amazon we can't do this a big tax
giveaway my constituents are very
concerned that this is going to drive
people out of the neighborhood and of
course it will right I mean if you force
Amazon to hire the people who already
live in that area that's one thing but
of course they're not going to do that
they're gonna bring in more people
they're gonna increase the pressure on
housing they're gonna raise the rents
for everybody around that's gonna drive
people out of Long Island City and it's
gonna cost taxpayer billion dollars to
do so and so when she starts being
critical of this it gives cover for a
guy like Ron Kim he may have done it
maybe he wouldn't have done it without
it I'm sure but the bottom line is it
just increases the pressure and raises
expectations and that's what has to
happen across the board let's go to the
fall so there's this report which we
will get to more later but I'm just
saying now from the end
pendant and this is I guess this is
already well dated unfortunately but
there was a revealed in 2013 Amazon used
neo-nazi guards to keep immigrant
workforce under control in Germany so
just another just another factoid Wow's
on uh you come from a two one zero
area code who's this where you come from
good afternoon
now it's John from San Antonio John from
San Antonio how are you sir
Maps looking a little better right yeah
definitely definitely
yeah Barney's new book is coming out on
November 27th it's a titled where we go
from here two years and in the
resistance so I got two questions for
you how long is the 2020 presidential
boycott going to last and if a potential
major candidate such as Bernie ur
warrant announces that they're going to
make annex they're going to make a run
are are you going to make an exception
as considering it'll be a major story
and will have a strong historical impact
I listen I will say that policies that
are formulated here are never itched in
stone I think you know that John we try
and be flexible of course and react to
the news and follow the news
particularly when it's completely
unavoidable and so we will take it under
advisement
and yes as people enter the race we will
talk about that and as dynamics shift
and deal with the race but I we're not
going to start electioneering before
before the end of the lame duck how's
that okay that's fun okay in the 45th
district of california the progressive
campaign change committee endorsed Katey
Porter is one of the best candidates and
more the tipping point districts and is
now 0.4 percent within Republican
incumbent Mimi Walters Democrats usually
send their mail in
later than Republicans in Republic in
California so with every race you've
seen as tightened toward the Democrats
supporters a consumer protection a
lawyer and a law professor who supports
Medicare for all Josh harder is up by
one point eight points in one second
District of California let me just let
me just one thing about Porter so that
people don't get you know Porter is an
interesting case she is considered at
least you know sort of somewhat of a
Elizabeth Warren Protege she like you
say it's for Medicare for all she's a
consumer protection person also during
the general was talking about cutting
taxes for rich people there was one
other thing so she she has a mix of of
stuff I mean obviously some of this is
tailored towards her her district and
California is turning more blue and
hopefully you know the you know but I
just want to I just want to put a small
flag there so that people you know in
six months if if she ends up being the
the congresswoman from the 45th district
that people are coming what happened to
her people should be aware this is how
she campaigned as well but go ahead John
okay that's fair enough Democrat Josh
harder is up by 1.8% in the tenth
District of California and will likely
win this race harder supports Medicare
for all and hopefully he'll be a
progressive uh I'll have a progressive
voting record on other issues so like he
was a hedge fund guy also so I mean
that's I'll throw my own caveat in so I
mean yeah you're right I mean these a
lot of these people have mixed records
and you know out of the I think they're
worse four hundred and thirty one people
Democrats that ran I think there was two
hundred and twenty supported for
Medicare for all a lot of them were from
you know rural areas it ended up losing
but you know I mean we got a the fact
that they support Medicare always is a
step forward and so we got to try to you
know get them to devote more
progressively so in Maine second
district district two Trump won by ten
points income bit
polycon leads a democrat jared golden by
0.7% he's down about a little less than
two thousand votes with 19 precincts
mostly republican yet to be counted but
the big question remains can ranked
choice voting propel gold into a victory
this morning Poliquin filed a lawsuit
trying to overturn ranked choice voting
Rick Rick heads and tweeted recently I'm
a lawyer and I don't think much of the
constitutional claim against ranked
choice voting and I think such a claim
comes too late the use of ranked choice
voting is not a surprise and its
implementation rules have been available
for the for a while the fourth place
finisher William horse a special
education teacher whose main issue is
surprise education I think most of his
7,000 votes will go to the second choice
for golden third place finisher Tiffany
bond is a former moderate Republican has
left the party so her 16,500 votes are a
little less predictable but I think a
majority will bat golden so the brennan
justice for sinner center for justice
came out on March 23rd this year called
extreme report card extreme
gerrymandering the 2018 election here's
a quote from the report to attain a bare
majority Democrats would would have to
win the National popular vote by 11
points neither Democrats nor Republicans
have won by such an overwhelming margin
and decades even a strong blue wave
could crash against the wall of
gerrymandering maps I called in after
that was announced and I said this is
totally disagree with this opinion I
agreed that gerrymandering had a big
impact on states like North Carolina
Ohio Texas Michigan and Wisconsin if
every stay put in similar maps to what
Pennsylvania did early in the year
Democrats would gain five to ten more
seats but the Brennan Center
overestimated the impact that
gerrymandering has on Democrats in the
house and in the summer on a Sunday
night MSNBC had a had a special which
promoted this distorted view about the
Dems winning the house and it showed
that that many of the people that you
have interviewed on the subject David
Daley or Ari Berman as well as Michael
ly
and even had on Dave Wasserman from the
cook Political Report but he didn't
express his core opinion the natural
sorting is more important than
gerrymandering which I don't agree with
I'm just saying that aggregators are
very skeptical of this view because of
the role of winning tight races and the
differences between voting patterns
between rural and urban voters and that
will decide who will win when man I'll
mention the the Brennan report the night
before the election I was extremely
disappointed and currently the Democrats
lead by six point five percent and it
could up in 7.5 percent and if you put
in line with the 2010 where Republicans
won 63 seats with 6.8 percent in 2006 30
Democrats won by 8 percent and they've
got 30 seats in 1994 Republicans won by
7.1 and flipped 54 seats so what do you
think about this so wait so the point
being that the it was overstated that
the margin that you needed to win to
pick up seats is that desires at the
point yeah the point yeah exactly I'm
saying that you know of course they
would like like you know in North
Carolina it's crazy
we the Republicans got about 50 percent
of the vote maybe fifty point one and
they won 10 out of 13 races that's nuts
right yeah I mean it's it's definitely
not right I mean in the a judge actually
told them to change the map but it was
done so late that even the Democratic
Party said you know we've already had
our primaries everything's in place we
can't do this this is if it happen let's
say four months earlier I think there
would have been a difference in it
probably two to three seats and you know
like I said in all those other states
but I'm just saying that you know it was
obvious to me that it was an
overstatement but but it doesn't mean
that we shouldn't try to fight against
gerrymandering I mean the fight is still
you know we should still try to do that
but I'm just saying you know let's let's
be realistic about you know how much
damage is
actually causes in a wave election you
know it wasn't the main factor I mean
the main factor you know was overcome by
by the sheer number of votes that came
out right so all right well I
appreciated in tight races yeah yeah
okay thank you I appreciate by okay
thank you I felt that John was firm but
fair with you in that I think so
we should get to this we missed it
yesterday people are talking about this
did some research found out that it's
real it's not a fake ad it's not a party
it's not the yes-men we're playing it
because it's nice to have a laugh and
and and look here's the thing
if there's somebody out there who wants
to invest in a possible business where
we would try and target the audience
that buys this thing I think we should
really think about it I mean it would be
pretty easy to do I think now you have
to explain to me why this is so queuing
on a grounded of the storm right okay
now here it is it starts off with the
words I am the storm the storm is coming
and it's a sort of a non sequitur with
the rest of the thing but but if you
know the language it speaks to you it
speaks to you if you are the storm that
means that you are part of the coming
quasi-religious semi apocalyptic event
that will be brought about when all is
revealed when it turns out muller has
actually been working on behalf of
Donald Trump Marlo go gate and will
indict finally Hillary Clinton for the
server or something like that or Vince
Foster I'm not quite up on it but here
is the ad all of this sounds very
foreboding but it ends up being super
cuddly
storm is coming you cannot defeat the
storm
I am the storm the Great American
grizzly introducing the original Trumpy
bear just find the secret zipper and
pull out the American flag themed
blanket then wrap yourself in the red
white and blue for comfort in warm it's
just horrible stop and think about this
how insane it already is you have you're
a storm it's represented by a bear we've
moved from a ferocious bear to a cuddly
bear with a disgusting toupee on it but
that's not all the bear is not just a
something you cuddle with it also is a
receptacle for an American flag bedsheet
that you then pop into and cuddle with
the bear I mean just tell me what's the
problem is how high are we right it is
possible that this is a joke reverse it
just go back a little bit I just wanted
to just sort of ground everybody where
we are and if you if you can't see what
we're talking about it is as insane as
it sounds and bull out the American flag
themed blanket then wrap yourself in the
red white and blue for comfort and
warmth show your patriotism and proudly
displayed from beyond any American
holiday god Bless America and God bless
Trumpy beer Trumpy bear loves to cruise
with his brother I'm a former Marine and
I'm proud to have Trumpy Bear ride by my
side when I ride with Trumpy Bear he
makes my golf game great again Thank You
chubby back simply style his trademark
hair and placing in his favorite chair
even the toughest guys will love Trumpy
bear ordered the super plush Trumpy bear
for only two payments of 1995 and
receive a special certificate of
authenticity order now to order your
Trumpy bear call one eight hundred five
zero three eight one zero six that's one
eight hundred five zero three eight one
zero six or you can go online at the
Trumpy bear comm order net there you go
and you get the certificate of
authenticity that cuz that's what you're
paying for that's right because you
wouldn't want to get a knockoff version
of that obviously I'm gonna sell
knockoff versions of Trumpy bear and
then donate the money to
like ro Java or something I just saw
someone sent a screenshot though
certificate it's not from that ad but
it's from the same product so there
might be an outside chance that this is
a joke
real I don't know who's coming well it's
a grift at least it's not only a grift
but if you look at this still look at
the name of that guy corporal Frank wor
holic yeah I don't think that's a real
name that's a different one it's
different I think what it clearly is is
they found a bunch of teddy bears with
that compartment and then they just
found a bunch of those fake toupees and
so Daman and now we can sell a bunch of
bears all aggrieved but you already saw
it on a far on fox news it was on fox
news advertising minutes that is the
kind of joke that's always having a
laugh it's like a john benjamin joke
well do you think you can actually go do
that I got it yeah I just spent just 75
joke that no one was funded joke that's
on saying that is like a classic john
benjamin joke i mean you could do it as
a joke but if i mean you can can you get
one of these things i guess is the
question i have no clue if you can then
it's not a joke you really should we
order it and then do something horrible
to it on camera probably not if it's a
teddy bear no I'll do it that makes that
makes me sad I want to do something do
it go in Prospect Park yeah yeah oh you
mean like a little like and like some
Prospect Park activity like we're gonna
like like centering like some sensor
that's not a thing I will do it if it is
part of a Santorini thing for to getting
to 5,000 patrons I will do it
I will do an Isis style beheading video
if there's bear how about that stop
trying to get on Kathy Griffin's Lane
all right let's just check back in with
Hyde Smith this is Cindy hyde-smith real
quick you guys know where to send this
just by the way to the audience what's
that if you're gonna get a Trumpy bear I
mean you know what to do
so yesterday we recounted how Cindy
hyde-smith was at an event in she is a
candidate running in a runoff against
Mike SB and this is where is it in
Mississippi and she was at an event with
a rancher she said I like this guy so
much I would sit in the front row he you
know you could invite me and I'd sit in
the front row of hanging here here's
here she is saying this to her her
constituents
[Music]
yeah if he invited me to a public
hanging I'd be in the front row and of
course one can only imagine what the who
the public hanging would be maybe she
was talking about like if he was to have
I don't know
take invited me to the Nuremberg trials
right round that ambiguity in the
meaning there so but of course we gave
her some grief I mean obviously people
get used to using idioms they say them
in context is and then later they have
the opportunity to apologize when they
realize that that idiom might be
offensive or the very least could be
taking in a very offensive way seeing as
how she was running against an
african-american in the the deep south
so let's give her Cindy hyde-smith an
opportunity to get up and apologize
yesterday we played some dumb you know
sort of joke where we said no here's the
clip of her apologizing and then
crickets and yeah alright well it's time
to grow up folks here again Cindy
hyde-smith running for the US Senate and
here is her apology could you expand on
it then why you said it what you meant
by it and why people in the state should
not see it as offensive we put out the
statement yesterday Mississippi's
history of lynchings I put out a
statement yesterday and that's all I'm
gonna say about it yesterday and we
stand by the statement and that's all
I'm going to say about it is that
phrasing in your everyday lingo and your
vocabulary do you have a statement
yesterday
you pointed her as United States
you have a huge black population that
are looking for answers on why she used
that kind of language and you have work
to try to make it known that Mississippi
no longer has that patent when you're
hearing her say I'll put out a statement
yesterday and that's all I think she is
she's certainly addressing the fact that
she has put out a statement I could take
all of us in public life have said
things on occasion that we could have
phrased better when you make as many
speeches as we do in public life that
does occur but I know this woman that I
know her heart on you when I pointed her
I know it now she meant no offense by
that statement there was nothing in her
heart of ill will now in a political
campaign people can make anything you
say what they want it to say they can
spit it they can go on social media and
accuse you of all sorts of things
Derrell certain that I believe I won't
speak for her but that her statement
spoke to it
absolutely we have been sensitive to
race relations in this state I brought
the President of the United States here
to open the Civil Rights Museum oh wow
that African American leadership that
would fail to even come to the event
because the president the United States
was there today I talked about the
genocide of over 20 million African
American children see in my heart I am
confused about where the outrage is at
about 20 million African American
children that have been aboard no one
wants to say anything about that oh yeah
so there you have it I mean that is a
really heartfelt statement that she made
which was to refer to my statement and
Matt do you have the statement there for
us to refer to because this this
heartfelt stuff folks if you're one of
those people get teary eyed I would I
would get your hankie out it's a man in
a comment on November 2nd I referred to
accepting an invitation to a speaking
engagement in referencing the one who
invited me I used an exaggerated
expression of regard and any attempt to
turn this into a negative connotation is
ridiculous that is so sweet
and so heartfelt
of course as you know that is her
statement so that is and they are
special as someone just point out to me
there's a little visual queue here which
is interesting
oh it's nicer standing in front of what
is that there's nothing in front of a
rebel flat flag well this happened is
that the rebel or is that or is that
that's at the Mississippi flat yeah has
federate thing in the middle there
look here's here's what happens here and
this is what I think you know this is
you know part of the reason why I
probably why I jump around one nobody's
giving them credit for not having a
noose up on that wall right it saw
everybody just ignores that like it's
not but nobody's giving any credit for
that that turned into a about
black ministers and community leaders
not showing up for a trump of it right
exactly buddy should just take that into
consideration that me how that happened
the governor this B clip about lynchings
also social media you can take things
anyway yeah like when you talk about
public hangings social media that you
think what they can do with that kind of
also wasn't ready black leadership did
not disrespect our white leader maybe
none of this would be a problem so
exactly that's a major part of these
people's brand is refusing to apologize
for culturally insensitive language so
they absolutely never would I also like
how they pivot from refusing to
apologize for one kind of oppression to
promoting another kind of oppression aka
you know not letting people get
abortions there you go whoa whoa double
news white news white news to call it
the white news I like this I like this
guy so much I'd be you could invite me
to an abortion I'd be front-row call it
bacon news yeah might as well called
swine news yeah that's the fake news
nope sit down column from a seven eight
one area code who's this where he come
from
Oh Trump Trump II bear oh hey guys I
getting I'm
I'm an Obama Trump voter and I was just
getting my thug life tattoo across my
belly replaced with Trump II bear hmm
no no oh man I feel like the joke failed
who did oh boy that's a bad woman ah
goodbye
all right good day sir I'll call back
seriously okay opportunity to come up
with a comb from a six 100 area code
who's this where you come from
that's the what calls white line hey
guys yeah Mike Mike Mike from
Pennsylvania
oh thank god I heard you been Mike
running a campaign okay how did you do
uh we lost just outside of a recount 49
51 Wow pretty tough sorry young loss I
wish we could talk more about it because
it's a pretty interesting story we had
the only nationally endorsed our
evolution candidate in Pennsylvania so
there was a big effort on both sides of
the aisle to beat him so they managed it
we even had a former chair at the
Democratic Party endorsed the other
candidate Republican so yeah it's a
pretty pretty crazy story actually I
could tell more about it but pretty
shocking went down they spent more
on the on this state Senate race and
they did on the congressional race here
even though our congressional race was
the top target at one of the top
targeted races so what why do we I think
they had like 25 pieces of mail sent
again sir including they also they just
made up whole cloth that our candidate
didn't pay taxes so we had to sue for
libel and then they had to take the ads
down but
so it's pretty pretty insane campaign
well my why why did why were Democrats
afraid of a state Senate seat going to
someone I'm presumably right the two too
far to the left for the what or was it
was it was it the politics or was it the
not part of the sort of maybe the grift
or graft network that they had
established so you know I think local
Don local effects probably predominated
because we have this special tax zone
you were just talk about Amazon but
there's something that we have here in
Allentown called the neighborhood
improvement zone which basically just
gives unlimited taxpayer dollars to a
couple developers and it pays down their
debt so they can borrow money and then
the tax they're just pay their debt and
they keep what they bought it's what I
can unprecedented tax scheme that so you
basically created a billionaire using
taxpayer dollars so there's a lot like a
former state representative now the
Democrat who's now a tobacco lobbyist
also came out to endorse the Republican
because he helped craft this
neighborhood improvement zone as is what
it's called I don't know if you remember
but we had our mayor of the city of
Allentown was just convicted and he went
to jail in October on 47 counts of
corruption surrounding the this this
issue so there was kind of like this I
hate to say both party cabal
locally right and it so it was pretty uh
pretty crazy
well pretty time freeze yeah yeah yeah
no it's okay the city of Allentown will
be and they're gonna have like a big
financial collapse oh okay anyway yeah
so I didn't mean to call
okay maybe the top over the top one I
needed to take a week I understand I
understand well deserved sorry you
didn't win so good so Pennsylvania if
I'm not mistaken sure for pickups where
is that right so yeah well kind of we
had we were up at six and that's because
Connor lamb won that big really Trump
district out west and with the new
districting he was headed against I
think the chair of the house freedom
caucus he thought this and that was the
only incumbent on an incumbent race in
the entire country and Connor Lane was
able to be victorious defeat him and we
picked up three more seats unfortunately
we lost the other progressive candidate
who was running in Pennsylvania Scott
Wallace in PA one in Bucks County he
lost 5149 as well the afl-cio and the
Democratic establishment endorsed
basically the Republicans Brian
Fitzpatrick there which is kind of
really interesting like and not to go
back to to my race but the teachers
union actually endorsed the Republican
even though he supports voucher schools
and that's a really good question I I
hate to to get into this right now
because my thoughts are not totally
coalesced on this right and I don't just
want to spout without thinking deeper
but I believe that there's a strong
effort to try to defeat progressives
in in in the country and their use it's
sort of like when Planned Parenthood and
they're all endorsed Hillary even though
Hillary had spoke about banning late
term abortions the policies didn't
matter it's more like you don't want to
put you know put there's this kind of
like lobbyists class people that work as
a professional lobbyists and some of
them work for supposedly progressive
organizations but they have you know the
class interest
in in defending kind of the status quo
the way things work now and somebody
like these progressives might kind of
break down that lobbyists class
influence and so the the games in
Pennsylvania were less than they might
have been had the Democratic Party put
all their weight behind that Democratic
candidate you know I mean I will say
this I don't like my sense is in the
context of the Clinton race I think some
of that may be the case but I also think
some of it was like we're gonna get in
on the ground floor and support someone
who we think it's going to be the
definite winner as opposed to a race
that's 5149 yeah that's what I used to
think I don't believe that anymore
because there's only no excuse for
endorsing Republicans in very close race
absolutely not
what's the logic of the afl-cio
endorsing a Republican over a
progressive Democrat in a race that
ended up fifty nine fifty one forty nine
zero there is not zero so you know if
you assume they have influence over one
or two percent of the voters which is
probably an underestimation right they
basically gave the win to the Republican
yeah and the endorsement people should
know it's not just a question of an
endorsement it's right it's like what
how much of an effort that's indicative
of the effort that they're gonna put in
I mean
sometimes your train endorsement and
they won't put any effort in and so it's
a hollow endorsement but if they're
actually gonna go out of their way to
make the endorsement you know they're
putting effort behind it
yeah the afl-cio has a strong shield
program I do communication paid
communication to their members you know
and if you're a Republican like
especially in one of these seats where
they need Democratic votes that gives
them a path to victory because they say
well I'm I'm such a moderate reasonable
Republican I even got the unions to
support me and it seems to be happening
selectively against the most progressive
candidates who are the most strongly in
favor of stuff like that well you should
see that my understanding is that all
of the our revolution candidates except
for Porter we just mentioned her in
California's 45th lost I think there was
nine yeah I mean I Katie you know I will
I don't know but it's what you're
referring to Acadia and out of the can
of hers I think she might have been
referring to the bush attack I'm sorry
the Trump tax cuts got rid of the local
and state yeah she's gone yeah yeah she
was talking about the that hurts people
from California New York aids right yeah
exactly so you know bringing that back
actually would be good for progressives
because it gives progressive states more
fiscal flexibility to do things well
it's not fiscal flexibility what it does
is it decreases the political pressure
to lower taxes yes but I mean I I
understand but that is it is I'm just
saying it's a shift to in the general
election from where she was in the
primary that people should just be aware
of I'm not saying that I'm not I mean I
I think just it is it is an example of
what she feels is necessary if it wasn't
something she was pushing in the primary
let's put it that way I mean she is
running in a seat that's like never been
won by a Democrats I just wanted to put
people on notice it's not all those
things you wanna you know that's uh you
know who knows she maybe go statewide
you know she goes back to her primary
roots I'm just putting it out there
by the way to keep it on brand I want to
disagree with John for San Antonio
okay oh really not underestimated the
Pennsylvania for example gave the
Republicans a twenty one point advantage
in our seats until they struck it down
the geographic advantage is about two
points so that explains why we couldn't
say that the geographic advantage is why
Fitzpatrick one that one seat
whereas in Prior races they would win
four or five seats they should have had
the gerrymandering and easy do it
statewide you're talking about like 15
to 20 seats not five to ten so it was
2012 we would have had the house had
there not been gerrymandering in 2012
the US would have won the house yeah
had they not been for the gerrymandering
that would have been completed in 2010
what is Pennsylvania now nine nine nine
nine yeah okay all right well listen no
you know
hey Mike I got a question for you how
does a jury Mandor my foot up your ass
don't you ever question my political
analysis again and I was just wondering
what you thought about that
all right well Mike look get your
thoughts in order and let's have some of
these extended conversations now you're
sitting at home for a pretty insane
offline don't worry about that
all right Mike good to hear from you
sorry things did not work out in in in
your neck of the woods but before you
let me go I only thank the majority
reports because a lot of people from the
community helped and supported mark the
candidate mark Kinsley and you know it
really raised him to another level and
he got a lot of extra support nationally
because of the majority report community
supporting him early so I wanted to
thank you guys for all the help you had
given me and I'm sorry I let you down
but well you didn't let anybody down it
would quote but we're all very
disappointed in you I expected nothing
different all right thanks buddy
Thanks come from a 267 area code who's
this where you come from
yeah hey Eric yes I can okay Steve from
Pennsylvania are your thoughts about
what happened in Pennsylvania in
divergent from Mike in Pennsylvania
actually I
and from Northeast Philadelphia so I
know exactly what Mike's talking about
in terms of the lack of Democratic
support from the state and even national
level from the Democratic Party my help
Wallace out got Wallace who ran in the
first District against Brian Fitzpatrick
Fitzpatrick's a incumbent Republican and
brands himself as a moderate when in
reality he as usual votes along with the
Trump agenda actually 83% of time I
believe so
well I didn't get any support he's
actually the grandson of Henry Wallace
so he does come from money but he did
put a lot of his own money into the
campaign you know he had a lot of
progressive policies you know didn't
agree with him across the board on every
single thing but you know unfortunately
he lost I believe the final tally was I
think that's what Mike was talking about
I wasn't listening to it I think it was
51 49 or somewhere that Wallace did not
get the afl-cio endorsement didn't get
the teachers endorsement didn't get
support from now yeah
the bright Fitzpatrick he took the seat
from his brother and he had he had the
support from the unions why and you know
that the Democrats just then they just
didn't support they just didn't come out
for Wallace I mean Tom wolf you know
took the governorship pretty easily but
you just didn't see I mean this was a
district that was the you know it was
flippable I mean what was their national
why didn't why didn't why do the unions
why the unions supporting Fitzpatrick
why would they do that I don't know I
don't know and you know
for some reason I mean you know it just
became yeah it just wasn't there just
wasn't talked about I mean you never
heard this district being talked about
in terms of Democrats put a lot of
support towards it let's stretch well
we're gonna see if we can get some
reporters on it to see if we can maybe
dig up what the what the story if
there's another story behind there it's
interesting yeah I mean Pennsylvania's
still free democratic state overall but
you know especially around the
Philadelphia area but you know there was
a chance there I mean this is a district
that is is mostly in the stuff is in the
suburbs and you know you kept hearing
during the can you know during the
campaigns about you know these suburban
Republicans that are in danger and that
fits the bill exactly for what this
district is so we just Rick again is
that Fitzpatrick this is in the first
District yeah okay so it's Bucks County
outside of Philadelphia all right I'm
gonna ask around about that it sounds
very strange to me why the Union would
do that I'm curious about it and I and
on election night I mean they they were
I was following MSNBC I was following
you guys and some other Ellis but you
barely heard anything I think Kornacki
mentioned this district like once you
know towards the end of the night but
it's just you know it just shows the
strategy is just messed up I mean well I
wonder what the story is I'm asking I'm
gonna ask some people so we'll see Steve
I appreciate the call no problem thanks
that calling from three one four area
code who's this where you come from Sam
how's it going this is Chris from Taiwan
Chris from Taiwan are you calling from
Taiwan I'm not I spent the last two
months in the suburbs of Minneapolis
working on my friend state house
campaign and he won all right
it's about time we got some good news
which yeah well I believe I believe that
means my political career is more
successful than Mike from PAS doesn't it
not a big deal I think that was there
see England fair hmm
I'm sorry I like Michael odds I've on
them haters um I want to share I want to
share an anecdote from when I was
working for my friend and try to make a
larger point out of it okay so I was
making get-out-the-vote phone calls to
people we had identified as supporters
or is likely Democrats but who tended
not to vote in midterm elections right
and I talked to this I talked to this
woman named Ann who told me that she was
not planning on voting until my friend
the candidate came to her door and she
was so impressed with him she decided to
go to the polls to vote for him but and
while she was there she said she was
going to vote for all the other
Democrats on the ballot as well and so
since then I've been thinking about this
notion of coattails you know we always
talk about people turning out for
candidates at the top of the ballot and
then as an ancillary effect they vote
for right other candidates from the same
party further down the ballot but this
woman we may got me wondering if there's
any such thing as like yes reversed
coattails yes how often we saw that in
Virginia you remember in Virginia last
year I guess it was or whenever was at
the spring well I I yeah well we saw all
those state houses state seats you know
a state legislature seats in in Virginia
and basically pushed the the governor
across the finish line because there was
so many contested race and so many
people came out for these races that
usually don't see this type of turnout
yeah that is definitely a thing yeah
yeah okay well that makes a lot of sense
because you know one of the ways one of
the states that did really well was
Minnesota and I'm not going to name
names but I think some of the candidates
higher up on the ticket were maybe not
the most
inspiring people but you know I met and
volunteered for a number of these State
House candidates and a lot of more
they're just really impressive
candidates running really good races and
I'm wondering you know if there would be
some way to measure that effect and and
so I guess my point is that we should
never underestimate the importance of
small down ballot races and never just
just hymns our hopes on Senate
candidates or gubernatorial candidates
or even presidential candidates know
it's sort of the moral of that story for
me and I would add not only is there
dividends for competing in these state
races in terms of that election and
pushing people higher up on the on the
ticket over the finish line you're also
building networks and yeah and and sort
of I mean this is the whole theory
behind the you know on some low on the
50 state election strategy right like
you're you're you don't know you know
you don't know what states may come into
play what seats may come into play in
the future I mean you know some that are
completely out of it but and you build
these things because if there becomes if
you get a wave you want there to be an
apparatus there to take advantage of it
and ultimately you know momentum builds
over over series of elections so
appreciate the call absolutely anyway
can I say one more thing real quick I
have on subject of unions mysteriously
endorsing Republicans yeah in my in my
race the one of the unions the
Carpenters Union I'm their lawyer in one
of the primaries and my friend actually
supported his opponent and in the
general election they endorsed my
friends Republican opponent just as a
way to get back at him so I get I mean
sometimes there's interpersonal grudges
and things that come into play as well
so that could be part of the explanation
for the afl-cio in Pennsylvania or
others well actually I don't know you
never know what's going on behind the
scenes I already got an answer on that I
appreciate the call Chris I'm not ready
right now sorry I
got on the hotline with with David Dane
who happens to be from Bucks County
that's where his family lives anyways
and he pointed me to the Enki as they
call it first district exactly the kind
of moderate suburban district Democrats
hope they can turn blue this fall but
cook Political Report recently went from
describing the race from a toss-up
to lean Republican and it is because of
Fitzpatrick's support from unions this
of course was written before the before
the election Fitzpatrick freshman GOP
lawmaker has sided with Democrats on
some key issues said he's extremely
disappointed by a recent Supreme Court
decision weakening unions that would
have been in the Janis case has raised
more than two hundred thousand dollars
from labor groups according to open
secrets it also won the official
endorsement of the a a Pennsylvania
afl-cio this is an alliance of 45 unions
across the state this is from August of
2018 it's 190 plus candidates backed by
the group only 13 are Republicans he's
received nods from the Pennsylvania
State Education from ask me among others
I'm not quite clear on why he garnered
all of that union support but my guess
would be that maybe there's a strategy
of trying to I don't know have a bulwark
against they you know had your bet
against that I don't know labor movement
ISM not a party it's a movement said
Rick Bloomingdale if you for us we're
for you and he's been with us so we're
with him now this to me this type of
thinking seems incredibly short-sighted
because maybe the house doesn't control
Supreme Court but to the extent that
you're going to get any pro-labor
federal regulations coming out it's only
gonna because you have a massive margin
in the in the house but one of the first
things he did when he won was to reach
out to organized labor about having a
partnership said the president the
afl-cio you got to respect that when it
comes from somebody after they didn't
endorse him you know so this is it
doesn't make sense to me he's voted with
Trump 83% of the time vote for the tax
plan this is president the new Shamy
Federation of Teachers is it was against
Fitzpatrick Wallace's backers also said
the National afl-cio gave Fitzpatrick
only rating of 47 percent I mean there's
a lot of transactional stuff I'm not
quite sure I understand it
unions can be pretty conservative
sometimes and like that's not to say
that the rank-and-file members are
necessarily conservative although they
can be like some unions are badly in
need of more democracy and that's one
reason why I guess not just leftist but
even progressives need to get involved
in unions whether they're in a union and
they need to get active in their union
or maybe you're looking for a job I
realized this isn't an option everywhere
for everyone but it's it's super
important it's super important and the
DSA is doing a kind of a version of Kim
Moody's rank-and-file strategy right now
in fact where we are helping especially
younger members because a lot of people
in TSA are super young and looking for a
career trying to help them get good
union jobs and get politically involved
as well it's called a win-win hell yeah
it's called a win-win-win
time for two more calls that's actually
a great idea call from a 266 area code
who's this two six six hello yes it is
you hi okay hi my name is dan from
area dance and yeah if I could just
would I be able to talk about that
should we be socialist panel that you
had sure oh sure
okay this groaning here sorry
well pretty much there's two things that
I would say that I heard that was pretty
interesting one was well I think the
first person was describing their
position with regards to socialism they
said that they didn't know where they
fell
they were for government doing things
like health care prisons but they didn't
want government to do things like making
shoes for example they thought that
private sector made shoes better and to
me this is kind of like tangential to
what most socialists think about
socialism they see that it's not
governments or private companies that
make anything its workers and so it's
always so it's kind of an abstraction
that I think a lot of liberals make so
yeah that's why they're there for
workers like maybe if they saw how those
shoes were made
you know by those workers they would
they could consider being a socialist I
don't know I mean I think I don't I
don't remember you know who it was that
said that I sort of feel like it was
maybe Pakman no it was Ana Kasparian
Hosanna Caspian okay well I mean I think
like I didn't want a name okay why why
it was a public I mean it's not you know
okay but alright I think that I think
that I would bet her argument and we
didn't exemplify it I mean we didn't
just sort of tease it out but I would
bet her argument it's like I want there
to be competition with shoes and the
implication that if the government is
you know making shoes and has a monopoly
on making shoes that there's only going
to be one
a shoe and I think that's probably the
fresh to death comrade what yeah I don't
want the government to make shoes either
I want the workers to direct their own
circumstances in making the shoes yeah I
think is it so when you think of it as
isms it becomes do to personalize so
think of it as who's making the ultimate
decision about production is it a
capitalist or some sort of democratic
body and the latter is socialism the
former is simply so the idea would be
like you would have plenty of entities
that are making shoes that compete with
each other just happened to be
cooperative ones you know owned by labor
there are different visions of socialism
I would list meat in mind notions have
you listened to yeah there's no no but I
would I would I think also uh yeah
hunter mots and I had a conversation on
public basically why innovation is a
group activity and just even decoupling
the notion of sort of like singular
genius or singular entities generating
innovation innovation actually happens
in a highly social and public way and it
easily can be redirected whether you're
talking like things that happened in
Brazil under Lula and Dilma for public
health that were public innovation
driven or the more you know radical ends
as well but decoupling innovation from
competition and innovation from a
specific capitalism I would I think is
an important important for us to do oh
yes innovation definitely needs to be
redefined because under the system we
have now not all innovation is created
equally right like there's no reason why
you should have something like planned
obsolescence that does not benefit
consumers or people whatsoever only to
make money for the companies right tell
me about it my computer drove me crazy
think of how much money has been in
finance and what's the best financial
innovation we've had in the last like 30
years right just the ATM basic all right
dan what's the second part of your
question which when I first introduced
elicited a lot of
groans and moans from some Chatty
Cathy's around I'm into it the white
phone calls white phone calls all right
the second part was Bakari sellers he
said having served as an elected
official he approved a multi-million
dollar package because you can't get
better schools if you don't have these
big companies coming in which is uh you
know true but that's true under
capitalism you know under socialism you
don't have to grant big gifts to private
companies to get your needs met so again
I don't know why he used that as a point
against socialism he should have used
that at the point again capitalism right
well I mean that's that's the that's I
mean that is sort of the the central
dynamic of of neoliberalism as a
practice right it creates the problems
the market creates the problems and then
the market solves the problems it's like
a itself licking ice cream and they're
just what you need maybe a win-win would
you think there was even it's a win win
win win win win win win in folks this
even came up with Joseph Soren Sione in
the context of arms control disarmament
and I mean it's obvious but it's still
just stunning that he's also like and
part of the reason is is that there's a
huge market infrastructure around
maintaining these weapons of course I
mean it's obvious but it really just
shows you the logic to the point it
quite literally easier to imagine the
end of the world on the end of
capitalist distilled in that example
well dan I appreciate the call
stimulated a lot of conversation I would
just recommend in the future you don't
lead with your from Canada and then
maybe I've got the grunts okay preciate
the co from Canada is not sending us
their best that was two calls correct a
good call but that was to cause us to
carve folks I've never even opened up my
I am don't take Dex to come
oh let's let's just do this from this uh
so good for this guy Jordan blue right
there's the kid so
this is pretty nuts this is Baraboo
Wisconsin ladies and gentlemen let me
just say this before we could we click
to this about
I don't know close to 12 years ago I
don't know what it is we'll play it soon
actually cuz we're gonna coming up in
the season I was invited on CNN to
debate with the head of women for
America a guy named Bob Knight the
concerned women for america who's you
know head of the organization was a guy
named bob knight and at that time they
couldn't find a woman to would this was
i got the good certain parts it's not
the woman part concerns it's all the way
back way
back in the aughts he was the greatest
ally ever edge he was um he was on we
were having I guess a debate about about
the war on Christmas and he brought up I
think it was a school in Wisconsin where
they were not singing they were not
using the name Jesus in Silent Night
they had changed the words or something
now of course they had done this like
five or six years earlier and it was one
so they changed the words to a girl
mother night old cold night or something
I don't know what it was thank you
mother earth and yeah children he he was
you know you cherry picked these things
and you know his arguments like this is
a slippery slope yes there's only one
school that it's saying this but you
know the concept of a slippery slope in
and of itself is does not stand it's not
sound in a vacuum right it's a function
of like what how much of a danger if we
head in this direction how likely is
heading in that direction what are the
trends that are going on so it's one
thing to cherry-pick something and say
hey this is a real problem what what
what are the what are the context is
that are leading to this are we seeing
other things in society that are
creating an environment where something
like this happens and therefore is it
dangerous back in the air America dates
we would talk about state lawmakers who
are introducing all sorts crazy bills
and people would I remember we would get
criticized by by journalists like you
can find that guy you know was
introducing that crazy bill that like
fetuses can feel pain you know in in
Iowa or Indiana or something like that
but that's never gonna be law unless of
course and then of course it is you know
then you have like full states
legislators voting on it and maybe it
gettin vetoed by a governor sometimes
maybe not
so with all those caveat said here is a
picture from a Barbara Wisconsin these
are high school students at the local
high school and I don't know if Barbara
is like is this an official account I
don't know if it is I don't think it was
an official city account I look here
trying to find my story on it I have a
row it's it's uh it calls itself a
parody account of Baraboo so we all know
did a Baraboo City Wisconsin parody
account so that's what originally posted
this now the tweets are protected I see
mmm interesting seems like it's a
protected parody account Laurie and
Muller the Baraboo School District
Superintendent wrote to parents on
Monday saying the photo was taken last
spring she said it was not taken on
school property or the school sponsored
event but others in the community said
the photos were associated with the
school's junior prom all these kids are
dressed in a suit let's take a look at
this picture can you get it up there are
a ton of kids and they're all giving the
Nazi salute almost oh well mo they're
engaging in an open exchange of ideas
that's right and it is all at the thing
now there are there's one or two kids
who are not and one of them is this kid
up in the far right of the frame and his
name is is his name Jordan blue yep and
I recruited him on Twitter recently he's
on Twitter okay and he didn't he didn't
salute and we have like apparently he
posted something as to an explanation of
this is that right
one parent called the Baraboo high
school environment stifling there were a
lot of Confederate flag tattoos and
people throwing the N word around but
there wasn't a super diverse population
at the time this is someone whose school
went there
kid went there in 2012 and here is
Jordan blue he posted apparently this
picture just went live in the past day
or so and so he posted this yesterday my
name is Jordan blue I'm the boy captured
in the photo to the far right the photo
was taken during our junior prom photos
clearly I'm uncomfortable what was
happening I couldn't leave the photo as
it was taken within five seconds the
photographer took the photo is telling
us to make the sign I knew what my
morals were and that it was not to
salute something I firmly didn't believe
in I attended BHS that's probably
Barbaro high school these classmates
have bullied me since entering middle
school I've struggled with it my entire
life and nothing has changed these are
boy these are the boy of class of 2019
nothing has been done and my question is
with anything and I think it's supposed
to be will anything ever be done I truly
and firmly believe we need to make a
change to this horrible act it needs to
stop bullying and maturity and just
taking things as a joke and look the
bottom line is when the prezi nighted
States gives some tacit approval for
this stuff it starts to in fact the
society and I imagine the majority of
these kids maybe it's a hope but I
believe it's the case we'll look back on
this and feel some regret as they get
older and understand the implications
but not all of them this guy right here
he's you know flashing the white power
should I never get another blog about
how that's not technically a white power
symbol after this it's just a
coincidence that he's throwing that up
as everyone's signalling right I mean
[Music]
but the idea that they're not that it's
that it's even like we're at the point
where they could do this as a as a joke
without context like I mean I get like
look
I've watched the you know the the
springtime for Hitler and the you know
and the producers it's hilarious but
this is not that joke this is look what
we can do
yeah like what's the joke right they
give there's no it they don't leave any
ambiguity there when they say we even
got the black kid to throw it up which
by the way it doesn't look like he is
I'm not sure but it's clear they know
exactly exactly what they're doing right
yeah it's hard to see the joke is look
what we can get away with and that's the
way these things progress so real
problem alright folks that's all the
time for today we'll see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah
check it
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
so the option will get paid for the rub
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
