[Music]
what do you think it's been the game
here with mana for me broadly speaking
like he just he thought he could get
away with this or do you think I mean
I've heard the theory that the idea is
like he didn't have to pay for a lawyer
or I should say a lawyer litigating
these cases
he took the plea deal it falls apart but
it's basically a punt and the further
down the road he can get without
expending money he just waits for
Trump's pardon or is it just a just an
enormous amount of of hubris that I
suppose is you know not particularly
unwarranted these guys got away with
this stuff for decades it feels like and
you know never anticipated that they'd
be scrutinized in this way but which
what is it do you think both but I mean
there's no way you continue the dpa that
the JPA the joint the joint defense
agreement the jda without expecting a
pardon I mean what you're doing through
that whole process is again I've used
this term serving as a mole inside the
Malheur investigation reporting back to
trump and that may have been useful for
miller in that lead up to the to the
election to kind of get you know kind of
placate Trump and get him to turn back
in his open book test and start moving
forward on the resolution of this whole
thing but you know that the thing is
that you know 90% of the lawyers you see
on cable are talking about normal legal
proceedings probably 95 percent probably
99% and normal legal proceedings
involved defense defendants who maybe
down the road might imagine getting some
kind of clemency but Paul Manafort is a
guy who every action he's taken seems to
be premise on his best option being
getting the presidential partner I there
are small questions about that I mean he
is liable to be charged in Virginia and
New York for tax evasion because if
you've evaded taxes at federal level
you've done so at the state level as
well and Trump can't pardon those and
those jails those prisons state prisons
are far less accommodating to a guy with
the lifestyle of calm Airport right and
you know it may be that he avoids
Virginia it may be that he does he spent
the rest of his life
in Club fed or in a Virginia state
prison if I weren't on metaphor I would
choose the former but but again you know
there are no there doesn't he know that
I mean doesn't it doesn't he look at
this and say doesn't his attorney say
like look there are all sorts of state
charges that they can bring that
theoretically Donald Trump can't touch
you know tsch James in New York is not
going to be is not gonna you know she's
gonna build her career on the
opportunity to prosecute you or you know
I would imagine the same with all these
state AG's like this is this is not
something not Florida not Florida yes
James could build her career by making
sure that metaphor does the rest of his
life in prison and therefore it is
unreasonable to assume that a pardon is
gonna fix all of metaphors ills but
nevertheless you can you know there's
there's no good legal background for
these people and and most of these
people I mean it was funny and when
Michael Cohen submitted his sentencing
memorandum last week so many people
who've been following this case just let
out this collective sigh of relief
because finally we're seeing confident
lawyering but like all of these people
Trump especially but including the
metaphor doesn't have the best lawyers
in the world and and he's a terrible
client I mean I wouldn't want to work
for him which is why people don't want
to work for him or for Trump and so you
know it could be that if a really
confident defense attorney were advising
manna fort they would have cooperated
already and refused it right but but
it's this is the crazy thing about the
story is that you can't make reliable
and
office when the pardon is on the table
and has been from the start and when the
lawyers really aren't up to the job on
you know uh not it's not universally
true but it's it's true of a lot of
these defendants it's a little bit like
trying to predict monkeys playing chess
on some level they're just not
necessarily making rational decisions
because they don't they're not going to
move that every every skilled chess
player knows because they're monkeys
playing chess
oh I think so
so Cohen is he what that later in the
week Cohen goes in and says yeah I also
I lied to Congress what are the
implications of Cohen lying to Congress
the implications of Cohen lying to
Congress are that Miller used it as an
opportunity to write up nine pages
making it clear that the Trump Tower
deal that that Cohen allegedly stopped
pursuing in January of 2016
actually went through at least June of
2016 and according to BuzzFeed reporting
went through at least July of 2016 or
according to other reporting went
through the inauguration so in other
words for a legal standpoint it's
nothing I mean from a legal standpoint
charged with what Cohen was already
charged with in New York being charged
with an additional account of lying
really isn't going to add to his prison
time it's just not but what it did is it
means he's going to have two prosecutors
who sometime this week will say you know
what he's been pretty helpful going
after these criminal organizations that
all by the way name our names Trump he's
been pretty helpful for us and so you're
gonna have Miller say that as well as
the Manhattan prosecutors who helped to
to charged him for helping Trump hide
the stormy Daniels story during the
campaign with the involvement of Trump
Organization right
but but it you know as I said like
people keep talking about this this kind
of fantastic report that Miller has been
writing all this time and I keep saying
look the report is right there out there
in the open and this is another example
of it Muller has just laid out evidence
that that Trump was considering working
with a GRU this is the same military
Russian military intelligence again a
GRU tide Bank to build the biggest hotel
in Moscow at in the same period when his
son who by the way is an executive of
Trump Organization and was in the loop
on these negotiations took a meeting
saying this is part of the package that
Russia is offering your dad as part of
election year assistance and so that
dramatically changes the connotation of
that email that that Rob Goldstone sent
to Don jr. because given that Don Jr
knew that there was something to be
gained in the form of a you know of a
big new licensing agreement in Moscow
that they have been changing for a
decade right given that Don Jr knew that
that was on the table him accepting that
meeting that gene nice meeting is
dramatically different even before you
get into the fact that Muller included
in that in in that story that he told
about Cohen that that asked for the June
9th meeting or the day of the June 9th
meeting Cohen Cohen basically made
plenty of reservations to go to st.
Petersburg as if he was acting on having
reached an agreement and then on June 14
he canceled his plane reservations as if
responding to the public news that the
the disclosure that got the DNC knew
that they had been hacked by the GRU so
so that's a dramatic part of the story
that that Muller used Cohen's
cooperation to tell and he still got
Cohen on I mean one of the things he
didn't do he's not doing is he's not yet
your cooperation has been substantial
enough we think that you should get know
time even though Coen have asked me for
that that we think you should get no
time for your for all your other crimes
Cohen's gonna have to keep going back to
Miller's office and telling anymore the
store and and presumably there's a lot
more right I mean like maybe not even
like Cohen's been his lawyer for over a
dozen years and I gotta think that it's
not just I did illegal payments for one
one particular you know adult actress
and also just lied about one real-estate
deal like presumably Cohen did a lot of
stuff right yeah yeah
the caller was involved in some other
dodgy deals with people in the
neighborhood of the former Soviet Union
there's a Kazakh
group that in particular people had
pointed to his involvement in so he he's
been involved in these far-off
negotiations in the past so that
presumably is one of the things he's
been talking about he in 2011 is the guy
who set up the dark money group that
basically funneled Trump Organization
money into a presidential Investigative
Committee for Trump that was illegal but
Don McGann when he was an FEC
Commissioner kind of said we're not
going to prosecute that so but Cohen was
involved in that which was the moment by
the way that that the world's knew that
Donald Trump wanted to become president
and included in that world are the
Russian right so so he was involved
there and he was also involved in the
twenty thirteen meetings to set up the
Miss Universe contest in Moscow and
arasaka Lara meeting his people in the
aftermath of that becoming clear we're
sort of like whoa Michael Cohen knows us
and so there's a backstory there that
I'm sure he's explained smaller as well
and then Cohen was also you know what we
I'm talking about this man but Cohen and
Eliot Brady who is about to get a hole
in a whole heap of legal trouble with
this money-laundering thing tied to
Malaysia alright just clear Elliott
Brody is the other Republican big
Republican donor who supposedly was
Cohen's only other client besides sean
hannity who Brody had Cohen supposedly
pay off another would-be mistress right
on his behalf you're supposed Trump but
they were cold fundraising chairs for
the RNC and remained such I mean Cohen
remains that's a really long time and he
was kind of self-healing as part of that
so Colin is there through the
self-healing of the RNC Cullen is there
through the inauguration and he's self
dealing off of that as well so you know
the inauguration is a giant pay-to-play
and one of the things another plea
agreement makes clear is that this
constant and climate guy was buying
tickets from the inauguration through
straw donors so this isn't it this is an
instance after Trump's have gotten
elected we're suspected gru the guys who
hacked Hillary Clinton is hiding the
fact that he's dumping money into
Trump's pocket after he's won the
election so we got before middle and
after with this relationship with the
GRU
and Cohen is aware of all of that and
theoretically he's wetting his beak I
felt like I had to say that in the
context of this right I mean he's you
know there's a lot he's got to chat with
and I mean in this explains I mean one
of the things that's really important to
remember so when he was raided back in
April
Trump flipped out Trump really flipped
out and that's when he said I'm not
going to cooperate with Muller anymore
this is beyond the pale you're going
into my business dealings what he knew
when he said that red line about more
investigating his business dealings in
the start is that he was going to find
stuff like this including the Trump
Tower deal but what happened in April is
that he got to see what
the Manhattan prosecutors have seized
from Cohen
so unlike manna for like he doesn't know
what prosecutors got from metaphor condo
back in July of 2017 but he does know
what prosecutors got from Cohen's condo
in April of 2018 and so at first he was
like oh my gosh you're going after my
personal lawyer this is the worst thing
this is the worst thing about two weeks
into that process he was like he's dead
to me and that he's dead to me line
probably came around the time where he
discovered that Cohen had been recording
him in these conversations right and
that probably is when their relationship
started like he was gonna buy off Cohen
up until that point he was gonna pardon
town and it was all gonna blow over and
because Trump cares more about loyalty
than sanity as soon as he realized that
Cohen had protected himself then I think
Trump caught him off and that's why
we've got the plea deal with Cohen and
and things are beginning to spin out of
control for Trump because he he you know
he's the thing is he's not a competent
corrupt man right he's gotten away with
it up until now but he like I said
that's really early on pardoning or not
pardoning he didn't get a pardon until
Trump came along commuting Spira Libya
sentence is how George Bush and Dick
Cheney managed to minimize the damage of
outing Valerie Plame's
and it really I mean and it was a very
delicate implementation of preventing
him from flipping on Dick Cheney and and
and as it became clear the Trump was
trying to do this I said you know I just
don't think there's anybody in his
universe that is confident enough to
pull off what George Bush and Dick
Cheney pulled up ain't gonna happen and
everything we've seen thus far says that
that's true we'll see whether he can
manage to keep men apart quiet but it
may be too late I mean it may be that
Muller doesn't need metaphor might like
him you know might like him for the
counterintelligence investigation to
know more about the Russian intelligence
collection on Americans but but
certainly it did
work is going
