[Music]
so just as a public service
let me just read off this Andrew yang
tweet
I will give one thousand dollars a month
for the next twelve months free to
someone who retweets this and follows me
by July 4th
let's show why money is the answer and
why this is the campaign for people no
purchase necessary US citizens only I
just don't know how much I want to spend
you know having my Twitter mentions yeah
careful they gang gang could be very
menacing oh whatever don't be like that
they're fine they're fine I just feel
bad for all the asthma attacks were
causing when we criticize them but you
know I I wanted to give him credit
because he has come out sympathetic to
Bernie's Debt Relief proposal but then
he's got to do this huh Andrew Andrew
Andrew Andrew hi hey at least they took
SSDI off the table did they you saw that
he they clarified that it's gonna be SSI
but not SSDI so you know what look why
can't you just say I'm if you in
addition to Medicare for all free
college and a complete universal system
funded by things like Wall Street taxes
I say add ubi on to it I'll meet you
halfway yeah but he's the reason he said
disability instead of specifying at the
beginning is cuz he wanted to talk to
both people well look I don't I don't
have any sense of why he did this but I
mean did we misinterpret what he said to
Dave Rubin oh no no he's since clarified
that when he said disability he wasn't
SSDI is safe so he just means SSI Social
Security insurance yeah he wants to get
rid of Social Security one of the things
that he's gonna get rid of but eyes I
said I said SSDI I'm sorry wait a second
he wants to get rid of Social Security
insurance that's one of the things that
will not stack with yang bucks Social
Security as in Social Security SSI I
don't know I know cuz it's just I don't
think it's just basic Social Security I
think so SSI is a separate program I'm
not an expert on it
I have to look at me like this stuff
that the like Paul Ryan got I'm not sure
like it like orphan and and widow could
be stuff like that I think there's about
six million people that exclusively get
SSI and not any other of those programs
and if Paul Ryan who you just correct
cash transfer he would have killed his
dad social mental Security income oh
that's how those are welfare programs
right yeah they're unapologetic about
counselor knows well right yeah and
that's the libertarian kind of
right-wing tinge of it it seems you've
engaged in quite a bit of discourse
about this subject while I was away that
referring to when he said when when Dave
Rubin said all these welfare programs
are boondoggles sure Pope echo yeah
let's go back over this again I mean I I
really didn't want to do this oh my god
this is a godfather three moment but
wait a second again yank pulls us back
in I just want to know if I follow him
right now - I am I eligible for the
thousand bucks you got a retweet yeah
and it can't be like a smartass quote
tweets good just be a straight up guy to
do I feel like I would do it for not
five grand or a guaranteed two hundred
and fifty dollars a month like how do
you do it for like to go into the
lottery for five grand or if you gave me
a guaranteed 250 a month I would do it
but yeah let's let's just listen to it
again maybe maybe I misunderstood
because I I want to be you know like
I've been quite clear about my problems
with the ubi Michael sort of alluded to
it there is that I am totally down with
giving cash universally to everyone as
long as it doesn't eliminate and yes
there are programs that I think are
problematic AFDC was better than tant
because we had a problem when we
realized when there was in too many just
as many jobs I have a problem with
blocker
this stuff and allowing certain states
dealing with it yes I do but the idea
that it's conceptually like you're not
even gonna talk about the program just
the idea of providing things like
automatic economic stabilized
stabilizers that kick in during times
when the economy is gone south when
people lose jobs or stabilize when
people have you know other sort of
financial I don't know catastrophes or
just broadly support for folks who have
a higher need I have a problem with
eliminating that generically speaking
but maybe he said something more
specific in this and I just missed it
give or take all right so why not take
the 600 billion that are on programs
that we know are creating as many
problems probably as they're fixing if
not more and then do it that way and
like do you think cuz it almost feels
like it's like a little bit of a stopgap
that you'd still have to get to that
problem eventually oh well that's the
beauty of this the freedom dividend
proposal is that you have the six
hundred billion or so and then you're
saying hey guess what
like it's now a new right of citizenship
everyone gets it and then what's gonna
happen is you're gonna dramatically
reduce the enrollment in these programs
very very quickly because a lot of
people would be like I prefer the cash
and then then this new incoming
population would just opt for the
dividend and then never end up on these
welfare programs so you would end up
shrinking the enrollments over time and
the way you describe you just wouldn't
do it all at once because you know there
are a lot of people in very distinct
situations and this is actually much
more politically feasible and popular
than going and trying to tear these
programs up and you know from from the
roots up yeah are you worried though
okay hold on for a second so let me said
there are people in difference so you
said they're the reason why you wouldn't
you would do it this way because there
are people in distinct situations and it
also is politically more palatable to do
it this way yeah it's a non reformist
welfare reform but he says as you
describe so
think that seems like it yeah it seems
like an agreement with the frame and I
always this is where I always come up
with the New York slumlord example which
is you hear stories and it's a common
practice in the city that aggressive
landlords get people out who are in rent
stabilized apartments but maybe they're
totally not liquid and cash-strapped
and they offer them something I've you
know seen things like insane like sure
five grand to leave an apartment I've
seen much bigger I'm or what I'm saying
even less right I'm saying as the point
of like the long term play for a family
is its is its is it's better you know if
you can to keep that apartment in that
housing security but you're still
strapped for cash that you might take
that short-term deal that makes more
sense so when I could just knowing like
being in a position where maybe
cumulative Lee housing programs food
stamps and so on is what's literally
keeping a roof over your head but if you
have absolutely no cash flow the appeal
of the immediate sort of payoff is gonna
be very strong and it might be a really
bad long-term bargain for people that
are really vulnerable and that's why I
have a fundamental problem the long trap
is that you're weakening these programs
precisely and so it's a political one I
mean look I'm trying to figure out what
the six hundred billion dollars is that
they're referring to right I mean
because this guy I'm gonna give him the
benefit of the doubt he either knows
what Dave Reubens talking about when
Dave Rubin says six hundred billion
dollars annually or he doesn't and if he
doesn't he should go ahead let's go
before that so what why not just blow
apart so that I think the best
libertarian argument that I've heard for
UB is that basically if you want to do a
ubi it's got the right idea why not just
blow apart the social safety net as is
take because we know it's just a
boondoggle of middle management nonsense
with all the whacked-out incentives
incentives that you're talking about why
not just take all of that money which I
do we even know how much money is
actually put into these things of course
so how much right now six hundred
billion give or take give or take all
right so why not take the six hundred oh
okay so his six hundred billion
dollars so what I want I'm curious what
he's talking about because I I mean it's
is it's not Medicaid and and it's not
Medicaid presumably it's not chip right
which is children's health insurance
programs that are add-ons to that tamp
is federal Block Grants I don't like
Block Grants that's problematic because
you're leaving it up to the state to
distribute it but that's basically the
best they could do you have the Earned
Income Tax Credit which is basically a
payment you have the child tax credit
you have WIC
which is special nutrition program for
women infants and children right like
when you have babies it may be your need
for money is more and may be different
than it would be a couple years later
when you get that extra grant and I
guess maybe the idea is like well you
should have saved too you know in
anticipation of this I don't know
SSDI is not part of that according to
according to what you've just told me
Matt that's about a hundred and forty
billion dollars you have snap which is
food stamps and we had a record number
of people who needed snap in the wake of
the financial crisis that may drop down
from like forty some odd million people
down you know a million or two which is
based upon the growth of the country you
know a lower percentage of people but
that kicks in automatically Social
Security a Supplemental Security Income
SSI provides need-based assistance to
disabled or elderly people with little
income and few assets now maybe giving
them $1,000 a month would be better than
what they get under that
but III don't know I mean I look I have
no problem with giving people cash it's
just not quite clear oh is this it what
it is here this is one of the big yang
gang proponents talking about how SS di
will exist on top of the freedom
dividend SSI will not and she has this
graph here okay so in thousands so I
guess about five million people they'd
get rid of payments to five million
people who are on but over two and a
half million people on yeah I don't know
if you got like say 700 and SSI I mean
it's you know like here's the thing what
I think is so problematic about this is
that so much of the value of this
program is contingent upon the being
able to do this with precision and my
complaint with the ubi is exactly what
it was two or three years ago which is
there is a political process and to
ignore a political process like I can
tell you right now
Bernie's planned to forgive all debt it
goes through the meat grinder of you
know the chances of him being able to go
in there without obviously without a
Democrats in in in control of both
houses is you know him getting that past
is obviously very low it creates a a
political movement and maybe you get
there but let's just assume that they
were able to get something passed that
bill gets into the Senate in the house
and it gets completely mangled
if the worst-case scenario is like only
half the people get half of their debt
that's still good like you have a lot of
latitude when the policy is we think
there should be less college debt you
have a lot of latitude as to where it
lands where you're not going to come out
with something that is worse right like
there's no way
Bernie's proposal or Warren's proposal
or even the like Julian Castro's
proposal is gonna come out being more
problematic my fear with the ubi is is
that five years down the road
you've now according to yang found a
politically palatable way of getting rid
of these things people have opted out of
them by their own choice their own free
will they have opted out of them and
then five ten years down the road it's
all a payment system and then they start
working on cutting that absolutely and I
think the other thing that I mean just a
couple of things to note that are very
concerning to me is that one I'm not
trying to question his motives honestly
I know this will be the way its
interpreted but he say there's different
tunes depending on who he's talking to
there's definitely some times where it
sounds like he's pushing a plan that is
what we're talking about which is on top
of in addition to when he's talking to
Ruben right there he sounds like charles
Murray to me he's buying into and yeah
but but I think the other thing is like
again let's just be blunt this guy is
not gonna be elected president and if he
wants to run a campaign that is about
you know robotics replacing workers
which i think is questionable too there
needs to be some interrogation of some
of those assumptions and that a ubi is
the answer then you don't need to get
into all of the various Meccans of how
you're gonna undermine other programs
you can really just run an issue
campaign because that's the purpose so
when you have that you know when you're
just running a media issue campaign and
you're insisting on putting other
things on the table to pay for something
that isn't gonna happen that to me is
also very questionable well what Sam
just described reminds me in gross and
creepy way
of the concept of the non reformist
reform right which is something often
used by the Socialist Left to mean a
reform that somehow picks up its own
speed and moves us closer to a socialist
horizon right the horizon that he wants
to move us closer to seems to be some
kind of dystopian techno libertarian
horizon
so the ubi like you said would be used
to sort of abolish the welfare state in
more of a gradual way which is why I am
referring to it as non reformist welfare
reform because welfare reform was a
horribly cruel program of austerity
implemented by Bill Clinton in the 90s
and it seems like that's the horizon
he's looking towards yeah I mean I'm
just gonna buy his what you know what
what he said that's what he did
I mean I'm not even to make making any
assessment on why he said it or what
he's doing or if he has some other
agenda I have no idea I'm just going by
what he said and I don't like the sound
of it I don't like the sound of you know
you could also that's what they were
gonna try and do frankly with Social
Security they were gonna try and
privatize it give people the option of
putting their Social Security money in
the private stock market again leaving
it up to the individuals and it would be
a disaster from a policy standpoint I
also frankly don't think we should do
this that with the with vaccinations
either there's a whole host of things
that I don't think that we should allow
people to choose in terms of what the
government does because the individuals
best interest is not necessarily the
best interest of society
that's just the reality it also seems
like a way around the labor issues that
come with increasing automation like
Michael was saying that you know he's
skeptical of the idea of automation I
think it's a really great idea but if we
don't accompany that with real political
changes and changes in the social
relations of how we make things and how
we reproduce our society it's not gonna
be good well I always say worry about
capitalism not robots but I mean like
aoc said the problem that people like it
should be a good thing that robots are
replacing workers because it means we
have more leisure time but if we still
have the same system where we all need
to have jobs in order to survive and
work 40 hours a week then it becomes
sinister right well this is the theory
that's why the theory with all
technology that's introduced on some
level right like this is gonna make me
so much more efficient it's also going
to make me on call 24 hours a day and as
everyone else gets just more efficient
I'm going to be expected to have X
amount of percentage more efficiency and
more productivity and that's basically
the way it works all right look should
we do this now or should we go into the
fun half with this yeah let's just do it
