[Music]
still don't know the cause as of today
of the fire in notre-dame Cathedral
there's already apparently been you know
they're they're committed to rebuilding
but of course he you're gonna rebuild
you've lost seven hundred years of
history and some of the most beautiful
glass stained the stained glass windows
supposedly and some of it has been I
think was was saved but for the most
part destroyed and we don't know what
what's causing it and just to give you a
sense of how much the right wants this
to be Muslim terrorism terrorism
performed by you know radical is Islam
assist whatever it is how desperate they
are as opposed to the idea of like I
mean what what did that guy was it Walsh
who is it that there is somebody wrote
that guy from T P USA or daily cut like
how is it isn't a suspicious that this
thing burned
oh yeah Matt Lewis Matt Liu it was it
Matt Lewis the guy that we talked about
yesterday right yeah he's like I don't
see how I don't know how a fire like
this could start immediately yeah it's
all wood like 700 year old wood yeah
there's about 13,000 oak trees right
from the 12th century it's literally
like a man's box
and so it's Matt Walsh right and but
here is Glenn Beck basically providing
you the ultimate explanation if you're a
conspiracy theorist this is the way
they're going to always say that
regardless of what the authorities find
was the cause of this fire it will
always be in Glenn Beck's mine this
answer the Rose
stained-glass window is irreplaceable
if this was arson this is going to be
bad if this was arson of any foreign
kind of in any foreign entity any
anybody with a grudge I think if if and
this is a huge if it might have just
been started by a cigarette we don't
know but if this was starting started by
Islamist I don't think you'll find out
about it because I think it would set
the entire country filling with mass
shootings they've had people running
people down on the streets the tension
is very high you take away this be like
us burning on our White House I mean
what what is what is iconic like this
Trade Centers yeah like the World Trade
Center this is their World Trade Center
moment and if this was done by
terrorists I think that they will keep
it quiet because I just don't think
McClellan and France wants that internal
fight if this was done by somebody who
is disgruntled with the government etc
like the yellow vests you know they did
say this weekend that the police can put
bullets in their guns and they can shoot
to kill the yellow vests they said that
this weekend so maybe it's that I don't
know but this is a this a really big
deal the world has lost a major major
piece of history so there you have it
that is the that is the surefire way to
make sure that you will always have one
answer always you're anything bad that
happens yeah cuz France is so woke about
Islam the third all I hear out of there
is all the ways in which they're trying
really hard to be nice to Muslims and
friends it's this is going to be the
answer well if we expose the truth then
people will be
Muslims this has never been a part of
any political strategy for any party in
France it's the last thing I would want
to distract from my record unpopularity
and ongoing protests is an example is an
opportunity to scapegoat Muslims for a
horrific terrorist attack
please suppress it
