but what is old is new again isn't it
Digby we were going to McDonald trumpets
to hit all three of the same articles of
impeachment that Richard Nixon was faced
with and this story and BuzzFeed we got
to be a little bit careful because
there's this stuck out for me in this
BuzzFeed story and I want to get your
take on this obviously but it was
reported by two law enforcement officers
who are familiar with the investigation
I guess that that Donald Trump
specifically told Cohen to lie to
Congress about Cohen's repeated I guess
can you know contacts over this Trump
tower building in Russia now the Trump
Tower building in Russia itself you know
it could be just as innocuous as you
know the you know he wanted to build a
Trump Tower in Russia he's perfectly
allowed to do that for some reason he
didn't want that to be known and he told
his lawyer to lie to Congress about it
and his lawyer
I guess did lie to Congress about it and
I just read this before you came on but
it's worth reading again I mean I think
you know this is that the third article
of impeachment Nixon was specifically
the words were counseling witnesses with
respect to giving false or misleading
statements to lafa lawfully authorized
investigative officers and false and
misleading testimony in duly instituted
judicial and congressional proceedings
check right I mean if this story is true
from BuzzFeed check absolutely I mean
this is and you know this isn't the the
first week heard of this it just has
some new detail that we hadn't heard
before and one of the reasons why I
think it's got so much credibility is
that this
charge turned up in the Michael Cohen I
do the Muller was sentencing agreement
for Michael Cohen for his lying to
Congress and this so we we knew that
this sort of was out there but what we
didn't know before what this adds to it
is the fact that that this has been
confirmed by to law enforcement
representatives when assumes this must
be from the Southern District of New
York which is interesting in itself
because we had assumed that this stuff
was sort of centered in the Muller
investigation but it's possible that
they're both kind of looking at this
trumped our Moscow deal for different
reasons and that's how the information
is being shared among the two offices
but there's also this detail that there
is some documentary evidence now what
that is we don't know
I heard Leopold on TV this morning one
of the reporters right Jason Leopold
saying that they were very confident
they wouldn't say that they had seen it
or not seen it that they'd been briefed
whatever it is but they're very
confident that it exists
you know I guess you can think they're
lying about that but it wouldn't make
much sense and what that means is is
that it's either a tape which would be
except extremely don't you know you want
to talk about the Watergate parallels or
you know it's some kind of an order that
came through on paper now I did you know
and that's not how Trump does business
he's generally a guy who who does who
gives his orders verbally so I'm
thinking that it's some kind of tape
that did it and we know that Cohen was
taping right right we know Cohen was
taping things throughout that period of
time it sounds like he was taping it
almost for years on some level like he
was wire like I've got to I've got to
protect myself all right it makes this
testimony from William bar that much
more important and it's interesting you
know there's a lot of times and and and
and particularly I go back to when we
saw widen and Merkley I think it was
when they would ask specific questions
about you know of clapper regarding the
NSA spying and there was a sense that
they had answers right about certain
things that they couldn't talk about and
they would ask questions that were
specifically a function of that and I
think they're in and here is Amy
Klobuchar and you get the sense that Amy
Klobuchar our two days ago had a sense
that stuff like this was may be out
there to drop or you know was just
paying attention but here is her line of
questioning of the attorney general
nominee who just had his hearings two
days ago in your memo you talked about
the the Comey decision and you talked
about obstruction of justice and you
already went over that which I
appreciate you wrote on page one that a
president persuading a person to commit
perjury would be obstruction is that
right yeah yes okay or any-any well you
know any person who persuades another
okay you also said that a president or
any person convincing a witness to
change testimony would be obstruction is
that right yes okay and on page two you
said that a president deliberately
impairing the integrity or availability
of evidence would be an instruction is
that correct yes okay and so what if a
president told the witness not to
cooperate with an investigation or
hinted at a pardon you know I'd have to
know this specific figure I'd have to
know this specific family and you wrote
on page one that if a president
knowingly destroys or alters evidence
that would be obstruction yes okay so
what if a president drafted a misleading
statement to conceal the purpose of a
meeting would that be obstruction again
you know I got I'd have to know the I'd
have to know the specifics well you
probably will soon but that so I mean
there it is I mean she's basically lays
out two or three things that I think you
know are fairly clear that Donald Trump
or is suspected of doing and if this
reporting is true but what do you make
what-what-what's like this is the first
if I'm not mistaken this seems to be the
first information we have about this
investigation that has come from law
enforcement yeah I mean III don't
remember a single other piece of
information what we've we've gotten up
to this point our different defense
attorneys trying to protect their client
by giving information about other client
other people who are caught up in this
investigation I don't remember a another
story of of significance it seems to me
in which law enforcement officials were
cited what do you make of that well I
think like I said before I think that
this had to have come from the Southern
District of New York and I think that
Leopold and Cormier had the two
reporters for BuzzFeed they also dropped
that the story about the Trump Tower
Moscow deal that was going on through
2015 I suspect that that's where it's
coming from that they are they're more
leaky and that the Muller investigation
I mean I really have no idea outside of
the actual court filings what that case
looks like but the Southern District of
New York made it could be FBI agents or
some kind of you know other
investigators that they have on staff
something like that it's interesting
they call them law enforcement so yeah I
guess that could apply to prosecutors to
I don't even know but that's where I
suspect that it's coming from is from
there and it like I said it's it's very
curious because it means that this
particular part of the Russia
investigation that has to do with Trump
Tower Moscow I you know I'm assuming
that that much of that originated from
that that in Cohen investigation that
that's where they got this documentary
evidence that that's where they
discovered this and maybe it's just
something that you know they had and
then they turned it over to Muller and
they're just sort of repeating what they
already knew but I don't think that's
true because this complete this sensing
agreement that that Cohen just did with
Muller that had to do with this perjury
or you know lying to Congress so that's
pretty recent
I'm assuming that they must be working
in tandem there there's something
there's some kind of a you know a
co-equal investigation on this Moscow
Trump tower thing and it's really
looking like that is a much bigger part
of this I think then we may have
realized that there's much more to this
Trump Tower Moscow saying I mean I you
know there was I read something last
night that there's someone saying that
in the in the agreement that Trump
signed you know remember he said there
was no signed agreement then later turns
up the signed agreement that they were
they actually had a deal that in that
deal was supposed to be a million
dollars in earnest money that the
Russian developers were supposed to give
to Donald Trump and now people are
wondering gee did that money ever get
get sent I mean was there actually a
million dollars exchanged somewhere in
the middle of all this which you know
and and of course you're wondering whose
interests are being served going either
direction I mean we know that Donald
Trump's interests were being served by
Russians helping him win the election
you know what were the Russians getting
out of this at the time and who which
you know which people were they I mean
we know that the Russian system tends to
you know the government is very much
involved with these developers and these
you know these oligarchs with all the
money and that this is sort of a you
know a very elite group that sort of
works together so who is who was
involved in all that so that part of the
story which is not something we've
concentrated on until recently for
obvious reasons we didn't really know
about it that seems to be a much bigger
deal so it's it's interesting that this
is that this is the first leaks we're
getting out from that those kinds of
sources in this because you know Sam
remember and all the other
investigations I mean you go back to the
90s date these prosecutors leaked like a
sieve and they did it very you know
strategically they were trying to put
pressure on witnesses and doing all
kinds of stuff I mean it well they
played a lot of those those you know
so-called pseudo scandals in the Clinton
years in the press I mean they did they
miss the press part of their their
strategy and that's just not happened
Muller before and so it's not something
that that is unique you know this kind
of a leak coming from law enforcement
isn't unusual what's unusual is that
there haven't been leaks coming from log
right right
interesting and
