no even the in private er looks away
that Nancy Pelosi was talking about this
she doesn't kind of a strange position
because she she under no illusions that
she's popular the I mean what's going on
with that well I mean she I've seen some
polling that she has just absurd
absurdly low favorability ratings
outside of of where she is now
maybe it's it's not her fault because
again
she's been like one of those like twenty
year Republican projects to you know San
Francisco values she's losing support on
the left it seems to me as well it
within the Democratic Party so that may
account for some of it too but what is
she thinking is she thinking that she's
going to run for re-election in two
years that she wants to be leader of the
you know Speaker of the House when maybe
the Democrats take back the Senate I
mean what's the like why why is she
doing this is she waiting for somebody
to come to come up from below and
letting them get a little more seasoning
because it doesn't seem like there's any
youth coming into the the leadership at
all no I mean what in my more cruel
moments I prefer to the House Democrat
leadership is like the the gambler just
stays at the table trying to break even
running you know just need to get back
to even that I can get I could go home
for the casino because you've got a
leadership team that's been there
literally for a decade has lost before
tonight had lost four elections in a row
and you know gained a couple seats in
two of them but but was out of power and
they just are not budging even today
they're giving signals are not going to
budge and so the the it's getting a
little in the weeds but Pelosi use
public strategy here has been to unwind
the Pope the negative impressions about
her by kind of being herself you know
going on The Colbert Report talking
about bipartisanship she does think
she's sorry
you're so far as anything ham being it
is and it is but it they just made this
bet no you know kind of a classic baby
boomer behavior tonight no we don't
trust anyone else to do this for us and
we're just going to lock lock ourselves
in here and because the next generation
wouldn't do as good a job as us and
you've seen some blanch into that like
this class that's coming in so we deduce
once everything's called Lou the math
and how people said they wouldn't vote
for her for speaker beyond that you act
some some young talent that's been
trying to move up and the way she was
framing her decision leading into this
election was I'm going to be a
transitional speaker so what does that
mean they I don't know the way that a
lot people interpret it was she's going
to be speaker through the end of the
Trump the first this Trump term and then
does she say no one else is good to keep
running this and she's going to turn 80
in 2020 in the next couple of years so
if she's here's been in transition do
you might see in it you might see some
more hints at that but she's also said
she doesn't want to be seen as a lame
duck so I don't know what that means
like is the more I describe it the more
confused I get about what her plan is
and and to be clear I'm not as concerned
about her age as I am that the her
political 10-year which I mean months
ago she was talking about instituting
pay go last night let's play one of
these clips I don't know which one is
more ridiculous in from her speech last
night I'm sure you heard this this the
one was she's talking about the
bipartisan marketplace of ideas I mean
let's just hear this clip stark contrast
to the GOP Congress the Democratic
Congress will be led with transparency
and openness
the public can see what's happening and
how it affects them and that they can
weigh in with the members of Congress
and with the President of the United
States will have accountability and we
will strive for bipartisanship with
fairness on all sides we will have a
responsibility to find our common ground
where we can stand our ground where we
can but we must try we have a market for
a bipartisan marketplace of ideas that
make our democracy strong a Democratic
Congress will work to see all right Dave
you just talked me down here is that
just like pablum that they feel like oh
we have to do this because we've always
done it since you know the 90s I mean
I'm not a yeah I mean every every
everybody talks like this
I mean Barack Obama talk like this Trump
talk at this for like 10 seconds after
the 2016 election Ryan talk like this
Ryan because as got into much more how
we're going to bring back regular order
which no Republican cares about when
they have renewed and few Democrats I
think you know in Pelosi's case she does
believe this he does believe that when
she ran the house especially in 2007 she
was fair she you know she helps pass
tarp she took some hits when she needed
to she passed bills she this is just
different theory of politics than then
relatives have she wants there to pass
progressive legislation but not in a way
that blows everything up and I think she
really the way things turned out in 20
and 2010 I don't think she ever got over
where she thought she did pass
compromises keep people safe and therein
from tough votes that they needed to and
got wiped out and got demonized so I
think she was this is what I keep
getting back to where Democrats making
this this bet that keeping they could
keep her on as leader they never really
had this conversation about well what if
we had a new leader who leads on a clear
agenda starts fresh with the public then
it really did that I kind of let every
candidate run their own campaign and so
that the result of that is having Pelosi
with this sort of
he said pablum sauce the sort of
boilerplate about bipartisanship but if
but I mean if 2010 stung
what did she learn from it it doesn't
feel like she learned anything I mean
yeah I mean this is the same thing with
them Obama and Biden when I would hear
them on the trail they were described
like how we need to get back to a
certain level of civility and if you're
beyond you know throwing left wing
Twitter then this is obvious but if
you're any kind of Democrat you think
well gee like we're all looking to
change the rules and stole the Supreme
Court not with all the things you go
over the way that Republicans kind of
smash the rulebook to gain power you
look at that and you think why do we
keep why do we keep acting nice but I
would say the the first press conference
the first statements after an election
by the party that wins are not like
legally binding right I don't think I
mean I know I think she does what she
wants to set this tone but I'm not sure
that so she's governor so the thing to
watch here to be before a little bit is
is that Republicans are kind of are
pre-gaming almost and saying well in a
very kind of Brer Rabbit way well
alright well you those guys won but
they're real it's really going to
backfire if they do any investigations
of Trump they they can't do that and
that's just no Democrat Falls for that
but they definitely need to be making
the assertive argument and and frankly
they won the election with that argument
I mean I wasn't as made a congressional
this is any buddy the voters will feed
the his Democratic Congress would probe
the president and ask for his ask for
you know mar-a-lago contra records all
that stuff they would have not voted for
Democrats it was pretty clear that
Democrats were gonna investigate the guy
if it wouldn't be cheeky about it look
the closing ads the Robertsons ran we're
warning that if you like democrats
they're going to impeach the president
and makes it and bring single-payer
health care about okay well having one
right maybe you don't do all that but
you won with voters being told hey elect
these guys they're going to be unfair to
the president for you to then go ahead
and say hey how about you released the
same level of transparency
every day every president in history has
done up to now it doesn't seem wild-eyed
to me and it doesn't seem like it lost
voters yeah I mean that is promises made
promises kept
right
