[Music]
let's go to this clip of bench Pierrot
shall we
it's a late-breaking clip my first
question is is ben shapiro in the
witness protection program why does it
keep shooting his videos in different
locations all the time but with
seemingly these big rigs my second
question is is he damien oh it's a very
overdone show but Jesus Christ he is
concerned about something that is not a
problem and then threatens to do
something that we all know he won't do
and this is there's so many different
ways in which to to laugh at this video
but here it is Ben Shapiro in I don't
know where he is he's like maybe he's
like an interrogation room or something
but with a microphone here's Ben Shapiro
in other words if you're a church you're
not infringing on anybody's rights
you're just saying you can't come here
for your marriage go to the church down
the street you're a religious school
you're saying listen you want to learn
about gay rights go to the public school
down the street okay you want to learn
about gay rights you can just go to that
secular atheistic crossroads school in
Santa Monica like enjoy yourself that's
your problem go enjoy fine
you're not infringing on anybody your
mere existence is an infringement
according to beta or the institutional
existence is an infringement on Liberty
according to beta O'Rourke and you must
be shut down you want a culture war in
this country you damn well have it betta
O'Rourke you want a culture war in this
country throughout this country to come
apart that seems this is how you do it
exact promise you if you come to tell me
that you're going to indoctrinate my
kids in particular policy and then I
can't pull my kid out of the school and
send my kids to a school I want to send
them to that I can't go to the church or
synagogue that I want to go to and if
you make that national policy not just
California policy where I can move but
national policy people are not gonna
stand for that they're not going to
stand for that and if you send a truant
officer to remove my child I have two
choices at that point right if I have no
place to move because you've now made
this national federal policy I now have
two choices one is to leave the country
utterly two is to pick up a gun those
are the only choices that you have left
me and now people on this is how could
you save yourself like that how could
you be
so extreme it's not extreme different
fundamental rights the Constitution was
created in order to protect these rights
pre-exists governments my right to raise
my child in my faith is my right that is
a First Amendment right there's only one
reason the government all right guys
pants in a in a bunch here first of all
he is completely mischaracterizing what
Beto O'Rourke said and this is the this
is this is the little sort of shell game
they're playing now ben shapiro
enjoy your trip out of the country well
I don't think we're afraid of you taking
up arms I would love I see him try but
even if you do the issue is not whether
you have a right in your church or
yeshiva to in some way discriminate
against people because they are gay the
issue is whether the government should
finance that and how does it finance it
it provides services that your
institution uses in our society and you
want those institutions to use them for
free here is the clip that that ben
shapiro is so angry about and talking
about the civil war that's coming or the
mass exodus here's the clip i want you
to listen carefully if he's saying that
the these institutions should be
outlawed or you should be forced to not
discriminate against people because of
their sexual orientation question this
is from your LGBTQ plan and here's what
you rights as a quote freedom of
religion is a fundamental right but it
should not be used to discriminate do
you think religious institutions like
colleges churches charities should they
lose their tax-exempt status if they
oppose same-sex marriage yes
there can be no reward no benefit no tax
break for anyone or in any institution
any organization in America that denies
the full human rights and the full civil
rights of every single one of us and so
as president we're going to make that a
priority and we are going to stop those
who are infringing upon the human rights
of our fellow there it is any question
like you're allowed to do it it's just
that you don't get free use of society's
work and labor and efforts and
investment you don't get it for free
that's it you have to pay like everybody
else if your institution is going to
discriminate systemically against people
because of attributes that we as a
society have decided you cannot
discriminate against then you're just
going to lose your free coupon to all
the services that this country provides
you're gonna have to pay for the
military and the police and the fire
department you're gonna have to pay for
the water that comes into your
institution you're gonna have to pay for
the electricity and for the
infrastructure and the roads that allow
that you're gonna have to pay for the
schooling that educates your your
employees you're gonna have to pay like
everybody else I'll take up guns you're
just not gonna get your special status
which frankly like I think there's like
I might even quite quite clear why we do
that anyways I mean if government is not
supposed to recognize religion why are
we giving you special special deal why
are we giving the IRS the power to
recognize what's the religion like that
was the crazy part of the science I've
been one of many crazy parts of the
Scientology documentary that I just was
well the problem is is because I don't
know how you define religion here's the
easy answer you got to pay taxes like
everybody else
period just because you're religious
does not mean you get
free ride I do find it somewhat ironic
that baby boy bado thinks he can revoke
tax-exempt status from the Catholic
Church as president but not pass
single-payer health care indeed well and
also that all that extra with the extra
cash that comes in well that's a good
point though and also that you know
nobody I mean granted Bernie's a
frontier candidate but it was not shade
but you're not gonna hear a whole you
know people are focusing rightly on the
merits of what he said which he's
absolutely right about no no orgy of how
are you gonna do that how's that gonna
pass Congress how you do it right I mean
it's good it's quite obvious and and to
make it about you're forcing people to
do stuff cuz you're not giving them a
tax break I mean there's contemplate I
don't get a taxes upset that's how many
revolutions were fought though I mean if
you even go into like everything from
burkina faso to you know every corner of
the world it was a lack of tax breaks
there you go I mean honest salt March
was about tax breaks on salt
hey the Boston Tea Party it's well that
wasn't even about a tax break fit they
didn't want a tax they wanted a tax
break they know they wanted we would
like representation if we're going to be
taxed which would be the Puerto Rican it
was the Virgin Islands ultimately about
smuggling and contraband being able to
have being able to dude why you checking
a ship so aggressively rule you dude we
pay taxes we have a right to him be
involved in contraband so
