[Music]
got one more clip and then we got to get
out of here this is important it is five
years to the day I believe it's today
right that Eric garner was killed by
several cops one in particular where he
was approached by several cops
one in particular choked him to death
Daniel Pantanal pant until Leone
Pantaleo Pantaleo and in the last
administration we were seeing some real
attempts by the Civil Rights Division of
the Department of Justice to go in to
police departments and provide direct
oversight to provide guidelines for the
way that their they behave some scrutiny
that basically put the word out that if
you eff up in this way we're coming
after you and we have cops who listen to
this show former cops who listen to this
show I think there's unanimity that the
way you deal with these problems that we
have on in police departments in terms
of the way that they police black people
in this country is you make sure there's
accountability and repercussions so that
there isn't the sense of impunity
amongst cops who will target black
people for the type of police
enforcement that frankly white people
largely don't have any concept of Hayes
in his book colony in a nation really I
think you know sort of describes this
dynamic that for some of us the police
protect and serve
and for others the police control it's
five years to the day that garner was
killed for selling loose cigarettes
essentially that's what directed his
attention and he wasn't selling him on
the day and and he wasn't selling one
that day but he had a reputation selling
loose cigarettes an investigation was
brewing by the feds on on this cop it
didn't happen here is this is from
yesterday emerald garner emerald garner
his his what but his other daughter or
the daughter passed passed away rest in
peace Erica and here's emerald garner
talking about this police officer which
is still who is still on the force as
you all can tell I'm very angry I am
very angry I stand here in the spirit of
my sister who fought for justice until
her dying day for my father then an
outside protesting she called the CCRB
to do this investigation and they didn't
do their job because the Department of
Justice they didn't do their job so no
I'm gonna stand outside and I'm going to
scream it needs to be fired he needs to
be fired there is no waiting there is no
nothing the statute of limitation is
tomorrow Eric died seven seventeen
fourteen we're serving 1619 five years
later and there's still no justice so no
there won't be no calm no there won't be
no peace no justice no peace I'm here
for Alyssa I'm here for Caylee and I'm
here for gauging they have to watch
their their grandfather be killed on TV
every time the news comes on they have
to watch as we go through this and we
are emotional because we have to be
strong for these children
so no we will not rest no we will not be
calm
de Blasio what's up when are you going
to fire this officer you have the
evidence you have the evidence and more
than more evidence than we ever knew God
released in this child a lot of
information that we didn't even know was
released in the trial so where's the
justice
don't apologize to me fire officer don't
give me your condolences I heard that
five years ago we want justice and we
want it today by five o'clock they
should be letting us know something
something because coming in here
bringing us here in a round Table Talk
just to say after you already released
your decision that you're out here you
apologize your condolences no no
we've been quiet for way too long my
sister died fighting for justice you
won't kill me you won't kill me that's
it so it turns out that Attorney General
Bill Barr made the decision not to bring
federal civil rights charges against the
police department officer accused of
choking Eric garner the Civil Rights
Division in Washington apparently wanted
to press charges the Justice Department
team in New York did not that split
apparently has been on for several years
the reason why you have the federal
government intervene in situations like
this
III think it's fairly obvious right the
more local even though they're feds they
are working with the police department
they are working with local officials
all the time you want you want the
federal government to come in and do
this it's exact same reason why the
federal government had to intercede in
in the 50s and the 60s
I mean intercede throughout the 20th
century to the extent that there was a
will the federal government does not
have the relationships on the ground
that allows them to be impartial and
allows them to look at problems when
they exist and Bill Barr squashed it the
US attorney in the Eastern District of
New York says is the highest standard of
intent imposed by law in terms of
whether the case could meet the high
legal standard that Pantaleo Pantaleo
beyond a reasonable doubt acted
willfully when he killed this guy it's
stunning however that he still has a job
what's up bill de blasio it's
unbelievable met Toby's book it was it
called I can't breathe I can't breathe
it was very good on very very good also
the other really important part about
his books he actually he spent a lot of
time with and talked about I mean Erica
garner pretty incredible human being
that's the another sort of consequence
of this it's horrible
