[Music]
of mullen yeah setting the parameters in
which you're allowed to be concerned
with the separation of children from
their parents again it's almost like
yeah the children have a bed
they don't contemplate you really hear
people like the suffering that the
parents also endure the idea that their
children are taken away but this guy's
from Oklahoma he's got a very very
specific litmus test as to whether you
can find the separation of children from
their parents the kidnapping of children
to be morally and wrong or wrong on just
any level that cage is from 2014 the
images that I have seen in the media are
mostly from the Nogales processing
center during the 2014 in right so 2014
so that was under the Obama
administration right correct yeah
correct yes I worked oh so my colleagues
on the other side want to say that this
is the Trump separation and the family
separation but the separation was going
on prior to this policy for one second
to the extent that there were family
separations under the Obama
administration and they certainly it
contemplated very briefly as my
understanding to the extent that there
were there were parents if they were
came in and they were found to have
narcotics on them or if there was reason
to believe that they were a danger to
the children they would be separated but
it was not a wholesale separation like
this new policy by the Trump
administration where definitionally if
they came in they were considered to be
criminal and therefore that's the guys
under which the Trump administration
separated thousands of children from
their parents the this is surely Mark
Wayne Mullen knows this but of course
he's lying separation was going on prior
to this and all it is is about the
safety of the children
now if we can't agree on anything let's
not make a political point out of this
and start pointing fingers at each other
it's about the children it's about the
children I know some of you guys have
opened your homes up to kids but how
many of you actually opened your homes
up to kids right now I have six living
with me three are biological so you want
to talk about opening your family and
talk about the kids then get off your
butt and do it yourself you want to
really be compassionate about it then
open your house up oh wait just make a
political point I'm okay we're just
sitting here I'm okay with just saying
we need to do something well do more
than just say something now there is
some colleagues might on both sides I'll
they'd have been great that's open their
houses up but there's few that everybody
wants to make a political point the fact
of the matter is at the end of the day
it's about taking care of the kids
and if we can get away from the
political rhetoric and just focus on the
kids then we might actually be able to
get something done but as long as we dig
in and point fingers we're gonna be
right here two years from now to this so
this guy according to him the way you
can help Latin American children who
have been separated from their parents
maybe they were two months old maybe
they were ten months old maybe there
were two years old or five years old or
six years old or eight years old the way
you help them is bring them to your own
home that's the way you do this you know
incidentally the parents the parents who
don't know where their kids are well
you're Sol I'm sorry we don't need that
because we don't adopt parents but and
you know there are reports they have
said that they cannot return children to
their parents some you know the vast
majority of these kids were picked up by
sponsors so the very least some family
members who
theoretically are in touch with other
family members in other countries right
but at least 10% we're in this sort of
like miscellaneous crew and some percent
not broken down we're basically provided
to Christian adoption agencies I'm not
saying that's the driving force but this
guy's basically promoting the notion
that like well we've taken care of the
kids
it's depends you've been separated from
their parents by making sure that they
never see their parents again well it
happened a lot with Indian Removal we'd
take the kids and give them the families
for domestic labor yep
so I don't know that's a tough argue
more be more active agents in the
genocide guys that's what Mark Wayne
wants you to do
that's just stunning
mark Wayne don't condemn kidnapping kids
unless you kidnap them
Bruce Wayne monitor
