just check back in with hyde-smith this
is Cindy hyde-smith real quick you guys
know where to send this just by the way
to the audience what's that if you're
gonna get a Trumpy bear I mean you know
what to do so yesterday we recounted how
Cindy hyde-smith was at an event in she
is a candidate running in a runoff
against Mike SP and this is where is it
in Mississippi and she was at an event
with a rancher she said I like this guy
so much I would sit in the front row
he you know you could invite me and I'd
sit the front row of hanging here here
here she is saying this to her her
constituents
[Music]
yeah if he invited me to a public
hanging I'd be in the front row and of
course one can only imagine what the who
the public hanging would be maybe she
was talking about like if he was to have
I don't know
take righted me to the Nuremberg trials
right round that ambiguity in the
meaning there so but of course we gave
her some grief I mean obviously people
get used to using idioms they say them
in context is and then later they have
the opportunity to apologize when they
realize that that idiom might be
offensive or the very least could be
taking in a very offensive way seeing as
how she was running against an
african-american in the the deep south
so let's give her Cindy hyde-smith an
opportunity to get up and apologize
yesterday we played some dumb you know
sort of joke where we said oh here's the
clip of her apologizing and then
crickets and yeah all right well it's
time to grow up folks here again Cindy
hyde-smith running for the US Senate and
here is her apology could you expand on
it then why you said it what you meant
by it and why people in the state should
not see it as offensive we put out the
statement yesterday and it's available
and we stand by that statement
are you familiar with Mississippi's
history of lynchings I've put out a
statement yesterday and that's all I'm
gonna say about it yesterday and we
stand by the statement and that's all
I'm going to say about it is that for
anything in your everyday lingo and your
vocabulary statement yesterday
you have a huge black population that
are looking for answers on why she used
that kind of language and you have work
to try to make it known that Mississippi
no longer has that patent when you're
hearing her say I put out a statement
yesterday and that's all I think she is
she's certainly addressing the fact that
she has put out a statement I can tell
you all of us in public life have said
things on occasion that we could have
phrased better when you make as many
speeches as we do in public life that
does occur but I know this woman and I
know her heart I knew when I appointed
her I know it now she meant no offense
by that statement there was nothing in
her heart of ill will now in a political
campaign people can make anything you
say what they want it to say they can
spit it they can go on social media and
accuse you of all sorts of things
director Sir ttan that I believe I won't
speak for her but that her statement
spoke to it absolutely we have been
sensitive to race relations in this
state I brought the President of the
United States here to open the Civil
Rights Museum oh wow and
african-american leadership that would
fail to even come to the event because
the president United States was there
today I talked about the genocide of
over 20 million African American
children see my heart I am confused
about where the outrage is at about 20
million African American children that
have been aboard no one wants to say
anything about that oh yeah so there you
have it I mean that is a really
heartfelt statement that she made which
was to refer to my statement and Matt do
you have the statement there for us to
refer to because this this heartfelt
stuff folks if you're one of those
people get teary eyed I would I would
get your hankie yet it's a man in a
comment on November 2nd I referred to
accepting an invitation to a speaking
engagement in referencing the one who
invited me I used an exaggerated
expression of regard and any attempt to
turn this into a negative connotation is
ridiculous that is so sweet
and so heartfelt
and of course as you know that is her
statement so that is and they are so
special as someone just point out to me
there's a little visual cue here which
is interesting
oh it's nice you're standing in front of
what is that they're sending a fun rebel
flat flag well this has happened is that
the rebel flag or is that or is that
that's at the Mississippi flat yeah has
federate thing in the middle there
look here's here's what happens here and
this is what I think you know this is
you know part of the reason why I
probably why I jump around one nobody's
giving them credit for not having noose
up on that wall right it so everybody
just ignores that like it's not but
nobody's giving me any credit for that
that turned into a about black
ministers and community leaders not
showing up for a trumpet right exactly
but I should just take that into
consideration that me how that happened
the governor this be glib about
lynchings also social media you can take
things anyway yeah like when you talk
about public hangings social media that
you think what they can do with that
kind of I also wasn't ready black
leadership did not disrespect a white
leader maybe none of this would be a
problem so exactly that's a major part
of these people's brand is refusing to
apologize for culturally insensitive
language so they absolutely never would
I also like how they pivot from refusing
to apologize for one kind of oppression
to promoting another kind of oppression
aka you know not letting people get
abortions there you go whoa whoa double
news white news white news to call it
the white news I like this I like this
guy so much I'd be you can invite me to
an abortion I'd be front row call it
bacon news yeah might as well called
swine news yeah that's the fake news
nope sit down
column from me
