[Music]
let's let's go to that you mentioned
that Venezuela question about Maduro and
the the that then turned into like
really the one of the most ridiculous
talking points to here mouth I mean this
is that you know Bernie Sanders wants to
turn America into Venezuela and and
Bernie came back with I think what is
the best construction to deal with this
question of democratic socialism but
here is that question Jose Ramos Michael
to his credit had predicted that Jose
would bring up as well in this way and
it was the hora Haig rather would bring
it up in this in this context and he did
almost thank you previous debate so
let's begin
senator Sanders one country where many
immigrants are arriving from is
Venezuela a recent UN fact-finding
mission found that thousand had been
disappeared shorter and killed by
government forces in Venezuela
you admit that Venezuela does not have
free elections but still you refuse to
call Nicolas Maduro on dicted or a
dictator can you explain why and what
are the main differences between your
kind of socialism and the one being
imposed in Venezuela Cuba and Nicaragua
well first of all let me be very clear
anybody who does what Maduro does is a
vicious tyrant what we need now is
international and regional cooperation
for free elections in Venezuela so that
the people of that country can make it
can create their own future terms of
democratic socialism to equate what goes
on in Venezuela with what I believe is
extremely unfair I'll tell you what I
believe in terms of democratic socialism
I agree with what goes on in Canada and
in Scandinavia guaranteeing health care
to all people as a human right I believe
that
States should not be the only major
country on earth not to provide paid
family and medical leave I believe that
every worker in this country deserves a
living wage and that we expand the trade
union movement I happen to believe also
that what to me democratic socialism
means if we deal with an issue we do not
discuss enough way not in the media and
not in Congress you got three people in
America owning more wealth than the
bottom half of this country
you got a handful of billionaires
controlling what goes on in Wall Street
the insurance companies and in the media
maybe just B maybe what we should be
doing is creating an economy that works
for all of us not 1% that's my
understanding of democratic socialism I
mean I think that is you know that was a
gift
on some level I don't think that's what
Jorge Ramos meant it to be but it was a
gift for Bernie Sanders to be able to
basically lay out the broad strokes of
his vision for what you know what should
happen in America and I I'm just sort of
shocked at that question though to be
honest with you I mean I can see like
why don't you call him a dictator
because you know I don't know the words
tyrants seem you know sufficient there
may be a technical reason why he doesn't
call him a dictator I don't know but
that to me is a silly but the other one
is even sillier Heather you there yeah
yeah I'm here
oh I'm sorry I thought you were well no
that other the second question was even
was even was even sillier but I thought
he knocked it out of the park there oh
he absolutely did it was really one of
the best answers of the night I mean I
said to me that 1 and beta O'Rourke's
passionate and bizarrely for politics
honest answer about you know
confiscating ar-15
I thought were the two best moments of
the debate you can see why why young
people particularly and others of the
left like Sanders so much from that
answer because that's very very clear
it's not you know there's no obfuscation
there there's no kind of you know overly
pedantic sore the details in it it's
just a straight-up explanation of what
he believes and what why you know why he
believes that this is this is important
for America you know there's plenty to
disagree with or agree with or whatever
but it's out there and he's and he said
it and he said it in a way that I think
was was important in the in the debate I
mean I think I heard a lot of sort of
performance criticism on Sanders and I
guess that's legitimate I mean part of
this is a performance but really his
answer on that I think was was
particularly important in sort of
setting the parameter of how to deal
with that Venezuela situation I mean
this is going to be a big thing in the
campaign don't this is not the last
we're going to hear about not just
Sanders but all the Democrats probably
they'll say it about Joe Biden too right
if they want to turn America into
Venezuela and this is the way to to
answer that if you are in a position to
answer it that way I mean I think
Sanders can I think Warren can I think
there are others probably there who
could who could take that tack although
perhaps not saying democratic socialism
in those words but can sort of make that
case but they're going to have to do it
and they should listen to him in the way
that he puts that because it's very
compelling I mean I think even if you're
not a Democratic Socialist you have to
listen to that and go you know yeah he's
right and as particularly when he gets
to the kicker at the end where he says
you know three people have more money
than the bottom half of the country
that's startling and shocking statistic
and it's extremely important to continue
to get that out there and you know both
he and Warren do that in different ways
and some of the others sort of you know
push that as well and at times you'll
hear Booker baito or others sort of say
that but that's an a very very important
thing and I thought I saw you did it
very well it's the best I've ever heard
him do it in a big national sort of
forum like that
yeah I thought there was a very tight
response and and I and I wish he had
said up front like I have laryngitis
like I just wish at the beginning of the
debate
