this is stunning to me it is stunning to
me that anybody would ask Aaron Sorkin's
opinion about anything on a you know but
I mean I guess I don't know I guess I
can understand him showing up on a
Fareed Saqqara show that makes total
sense really like Fareed Zakaria is
cousin Fareed Saqqara what would be sort
of stunning to me is if anybody listened
to Aaron Sorkin but I think those who
were inclined to listen to him before
are not going to now because this is
just absurd what are the things that I
had been amazing to me about AOC is that
she has garnered support from across the
board in the Democratic Party and not
necessarily for all her policies but I
think like in some quarters because of
her sort of partisanship and are willing
to fight and not back down some I think
are you know excited about a the youth
and a woman of color speaking up and
taking a somewhat informal leadership
role in the Democratic Party but across
the board it's it's almost impossible to
find criticism of her within the
Democratic Party some because they
recognize the power that this
progressive wave might have and don't
want to end up on the wrong side of it
I'm sure that's a big percentage of it
but nobody who like is invested in in
democratic politics wants to get on the
wrong side of her unless you can just do
it from such arm's length that it's
complete that you're really just talking
about yourself
and that is what Aaron Sorkin is here to
deliver I like Carla Harris a lot I like
Joe Biden a lot I I really liked the the
the new crop of young people who were
just elected to Congress they now need
to stop acting like young people okay
it's time to do that you know there's
there's a I think that there's a great
opportunity here now more than ever for
Democrats to be the non stupid party to
point out the difference that you know
we are that it's not just about
transgender bathrooms that that's a
Republican talking point they're trying
to distract you with that you know we
are that we have forgotten the economic
anxiety of the middle class but we we're
gonna be smart about this we're not
gonna be mean about it
wait wait a second so first off it's a
right wing talking point to say that
there about the transgender bathrooms
well then why you why are you using it
to criticize a new generation of
Democrats a B why are you saying the
word but after addressing people's
economic anxiety it's just absurd
I would note too that when this guy was
in his youth he was a he was out of his
mind on all sorts of different self
medications that many drugs and write
such boring shows I mean honestly
but drugs are only as interesting as the
person doing them but I would but even
beyond this to it's just a sort of the
the incredible condescension and the
notion that in some way you can run on
we're not the stupid party I don't know
if Aaron Sorkin was conscious three
years ago but what did what did Hillary
Clinton run on competence I'm pretty
dumb like I just want I want everybody
have Medicare I want everybody civil
rights like
well to have Medicare to we're not as
bad as them was an ineffective campaign
slogan like he's horrible was not a good
campaign slogan we're smarter is not
going to be a good but he's in camp Asus
that is where you know I know the phrase
is overused and used by a lot of
terrible people but that is pure like a
leap liberal trash right there like
that's a conversation than anybody in
New York or LA among certain squads that
people have heard you know I mean we're
smart you know be really nice to have a
president who reads books right you'll
be really nice well that would be nice
yeah I sure but there's a nice ad that
would address the material implication
precisely and frankly all you know what
I'm okay you know if a president was
delivering on Medicare for all they
didn't read books that would be totally
ok yeah exactly
and you don't have to be super smart to
understand things like health care is a
right everyone should have it free and
that's one of the great things about
candidates like Bernie also I think the
way he used middle class economic
anxiety just now was a kind of a dog
whistle would you say because I think
it's colloquial meaning for both
Democrats like him and Republicans has
become like white people and that's not
what it actually means that that's not
what it should be that's not what it
should mean I I have no idea but the
idea that he added but after that and we
need to be the party of smart people
just seems like this guy needs it's much
better I was gonna say he's much better
in a fictional setting but I would argue
also that he's not necessarily much
better I think that these people have
not learned to walk around in Hyatt
hallways telling each other their
credentials yet that concerns me really
in a fast tone talking about where they
got their law degrees I just think like
the honest answer would have been like
hey man you know what I'm a Democrat I
don't really like Trump you have any
questions about how to pitch a TV script
or something exact total the answer that
or just say the
you are a centrist and you don't have
very progressive politics just say what
you mean and see what you it's the same
Dodge that Tucker Carlson made earlier
to basically act like they're just like
Tigers like they're emotional well
they're also talking about you know
raising marginal tax rates so you could
talk about that you could talk about how
they're behaving
did you see a Oh seize clap back on
Twitter I am not to you Matt I can read
it well hold on let's uh oh yeah here
she goes solid news flash Medicare for
all and equal rights aren't trends when
people who complain about low turnout in
some demos it's not because communities
are pathetic it's because they don't see
you fighting for them if we don't show
up for people why should you feel
entitled to their vote that's yeah
exactly or the party that's not the
stupid party Aaron Sorkin's clap back is
yeah but what about people who
dumb like they they want people to think
that this stuff is really complicated
and we couldn't ever possibly understand
all the reasons why we just can't have
single-payer health care but it's
