[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a real honor to welcome to
the program someone whose work I have
appreciated for four years yes he first
maybe you saw them on Tim and Eric's
awesome show or Decker or on cinema at
the cinema and now mr. America Tim
Heidecker welcome to the program thank
you so much thank you for giving me time
during so there's so much for you to
talk about I'm sure
what do you may sing well it just seems
to be a lot going in the news it's crazy
but thank you for giving me this
opportunity to shamelessly plug money
garbage I'm going to tell you I'm going
to tell you that I have not been this
excited to see a movie since Skyfall was
announced now Skype mother's out Skyfall
turned out to be not good I went to I
went to it like it for me at that time
when my kids were young to go and take
three hours to watch it I was really
bumped but I am so psyched to see your
movie let loose we're gonna play the
trailer this is so up I think this
audience is Ali yeah but here it is all
the chips are in on this
everything's on the line financially
emotionally tim heidecker and i think we
were very good transplanting I'm running
for San Bernardino District Attorney I'm
coming out here talking to voters yes /
District Attorney had said that three
times now if you want an outsider to
come in shake things up because San
Bernardino has gotten to be so corrupt
all these numbers you see that it's just
and that's all crime
in jail forever that's the community we
want to create in large sections of San
Bernardino County mr. Heidecker is
persona non grata I have permission from
First Amendment he is perceived as a
murderer who got away with it justice is
done and this individual as far as the
DA goes this Rossetti has turned out to
be a total rat how you find these people
if you elect them or not but maybe he'll
have some competition next time Oh
Benson Rosetti District Attorney of San
Bernardino's trying to kill me if the
temper'd are happening right here I
think Tim's running for da because he
just wants to get revenge what's
happening with the GoPro its GoFundMe I
got it set up most of the time go find
me as for people who are like sick or
poor or starving
I really shouldn't technically be doing
this but boom
he's running for District Attorney which
is not gonna really happen because it's
not a warrior he doesn't live in San
Bernardino now that the race is
tightening can we pick this in your
window we see the wrath beginning that
looks so awesome
it's one of those movies that I feel
like you don't even have to see you can
just listen to the whole movie and
that's why so tell us and I should say
like I watched a you know obviously
haven't seen the movie I've just seen
these clips and folks it's released
today on all the major streaming
platforms but I see like a little bit of
Mike Serna in there in the moments
like where you know you're holding the
selfie stick and claiming that you're
being attempted murder there's there's
Trump in there to some extent I meet
what we tell us like I mean the question
your turn your circle there's so many
angles too many ways to get in all I can
do is help alright well tell us how for
those folks who don't who aren't
familiar with AMA cinema at the cinema
there's the arc of how the movie like
sort of like you know the basic synopsis
we've been doing on cinema for a while
it's basically like Siskel and Ebert
except well in that case those guys
didn't seem to like each other either
but you know it's this it's sort of this
soap opera that's been going on three
years where we sort of glibly talked
about movies but really it's a it's a
device to to tell just crazy stories
about my character who's always kind of
getting caught up in some scheme or some
pyramid scheme or scam you know trend
he's this a pretty bad guy who actually
dovetails into the sort of shrimp wave
and becomes a trim supporter and making
sure I'm still in the air can you hear
me yeah no we can still hear anybody
besides me who's listening but I'm here
[Music]
yeah so so anyway my character had
eventually putting on an EDM festival
where he handed out he you know
vaporizers which had poisonous content
in them which ended up killing 19
teenagers now it should be clear we
should be clear showed up in the news do
you think that they got the idea to use
tainted babies from hearing about your
movie I'm certainly not gonna speak on
the record about that
it seems incriminating but no I mean you
know I think Greg and I are always kind
of paying attention to the some of those
subculture stuff going on and noticing
when things I know Greg a few years ago
was kind of it was really irate about
these EDM festivals where kids were
overdosing and it was seems very
unsupervised and fright
you know just I think we tapped into
that and also vaping was just popping up
everywhere and we're kind of just
laughing at the silliness of it
but yeah those two things kind of cross
paths and Mike so my character was put
on trial he ended up defending himself
and was a cool and was well technically
we had a hung jury which appeared as a
five hour mock trial that appeared on
Adult Swim that people can watch and the
result of that was that he decided to
run for District Attorney of San
Bernardino which is where the trial took
place to oust the the current district
attorney who revenge campaign so that's
that's the back and let me just be clear
with so that people understand it so the
the storyline went along on the show and
then it's going to jumped mediums into
the documentary and and like how it's is
there a story like it's like how do you
explain
do you even address that in the context
of the movie yeah you know we didn't set
out to make a movie that was going to
come out this way we kind of went and
said we'll just make another piece of
media and the way that the trial existed
on Adult Swim its we decided to take it
from the perspective of if a young
filmmaker followed these guys around you
know mostly the stuff we make in the
show is sort of made by us or made by
our characters and we said it'll be
interesting to see how this these people
would look from an outsider's
perspective and so we created a
fictitious filmmaker that would follow
us around and then sort of did our best
to set it up for the audience and we
ended up making this this thing that
felt really funnier than we thought it
was going to be and we're kind of about
there folk you know kind of I'd say
weird important also I'll say there were
very important brands to work you know
it just felt timely and maybe just the
audience of the show which we're kind of
seeing that's you know that's happening
although you know some people are just
gonna miss it they're gonna miss what
we're doing but we set it up in the
to kind of explain who these characters
are but yeah so it's it's kind of doing
two things on one level it's kind of
this character study it's kind of a
political satire to look at how you know
candidates now can probably snoop by
without very little experience or
without very little aptitude for being
in the elected office but it also shows
like the comments we've gotten from
people that have seen it were like it
was kind of comforting because my
character not to give anything I
character loses and fails throughout the
entire movie there's never it's never
presented as like oh no this this bad
guy is get his winning you know cuz so
sort of was like a comfort food movie
for people that want to see how things
ought to be maybe you know some people
said it was nice to see this sort of
Trump champion boorish don't lose you
know throughout the movie so so it's
working on that level and then for the
fans of on cinema it's chock full of you
know references and and it plays into
the narrative of that show on a bigger
level as well have you
I mean it's particularly the on cinema
and then obviously into the movies gets
very directly
I guess associated with the politics of
the day have you always been as you work
always been sort of politically oriented
I mean how did you start did you start
as a stand-up me no no Eric and I
started we went to film school together
and made life shorts short films and and
kind of arty artsy kind of things
animations and and so we came up that
way we were not political I don't think
you know some insu blazer so it was a
little political and that it was very
satirical of culture and and you know
the corporate you know mass-marketed
tell the world that we live in bed nets
you know we sort of went the other
direction from the
The Daily Show kind of commenting on
stuff of the day right but I don't know
I think in the past 5 to 6 years I've
I've always been interested in politics
and and found that important to really
shape my life but listen the past five
or six years have been insane and almost
it feels it feels almost impossible to
diverse it from at least my own
creativity and you know some people
aren't interested in that but it's kind
of just the direction things go but you
know in this movie people know that it's
we never say the word done Trump and yet
it's it's all over the place you know
right everybody's minds and I think
artists right now you know it's sort of
like it would be almost weird to not
bring it into your work in some way so
here we are and you went to uh you went
to the RNC with Vic burger too didn't
you didn't you take him down there yeah
we went down there with a couple cameras
and I remember he did get to talk to
Alex Jones he got we got up to him and
was asking him about the white chubby
Checker's in the Hall of Fame how did
you hook up well this is you know this
is convenient to talk about Vic because
he he was an early fan of cinema and and
I noticed him he was making these music
videos about characters on on cinema and
full songs that were like about
characters from the show and there were
very rudimentary the songs were actually
really good because he's like I think
first and foremost a really good singer
a songwriter believe it or not but he
put these videos up and we loved them
and it was still early days with that so
and people weren't making that much
here's this community that watches that
show they make a lot of content like
they make a lot a sort of subsidiary
content of the show they make you know
art and posters and music and stuff like
ever associated with the show I don't
know what to compare it to I'm sure
there's you know some other fandom thing
that this is like but like maybe people
paying the right wing celebrities to do
cameo videos thing can happen right yeah
Wow or it's like Star Trek or something
you know right people like our you know
live in these worlds this care this
universe but I also found out who was
from my hometown or a sister town of I'm
from Allentown and he's from Bethlehem
so I we got in touch and he started
making stuff for us and then he went off
on his own path and I've always been
trying to you know sort of mentor him as
as I'd been mentored by you know people
like Bob Odenkirk who found us trying to
give what do they say pay it forward
share their the pay forward thing so
yeah that's that's me and think the
thing I really like about the comedy you
do is it really it's it's it doesn't
feel like you at all
care of us a care but that you just not
too concerned about the audience getting
it on something and yeah that's sort of
the the you know back when I was in
comedy was sort of the the school of
comedy that I came from I mean it didn't
work out well for me but but but you
seemed to make it work and I mean it's I
mean we talked about this a little bit
and I wonder also you know curious too
because you know you're about 10 years
younger than me and when you when you
guys came out of film school there was
that was really sort of like at the
beginning of I mean there was a lot
there was
you know YouTube and and just other
video online which didn't exist you know
when I basically came up and there was a
lot of outlets for that yeah let me take
the first question first they're related
Tim they're late I'm gonna see if I can
just transition from one to the other
without you even noticing okay we're
finding this whenever you know I agree
when we're making stuff I usually you
know if it's me or Eric or if it's me or
Greg you're really just making stuff for
ourselves and for each other too laughs
and we that's how we just don't think
about the audience you know ever and
we're just trying to not make anyone
laugh we're just think doing what we
think is funny and not you know not
doing focus groups about you know what
what's what's funny these days so you
get a lot of people that quote the
comedy works you know you get things
like when I was a kid Mystery Science
Theater was a big thing for anywhere I
felt like they were in my brain they
they were making me laugh and they were
just dialed in to what I think was
thought was funny or something like
spinal tap that was so specific and so
well executed and and you know that's
that's the kind of fans we have we're
just really just just I take it very
personally and really connect with it
but when we put something like this out
into the world and it gets out into the
mainstream where you have big you know
mainstream outlets reviewing it you
realize that oh there is not an appetite
for this in a large part like you know
there's somebody watched the movie and
reviewed it and said it was land free
and it was not and it was like you know
an intolerable and how dare they you
know that kind of attitude and it's
something I can't really do anything
about but it is funny that you know
we're never trying to make something for
a mass audience not not because
we don't want a mass audience we would
love it if we just had you know we were
the most popular thing but we just never
want to sacrifice you know what we
wanted that the core of what we want to
do and so that's where it comes in
but for the people that love that you
know it's it connects that I really
understand why or I don't understand how
something means to me I watch and go
this is just funny it's a comedy there's
you know it's it's basically a bad guy
and he's slipping on a banana peel for
90 minutes like core you know comedy
concepts it's not that great
it's not that crazy to me but apparently
it is and then I will this is a little
more clunky to go into your second
question which is yes we we've been able
to directly and this is partly why we're
able to have an audience where we put
this movie out last on Wednesday in
theaters in like 120 theaters and you
know thousands of people came out and
saw it and it like we did wealth and the
Magnolia who put it out was like hey we
had a good night last night like your
fans came out and they had a blast and
so you can exist out there as a fringe
comedian or a sort of a alternative
comedian or something and do okay
because I don't know I don't think I
think like the idea of sort of like a
cat a mouse like popular mass culture
person in especially in combat he seems
kind of harder - harder to figure out I
don't know if you sold that clip that
was growing around it was the VMAs this
year now and there was this there was Oh
Sam this is the craziest thing and it
watched him who watches to be amazed
that we know like now what he brought
aware that it was still going on
but I will take you there well they had
this comedian come out to host the VMAs
ok the host the VMAs was this guy and
I'm gonna say his name wrong but it's
like Salvador Pasquale or he was like
this kind of Andrew Dice Clay kind of
comedian like a very Italian Jersey
dressed like a guy he's walking down the
street I'm Dale you know like real and
he's and the thing is he's a major he's
a very popular comedian he's got a you
know he's sold out Madison Square Garden
and he's on Netflix with a special when
he's on he goes on The Today Show but he
came out just to host this thing and you
could tell right away that most of the
people that we did not know who he was
and he started usually got to watch it
it's crazy he starts going into like
just so you know MTV is a safe space and
the VMAs especially the artists like
whoever I couldn't tell you hold on we
got a little bit let's play it's
Sebastian Maniscalco thing that like is
who knows who's even famous anymore
right that is I mean you know I want to
play this clip of him but well let's
play this clip and then we'll talk about
that phenomena is that that to me I
think is that dynamic is what I think
has been so helpful to comedy and to
just broadly to entertainment but here
at home is for a second
what they're doing is is they they
notice that we're living in ultra
sensitive time right triggered
or you feel offended by anything I'm
saying up here or anything the musical
artists are doing they're providing a
safe space backstage will you get some
stress balls and a blankie and also
little nas acts brought his horse which
will yeah
horses backstage which will double as an
emotional support animal so if you'd
like to talk to your archers they will
send you back to where that's happening
personally I would remove you from the
arena put you in your car and send you
home but they opted with the safe space
yeah I will defend I will defend Dave
Chappelle till the day I die but yes
that's what I like about this I just
have to say is every time something like
this does something we we both critique
them from the left I guess and then we
go into the last form of acceptable like
ethnic comedy which is real and it's
fine hey I've got a ridiculous eighties
jacket on oh this guy this guy this guy
just like is used to walking into venues
where everybody shows up from Long
Island all due respect to Long Island
and that's the idea of somebody on stage
saying like save space with like a
little bit of like lilt as if it's like
we're on the same he must be used to
like I remember at one point Benjamin
and I and a couple of guys in Boston
wrote for Anthony Clark do you remember
him he was a stand-up and sort of
southern II stand up who was from Boston
and we we wrote a joke Pepsi Pepsi Fred
that was the joke it just felt like like
I just liked it like he wasn't
comfortable saying it nobody wanted to
hear that it was completely but so
what's interesting to me about like what
you do and this is what I was getting at
with the different sort of like
platforms that exist now even like Adult
Swim where you would have 10 minute
shows like that didn't exist on TV 15 20
years ago really and and there's so many
different ways in which to reach an
audience that you can you can be very
big in a community of people in and and
have a huge career and it provide a
platform so that you know sort of more
mainstream stuff can see you so you end
up acting in series um that to me seems
like it's created a whole host of
opportunities and we would just have
much better comedy and entertainment
broadly speaking because of it this is a
new way of doing it which is we can do a
night where the where our audience is
sent mostly our audience can go out
wherever they you know in the hundreds
of 20 cities that on Wednesday and
spending this communal experience almost
like when you go out and do a live show
you know be around similar minded people
and some like Rolling Stone was like why
didn't they just cut this up into little
small bits and put it on the Adult Swim
well the evidence is that hundreds or
whatever
tons of people came out to be together
and they all had this fun different
experience it's like it proved its own
point that it worked you know and that
it did feel like a movie to see with an
audience and that's kind of not you know
comedy is I feel like we forget that
they're really fun to see and in a room
together and play off each other's
reactions to it and Moore's you know we
only say like you got to go see Skyfall
you gotta go see Batman in the theaters
because of all the visual effects but I
think comedy is when they're when
they're funny and that
you know that's becoming a problem as
well but um Scotty
oh man I remember this guy fall saga
yeah it was an ugly time for my final
good times I was mad I was mad for a
long time ago out this is the first
movie I've been excited about since then
because I'm so afraid on what you see on
the big screen let me ask you this what
what kind of comedy you say yeah Mystery
Science 3000 what else were you into
when you were young and then dove tail
two-part question
does it hold up in your mind I mean just
comedy just broadly speaking like my
sense of comedy does not wear wet is not
durable and I'm thinking like even the
stuff that I made I look at him like
that's not funny anymore
I just know who that man is scallop it
was even supposed to be for like the
teenagers watching MTV made a little
reference like and then and then if
these kids think you're old and lame and
don't laugh at you then you're like oh
triggered much you sniffles kids were
fostering nostalgia and watching things
that you know I can probably watch
spinal tap a couple times a year just
because it's so entertaining and it's so
meaningful to me I mean though like what
your influences are and it's like well I
was just a kid living in the 90s in 80s
and 90s in Pennsylvania I had access to
what everybody else had access to but
you know definitely spinal tap
definitely The Simpsons started in their
live you know early kernel
most like your your average comedy nerd
you know the rocker brothers I mean what
was better than the Naked Gun movie
right you know like you know does those
make maybe you're a little older than me
and that didn't kill for you but for me
I was just at the right age where that
stuff was just like more important to me
than almost anything for a little bit it
was like massive and I cared about it
first you know whatever reason just
really resonated with me why do you
think comedy doesn't doesn't hold up in
the same way well certainly like a lot
of comedy that's very you know relevant
to the moment you know if you're gonna
watch an old episode of politically
incorrect with Bill Maher there's you
know a lot of reason to do that or yours
or whatever you know any sorts talking
about the news is not gonna be that
interesting and comedy like mostly about
surprising you and and you know like
it's like watching a baseball game that
you've seen already there's not a lot of
reason to do that but the first time a
joke it's it's usually the best time
because you're not expecting it new so I
guess that's why it might not age well
but some stuff ages just fine yeah I
think we even we try we tried to make
Tim and Eric is like an ageless thing
right you know because because it was
the third it was a nebulous kind of
whatever look to it you know like it
looked like it could have been made 15
years ago or 30 years ago you know but
even then I could look back on that and
go oh that this feels dated and I didn't
think it would but of course it does
like everything feels dated at some
point it seems like impossible to avoid
them well the movie is mr. America folks
can go to mr. America film.com
right now and yeah in the in the United
States right now unfortunately the
United States and Canada we're working
on some international deals but if I
know I'm sure you have some
international experience they can
definitely use
like some type of proxy I have a feeling
that they could go in and these people
want me to get around they know how to
get around all of that believe me Tim
yeah that's right
or at the very least if you do send a
check to Tim yes Tim thanks so much
really appreciate it big fan can't wait
to see Julie thanks for coming on thanks
Sam great talking to you soon hopefully
right just thinking of the relevance of
Bill Maher asking Polly sure whether or
not he like supported like PNTR with
China or something
