so Caleb let's let's just start with
this and because obviously you've been
in the news the New York Times did a big
piece about a week or so ago about the
making of a YouTube radical where you
were basically the the the clothesline
if you will the through line for a story
by Kevin Roos and the New York Times
that outlines sort of the the road to
the the road to the alt-right and back
on some level and I have to say that I
can't remember exactly what the
circumstances were but somewhere I think
I saw maybe on Twitter or something like
that I saw your story or someone called
attention to your story and my first
reaction I have to say was this looks a
little bit suspect to me because we
don't often get people who present
themselves in this way we don't quite
hear it in that way and you know it's
still conceivable like let me ask you
this based upon your experience it's
conceivable that you know the alt-right
would do something like this right to
have somebody who supposedly was alright
and then you know turns away from it as
part of like a hoax as a way of showing
that we can own the libs and it sort of
strengthens their hand yeah I agree I
saw a lot of that criticism coming from
people whenever I first made that video
I didn't expect that video to go that
viral so then when I saw the criticism
pouring in I was like oh I mean that
kind of hurts but at the same time as
like no I get it
I mean the are the alt-right loves to do
trolling right and that would be a
pretty epic troll if you could get all
the liberals to hop on board behind you
and then you just you know go live on
CNN or some and then just it was a
big you know scam that'd be pretty
 funny in terms of a an alt
writer but um yeah I mean also you know
it could it could have been a grifter
right that's something I learned from
you like on your show the majority for
it was you know how all these people on
the right they just totally make things
up I think that's what baked Alaska was
doing so
I think it's totally can see the bullet
but I mean as far as like I can only
prove myself in time right right well
nevertheless the story is interesting
and and and the New York Times has come
down to visit you and you know
presumably has vetted your story because
the thing is is that I've heard stories
like this and I know people who have you
know whose kids frankly personally I
know of have you know fallen down
similar rabbit holes as you so let's
let's start with your story just tell us
you know where you grew up and what was
your first sort of exposure and what
drove you to the web I imagine that part
of the story is not too dissimilar than
a lot of people's yes so where I grew up
I grew up in West Virginia a very small
town not far from DC and I didn't grow
up in total poverty conditions but you
know I saw a lot of poverty around me
especially with my friends and then you
know by the time I turned 18 I basically
was left without any resources and you
know while a lot of my friends ended up
staying home and doing heroin and
getting into trouble and going to prison
I tried to go to school but not having
support structure not having really
close family ties and pretty much like
dealing with depression I ended up
dropping out and the reason I turned to
YouTube and the Internet is because
that's where I pretty much grew up I
mean my generation I got Internet
high-speed Internet and my freshman year
of high school and I basically would
spend all my time on YouTube or 4chan
you know all these like different sites
and this was all a pre gamergate so like
the internet didn't have that like this
weird air of like right-wing reactionary
politics to it but I mean it was it was
it makes sense that I turned to YouTube
after coming out of college because it's
where I was comfortable it's where I
grew up
and so when you you you first got on how
did you end up what was your first
exposure you mentioned your on 4chan
tell people what 4chan is
because I don't know that a lot of
listeners particularly you know older
folks necessarily have a good sense of
what fortune is we here and again now
and then but I don't know if people know
what it is yeah so 4chan is what you
call a chance site and it's like these
online message boards that were kind of
inspired by Japanese you know forms and
they're basically a place where people
the internet has this culture of
trolling that it developed very early on
and so forth channel is a place to go
and post like ironic jokes and the point
of trolling is you try to make your
jokes as offensive as possible and so
forth and of took on this air of having
super offensive jokes sometimes racist
jokes anti-semitic jokes homophobic
jokes it didn't really matter it was
like it was just about like upsetting
people and to get a reaction out of them
and that was supposed to be funny and so
for trans but for Chan's recently kind
of shifted into this weird like
far-right politics though and it's
become like a hotbed for the alright and
different like fascist movements I would
say online so yeah so basically I was
getting on 4chan a lot back then and
why'd you I mean where did that lead you
back then nowhere and back then YouTube
didn't lead me anywhere because like
there the algorithms weren't as strong
and it there wasn't just like an ironic
not see posting going on on 4chan and
there wasn't these far-right figures on
YouTube and so really back then it
didn't lead anywhere and so okay so then
what happens next so that was at the
time period I'm talking about would be
like 2008 - maybe 2010 and then around
2011 I took a break from the internet
while I was in school and when I came
back around 2012-2013
I guess things had changed gamergate had
happened and I the first videos that I
found were I was looking for self-help
stuff and I was actually listening to
like a lot of Alan Watts and like these
videos like from this guy named a scene
he was a gamer that I used to watch and
it was just about like neuroscience and
reprogramming your brain
and you know improving your you know
basically self-help stuff and somehow
the algorithm fed me stefan molyneux his
videos and it was from there that i
started watching staff and listening to
all his self-help which i thought was
like high-tier because he would go
in-depth into psychology and all these
things but then he would also talk about
all the politics and I started to absorb
those over time as well that's
fascinating and we should say that like
you know the the the this notion of
self-help there's a lot of there's a lot
of people like that who who start with
self-help and then it becomes political
there are figures out there I'm not
saying that sam Harris is all trite but
he entered into the fray through
meditation and those type of things and
then starts talking politics Peterson
Jordan Peterson similar dynamic
self-help into sort of political stuff
and you know certainly yeah you know
just things like groups like Dianetics
they go around they look for people who
are looking for self-help who are
feeling like they have not achieved
their potential and those people are
targets right I mean you are at that
point what is known as a soft target
because you are clearly searching for
something and here's a guy who shows up
who has answers for you that seem pretty
clean and crisp and so so what happened
how much how did you migrate from the
self-help into the politics I think it's
just because the way that stuff sold it
was that the reason that his that
because he told this story he had a
childhood that sound it was similar to
mine and that kid bad family relations
and you know he he didn't enjoy his life
growing up very much and so like I
started to identify that I almost kind
of set stuff up is like like a father
figure if you will and in part and what
he would say is he said that you know
it's about tradition and honour and
honesty and like all these things and
like you know being conservative is what
allows you
have this good life and that you know
it's people that are liberal that they
don't have the happy lives they're the
ones that aren't self actualized that
what he calls have self-knowledge and
it's almost like you have to be this
like trad con you know traditional
conservative in order for your life to
work because that's like the algorithm
that humans have always run on and that
this liberal stuff is just liberal
nonsense and it's all about feelings and
emotions and it's not about facts and so
that's really like why I think that the
political philosophy ended up getting
injected in there and he also would you
know his political philosophy they were
selling at the time was in our economy
or capitalism and I know you've talked
with these people a lot like they always
talk about principles and you know your
first principles and being you know
honorable and all these like very they
talk about virtue a lot and so it really
sucks you in it sucked me and because
there's the things that I care about and
I think that's why I absorbed the
political merit of because it was taught
it was welded to this self help it was
like he was selling them as the same
thing and you had to accept both of them
that's fascinating all right can't but
we need to take a break we'll be right
back I'm talking to Caleb Cain he is the
subject at least in part of a New York
Times piece from a week or two ago
called the making of a YouTube radical
we'll be right back I'm Sam cedar
there's a ring of fire radio
