[Music]
obviously a horrible weekend there's I
feel like over the course of doing this
show for eight nine years this iteration
the the number of times we've had to do
shows like this has just been insane and
it is very very hard to not become jaded
about this stuff
because there doesn't seem to be any
progress we had nearly two dozen
toddlers elementary school kids killed a
couple years ago and nothing nothing
happened nothing happened it looked like
something was gonna happen everybody
says this time it's different
nothing happens there will come a day
where something will happen I I don't I
don't know if that it's now I doubt it
the fact of the matter is is that as a
bottom line there's one thing I can
assure you that if there's a Republican
president and the Republicans control
either house nothing meaningful will
happen that is the one thing I can tell
you for sure I can't guarantee you that
if there is a Democrat in the White
House and the Democrats controlled both
houses that there would be any
meaningful legislation and I can't tell
you that if there was meaningful
legislation in that instance I can't
tell you that it could go to the Supreme
Court and survive there at this point
but the one thing I can tell you that is
absolutely I'm a hundred percent sure of
that there will be no meaningful
legislation with a Republican in a
position to veto a bill and with a
Republican City
atop one of the two houses in which to
stymie a bill from hitting the floor or
being voted on or being crafted that's
just the reality of it and that doesn't
mean that we should stop but you know
pushing for change that doesn't mean
that we shouldn't that we should assume
nothing's ever gonna change it just
needs it just means that you need to
have clear clear eyed perspective on it
and the fact of the matter is is that as
much as there is support I'll talk about
this with with our guests as much as
there is support for for varying degrees
of gun control and gun safety whatever
you want to call it taking away every
gun the bottom line is it's not the way
that those people who believe that vote
they don't vote on that first and
specifically in terms of like the
Republicans who believe that right I
mean it's we're talking about 25 percent
will make the difference there 20
percent Republicans who believe there
should be sensible gun control they just
it's very far down on the list way after
taxes and for certain percentage of
those way after something that's gonna
be harsh on you know keeping the brown
hordes it back that's just a reality of
our situation right now so
people should just keep that in mind
we're less than 24 months away it could
be a completely different situation 18
months from now
there could be theoretically a
democratically controlled Senate a
Democratic president and a severely
debilitated NRA a disoriented Republican
Party who knows so this is not it's not
bleak I don't think there was anybody in
2008 who thought that we would get
marriage equality that that within ten
years
no would would he be talking about it
anymore like it would be so settled that
people aren't even talking about it
anymore so don't lose hope now there's
two parallel stories that are going on
here one is that we have a massive
problem with guns and anybody but an
idiot or a liar will tell you that we
have a massive problem with guns in this
country the other problem that we have
is we have a burgeoning radicalized
violent right-wing extremism that is is
a contagion and you can look at at a
bunch of different ways the the
conservative movement in this country
has moved to the right and they've moved
to the right in terms of like numbers of
people as to where they are and as you
move all these people down the spectrum
of right-wing politics they start
bumping into the outer fringes of
violence like we see from people let's
say like Timothy McVeigh right who
killed was a hundred and eighty people
in blowing up a federal building
and as these people move towards that
thing you start to get more and more
sort of you know marginal people there's
just more people in the margins and the
marginal ideas have more salience for
more people and in this instance they
convened an H an and there's attempts
now I at the very least you can't shut
it down but you can make it you can
debilitate it but they're gonna find
another place and they're getting a
tremendous amount of support of 30,000
foot support as it were like the reason
why things are moving to the right is
because their leadership because what is
considered you know sort of appropriate
behavior has moved to the right and so
those marginal people at the margins
they're sliding to the right - and
there's just more people who are going
into that sort of like zone on the
spectrum of like right-wing violence I
mean we have played
I can't tell me how many clips of Tucker
Carlson Laura Ingraham others on Fox
talking about the invasion how many
times have we said all of this invasion
talk is going to lead to someone
basically like what do you do if you're
being invaded well you pick up a gun and
you fight the invaders right I mean
that's that's what's gonna happen and
you know it's it's happened it's
happening it's unclear what went down in
in Dayton we don't know there's a lot of
different mixed reports but there's
reason to believe that the guy was
inspired at the very least to go commit
an act of violence by the guy from Al
so who was doing that explicitly in
service of a right-wing political agenda
explicit and we're still waiting to hear
more about this dayton guy but there's a
lot of rumors going around all we know
is that he clearly was you know had
something like this planned apparently
according to his friends in high school
ten years ago the guy was suspended for
having a rape and kill list that many
people were aware of far as we know he
didn't leave a screed like the guy in El
Paso but maybe we'll know more when we
find out he killed his sister
incidentally in Dayton his sister was
among those who were dead he had gone
out with a group of people it's my
understanding gone out with a group of
people including his sister to that area
then disappeared and then came back
there's a lot of rumors about who who
the who the group of kids were that were
out her young adults I guess 20s and who
the girlfriend who the sister's
boyfriend was we're gonna find out more
information later but we do know the El
Paso attack was explicitly a political
an act of political terrorism there's no
doubt about it
that's just like irrefutable here is um
bateau who obviously represents that
area or from Congress and he just he
just has hit the breaking point I guess
in terms of like the questions from the
press
there anything in your mind that the
president can do now to make this any
better what do you think you know that
he's been saying he's been calling
Mexican immigrants rapists and criminals
III don't like members of the press what
the hold on a second
you know III it's it's these um it's
these questions that you know the
answers to
I mean connect the dots about what he's
been doing in this country he's not
tolerating racism he is promoting racism
he's not tolerating violence he's
inciting racism and violence in this
country
so you know I just I don't know what
kind of question that is yeah there you
go
I mean so and he's right he's right I
mean the we're gonna play a clip of
Donald Trump getting up there reading
from a teleprompter and saying it and
it's completely meaningless it's absurd
there is one thing that Donald Trump can
do to help the situation go away but
he's not going to do that of course but
I mean to ask these questions you know
I'm gonna read a piece a little bit
later in the program by Tom Saka about
the the press involvement in this and
you could see it at the debate framing
things about immigration as if like you
know of all the different things that
could take place in the idea of this
country upholding its Asylum laws or
being welcomed to the you know the
people who have suffered horrible
tragedies in these countries that
they're coming from you could frame a
question of like do you think that we
should give extra validity to claims of
refugees from Guatemala because of our
historic involvement in destabilizing
their country like that seems like a
valid question do you think that we
should actually pay them reparations do
you think that we should have a Marshall
Plan do you think that what's your
feeling about the studies that show that
immigrants actually increase
our GDP that they enhance our tax base
there's a myriad of different questions
you could ask but every single one of
the questions was like what do you think
about them taking our welfare what are
you thinking about them taking our jobs
right it's all framed in that one
fashion and to ask a question is can
Donald Trump help anything is like
denying the reality of what's been going
on it's absurd I understand they have to
have to ask question but it's absurd
here's Donald Trump giving a speech he
said that the the the attack happened in
Toledo couldn't remember that El Paso
and yet but here is the shooter in El
Paso posted a manifesto online consumed
by racist hate in one voice our nation
must condemn racism bigotry and white
supremacy these sinister ideologies must
be defeated hate has no place in America
hatred warps the mind ravages the heart
and devours the soul we have asked the
FBI to identify all further resources
they need to investigate and disrupt
hate crimes and domestic terrorism
all right so over the past 18 months or
so
there's been over 2000 Facebook ads
placed by the Trump campaign with the
use of the word invasion as my
understanding they he has regularly
tweeted out we're being invaded I mean
let's go to where he was in Panama City
Beach Florida when was this like a month
ago May May I was badly criticized for
using the word invasion it's an invasion
folks it's crazy and then they say
and the wall would help because there
would not help the world would stop it
okay the world would stop it I mean when
you have 15,000 people marching up and
you have hundreds and hundreds of people
and you have two or three border
security people that are brave and great
and don't forget we don't let them and
we can't let them use weapons we can't
other countries do we can't I would
never do that but how do you stop these
people
you can't busines that's all in them
somebody said shoot them and yeah yep
can't fish nah that's only in the
Panhandle you can get away with that
State yeah
only in the Panhandle apparently not
just in the Panhandle I just like to add
briefly it's important Peter Beinart did
a piece last year and a lot of people
covered this on how the Trump
administration had shut down counter
violent extremism programs yes and this
is so important because these programs
specifically like I don't want to have a
whole other set of policies that reflect
the policies that have been targeted
against Muslim populations that would be
horrible just all of those policies
should be dismantled but these were
programs like funding Christian piccoli
nee who had the exiting hate groups
programs like actually seriously
productive sociological programs which
can basically help coltie program
the Trump administration defunded all of
them I mean so there's you know this is
some people have minoo we have to two
issues here right we have the guns that
are so readily available to anybody with
a desire to hurt themselves or anybody
else which is a massive problem and then
we also have this sort of growing that's
sort of we have a growing right-wing
violent movement in this country and
that some people basically say like you
know people say there's a coming civil
war a civil war could already be here
it's just that it's extremely low level
at the margins
and I don't know at what point I mean at
what point again you know and I've had
this question about well you know when
Mike Pence is going and overseeing all
the brown people in the cages you know
at what point have we crossed a certain
threshold where something is what it is
I mean if we get 50 people shot every
weekend for a specific political
ideology violence happens accidents
happen
that science guy what's-his-face I can't
remember gross noise Neil deGrasse Tyson
put out like a thing like saying hey
folks everybody got to remain calm more
people died in car accidents by a factor
of 20 and more people die by joke and
whatever it is but there's a reason why
terrorism is deployed it's because it
works because you know if you're at the
mall and you're out of your car you
don't think you're gonna get hit you're
gonna be in a die in a car accident if
you're not eating a fish bone you don't
think you're gonna choke a fish you know
on a on a fish bone there's never a
moment where you're in the mall and you
think oh I could get shot by a
semi-automatic weapon now with a guy in
up-armored you know coming in soem it's
just absurd and this is what is
political terrorism but we got to go
