well maybe this is a good time you know
we're talking about identities to share
something with you folks there's been a
lot of talk about this and to have an
audience of this size I want to share
with you something that's been on my
mind for some time
and we're going to play a video that I
think I'll have a little bit of an
announcement to make here it is
sorry and that's the show
I'm Sam Souter you know many people have
been asking me about what my future
plans are going to be well I'd like to
take this opportunity to make an
announcement I have decided that I will
be starting an exploratory committee to
look into running for the 2020
libertarian
exploratory committee to look into the
2022 Senatorial primary nomination for
the Democratic Party and SLO I will be
looking into an exploratory committee to
look into running for Comptroller in
Columbia County New York State as a
moderate Republican so there it is for
the next two to six years I am going to
go on a listening tour to listen to you
the various voters to tell me what I
should do so until then I hope to see
you
or rather hear you
[Laughter]
Ronald Reagan already got it is get the
truck out yep get the truck out yeah I
just stand out this is a Ronald Reagan
sentence to the office and basically for
me my my calculus is if someone sends me
a banner that suggests I run for
something then I'll run for it so that's
basically it that's how it how it works
all right
