[Music]
here's bench Pierrot who you know is a
critic of Donald Trump's he just calls
him as he sees it and of course he's
trying to there was a suggestion by
Donald Trump that perhaps maybe we
should drop a nuke to blow the hurricane
apart to spit and you know there here's
the thing with nuclear weapons or nukes
of any kind when they explode they
spread this thing called radiation and
the tough thing about these sort of
radio radioactive is it isotopes or this
material they don't have like you know
that whole thing with fruit flies they
all had like a half-life they would all
like die like they go through their
whole life cycle and like what is it in
like an hour and a half or something
like that it's the opposite with the
radioactive material plane EMF it takes
a long time and when you have an
explosion things fly out in all sorts of
different directions and then when you
have an explosion near a massive weather
a storm it's also there's gonna be a lot
of flinging ben shapiro is not worried
about that they're talking about this
dumbest story that president Trump
wanted to new Couric aides which by the
way I didn't care whether it does
anything it just sounds cool I mean what
if they're sharks in the Hurricanes what
if it's a sharknado what then guys have
you thought about that
just the anytime you're talking about
nuking a random thing that's not really
gonna hurt anybody I'll admit the
thirteen-year-old boy me is kind of for
it in any case it's a dumbest story
CNN decided to make it a big story and
then they brought on April Ryan who is
supposedly a reporter um funny this is a
you know he's trying I mean this is what
they'll do right they will make fun of
the thing that is so ridiculous to
diminish the insanity of it it's a meta
critical his party
fully supports a chief executive of this
country who wants to blow up a hurricane
with nuclear weapons is that a dumb
story is that something that Americans
shouldn't be aware of this is
incidentally I would also add after the
US government called for programs start
allowing nukes in outer space there's
clearly at the top of our government a
lack of awareness about the capacity for
nuclear weapons or nuclear materials to
harm thousands tens of thousands
hundreds of thousands millions of people
and he's pinpointing it's stupid it's
this is immediate this is a media
critique piece that he's doing here well
I mean if if you nuked a hurricane and
presumably that radiation got into the
ocean maybe like washed ashore or
something like that you don't think
people are just gonna sell their house
okay let's stipulate the whole the
entirety of the oceans become liquefied
with the reign of nuclear acid okay then
you would just move you just flip your
beachfront property there now I'm
surprised this is still there but at the
National Atlantic Ocean a graphic a
meteorological or I should say the
Atlantic Ocean a graphic meteorological
laboratory is part of the National
Oceanic Atmospheric Administration there
is a hurricane research division and
they have frequently asked questions and
one of those frequently asked questions
I've just IMed it to you Matt is why
don't we try to destroy tropical
cyclones by nuking them during each
hurricane season there always appears a
suggestion that one should simply use
nuclear weapons to try and destroy the
storms I mean we got him
apart from the fact that this might not
even alter the storm
this approach neglects the problem that
released radioactive fallout would
fairly quickly move with the trade winds
to affect land areas and caused
devastating environmental problems
needless to say this is not a good idea
that's I'm saying just move sell your
house now that's just the first
paragraph and then they go on to state
now for a more rigorous scientific
explanation in other words we've just
given you the idiot version the main
difficulty with using explosive to
modify hurricanes is the amount of
energy required so in other words you
know even a nuclear weapon doesn't have
the power of these storms what about
like an h-bomb but here now melt Elijah
this is indicative of a president and an
administration and a party that
completely neglects science where you
have a president who is somehow getting
his information from complete whack jobs
whack jobs and maybe we dodged this
bullet but we don't know if we'll dodge
the next and this is just a ridiculous
story tells us nothing about the current
state of affairs trumped arrangements
syndrome at it again
yep if Barack Obama wanted to nuke
something you know we'd probably have
done it oh by now calling by 2:01 area
code who's this where you come from
