meanwhile for whatever reason what what
is it that it oh it was the New York
Times piece right that was it the New
York Times did a did a story on Steve
King he was interviewed by the New York
Times and he said when did the words
white nationalist white supremacists in
Western civilization become offensive
which is a weird thing to say I mean the
words themselves are not considered
offensive you can say the words and
people won't be offended we use them all
the time
that's white supremacy for instance and
I don't I don't ever feel necessary to
say to people you know listen if you
have kids listening don't want them to
hear this word the issue is that white
supremacy is offensive saying what
supremacy like it's a bad thing
well exactly and that's what his issue
was now for years years Stephen King has
been an unapologetic white supremacist
racist and it just seems like now folks
on the right are starting to notice it
like it's really more like look we got
no problem with it but dude you fly a
show open like you know keep it keep it
in your pants here is just an example of
Stephen King on Steve King I should say
on Tucker Carlson another person is very
concerned about the white family
Congressman Steve King of Iowa recently
started a debate here in this country
when he tweeted in support of builders
he wrote this builders understands that
culture and demographics are our destiny
we can't restore our civilization with
someone else's babies and
so we're at this place now in America
where we're seeing people marching in
the streets that are pushing back
against the American culture in the
American civilization and it's troubling
me what is the American civilization
with other people's babies I mean he's
really he's talking about white people
right I mean I think we know that and
after all according to him what's what's
what's offensive about white supremacy
and is troubling to me that over the
last 25 years we've essentially phased
out the the promotion of assimilation
and we promoted instead multiculturalism
and diversity as if it were our strength
and in fact they're using it now to
divide us and that's what Barack Obama
did throughout his presidency everything
you said I think is defensible and
probably right and that's what we've got
to restore is Western civilization for
the world Tucker but we got to restore
Western civilization for the world give
us that's very sweet
give the eastern civilization some of
this Western civilization that's right
we've got to we've we've we've got to
make I mean that's elimination is talk
it seems to me but go ahead but the
College Park Maryland is the language
that I saw come down says we don't care
whether you're legal or illegal we don't
care whether you are a deportable we
just want you to weigh in and voice your
opinion on our local election and that
is so devalue citizenship and it
devalues being a good citizen and it has
contempt for the law in the rule of law
and we're going to defend descend into a
third world country if we're gonna
tolerate such a thing this is stories
College Park Maryland is a pretty small
place there's some realms there but it
doesn't seem like a national story
except when I saw it I thought this is
the future if there's one thing the
president ran on I watched it was
building a wall we're gonna build the
wall big beautiful wall this campaign
was not run on I don't know cutting
Medicaid it just wasn't so why your
truth teller tell us why it hasn't
happened the wall itself yeah what why
hasn't the Congress moved separate from
everything else to fund and build the
wall that their leader the president
promised repeatedly during the campaign
all Democrats opposed it as I don't know
a Democrat that opposes the illegal
immigration today and you saw
candidate for president Hillary Clinton
say we're gonna fast-track them to
citizenship well and as College Park is
that is the future congressman thank you
that's what happens to America let's
restore the rule of law to her thanks
then yes Wow good for Tucker giving you
know just allowing for that exchange of
ideas we're going to talk more about
Tucker Carlson at the at the sunday show
talk about his his critique of
capitalism the critique was was was was
correct in some respects funny that it
only becomes a critique when it starts
to impact white people in his mind but
that may be just a coincidence he's
definitely someone to be afraid of yeah
like the far-right parties in Europe
have done a much more effective job for
historical reasons of pairing this kind
of right-wing populism with a sort of
social democracy for the right people
and that combination would be on stop I
mean it already was unstoppable in Trump
and his nods to social democracy were
mainly rhetorical so look out for that
guy I mean this there is history in this
country of that of that type of talk via
Pat Buckhannon was not terribly far from
that stuff too so it's not without
precedent in this country but it is
interesting and important to discuss but
you know again Tucker
shows a little too much leg insofar as
having Steve King on they didn't mention
it apparently it didn't come up on Fox
News the whole Steve King comments even
though they were quite a concerned about
Rasheeda to leaves language that's
really weird that's really weird
