[Music]
so yesterday we talked about Tom Styer
getting into the race I mean I think
stylistically one of the reasons that
it's so maddening is he actually does I
mean he really does I I didn't think of
it yesterday on this show but when we
were talking about last night on TBS he
he does remind me of Marty Funkhouser in
Curb Your Enthusiasm and that actually
in a way it he has a likability that
none of the other sort of equivalents in
his Lane remotely possess right like
howard schultz delusional all of our
unlikable nothing positive to say for
him steyr seems like kind of an i mean
to the out-of-touch boomer liberal on
steroids that have been bands in the
united states right like but that
actually adds to how maddening it is
because it's like you know in Schultz's
case there's oligarchy
there's delusion and then there's the
fact that this really is just a
self-interested class warrior fighting
to prove to protect a position that he
thinks is under attack
Tom Styer is coming out in his
announcement yesterday and basically
saying oh no I'm not just a delusional
hedge fund billionaire I am the
progressive champion I which and on some
level I think he actually believes that
Bernie Sanders was asked about this by
Andrea Mitchell yesterday and I think he
spoke for a lot of us in terms of not
just his feelings about steyr but really
the whole systemic problem that Tom
stires candidacy represents and we have
a new candidate in the race
Tom Steyer the billionaire who's made a
cause of impeachment what do you think
about him entering the race with all of
his money well you know I have known Tom
for a number of years and I'd like Tom
personally but
do have to say as somebody who in this
campaign has received 2 million campaign
contributions averaging I believe $19 a
person I am a bit tired of seeing
billionaires trying to buy political
power so I like Tom he is a good guy
he's a friend of mine but I'm not a
great fan of billionaires getting
involved in the political process so he
should not be taken seriously as a
candidate you think no I didn't say that
there look if you are a billionaire by
definition you are taken seriously but I
think the American people understand
that one of the great problems facing
American society today is that we have a
billionaire class which is getting
richer and richer while the working
class of this country is struggling in
fact has been decimated over the last 45
years and people are sick and tired of
big money in politics people want to
overturn Citizens United in my view
we've got to move to public funding of
Elections billionaires and this is not
just tom style billionaires should not
be able to spend unlimited sums of money
trying to buy elections well I mean of
course he's absolutely right
and I you know the only possible upside
from people like steyr running is to
make exactly that point about the
systemic challenge the systemic problem
the systemic undermining of democracy
that having that level of wealth creates
inherently no matter how
well-intentioned you are no matter how
much you think you're a nice person no
matter how much you might even be on the
right side of some important issues and
then of course the other thing would
steyr and i really would recommend that
in a respectful way we does not have to
be super sarcastic or plumber polemical
but you can be responding to all of the
social media accounts with like hey you
know hey Tom thanks for your interest
here's a great project that would be way
more helpful than you running for
president here's something on
gerrymandering here's something on local
elections here's something on state
court races here's a you know
a initiative on the environment here's
any number I mean we said it yesterday
the literally millions of ways in which
you could benefit this country in this
world instead of a just a delusional
narcissistic exclusion and and that and
the bigger point right is like well no
he's a billionaire so he will be taken
seriously and you know that's a systemic
problem
nobody's gonna just say you know who is
the New Jersey State Public School
Teacher of the Year
I don't know right and nobody's saying
we should find that person and they
should run for president I I don't think
it's such a diss analogy at all I mean
there's there's no reason why in any
healthy functioning society why that
background would be an automatic
launching point of a presidential
campaign this is what billionaires are
running for office sounds like I own
conviction that's exactly right that's
right and that is the through line of of
the of the demagogue the clown fascist
of the you know of the of the Starbucks
delusion and yeah steyr to because at
the end of the day that is the I'm the
one who can magically do this stuff even
though I have no experience no context
no grassroots a base well wanna listen
no coalition no organic anything well I
have money and that sort of magically
confers competence now let's play what
we're gonna play one more Bernie clip
before we get to the interview because
this was actually another thing that was
incredibly important yesterday
announcement that Bernie Sanders in aoc
are teaming up to introduce a climate
emergency in Congress climate is in fact
an emergency there is a global
ecological crisis and this is the type
of energy that's gonna need to be
harnessed in an in and outside of
Congress to really make the aggressive
interventions that are necessary and of
course this is some pretty good vintage
I don't know whether he's outside of DC
or in or
maybe he's in Burlington but uh Bernie
threw on the pole oh it's a nice day
said I started showing myself with my
smoothie trial lawyer in Cedar Rapids
all right let's check this out this
morning I introduced legislation in the
Senate declaring that climate change is
a national emergency a similar
legislation was introduced in the House
by representative bloom hawa and
Alexandria Casey of Cortez anybody who
does not appreciate that climate change
is a not only national emergency what a
global emergency really does not
understand what's going on and what the
scientific community has told us is that
we have all of 12 years in order to
transform our energy system away from
fossil fuel to energy efficiency and
sustainable energy or there will be
irreparable damage done to this planet
our job right now is to have the courage
to take on the fossil fuel industry who
make billions and billions of dollars
every single year destroying our planet
to take them on and in fact to transform
our energy system away from fossil fuel
to energy efficiency and sustainable
energy this is a national emergency the
future of the planet is hanging on our
decision about moving forward let's go
forward together thank you I I also you
know I love the consistency that every
single message is really defined by the
basic conflict in the stakes the
conflicts of the stakes is the fossil
fuel industry there a some asymmetry of
their power relative to the rest of the
process until that's corrected you're
not gonna have serious action on this
regardless of the scientific
conversation regardless of even really
effective and necessary public
persuasion fundamentally if you don't
take on that concentration of power you
are not going to have the necessary
action that's required at all and I
would say just one other thing too that
with regards to the broader conversation
about climate and why it's not just
sufficient to sort of argue
out whether or not you quote-unquote
accept the science when the right-wing
accepts the science of this their
answers are gonna be apartheid like an
authoritarian so like okay yes there's
shrinking resources there's already
resource wars we're gonna have conflicts
over water okay let's make it another
let's build a wall let's build a wall
let's get money let's get essential
resources to a narrow set of
constituencies and people it's
fundamentally a political conflict and
that's how he's framing it it is an
emergency and and I love it it's
important
