okay let's get to there was there was a
piece that came out in New York Magazine
that was actually a very worthwhile
piece by a German historian of Hitler
historian of fascism
I don't recall the gentleman's name but
it was one of the most sort of I'm not
usually persuaded by those pieces but
this was one of the most sober real
comparisons between where we're at now
and where Germany was at then and one of
the lines he said was basically and I'm
radically paraphrasing here but but one
of the things that made it smart was
like think about Mitch McConnell when
historians talk about like if this is
the death of American democracy Mitch
McConnell's the gravedigger this is one
of the most disgusting unethical immoral
grotesque human beings to ever occupy
public life in this country and I know
that that's saying a lot it's not just
the obvious things like the
unprecedented holding up with the
Merrick garland appointment which
there's just a pure raw act of
corruption it's a whole career dedicated
to simply being a bagman for any
corporate interest imaginable at the
expense of any human being
besides the ultra elite imaginable not
to mention his own highly questionable
personal relationships this is Mitch
McConnell speaking with John Dickerson
about election appointments and
Dickerson corrects him here because
McConnell is lying
Oshin that the Senate is somehow broken
over this is simply inaccurate but mr.
leader those things have happened but
this is of a different order and
Democrats are pointing not only the way
this was handled but in the history of
partisanship on the Supreme Court
your decision to block Merrick garland
is something they see is that as having
kicked off a new stage in the
partisanship associated with Supreme
Court nominees they don't know much
history you have to go back to 1880 to
find the last
a Senate controlled by a different party
from the president confirmed a Supreme
Court justice to a vacancy created in
the middle of a presidential election
they also conveniently forgotten the Joe
Biden said in 1992 when he was chairing
the Judiciary Committee Democrats
control the Senate Republican in the
White House if a vacancy occurred they
wouldn't fill it and also conveniently
forgot the Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid
18 months before the end of Bush 43 said
if a Supreme Court vacancy occurred they
wouldn't fill it right but mr. leader I
think that's right in 1956 Eisenhower
nominated Brennan the 84th Congress was
a Democrat controlled and also on the
Biden rule Joe Biden was talking in the
abstract there was no nominee no nominee
was blocked and he said to not have the
nomination come up before the election
but that it could come up after the
election and so what Democrats say when
they hear you doing this is they say
he's creating new rules to essentially
do what he wants to do and as you've
written in your book the long game when
you do that it actually hurts democracy
yeah well that's not exactly that's not
at all what happened John you're
completely misconstruing what happened
what I gave you is the history of this I
know the history of this I've spent a
lot of time on this throughout my career
what I did was entirely consistent with
what the history of the Senate's been in
that situation going back to 1880 well I
think the 1956 example and also in 1968
later in the election cycle when a
Democratic president put somebody
forward the Republican leader worked
with him to get that person a hearing
and get him towards the Supreme Court
which is not something that you did a
vote at the time and there was a
Democrat then it was a Democrat in the
White House
but the Republican leader or the time
tried to help John John you are not
listening to me the history is is
exactly as I told you well we have we
have a disagreement about the history
but I greatly greatly appreciate you
being with us here today mr. leader
thanks so much okay thank you
and mitch mcconnell's obviously that was
beautiful mitch mcconnell's only
breaking the senate he is the grave
digger of democracy that's how we should
refer to him from now on and that is an
important all the historical points are
correct and obviously they're I mean
they're important for embarrassing them
they don't mean anything to him because
he's a corrupt liar but in addition to
that yes this jill biden talking point
is so absurd to use a guy talking about
an abstract he's actually joe biden was
literally doing a thought experiment and
even a thought experiment that does not
cover the block of garland because the
block of Garland's according to the
Biden thought experiment would have
ended actually right after Trump was
elected president in the Biden thought
experiment the election would have been
over and it would've been like all right
well in a couple of months we could of
course a pointer on guy but now regular
order needs to resume because the
elections over and we're gonna give
Merrick garland a hearing and President
Obama is gonna get his pick so and you
know this is another I mean look there
there's echoes here at least in terms of
the kind of establishment Arian you know
Center centrist Democratic institutional
whatever you want to call it you know
they can whine and talk about precedent
all day Mitch McConnell does the stuff
because he can and you know it's one of
the last vestiges of like the
performance of democratic process that
he still feels the need to lie about it
with John Dickerson but the bottom line
reality is you do this because you can
and Chuck you know Chuck Schumer
everybody well what about the president
thought that that that doesn't matter
it's irrelevant
they show that every single day and the
Democrats aren't willing at some point
to disrespect institutions to save them
and I don't know if that makes sense to
people but it's like if you have one
side that will literally do anything and
all and they never will get punished or
held accountable for it if the Democrats
take the Senate back and you know these
idiots start talking about reintroducing
rules and civility you need to be
calling them every single day and say I
did not vote for this delusional
nonsense we need to save democracy in
the long term
I always think Adi you're in an area of
psychology and historians can correct me
if I'm wrong on this but when he
suspended habeas corpus he did that
intentionally to prove the point of
habeas corpus be the value of it right
like he didn't just ignore it and
pretend like he wasn't suspending it you
you sort of reiterate the value of it by
doing so I don't know no it makes a lot
of sense you can't you're you get to
like what the thing is actually supposed
to achieve not just the performance of
it and people can be cynical about you
know the usefulness of John Dickerson
going through that history you know in
terms of how big of an impact
it's an offender it would but totally
and I think just from you know the
public hat from a public dignity
standpoint people have the right to hear
this laid out for them and just because
our media doesn't do it typically or
reliably doesn't mean that we shouldn't
applaud it when it does do I know
absolutely is very well done by John
Dickerson and it also it certainly made
that scumbag upset which is also good um
and this sort of continues with the you
know tell them they're don't don't do
anything physical don't do anything
illegal but you see these people at
dinner
you're an at their dinner should
be over Your Grave Digger of democracy
 you I remember in like 2000 14 or
15 I saw a Hoeven and Heitkamp sitting
on a plane in to Bismarck I was on the
same flight right and I would just love
to be on a flight next to John Hoeven
oh yeah I you begin some good videos
yeah how you doing John let's talk about
how you're ruining this country in the
planet
