[Music]
hey well let's do this from sonny perdue
this is talk about having a bit of a 10
year farmers have yet to desert Donald
Trump supposedly because of course
they've been paying out huge amounts of
huge sums of money the dole to subsidize
I imagine most of those subsidies are
not necessarily getting to small farms
and here's sonny Perdue trying to make
light he is of course the head of the
he's the AG say the agricultural
secretary trying to make light of Donald
Trump's dumb trade wars like completely
just flailing around with wit with what
appears to be no logic whatsoever and
really at the end of the day so that
they can get better copyright it seems
to me issues that like I'm not sure
really a problem for farmers but here's
sonny Perdue basically making a joke
that law of Falls a little flat in rural
Redwood County all signs pointed to farm
fest the annual AG fair but this time
with some extra tension in the air we
need new products going forward given
the situation we have on the ground
today us AG secretary sonny Perdue sat
down for a listening session and a big
shed jam-packed with active and retired
farmers what do you call two farmers in
a basement I said I don't know what are
you gonna he said a wine cellar
beyond the laughter many here are dead
serious about their worries over the
trade war with China which has been a
major buyer of Minnesota crops this is
causing a long-term devastating damage
to not only farmers but rural
communities AG committee chair Colin
Petersen hosted this event and brought
along four other members of the
Minnesota delegation including Angie
Craig there you go
their wine or your honors a wine cellar
yeah I don't think that goes over very
well yeah I think every farmers just
like oh okay good joke I'm gonna forget
my grievances now that you called me a
whiner that farmers love to be called
things like that yeah whoever runs
against Trump hopefully Bernie needs to
hammer him on trade on trade but also
agricultural I mean you know the
Democrats have always been you know
Obama talked a decent game in in 2008
about some type of agricultural reform
in this country and and never really
delivered for farmers and really we end
up having just huge big giveaways to
major conglomerates but I mean I don't
know if aside from just being completely
illogical
I don't know that Bernie's gonna have a
be able to make a critique on Trump's
trade that anybody else wouldn't be able
to to be honest with you I mean I think
like theoretically Bernie would not be
too you know if Trump was able to
execute what he sort of thinks he's
doing on some level Bernie wouldn't
wouldn't be too far apart in terms of
objectives I mean I think Bernie would
be far more interested in sort of labor
protections in in other countries and
whatnot but in terms of like you know
protecting American industry and keeping
offshoring I mean you know theoretically
they're the same but the critique of
trumps
trade policies just like they don't make
any sense well I don't think it's
necessarily anything specifically Bernie
can do rhetorically but we do know his
donation come from a lot like those
rural communities right like his map
covers all that stuff way better than
any other candidate does yeah and if you
want to talk about trade uh this isn't
the same thing as the trade war with
China
exactly but NAFTA 2.0 the thing that
Trump signed I think Bernie has much
more of a leg to stand on criticizing
NAFTA like trade deals than any of the
other Democrats I mean I think that's
possible I think that's possible I think
they'll all critique it on some level
