[Music]
Donald Trump is very upset that no one
has provided him credit with the
criminal justice reform part of that is
probably because he's an idiot and no
one believes that he had any ideas about
this it just was something that Barack
Obama hadn't done so he was okay and
signing off on what people had brought
him I mean I think that's quite clear
we're gonna see it when we talk about
these cafe standards in the frustration
that he's feeling that he's being
outmaneuvered not trying to pollute it's
a really tough time in America where a
guy can't just pollute and do it
competently I've got my best twenty
nine-year-old in the gym exactly but
here he is Don Trump at the airport he
only does or I guess he's in Morristown
New Jersey he only does pressors at the
airport I wonder if that's a way for
people to avoid hearing the questions
I'm serious about that I think that's
probably what it is on some level
because then he cannot be accused of not
answering the question or getting or
being it's just a statement that's
floating untethered to any predicate
yeah that's very smart it's very smart
or maybe it's just like he doesn't it
just gives him a quick out I don't know
but here he is you might say that Donald
Trump is a poet and he doesn't even know
it
criminal justice reform is done
beautiful package wonderful they don't
even mention my name so stupid so stupid
thank you thank you
Wow we gonna play that one more time I
didn't really get appreciate the guys
need to take put some music in the
background or something III email I I am
something that might work for a
background for this yes so stupid so
stupid so stupid just stupid thank you
thank you the wind rustles the trees as
the plum okay let's play one more time
what sprouts in spring so stupid justice
reform is done beautiful package
wonderful they don't even mention my
name so stupid so stupid thank you thank
you this is a Japanese artaphernes
pierces the evening sky no credit for me
so unfair so unfair
baby she's good in everyone I'm a deal
yes I made deals so good for me for me
but no credit no credit say thank sad
sad sad where somebody is writing a
coffee table book to sell Urban
Outfitters full of poems like that
that's true actually but there was a god
I hope not
I actually think anybody does that
really should be arrested frankly
yeah for copyright that's a good exactly
I think I think they should be I think
they should be put into the Jimmy Fallon
gulag alright
