the government has reopened this week
and Donald Trump caved in a big way that
cave became more prominent as the week
went on and the the reluctance of the
Republicans to get involved with another
government shutdown became more
prominent as the week went on and and
and we will circle back to that but I
want to talk about another development
this week that in some respects is sort
of a sideshow but in many respects I
think it captures the essence of where
democratic politics is today in some
respects also captures the essence of
what is very problematic about politics
broadly today and there there was almost
and I'm talking about the Howard Schultz
I don't know I guess Bonanza this week
for three or four days this guy was on
every single major Network program that
you could be on it seems like that
wasn't you know a fictional show 60
minutes he was on the view he was on
every cable news outlet he was
interviewed in by all the major players
they wrote about him in the times in the
post and I have a feeling a lot of
people are like who is that and he is
the former CEO of Starbucks so a very
successful owner of a coffee shop and he
the big news he's contemplating running
for president and we were all sort of
treated to this guy's rollout which was
disastrous as far as I could tell like I
mean I guess I don't know how it could
be anything assessed as anything other
than disastrous but it told a lot of
stories this rollout but give me your
take on it because I know I wrote you
wrote about it
yeah I did I mean I look first of all
you know why this guy is getting
level of attention when it seems to me
that everybody's running for president
you know I don't know and furthermore we
already had another billionaire in the
demo in the race more or less we have
Michael Bloomberg who has made it very
you know clear that he is very seriously
thinking of running in the Democratic
primary but Howard Schultz comes along
and he is somehow you know stated like
he's the second coming in the media
which i think says a lot about the
median we should probably talk about
that as well but I think that the the
Schultz you know story the fact that he
came along and said immediately that he
was contemplating a run as Anand third
party or an independent or whatever
outside the party system I think that's
what got Democrats shaken up because
there's been plenty of polling that
suggested if he were to run because of
his attitudes mostly on social issues he
would likely pull from Democrats and and
that is you know obviously the whole
Democratic Party is terrified of the
idea if another four years of Donald
Trump as a result of particularly as a
result of something like this and this
vanity run of his which I really think
it is I mean like I mean I suspect you
and I agree on this I'm not the coward
shelters going anywhere as an actual you
know candidate but what if he decides
that he gets just enough to stay in the
race obviously he has the money to put
himself on the ballot I mean and this is
why the billionaire part of this is so
threatening you know so just some guy no
one would care but he's got what is he
threw worth three billion or something
he can finance this himself and he can
put himself on the ballot and siphon off
just enough votes to potentially put
Donald Trump back in the White House so
you know that's what has has them scared
but as a as a as a someone with an
actual constituency it's a joke I mean
this is one of the perennial sort of you
know tropes among you know rich guys and
plenty of people in in the Washington
you know Beltway media that believes
that somehow or another
most people in the country really just
want they want to be quote in the middle
he's calling himself a centrist as if
I'm in the center you can you can split
the difference between the Republicans
and Donald Trump on the one hand and
these crazy socialist Democrats on the
other and so he's supposedly there's all
these people who were just yearning for
some exceedingly boring billionaire who
has absolutely nothing new to say about
anything to to play that role and be the
president the daddy president that we're
all waiting for and you know there is no
evidence that that is true the
independence in this country break both
into both parties pretty neatly there
isn't a constituency for people who you
know or so in the center that they can't
find a home and either one of the
parties and you know this this idea is
just it's some it's some wish
fulfillment on the part of certain
members and in this case you know it
looks like it's some you know some
people mostly Republican you know
advisers and consultants who maybe have
talked to him and now we find out
there's some Obama people in there that
are working for him there's a lot of
money going to be exchanged so you know
and and one thing I find interesting
about him though is that in in these
first days of his the rollout of his
potential campaign and he's selling a
book to is this you know what he's doing
basically is trashing Democrats I mean
it's pretty clear right that the reason
he's running is because he does not like
the idea of being taxed or doing any
kind of this sort of you know
fundamental rethinking that's going on
in the Democratic Party about the
economy and how it's working I mean I
haven't heard him say much against
Donald Trump except you know well he's
not qualified to be president which is
kind of funny since you know he has as
many quality quality in as Trump did I
mean right at least trumpet dabbled in
politics back in the day I mean he'd run
on the Reform Party ticket for a few
minutes back in 2000 I mean this guy's
not coming in with any particular
political experience so anyway you know
it said this is a very very interesting
thing and you know
here we have him and Bloomberg who he is
also kind of trashing the left of the
Democratic Party but at least he's doing
it from within the party itself so this
argument can be had and we can see it
play itself out in the primaries and
they can you know go head to head he and
he can face off with Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren and we'll see what
happens but you know this idea that
they're going to bring in you know fly
in some boring billionaire and he's
going to save us I mean have we not seen
the effects of hiring some inexperienced
business guy I mean I would have thought
that you know Trump would have you know
actually that experiment would have been
shown to hell yeah I don't think I don't
think anybody has learned that lesson
but let's take a quick break when we
come back I get a couple more thoughts
on this because it is it is a
fascinating it's been a fascinating
couple of days to watch this roll out
I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire radio
we'll be right back after this
