[Music]
just talk about this what's going on in
California because this is a big deal
here is the cheers that went up in the
California Capitol in the passing of a
b5 people were pretty excited they are
working on this is gonna mean a lot for
a lot of workers because often what
happens in California doesn't just stay
there but in California they're talking
about maybe a million workers who are
gonna be affected by this the bill
passed twenty nine to eleven in the
Senate in the state Senate it will apply
to app based companies I don't know how
much further it goes beyond the app
these app based companies and it's not
it's not the people who are developing
the app that it's the people who are
using the app in these sort of like gig
economy to have a situation like would
seamless be APIs if it's at a website
and I would imagine seamless they
already classified their delivery people
as as workers anyways as opposed to
contractors but I would imagine that
would apply Gavin Newsom has said he's
going to sign it the state assembly is
basically already indicated that they're
gonna pass it it would go and effect
January 1st that workers must be
designated as employees instead of
contractors if a company exerts control
over how they perform their tasks and if
their work is part of the company's
regular business so here is and I don't
know how you define regular business is
what the regulatory agency in the state
will determine maybe it's a function of
like what percentage of your business is
a function of drivers picking people up
and dropping them off and if it's you
know a hundred percent that's definitely
part of your regular business if it's 25
percent maybe it's not but here is the
cheers that went up in in the Statehouse
[Applause]
now this is an example this is not
electoral politics its legislative
politics it's it's organizing around and
bringing pressure politicians largely
you know it is you know what percentage
of people actively organized around this
in California you know even measurable I
don't know five percent maybe I mean you
the this the amount of people that it
takes to to make these changes I think
it's far smaller than people imagine
machine is powerful yeah I'm okay it was
the number one tool use isn't shame and
and it works and politicians don't want
to be seen as standing in the way of
things that are important to people I
bet you Komal Harris is gonna change
your mind again it's conceivable yeah it
really is conceivable this is and
basically what happens is here is if
you're a contractor your 1099 you're not
getting paid into Social Security
theoretically I think you got to do that
yourself we get to double it up you are
not subject to minimum wage you don't
necessarily need to make a minimum wage
you do not have unemployment insurance
through the state and there may be other
protections but those are the those are
the big ones and this is going to impact
Oberon lift it's going to impact you
know it there are it's also maybe like
nail salon workers apparently we're
brought in may be I would imagine also
like maybe barbers I mean it depends on
what the relationship is with these
places maybe in nail salons I'm not a
hundred percent sure how it works but
maybe it's like we give you the nail of
stuff and you come in and you're just a
contractor you work you know on you know
like you're a trainer at you know a gym
and you have some relationship with the
gym or something what about I'm
undocumented workers I mean undocumented
are still basically I don't think this
impacts them whatsoever any more or less
than
then it would now so you come in if
anything it might make it more difficult
in some instances for undocumented to
establish they have a social security
number to get into the system well you
do that for independent contractors -
theoretically right what's that I have a
social security number and all that for
instance and there were there was a huge
New York Times expose on those few years
ago about the workers and nails and
nuttin a good number of workers and nail
salons were living there where there was
a whole there's a whole system of
recruiting them from Southeast Asia
horrifying I would I the I think the
difference we like you know if I take
your Social Security number for a 1099
as opposed to if I take your social
security number because I'm actually
gonna pay into your account right I
think is probably the level of scrutiny
is different but I don't know that's a
good question I mean well soon people I
think we'll get more in depth reporting
on this and and find out but this is a
this is a big deal because they're
talking about it could impact a million
workers in California and it's certainly
going to impact workers all across the
country is it it's a possibility with a
million workers that would be crazy
that's amazing no I absolutely believe
it and the way that most of these
garbage tech companies make money is not
by inventing something new in the world
it's by labor and regulatory arbitrage
getting around the rules that exist for
a normal taxi company by saying oh no
we're just a tech company so anytime
that you tell people they can't do that
is a victory for workers indeed and you
know what else worked on labor arbitrage
cotton and the building of this country
basically yep free labor is very helpful
when you're trying to start a business
apparently or a country or a country
