well you say it's nonsense that we could
sustain a I could see an Augusta
economic voice comin up here you-you-you
think it's nonsense that we could
actually deal with a tax rate that over
the past hundred years was actually the
the norm right we had thirty some-odd
years of a tax rate that was a top
marginal rate that was above seventy
percent at least coincided with some
some good growth oh absolutely
in fact what they called the the great
compression where wealth inequality now
there was a lot of factors involved in
that and you know it's not exactly the
same but that is not dispositive of the
of the value of this tax but here it is
foxnews weighing in again on the
proposal that is in no way radical but
getting even in this clip you can see
the value I mean to them it is you know
it's like the spread of the plague but
when Julian Castro who at the DNC was it
in 2016 or 2012 he spoke I don't know I
think it was 12 but I'm not sure I just
remember when that guy spoke being
bummed out but by his speech which was
very much about like you know if you
have the the perfect grandmother like I
did you can achieve anything in this
country for those of you don't well
that's your Sol it was 2012 here is Fox
and Friends and good for them talking
about this proposal to tax not the rich
up to ninety percent but any dollar made
over three million ten million I think
it should be closer to three million but
I think the Democrats are saying ten but
up to ninety percent here of course is
Stewart von Stroh agreeing with
Alexandria okay
CEO Cortez on a plan to skyrocket taxes
for the super-rich to fund their
socialist agendas pause it for one
second wait a second like you know this
Fox and Friends like didn't they get the
memo you don't want to save the
super-rich well right I that that's not
even gonna pull welfare keep it simple
say tax working America the disgustingly
rich yeah their agenda to tax a handful
of people John varanese you probably
don't like right and have so much money
they couldn't possibly spend it even if
they hired an entire company full of
people who in charge of just doing
nothing but spending it I can support
folks at the top paying their fair share
there was time in this country where the
top marginal tax rate was over ninety
percent even during Reagan's era in the
1980s it was around 50 percent all right
here to react us host a Varney and
company on the Fox Business Network
Stuart Varney how strongly would you
like me to react something texted ninety
percent why bother did the gentleman
refer to a fair share yes a fair share
is 90 percent for the government and
maybe ten percent kept by you that
hardly seems fair to me looks took two
points looks to me like number one the
far left is now calling the shots for
the entire Democrat Party as you roll up
towards 2020 at least so to two of the
bigger names okay all of the headlines
they're making all of the running and
Nancy Pelosi constantly has to talk
about whether she's gonna go with this
or with that the far left is making the
running and that's very dangerous for a
Merrick what does that mean for our
economy because instead of working hard
and don't the people who contribute that
much to society or creating the big
businesses aren't they helping our
economy it would be very bad news for
America's economy right now we got a
boom in progress here we've got strong
growth you saw those jobs numbers on
Friday over 300,000 new jobs
manufacturing making a real comeback
wages going up at a at a very strong
rate you start imposing tax increases
like they're talking about there and you
slow the
they calling me down dramatically that's
what happens when you raise tax so I
gotta tell you but I don't think they
care if you ask them what's the effect
of this on the economy I don't think
they care but I simply want to stick it
to the rich and stick it to programs
yeah okay Medicare for all and
Alexandria or Casio Cortez has this
green agenda which has to be paid for
with money from the rich it simply won't
work well it sounds like it'll work it
didn't really make an argument that it
wouldn't work it's just that he doesn't
think it's fair to the super wealthy and
the folks on the front I wouldn't like
like the I guess I I don't want to
overstate this but one of my fantasies
would be to sit on the couch with those
three and explain marginal tax rates
that simply isn't fair Rupert Murdoch
has to buy human slate I'm gonna stop
working after I make three million that
year I'm gonna stop sometime like I
don't know like stop and you know
February I made my three mill I'm just
gonna coast from here cuz I don't want
to pay ninety percent taxes I mean
that's just it's absurd I will say on
the flip side I'm pretty glad that they
aren't spending a lot of time going
after our strongest asset which is Chris
Coons Critic exactly
