I know you covered Gorka yesterday was
to watch Van Jones like latest turned in
his his his career what do you think of
Van Jones we give her a fan
I mean he's as good as it gets and not
on CNN it's like the lowest bar
I liked him more and I feel like weirdly
he's been kind of OneNote recently he is
he has been I just remember in 2011 at
Netroots nation maybe was 2012 2011
maybe was 2010 I can't really remember
he he felt that we needed to push back
on the Tea Party and he was talking
about Glenn Beck as being highly
problematic and then he started an
organization that sounded that was about
income inequality and that seemed to
last for like six months he's I feel
like he was a you know he rose to
prominence by being further left and has
kind of just melded into the wallpaper
of CNN yeah I think that's true I think
that started before he got the CNN I
think that was part of his Reformation
he was way out in front on environmental
issues I mean I think he's a guy who's
been like searching around for a
branding a brand and and he still I
think in many respects still searching
but here he is for his core brand
proposition now is this the where he
talks about immigration or okay but he's
they're talking about criminal justice
reform and that conservatives are
leading on this and I think maybe there
is some I mean they're they're not
holding it back let's put it this way in
the way that they do on just every other
cuz the Koch brothers have decided to
say that this one's okay right exactly
they have permission now for this so
it's not benevolent Jones and but well
let's let's fur
do this okay this is let's play number
11 and then we'll play you know sort of
like let's let's talk about the the two
wings right let's start with let's start
actually with number ten and then we'll
here's number ten this is Van Jones
sitting there with match lap you know
match lap famous incidentally for saying
that the only reason why steel was was
picked as RNC chair this is a friend
incidentally was because he was black
well schlep was defending the guy who
said that always defending yeah be fair
eyes and then basically said like I
don't see what the problem is here they
go they're on a panel with I don't know
colorful socks right color here's the
deal the conservative movement in this
country unfortunately for my point of
view is now the leader on this issue of
reform in that you look at Mississippi a
rock rib totally conservatives former
jailer is the governor there governor
Bryant governor Bryant has cut the
prison population and crime at the same
time deal in Georgia cut the prison
population and crime at the same time
Rick Perry cut the prison population
prison expenditure finishers and crime
at the same time Ohio South Carolina
what you're seeing now our Republican
governors being tough on the dollars
tough on crime and shrinking prison
populations and showing the rest of the
country that it can be done now my
problem is I now have a conservative
movement that for libertarian reasons
for Christian conservative reasons and
for fiscally conservative reasons is
actually doing a great job on what
should be - - this is supposed to be my
issue you are stealing my issues
so they're welcoming take some dadgum
credit for being smart
take some dadgum credit for getting it
none of them care about car serration
rates in the country why why does he
feel the need to do this
why is he want to be in this room whoa
it's like I'm een why he's building a
brand and I mean that's why you go to
these things I mean look let's let's
let's be honest like you know well it's
deeply disappointing what's amazing too
he's talking about take some credit for
criminal uh you know criminal justice
reform and they only think they care
about is that we are we did it over your
party if you had said the substance of
criminal justice reform if you had laid
out the issue and what it's meant to
achieve they would hate it on the
substance of the issue they just cared
that's a political win and that it's a
black guy telling them that they did
something right exactly Trump says it
all the time incidentally Trump said I
mean it was one of the funny Trump clips
of like a couple of months ago where he
was talking about continuing to race
bait the NFL players protesting
obviously and in the context of one of
his rambling answers when he's trying to
appear at moment where he's trying to
appear lucid and reasonable he's like I
understand some legitimate issues but
take care of it
he literally said he took care of this
entire issue so it is both profoundly
inaccurate Mississippi and Alabama the
highest incarceration rates in the
country still as an example the bill
they signed was fine but really small
and Trump is not only taking care of it
he's saying he solved all of US history
so I think we're good oh that's good
that way that was pretty super easy and
here is van explaining why he's there
because Emma Birds
that's why we tell our kids liberty and
justice for all
okay because if you don't have if you
have justice without liberty we want
social justice we want to make sure the
little people aren't run over but we
don't care anything about individual
rights what we get is totalitarianism
justice without Liberty is
totalitarianism and liberty let the
market do whatever you want to and don't
care about the poor don't care about the
planet gives you too much you know a
corporate too much corporate power in
the system so Liberty without justice is
also a nightmare we tell our kids
liberty and justice for all
because I've never seen a bird that can
fly with only a left wing not even in
Berkeley with only a left plant I've
never seen a bird fly with only a right
wing not even in Mississippi we need
each other we need each other that's a
that guy what is he doing he's
explaining how birds fly I mean it it's
honestly I really think it's the kind of
thing where the mainstream media and
being in it for too long stamps out any
smart or progressive inclination that
you have for a lot of people it's just
that he drank the kool-aid
why is he want to feel accepted in that
room it's the equivalent of what ben
Carson did were I mean not the
equivalent but like he would go around
the country and take paid speeches to
make conservatives feel good about
themselves no but it was good because
white people like when black people who
use animal analogies it reminds them of
Green Mile he's going in the right
direction
I bet you see I don't think I think it's
I think it's I don't think that it's
being in the mainstream media makes you
like this I think that's how you get
into the mainstream media like I think
it's I think I think it's the I don't I
mean it may reinforce this inclination
but I think and it's not exclusively I
think you can get in too but to get into
the mainstream media to stay in the
mainstream media and to thrive there for
the most part there are exceptions but
for the most part you have to have a
certain mentality
where you are where your pursuit the
goal that you're pursuing is not
necessarily it's not necessarily it is
one that would require this type of I
mean I just think like jank my like my
boss is a great example of someone who
was didn't have those inclinations went
in and refused to play ball and like
that's why he's not there yeah yeah can
you be an impression of jank telling the
bird analogy you go ahead both weeks of
course do impressions and I have told
you I don't want to all right here is
it's gonna happen together yeah fair
warning there's nothing like having that
bird with both a left in a right wing as
then the audience then decides also they
want to shoot the bird undocumented
immigrants right now have a lower crime
rate than the rest of us and yet we
don't we don't talk about that no hold
on what what I'm saying is I told you I
control the time okay what I'm saying is
there are stereotypes about Trump
supporters there are stereotypes exactly
there are stereotypes about Trump
supporters there are stereotypes about
straight white men and I'm going to tell
you right now I'm sitting next to one of
the best people in this country is a
straight right man I'm straight white
man and a trump supporter and we've just
got to stop talking about each other and
talk more to each other we will find
other areas where there's family leave
where no no that's where you messed up
as soon as you mention later so it was
pretty strong before I mean just imagine
someone on a panel at the you know left
con okay if there was such a thing and
that person said you know there's a lot
of misperceptions about you know a white
man like the idea like everybody's gonna
boo right like the way that they're like
the hostility towards the immigrants
like you know I'd say the low right
through this is not a direct analogy
obviously but I would say it's an
adjacent space to what you're talking
about a cup when I was I was at this
conference a couple years ago in touch
and it was like it was in the brand
space but it was very you know it's a
liberal thing right it's a lot of
concern about about the environment and
so on and the point is there was like
multiple panels unlike how do we bridge
the divide how do we listen to each
other
how do we figure out what the other side
like the instinct there is so it's Van
Jones Riley not let you saw it
those are the two sides of it I mean
facts don't care about your feelings you
listeners it's factually accurate they
commit crimes
I believe half the rate that regular
people do because they don't want to get
caught and get shipped out I mean that's
that's actually accurate well you know
what all the CPAC audience would say is
they're here anyway and that's the crime
that's the crime yeah that's their whole
point it's an in to exist is a crime but
their starting point is racist fear
nonsense right I just mean then that
undercuts their entire point which is
the reason that we have to have stricter
immigration policies because they're
bringing crime well their entire point I
mean I think to be fair they are
increasingly being more honest about
their a point is that they do not want
to dilute the cultural purity of the
white of a white America that's being
fair that are in the 14 words I think I
think that is actually a fair
representation no a lot of them say it
is it's it's unfortunate and they may
not like to hear it back but that's what
the argument is but this is the slow
march of progress for people like Van
Jones you give them all the credit for
criminal justice reform and then you
mentioned that maybe immigrants aren't
so bad right it's and they won't be
using them appeasing them is not that's
not their language you have to beat them
and in let's also be clear about this to
the extent and I will I I will concede
this point there has been a lot of
effort by certain
conservatives particularly in certain
think tanks and in some of the policy
apparatus to pursue criminal justice
reform particularly prison reform but
the idea that you would compliment the
people at CPAC for this is a major
category error those people have nothing
to do with it those people the people
who are working on criminal justice
reform are not at CPAC and he must know
this right like he must know CPAC would
chew up these people and spit them out
that these are movement conservative
people who don't care about those issues
like you know three years ago you know
they the most important thing to them
was the deficit and how Obama you know
and now they don't care about the
deficit five years ago it was six years
ago it was marriage equality it's going
to bring about a complete destruction of
the planet and now they don't even talk
about it because it's just not it's just
not gonna help them win anything I mean
this that's what's so disingenuous about
what he's doing like there is a place
where you could go you could go to the
Nickerson Center let's yeah he could go
sit next to Tony Blair and and Miskin in
Miss cannon Center you could go to the
the Cato Institute you could go to some
conference of policy makers and get up
on stage and say this but he is going to
the politican essentially and saying
we've got to make politics about stuff
that's serious and it's like I'm sorry
you know you're kidding you said and I
don't even think he would say a lot of
this stuff on the regular CNN segment
like I do believe that this is kind of
his both sides thinking it's it's
infected him but it's like weakness of
being in that room and wanting to
appease them which is what bothers me
more well I mean he knew where he was
going
like it's not like somebody got into a
cabinet like we're dropping off here man
good luck but if you're really
principled you don't really care about
pissing those people off right you take
that opportunity
but but also but even in that instance
like I mean I could see going there and
it's just being performative for me
because like I nobody
that is like literally the roomful of
the least convincing people in the world
if I went there I would spend a lot of
time thinking of bird analogies I want a
good game plan somebody had a great
logical imagery - you can't have a
strong left wing and a weak right wing
because then you can't get health care
for everybody
exactly yeah right yeah I don't know
it's obviously just business oh I get it
wings for a bird what happens when one
of your rings starts booing one of the
other wings you gotta take that left
wing bring it over to the right one help
it out move it the other direction they
move independently so it's some sort of
disorder that the bird has should we
hear this
