[Music]
yes this is the point we wanted to ask
you about this film that of course Kevin
Sorbo is involved with I am aware of
Kevin's work he was Tarzan I believe he
was Hercules Hercules oh alright well
nevermind maybe was Tarzan - Hercules I
just remember like ads with him with no
shirt on that's what I seemed to
remember the feeling you got when you
did exactly exactly and he is like like
my old friend Ross broccoli now doing
religious-based film work and Ross
broccoli did like a couple of Mormon
bankrolled movies and then I think they
figured out who he was and then they
stopped doing okay but okay this is a I
think is this a Christian movie wait oh
yeah I think definitely that there's
going to be some Christian elements to
it he's a but it's it's a right-wing
unity and it it's sort of I guess like I
don't know I guess it's the rice the
right version of like a Handmaid's Tale
in a way or I think people can't afford
done right or the anti-fur red dawn
where the country is taken over by
antiphon and and of course you know if
you carry an American flag in America
then you're in big trouble now they're
talking to me yeah they're attacking the
Second Amendment and you've never seen
more guns in how long is this thing this
is the trailer all those anti-gun and
our kists out there right there's a ton
of anti-gun anarchist but they're taking
away the guns and I've never I don't
think I've ever even seen like I don't
even think I've seen previews of a war
movie that have more guns than this one
but here
maybe we're overreacting just that was
an our neighborhood how's it holding so
we should just tell you that that you
know it's a family in a suburban area
and ring and the wife is basically just
saying to Kevin Sorbo
boy maybe we're overreacting and then
deus ex machina the gunshots in the
suburbs we're in trouble
let's get mobilized they're coming for
our leg hose just that was an our
neighborhood get everyone in the car
- they'll deliver all towns on fire
police are retreating we have prepared
for this we will survive
[Applause]
the world is falling of the Second
Amendment is under attack guys riding
motorcycles through windows family tree
three meals a day
it's adapter died
what would you do
phones are on timeout is what I would do
your family was attacked getting a call
my life guys got a sword what guns are
out
they've got the right only outlaws love
guns
you guys already vited even Social
Security
the Reliant protect family and faith I
read I read handyman magazine get away I
with everybody my pal the my part of the
the rebellion or the what part of oh no
you your victim I'm just a victim in one
of the guys I promote my podcast at the
beginning you're assuring them that
there's actually nothing to worry about
you're like everybody needs to calm down
because you're all listening to this
right-wing copy and I was talking what
you need about this 15 years ago and
that all of a sudden happy funny loves
you this is what the this is from IMDB a
Christian family that's the safe your
kid I am do it raise raise them as a
Christian is basically porn for me
Matthew let's write this like like
immediately as soon as you get back just
be careful when when Michael says let's
write this he said Matthew pre-prepared
IMDB alphabetical night a 19 year old
woman cares for her sibling after an
econometric collapse leads to widespread
violence and then and this is another
metric yeah and there's no such thing as
in econometrics I was talking with
somebody at the Center for American out
IMDB says the economic collapse causes
widespread rioting and social unrest
leaving a lovesick 19 year old girl
struggling to care for her siblings in a
stretch of woods bordered by lawless
anarchy wondering why a good guy good
God would let this happen when is this
movie out and where can I see it the
production values really I mean it is
there there is not filmed in Ohio these
people have money behind them always
filmed in Ohio buddy I mean that's it's
like hey listen this is
an independent film so it's like the
dark side of the kind of democratization
of the Hollywood studio system like you
got a bad idea and enough money behind
it you can make a movie with Kevin Sorbo
that looks like you know a million but
if you happen to be I I don't know where
this is actually but on August 3rd oh it
premiered August 3rd at the Great Lakes
Christian Film Festival do you go to
that Film Festival on your film tour no
that is i i've stopped putting that on
my circuit oh that's in Buffalo New York
so I mean it's it's yeah almost month it
burns my it burns my skin when I walk
into that ago I and now I got no
problem with the Christian film festival
circuit as who's the caboose basically
got stumbled into the Jewish film
festival circuit and we've played all
around the country it was fantastic
actually
thank you very much I was just talking
with Digby about this on my show the
other day it's nothing to worry about
reifying which you could download
actually that's also on the majority
report yeah there you go he's like the
mayor in shut it down there is also the
mayor and Red Dawn except the mayor in
red don't laugh I get a couple of cycles
yeah he'd be Christ the will wouldn't
collaborator there's apparently some
very other good good movies at that
festival so maybe Sam ha Great Lakes
Christian Film Festival here's the 2019
schedule in the kennedy room in the
McKinley room wait a second okay all
right there's a lot of praise and
worship that goes on that did not happen
at the Jewish
there's the miracles from The Killing
Fields 10:00 a.m.
saved escape from Kim's regime dinosaur
heart finding a home in boomtown the
people of the heavenly kingdom
liberating fire broken unbroken Betty
Williams contagious courage warriors to
Lourdes it's amazing like so much of her
she's Lord these are all sort of a like
love possibly there is but the point is
is like there's only a couple of things
that the rest of them are like life on
the island of Jesus welcome to Jesus
Island only one person will be saved
I think I know it the moral that's to a
lot of you guys want to live an eternity
with me and I wish I could take all of
you but it's only gonna be one but I
would be going next year with the help
of some plants and chemicals I am so
stoked to have you all in Jesus Island
unfortunately only one of you can stay
who's gonna meet st. Peter who's gonna
meet st. Peter like what the hell man
why didn't no one tell us about Tom it's
been really awesome having an island you
have good energy and a good person but
what's really going down that that would
be actually pretty fun to go but I you
know what there is a huge the fact of
the matter is there is a huge Christian
film industry yeah and also you know not
just film but also radio and there's a
whole you know sort of like um another
parallel media and on some level that's
like you know Fox and the conservative
media has followed this sort of same
business model which is like you can
have a thriving industry that exists in
it just simply creates another narrative
the difference is of course when people
watch Fox they don't realize that
they're involved in you know certain
some type of alt media as Burnley but
the rights of distribution systems yeah
it is the downside of it in
some people become you know can get
squirrel doff the problem is it's not
even so much the the problem with the
fragmentation as much as the when one of
these fragments get too big like I think
that you know everything was small it
would be better I mean how big is it
though really I mean compared to like
you know mainstream Hollywood movies you
know is it even as big as what plays
it's like Sundance or no I was talking
about I was talking about in terms of
like the news but I would be very
surprised if this industry was not a
huge huge industry
I don't know they all you know they all
listen to striper and Creed and and
watch these Jesus island movies I guess
you know it's a niche just like if
you're a horror fan you go to the horror
convention or the you know specific
genre it's a genre
it's just john r with maybe maybe a
detrimental i don't think it's a genre i
think it's an industry like i in that
it's a it's i think it's an engine
industry oven to itself you know horror
is a genre we learn in the film industry
but the mechanics of the industry are
the same and the you know this i think
is its own thing apart
i mean that was my sort of understanding
you know in the in the radio business
you could see that as well that there
was like yeah there were there were
different rules as to who the audience
was and their behavior was gonna be
different and therefore the the way that
they they financed these things are
gonna be different in the way that they
recoup and make money off it is going to
be different you say you're saying the
people behind these they're just making
christian movies there next week making
a romance movie or kids in jail movie
there's not only chris yes i ate in
