and we mentioned before that Trump had a
tantrum when Chuck and Nancy said they
weren't going to fund this wall but Mike
Pence wanted everybody to know about
what really happened now I just wanted
to remember remind everybody I don't
know if we I'm just thinking the spur of
the moment so we don't have a clip of it
but it's very easy to find do you
remember or I don't know if it actually
happened it might have been something
that Trump said but apparently at a
summit he threw candy at Angela Merkel
in like a really disrespectful way and
said don't say it didn't do it I never
did anything for you in his sort of
usual sort of bratty way so Mike Pence
is gonna say this is a nice gesture Mike
Pence still clearly recovering from the
sort of roller coaster that was swearing
in Kristin's cinema contested three
times yeah but we don't know when you
say Trump gave them candy it wasn't
necessarily nice as my point but here is
uh Mike Pence also are we any closer
than you think
to have the national emergency declared
if the meetings are going like this in
there Sophie
well the president walked into the room
passed out candy okay so and then like a
couple of minutes later he stormed out
it was with this demonstrates less than
nothing yeah I mean this could be
interpreted as dumb more like Kitsch or
something like that but I think it
really is just malicious like they're
showing especially federal employees
like yeah look how much we don't give a
 at all that's exactly right
and speaking of but here's somebody who
does give a about federal employees
this is Iona Presley part of the new
dynamic energy in Congress she
represents the seventh District in
Massachusetts there was some snow flake
eree about this on the Republican side
but she's speaking to people's real
needs because wildest tantrum goes on
and while this extremism runs the course
I mean look there's workers now that are
in trouble and that's bad and horrible
enough and then of course now the food
isn't being expected inspected and it
could start to impact food stamps which
is of course one of the most important
successful programs in the country that
Republicans are always trying to
undermine so they can work on their
project of a poorer sick or dumber
America here's Iona Presley fighting
back Mr Speaker I rise today in
opposition to the occupant of the White
House mr. Trump you took an oath just as
I did five days ago to protect and
defend the Constitution and the American
people sir you dishonor that oath you
devalue the life of the immigrant the
worker and the survivor I see right
through you and so do the American
people this has nothing to do with
border security you're shut down another
Trump generated crisis has brought a
tsunami of hurt to the American people
so today I rise to lift the voices of
the unheard I rise today on behalf of
the families concerned about feeding
their children because their WIC
benefits will run dry I rise today in
solidarity with the thousands of workers
with calloused hands and broken spirits
working for no pay I rise today in
support of the survivor fleeing violent
hands seeking safety only to find the
shelter door locked because of your
shutdown
I rise today in support of the American
people who believe in the promise of
this nation and ask for honest pay for
an honest day's work today I rise as one
and I stand as thousands thank you and I
yield back
members are reminded to refrain from
engaging in personalities toward the
president if you want to hear that
sultry voice was that was a GK
Butterfield GK Butterfield sounds like a
made-up vast conservative name but he's
a Democrat he's a Democrat yeah well
that's easy I was wearing cuz that he
would I think it would be a Democrat
presiding over this because they were on
the house now but I think also like he
didn't have much he just a reminder to
not talk about the dumb while
you're on the floor thank you engaging
in personalities is a weird it sounds
like IDW is gonna get ahold mad wait now
I can't debate you because you're
engaging in personality personalities
it's really unfair when you said it I
was in moil and mind-blowing ly stupid
for advocating a pan a a ethnic age a
cleansing mass murder fascist government
in Brazil that questioned my integrity
my intelligence any bad personality
you're engaging in personalities who
can't do it but that was great and I I
appreciated her III didn't really
perceive that I thought that was more of
a engagement and all of the people who
are harmed by this catastrophic
ridiculous white house
