there's polling that we are now seeing
these are exit polls from the midterms
as they start to get digested that
suggests that Donald Trump's base has
not been the white working class as we
were led to believe but rather and and
look this is not that much different
from George Bush right and the the white
working-class evangelicals and that they
come out regardless of Mike Pence that
Mike Pence is not actually providing a
bump
there's something about Donald Trump
that activates some slice of the
identity of these white evangelicals now
we should say that there has been
substantial research that suggests that
for a significant percentage I don't
know if it's 50% or what of
self-identified white evangelicals they
don't really go to church that much
right right I mean it's it's simply more
of a cultural identification for them
and I think you know that's why you know
there's there's all this surprise about
you know how could all these white
evangelicals support someone who is
clearly less than pious well they may
not be so pious themselves that may be
more of a of a coat that they wear I'm
not saying they're disingenuous it's
just a a cultural identification it's um
it's much of a club as it is you know
sort of a deeply held religious practice
maybe uh you know I don't know but
that's what the research has said and
there may be other factors about Don
Trump and I would imagine for the more
pious the opportunity to have a
Republican who will reliably and Trump
has proven this a point revanche evaced
and you know fundamentalist friendly
judges on the Supreme Court and frankly
throughout the
judiciary I think you know he's proven
that he's you know promises made
promises kept in that regard so it is
maybe not a surprise that they may not
care about the fact that Donald Trump
seems to be all around him you know
they're bathed in a certain amount of
criminality this week we saw a healthy
dose of that didn't we
yeah we did and I mean I think it's
interesting that you point out the fact
that 50% or you know some studies have
shown as much as 50% of event
self-identified evangelicals don't
really go to church very much and that
this is more of a cultural ID and I
think that's true it's also true and
important to point out that there are a
lot of these people it's not like you
know that that number is just some you
know some small faction of the the right
in this country it's a big faction it's
large and that's why that accounts for
Trump support which is far from being a
majority but probably you know of the
40% of the public that supports him
probably at least 30% of those are those
evangelicals maybe another 10% for a
variety of other reasons are with him
but you know those people now whether or
not they are truly you know religious
that's just their identification that's
how they see themselves they vote
Republican they consider themselves
conservatives and whatever Trump is
doing maybe most importantly of all is
that he is out there fighting the the
battle against you know the liberals
means that which is you know one of
their main motivating factors in life so
you know that I think that this this
does make sense but what it also does
say is that this is not an economic
argument this is about something else
and and it's important to keep that in
mind and also the fact that Trump's
problem with women extends beyond the
suburban you know group of sort you know
you think of sort of middle class upper
middle class maybe upscale Republican
women who are saying they're not going
to vote for for him and in
in many cases are saying they're done
with the Republican Party altogether I
think that's a significant thing and
what and what it says about pens of
course is very important because he
brings nothing to the table for any of
those people for the work white
working-class non evangelical women the
suburban Republican women does pen susan
is not helpful there so they think maybe
you know nikki Haley might be someone
who could maybe bring some inroads in
there whether she wants to do it but I
don't know you know that that's that's
another thing but the idea that they're
thinking about this I think is probably
important and you know you look at you
know where Trump is on the criminality
scale
anyone who has considered themselves a
law-and-order Republican really needs to
start doing a serious gut check because
the evidence is Charlie start they start
I mean the there's been so I feel like
it's overwhelming at this point I mean
never mind you know questions of
collusion I think that remains to be
seen at least to some extent you know or
I should say how far it goes I should
say right and and and what what the
level of awareness was but in terms of
just sheer criminality both in the
context of getting elected and
beforehand I mean that seems to be
beyond dispute yeah I mean it is and of
course you know we all sort of saw that
knew it there was plenty of evidence out
there about what kind of business Trump
had run and the fact that he was running
a con game I mean look at Trump
University I mean there was a lot of
that stuff out and now we're seeing even
more evidence of some major major issues
could having to do with you know I mean
theoretically and potentially betraying
the country you know there's the
evidence is definitely piling up on this
now you know that the Conservatives have
an interesting way of always having it
both ways I mean they're law-and-order
conservatives and then they also have
this anti-government side which they can
deploy in this case in defense of Trump
right the government
the strong arm of the government is
coming down on our poor president
they're conspiring against him look at
you know big government is terrible and
their people are flexible enough I mean
I guess flexibles one way hypocritical
is another way of talking about it that
they'll buy that you know to a certain
extent but there is a great there exists
a group in America of sort of you know
people who I don't know military types
cop types whatever that at some point or
another I would have thought that this
that is oh you know overarching
criminality on the part of the president
obvious and now he's even admitting it
just saying it wasn't any big deal
they're just little crimes is what did
he call him just peanuts not a big deal
you know just peanuts and it affected
none of these alleged straight arrows
you know with the exception maybe of Bob
Muller yeah I mean I don't even you know
I don't know but you know maybe he's
still on that track but all these
supposed straight-arrow guys who were
just you know not just the facts ma'am
you know I don't I I just care about the
Constitution and the rule of law
you know I where are they I mean you
just don't see and there are a few never
Trump is out there yammering on TV but
for the most part you just don't see any
movement
okay I see it in the polls you don't see
anything and so you know I mean I think
in some ways I'm kind of I'm maybe more
depressed about that than I should be I
mean I know what the right wing is like
but I always thought there might be some
limit on some you know maybe 10% of
these people I hate to be the bearer of
bad news but you were wrong we've got
we're gonna take a quick break we'll be
right back after this if you'll join me
in the next hour
Heather we've got a lot more to talk
about I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire
radio
