where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar it
is Friday January 4th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today new
Congress sworn in with the most diverse
house ever also Republicans in the
Senate are beginning to crack under the
weight of the shutdown meanwhile
Democrats introduced major voter reforms
medicare-for-all hearings set to be held
Democratic governor of Maine signs in
order to give seventy thousand Mainers
health insurance meanwhile Bolton and
Pompeyo set out on their exact cellent
warmongering adventure and workers win
as the Obama National Labor Relations
Board joint employer ruling upheld in a
DC Circuit Court Rasheeda Talib wants to
impeach the mf'er and the economy adds
over 300,000 jobs
unemployment ticks up just a hair but
actually for good reason all this and
more on today's majority report ladies
and gentlemen we mentioned this
yesterday doing a slightly special thing
just to kick off 2019 and I got to say
kudos to me for not for not stumbling
too much over 2019 in the beginning
opening of the of the show I was
convinced that I would do that I
probably will do that next week but I
managed to get through all of the first
half week of broadcasting on our program
casting let's just say on our program
without messing that up so I'm very very
pleased with myself should also say
today we're doing slightly a breaking
format no guest today we're gonna get
the phone calls quickly we've got two
big stories I mean big in my mind
stories that I want to talk about before
we get there and then we'll take calls
and we will talk about movies that we
saw on break if we happen to see any as
opposed to having a movie recommendation
so this we maybe backward looking a
little bit on these movie
recommendations I also want to say too
that we've been getting a lot of emails
lately and they have been it's extremely
gratifying I don't have a chance to
answer them all but for the most part I
read them all fairly quickly as they
come in got one we yeah you know two or
three or four or five six sometimes more
a day just from listeners who are either
like relatively new or a long time who
are just telling us I mean maybe this
time of year people get a little more
sentimental I'm not sure but and telling
us that they appreciate the show and I
just wanted to acknowledge that and tell
you you know
we do read them got an email from a a
like a 15 year old young woman who is in
high school
apparently her teacher is a bit of a
jerk I'm not gonna say her name just in
case her teacher but it sounds like her
teacher does not listen and she says he
is basically suggesting or not
correcting people when they talk about
the Communists that was voted in in New
York that would be a Oh see there's uh
and she her mom is a trump supporter who
does not like her questioning her
teachers she lives in a conservative
district where there's little funding
for anything outside of sports the the
it sounds a little bit like a crap show
but I will tell you this if you are if
you're you know there's no worse time
for some people than high school and
junior high and having a junior higher
in my own home I can this attest to this
and having actually gone to junior high
myself at that time of course it was the
horse and buggy that made it so
difficult when you would get there every
day on the horse and buggy but I will
tell you you know that is one of the
great things about high school enjoy it
to the extent that you can and then know
that then you're able to fly the coop
and it only gets better it only gets
better
amen to that so but thank you for
listening and appreciate it and she's
she wants to thank the majority report
the Michael Brooks show and the anti
Fattah some of my favorite things to
watch and listen to you're all doing
something revolutionary she ends the
email so it was
very kind very sweet and thank you and
much appreciated for letting us know
that you're out there and hang in there
good luck man
I think I counted down proof I think I
counted down the days until I could move
to New York for like two years in the
back of my diary no joke there you go
like a bad girl advent calendar exactly
and I think there's a lot of people who
do that I just skipped out on middle
school I crushed it that's really well
the funny thing is is like this um this
email and she's she lives in in Ohio and
that email and what what was the latest
conservative hit job on I want to say
hit job but really failed hit job on aoc
reminded me of Footloose not the remake
the original where it was illegal to
dance in the town and who's the guy had
the six to six degrees of Kevin Bacon
was was the rebel who came to town
taught everybody how to dance and there
is I there's something deeply deeply
wrong with the conservative movement and
they are you know I don't hold much
stock in this because I think they're
terrified of a lot of things and much of
them are made up right I mean like I
don't I don't think the the reason to
you know I
I'm not in favor per se of the caravan
because there were people in Michigan
who were afraid that the caravan was
gonna come and take their house or
something
and so my support for aoc is not founded
in the fact that they are so terrified
of her but I will say that I am
beginning to
yet more enjoyment than I think a person
should you know out of how affray Bay
you know the phrase living in someone
else's head right so they have been the
the the gateway pundit is that who it
was or somebody someone on some
right-wing outfit plummeted anonymous q
1776 oh yes very very well very happy
I'm talking about yesterday they are two
days ago came out with the revelation
that in high school
Alexandra
Acacio Cortez went by the name sandy and
that they confirmed what she had been
saying publicly was that we moved out of
town into a richer town where we were
ended up being one of the poorer members
of the town so I could go to a good
school
you know up in you know just outside of
the city outside of the Bronx and that
apparently was I'm not sure exactly what
the floor was areas Republicans always
resort to like the most crude form of
identity politics so they're basically
saying like she's not real right it's
like it's like rick ross he was a
security guard he wasn't a real guy like
she was she didn't she's that
working-class crowd her family scrapped
together savings to make it impossible
for her to go to a better public school
 I just saw the first she
misrepresented her past like whatever
and whatever it is so that fat that
failed but these detectives on the right
found this incredibly damaging video
that they put up on live leaked this is
the place where they literally put like
snuff films right and this is it folks
if you're at home please sit down
because it turns out that at one point
in her past
Alexandria Acacio Cortes danced
yes with a guy then with a girl what the
hell okay now I know there's probably a
lot of you are disturbed out there
solution just an average male on the
green new deal guys
she clearly was younger but that's no
excuse for dance or a college day right
here is well no but we don't know that
it when this is released oh we don't
know that she's alesis junior senior in
high school right so I mean still right
still stands okay
I was appalled but here's now aside from
the fact that they thought that this
would that video would somehow be
damaging to her and everybody was like
oh my god this is it's incredibly
charming wow she's like like what did an
authentic person who you know like it
turns out and this is what's even more
bizarre about this that was not the
video what they did is they took clips
of her from another video and they
changed the music the music you heard in
that was called Tom Tom bye bye Tom Tom
fever
Tom Tom fever sounds like the music that
Josephine Baker would come out to in her
little bananas skirt right let's put a
pin in that as to like why they did that
but it turns out that what that video
was from was from a video that was made
in at BU by a bunch of kids who were
doing the list o mania meme essentially
from like I guess ten years ago or so
yeah about 2009-2010 and I'm not
convinced this wasn't even like
commissioned by
you because it's all bu students wearing
bu clothing and they're trying to like
it's it seems like it's like a promotion
for the admissions office based upon
this meme that was going around on video
so let's watch this part of it it's a
different song and it's so weird like I
don't know if they thought like we can't
show her that we can't show any like
just sort of like average white guys in
there or something
I can't I think they wanted to make it
look like a vanity project like she just
like wanted to be filmed dancing or
something yeah weird but here here is
the original narcissistic folks original
video
[Music]
it's unbelievable okay now that's enough
of that I know I can't I can't take it
anymore although it does bring back some
some rough memories for me because it's
right next to the BU Law School which I
attended for a year and that is
sometimes hard for me to watch but they
for whatever reason they cut out parts
of that video and put it with that new
Tom Tom music that does sound like
Josephine Baker and I think was supposed
to be reminiscent like sort of like this
is what's happening way uptown and
there's some like you know like crazy
jungle music going on like I'm smoking
some jazz cigarettes yeah exactly like
smokin the Negro's Devils dominicana
voodoo priestess is coming out I can't
for the life of me like why didn't they
just release the original video or why
didn't they make the other video more
nefarious like they're so out of touch
that they can't even like I don't know
how you would demonize her from that
video but they did such a bad job about
it and then the interesting thing about
this whole thing is that that
Lisztomania thing was a meme that was
part of a mash-up that came from The
Breakfast Club scene so she was playing
the ally sheedy role in it and the guy
doing this the the was playing like the
yeah here yeah this is this is it this
is the original video that started me so
she's doing the ally sheedy things you
know coming around
and of course she would play that role
so she's right narcissus okay so that's
what that came from but the funny thing
about that was that as these mashups
started going around where there was
like different kids from around the the
country started doing these videos
Lawrence Lessig used it as an example
for why we needed Creative Commons
copywriting and he actually did a video
about it including these clips that was
then forced to be taken down by the
publisher of the Lisztomania music and
he went on to sue them and win and it it
fundamentally altered the the copyright
dynamic online for all these memes so
the there's so much it it was such a the
fail the Electronic Frontier Foundation
should get behind do see now after this
what exactly I mean it's just one more
reason why like your internet freedoms
in some way she played a small part in
our Internet freedom freedoms
unknowingly and it is eating yeah but
she's ruining The Breakfast Club because
that woman's white xacto sick of it it's
like Ghostbusters this yeah the weirdo
and the brightest Club is white she just
is she just is and so this is tweeted
this out today I love also that she's a
troll in addition to everything else
first representative who's good at
posting and it's no bizarre and exciting
so she just dropped this like so many
minutes ago in response to the the
failure to I don't know what they were
supposed to do but here it is play this
is pretty funny
[Music]
she just danced outside around your song
choice
that also I mean well you know what
they're gonna do they're gonna take that
they're gonna pull the music out and
they're gonna put Shakira she will be
alright well that is that is I don't
know my first response that was honestly
like I was sad for the person I was like
is this person ever been outside do they
have any friends like how warped do you
have to be to think that this is Dan he
literally mentions digital phrenology in
his bio so it's probably not well let's
get on to so some some news that that
took place now look the we've you know
we've talked about this all week the
bills that the Democrats in the house
pass do nothing except for set a marker
and establish a baseline we hope for
what they'll do if they get the Senate
as well but it also does create what
they do in the house also does create a
tremendous amount of pressure on the
Republicans in the Senate who are
running for re-election so yesterday the
Democrats passed two pieces of
legislation
one was the essentially the funding bill
the continuing resolution that they got
from the Senate last year's Senate and
that goes back to the Senate and Mitch
McConnell is saying that he will not
bring up a vote however in the past like
24 hours Cory Gardner Susan Collins
capito from West Virginia others who are
basically starting to worry even Joni
Ernst who were starting to worry about
their re-election in 2020
are getting nervous because you know
we're still in that zone there has been
already a tremendous amount of needless
suffering and anxiety experienced by
over 800,000 federal workers and
contractors some of whom may expect
never to see the money from the work
myths others who will build up debt in
in anticipation of getting back pay for
this we've also seen a freeze in federal
workers pay raise of 1 or 2 percent that
they were supposed to get and it also
debilitates the ability of these
agencies to look forward past you know
the next couple of weeks and actually do
any real planning but as the week's go
by the suffering is going to increase
exponentially you're going to start to
see people on food stamps lose their
funding perhaps as early as early
February you're gonna see people lose
their section out 8 housing you're gonna
see people of farmers lose their ability
to get loans and to get funding and to
get the the slush fund payments that
they were supposed to get for the
tariffs this is that's why Joni Ernst is
a little bit worried and so this
pressures going to increase and Nancy
Pelosi to her credit understands this
dynamic apparently far more so than
Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell is just
sitting there hoping some deal can be
struck here is Nancy Pelosi coming out
and talking to reporters and explaining
essentially what the dynamic is right
now is an immorality it's not who we are
as a nation and this is not a wall
between Mexico and the United States
that the president is creating here it's
a wall between reality and his
constituents his supporters he does not
want them to know what he's doing to
Medicare and Medicaid and Social
Security in his budget proposal he does
not want them to know what he's doing to
clean air
and clean water and the rest in his
department of interior and of epa he
does not want them to know how he is
hurting them so it keeps the subject on
the wall he's a master of diversion
we're trying to open up government we're
giving him a mature path to do so all
right and I'll tell you what was skilled
about that everything the message she
wanted to get across was bookmarked with
the wall because she knows the press is
only gonna cover stuff that has the word
wall in it because that is what that is
the society we live in we all
participate in it when we buy products
that are advertised on television and
what that's just the way it is we're
just gonna have to wait until basically
the boomers and the Gen Xers die off and
the world can be owned by Millennials
who would just watch stuff on YouTube
and but that is that is the the world in
which we're living in so that is the
dynamic right now with the government
shutdown it would be a it would be
fascinating to watch how the Senate's
going to crumble and what they're gonna
come up with because I think there's a
decent chance what we may end up seeing
is some type of compromise where and I
again you know we said this last year
around this time I would take a
permanent fix for all the daka folks and
dhaba but even just Daka frankly to
start with for two and a half five
billion dollars worth of wall who cares
that walls not gonna get built there's
not gonna be there's net there just five
billion dollars isn't gonna do it Trump
needs to bring that back to his base to
pretend that the wall is being built
fine give him the five billion dollars
take daca and say what happened to
Mexico maybe also I'd like to also add
the protected status for Haitians as
well which was a really obscene I mean I
just want to put that on the table
something that would be great thing to
add I I know it's not necessarily
possible but let's try to add as many
just the broadly the the point being yes
I mean if you were to drink
things for real yes exactly agree
exactly because no one I mean except the
part that goes through a butterfly
sanctuary we can't allow that to happen
but it's none of it's going to go
through anything there's five billion
dollars they're gonna end up spending on
just like you know architecture firms
we're gonna spend it on my trip to
Mexico where they pay me the rest of it
and thank me but every day that passes
the Democrats get more leverage here and
the you know the problem is of course is
that the Democrats broadly speaking
broadly speaking in general feel more
pressure just broadly you know if you're
in Joni Ernst and you come from Iowa and
you're worried about the farmers but
you're worried about all the stories
about the farmers who are getting
screwed over because they're not getting
their slush fund payments and they can't
get loans and farms are starting to go
bankrupt because of this you're gonna
feel that pressure directly but even if
you're not if you're a Democrat and
you're not complete your district is not
completely implicated by you know you
don't have that many federal workers or
you don't have any you know specific
things that many snap recipients the
bottom line is the the broad force of
your constituents are concerned about
government being shut down even if it
doesn't directly implicate them in a way
that Republicans don't aren't so that's
there's a little asymmetry there but
once these real things start kicking in
the Senate's gonna crack and they're
gonna go to Mitch McConnell and they're
gonna go like I'm not giving up my
Senate seat because of Donald Trump and
and I'm not gonna give it up in Jan and
you know in February of 2019 so we shall
see what happens meanwhile Democrats
passed another piece of legislation and
that is the for the people Act
this is a great piece of legislation as
far as I'm concerned both from the
perspective of it's good policy and it's
good politics and one of the things that
we were talking about you know as the
Democrats take over the house was they
need to start passing things that also
help them maintain power but and it just
so happens that there's a cross-section
in that Venn diagram of things that are
helped keep them maintained power and
also are based on democratic values and
just simply justice and that of course
is voting reform so the bill includes a
requirement that all states
automatically registered voters who
submit paperwork to a state government
agency unless the person opts out so
that's you know motor voter registration
that is I mean it expands it whatever
business you would have with the state
Medicaid anything good stuff provide
same-day voter registration in every
state allow 15 days of early voting with
sites located near public transportation
use non partisan redistricting
Commission's to draw new congressional
maps this is like the whole thing they
like greg sargent I think called for the
other day
an able online voter registration count
provisional ballots from eligible voters
filed at wrong polling place and use
paper ballots in addition to electronic
voting systems it would ban post release
felon disenfranchisement so that's 5
million Americans would regain their
voting rights bill however would still
allow states to disenfranchise people
while they're in prison states would be
banned from engaging in voter caging
which is that stuff like cross-check it
would be impermissible for states to
remove someone from the voting rolls for
failing to vote in a previous election
which is often used if you haven't voted
in the past election you got a letter
and you didn't return it you get kicked
off the rolls Election Day would be a
federal holiday for two million-plus
federal workers and non government
employers would be encouraged to give
the day off to private sector employees
that doesn't go far enough in my own
mind it should be a national holiday but
colleges and universities would to be
designated as voter registration
agencies absentee ballots would no
longer require postage so you wouldn't
get votes thrown out or be any more
difficult to vote that way it would
increase funding to help States update
and secure election infrastructure the
election assistant commission would
oversee these updates and mandated
reports on its progress so we get a
sense of what's going on around the
country the election systems would be
deemed critical infrastructure it went
on to say to resolve some declarations
and findings which will basically be the
premise for future legislation that will
be introduced soon including fixing the
Voting Rights Act section 5 we've been
talking about this for four years since
the Supreme Court rolled it back in 2013
that representative Terry Sowell Sewell
from Alabama will introduce this
legislation which will move on a
separate track during the committee's
there's also the bill also asserts
support for statehood for District of
Columbia protects Native American voting
rights and the right to vote in US
territories it also addresses campaign
finance reform and this is the most
interesting part it creates a public
financing system for House elections
that provides $6 in public funds for
every $1 in funds raised from donations
up to $200 so people understand that now
New York City has a very similar program
in fact that reminds me no Mickey Kant's
is running for public advocate in the
next eight days I think it is your
donation
up to I think it is 250 dollars will be
matched by the city by eight times so if
you donate ten bucks to her or 25 bucks
to her if you vote if you donate ten
bucks to her it's gonna be worth eighty
if you vote a hundred dollars it's gonna
be worth $800 to her and I believe this
goes until the next eight days so we've
got a link at majority dot F M to uh to
her site go and do that no pitch for
membership today just go do that
but this but aside from that the New
York City one is a is a great program
and this would be great to have
nationally in addition it also includes
the disclose Act which mandates that
nonprofits and other group groups
disclose their sources when they
contribute to election campaigns a lot
of these 503 C ones now that purport to
be nonpartisan this is the way that they
get dark money into campaigns the
package honest ads require act requires
the disclosure of digital political ads
on tech platforms the FEC would be
reconfigured from six members to five to
prevent deadlocks on important issues
it's more often than not they just they
deadlock and nothing happens
coordination between super PACs and
candidates would be more clearly defined
and banned
there's also assertions and findings
that would implicate future legislation
including a declaration that the
Constitution should be amended to
overturn not just Citizens United but
also Buckley v Valeo the bill states an
intent to ban anonymous shell companies
from funding campaigns to prevent the
potential for secret foreign money to
seep into elections and then there's
some ethics reforms as well and the
Supreme Court would be covered under
that ethics code
so Gini Thomas might have to find a
different job rather than being a
conduit to her husband and right wing
money so this is all good stuff and here
is Nancy Pelosi basically gaveling in
and expressing what they intend to deal
with in the democratically controlled
Congress this Congress must accelerate a
future that advances America's
preeminence in the world and opens up
opportunities for all building an
economy that gives all Americans the
tools they need to succeed in the 21st
century public education workforce
development good-paying jobs and secure
pensions we have heard from too many
families who one during this time of
innovation and globalization if they
have a place in the economy of the
future we must remove all doubt that
they do and say to them individually we
will have an economy that works for you
[Applause]
to address the disparity of income in
America which is at the root of the
crisis of confidence felt by so many
Americans as Justice Brandeis said we
may have democracy or we may have wealth
concentrated in the hands of the few but
we cannot have both we must end that
injustice and restore the public's faith
in a better future for themselves and
their children
there you have it so that is day one for
the Democrats in the house one other
story before we go to the the collars
there was an important ruling this
happened I guess actually on the 28th a
couple of days ago and again the
implications of
of Elections are you know go far much
further I think than we anticipate and
some of the most important dynamics that
implicate policy in effect the real
lives of people happen at a surface that
it you know below the surface in a way
that we can't see and and this is this
story sort of like combines a couple of
things that I don't think people think
about enough so in 2015 the National
Labor Relations Board which had a
majority of democratically appointed
commissioners because Barack Obama was
the president and they have a five-year
terms and unions have a lot more sway
over a Democratic president even if he
never put his walking shoes on and
walked with them in Wisconsin which was
a huge disappointment but unions have
much more sway over a Democratic
president than they do over a Republican
president and so those labor those
commissioners were very Pro labor and in
a a pretty dramatic ruling in 2015 the
NLRB ruled that companies and
franchisors with both indirect and
direct control of employees could be
held liable for labor violations
committed by contractors or franchisees
so what does that mean it means that the
the McDonald's and Canton Ohio owned by
Brendon can be held that that not only
can Brendon be held liable for punishing
people who go out on strike or for wage
theft but McDonald's headquarters can
too because McDonald's has enough
control over what that franchisee does
even though he's the owner
they set the prices they set a lot of
the standards
they have enough control that they are
considered joint employers this was this
particular case was centered on a
business called browning-ferris in
California which is a recycling company
and they contract with another company
to provide workers to sort and clean the
recycled products so in 2013 a union
petitioned the National Labor Relations
Board to represent these these
contractor workers not browning-ferris
but the other company lead point lead
point but also browning-ferris was named
as a joint employer so this is what
these companies do they hire basically
temp agencies so that they don't have
the responsibility the labor
responsibility for these people and the
National Labor Relations Board said no
you can't get away with that the Trump
administration and is obviously against
that ruling has tried to reverse it
can't on its own they were taken to
court
well the DC Circuit Court a panel of
three judges just ruled 2 & 1/2 to 1 in
favor of the National Labor Relations
boards ability and responsibility to
hold employers in that situation as
jointly liable for labor violations etc
etc and there's two things you should
know about this
one is the Trump national labor
relations board cannot reverse this in
fact they have a responsibility a
statutory responsibility to rule in this
way and so there is legal leverage
anytime they don't going forward but to
the judges the two-to-one decision in
this panel of judges were appointed by
Obama the reason why they were able to
appoint these judges and if it goes to
the entire on bunk as they say of the DC
Circuit Court the reason why they will
lose their - is because Harry Reid got
rid of the filibuster when Republicans
were refusing to seat more judges on
that court it was for four they wouldn't
seat the other three judges it's
supposed to have 11 members they said
that's eight is plenty this is the most
important court and we've talked about
this court a lot this is one of the most
important courts after the Supreme now
this is the most important court in the
country after the Supreme Court and in
some ways it's more important because it
deals with a lot more cases and the
reason why this is going to stand for
labor is because a Democrat with whom I
had many many policy disagreements was
there so in that Canton Ohio McDonald's
they're gonna be subject to two wage
increases or they're not gonna be able
to punish their workers for going out on
strike like fight for 15 there's going
to be a lot of justice for workers
because of this now it's possible it
could go to the Supreme Court and we now
have a republican-controlled Supreme
Court it's conceivable they'll overturn
it but I imagine if that happens it
won't happen for a couple of years and
who knows but these are the implications
of all of these things that happened
years ago that will have implications
going years forward and it's important
to be aware of like you know much of the
governing that happens happens on this
level and you know unless you read the
National Law Review you're not gonna see
it or I guess the intercept also
reporter Rachel Cohen did all right
let's go to the phones shall we
you're calling from a to10 area code
who's this good afternoon damage shop in
San Antonio Shawn in San Antonio you
were in pole position twice in 2019
already are you going for some type of
like record no I'm just interested to
make my point here okay
all right okay yeah I want to address
some issues from my call on Wednesday
you know I agree with Michael that when
you're considering supporting a
candidate Paul policy should be the main
factor you know Bernie put out a
fundraising email on December 27 stating
it I'm the best candidate to beat Trump
then I'll probably run this is one of
the rare occasions where I disagree with
Bernie it seems like a hedge because you
know what is he basing this on is it on
the assumption on hypotheticals did you
know because he's been slightly behind
de Biden for almost two years and I
don't think he's basing this on some
kind of abstract feeling and I
encouraged Bernie to run because he said
large leads against Trump though not as
large as Biden and I want to express my
disagreement with you about the
reliability of long term hypothetical
polling I'll acknowledge that the longer
you go back there's a decrease in the
reliability of polls but there are
exceptions you mentioned how Jeb was
leading and Michael mentioned how
Lieberman was leading a couple months
after the midterms and I'm basing this
on looking a month back for polling data
based on an average of polls for the
election that was taking place 22 months
later though Romney was actually beating
Jeb at that point in 2015 the only other
eventually nominees they did not have
polling leads at this point in the 21st
century were Obama and McCain in 2007 so
the fact is that the majority made you
see the 21st century yeah all right well
I mean how many elections have there
been in the 21st century
pause so so in the 21st century had
polling leads at this point in the
election the ratio is you know 60% to
40% so if you fast forward six months
later once Trump got in he quickly had
polling leads that replicated his lead
that he had in April of 2011 when he was
considered running and he never
relinquished that lead in 2015 and one
of your greatest moments as an analyst
is when you're on Hayes the show after
Trump announced and you said Trump will
probably win the Republican primary I
think it's because of your dedication to
your job I believe you mentioned those
leads from 2011 on this show or at least
remembered that they happened and I'll
admit that in 2003 after Lieberman did
not run Howard Dean had leads before
Kerry took over and the lead in January
2004 never and then he never
relinquished that lead and in January
2007 McCain and Obama had primary leads
that spread its burden the victory over
Clinton and Giuliani who had national
leads December of 2007 the biggest
roller coaster ride for polling was in
the Republican primary of 2012 where
right you know at this point Romney did
have a lead but then you know Trump
Huckabee Perry Cain and Gingrich all had
leads before Romney took over in
February of 2012 so you know it's been
27 years since Bill Clinton who is
pulling it 1% won the nomination in 43
years since Jimmy Carter achieved the
same feat the fact is is historically
people who are in the middle or the back
of the pack even at this point you know
rarely win the nomination of their party
you know every nominee in the 21st
century had polling or delegate leads by
February of the year of the election so
do you want to comment on that Andy well
I mean I liked it talked about
I mean you know the all I can tell you
is I don't I mean I don't want to I
don't have a strong comment on the
validity of polls at this point there
are I think the idea that in some
instances they are accurate in some
instances they're not in the context of
the the 21st century I think indicates
my contention that they're only there
they're not there they're only somewhat
reliable but to that extent if you if
you if you think it's the case that if
you think it's the case that Trump is
the you know if you think the polling is
that important then all I can tell you
is you look at the polls and it doesn't
look like Trump can win right like it
doesn't yeah like like if you look at
the the polling right I'm looking at
like the last NBC Wall Street Journal
poll and this was from I don't know I
guess in December
definitely Trump 23% although a week
later it was actually 18 percent
probably Trump 18 percent so that's 36
percent of the population that says
either definitely or probably Trump
definitely Democrat is like 38 percent
probably Democrat is another 18 percent
I mean another 14 percent so you're
already over 50 percent and a generic
Democrat versus Trump but we don't know
if it's gonna be Trump Trump could get
hit by a bus you could have a heart
attack could eat a chicken bone I mean
who knows um I think the most important
thing is maybe not the exact numbers but
the fact that there is no evidence that
anyone would be substantially better
than Bernie at beating Trump so that's
not an argument that that's what I said
yesterday that's what that's exactly
what I said yes
now everyone takes my client that's me
doing this writer because that is what I
Michael Brooks said yesterday don't
reverse yourself but there are some
compelling arguments that I'm sure I
can't back up with statistics but just
like would make sense in a thought
experiment
no one is refuting you thought expand
the polling broadly speaking maybe
Biden's pops up in one poll that's
better
but broadly speaking no one's refuting
that no I agree with Mike from PA I
gotta say if I am gonna and this is not
based on polling this is purely based on
both substantive as well as stylistic
arguments and instincts the the worst
and the ones that I am scared of our
Gillibrand Booker and Harris from a pure
in addition to having problems a lot of
problems done politically ideologically
I think that I don't see them being
Trump necessarily we could get to a
point where anybody would be Trump
because it's such a disaster but even
this far out those of you know but those
are the three it's worth noting I have a
huge question mark about their capacity
to do it needs to be done to actually
win a general election
well this but on the other here's the
beauty is that a prime number
I'm very much more right a primary gives
you actually a sense of like how they
actually will be as a candidate sure I
don't know I'm still laying mark it
would be much harder for Bernie Sanders
to win the primary than the general
election interesting John thanks for the
call appreciate it okay thank you John
seems like he's in he's like he's the
notes like you know some type of inside
joke John nobody like John pulls up from
the top of the key
I like how he also buttered it he smacks
you around they buddies you up yeah
that's right I like it you were wrong
but you were also right it was a great
moment you add on Hayes your analysis of
polls is pathetic six five Oh area code
who's this where he column from hello
hello hello
me yeah it is can can you hear me okay
uh Jack from Palo Alto Jack from Palo
Alto what's going on sorry guys I first
time college I listen to you guys every
day I used to watch fox news for our and
MSNBC for our and that was just torture
on me and Jack why'd you do that to
yourself
because I try to you know get both sides
of it okay if you and inform myself and
then I found you guys and I just want to
clone say Happy New Year and thanks so
much for implement me and being funny as
well and yeah I really have question for
you guys what do you think of pay-go
well I think pay goes bad and I think
you know the there's a statutory
requirement from Pago which I think it
would take it would take the Senate in
the house to overturn but there's also
just sort of a secondary sort of like
house rule which I think there was some
there's some belief out there that if
you were to get rid of the house rule
okay so there's two different things one
is there's a law that was passed by
Congress and by the Senate and then
there is sort of a a directive if you
will that the house can't that that the
house rules I mean it's not as it
doesn't have the same force of law it's
just by what Congress needs to operate
under at the you know as decided at the
beginning of the year just by Congress
right cuz something to become a law yeah
needs to be passed by the house in the
Senate and then signed by the president
and I think it would have been a good
sign in a any two for the house to have
gotten rid of that so that they at the
very least are publicly declaring
that it is unnecessary to to have stuff
be deficit-neutral when you pass this
agenda now there was an argument that
you can waive this or third there's
going to be an attempt to to get rid of
it after the fact that's all well and
good but so I was a little disappointed
by that but I guess you know from what
I've seen in terms of the reporting the
Progressive Caucus decided that there
were they were bigger fish to fry but in
general it's a bad idea I mean look
there's two different ways you can look
at this you can look at this II that
deficit spending is is specifically
required in times of slow economic
activity and you can also look at it as
deficit spending is completely
irrelevant because of the nature of our
monetary system and under either one of
those perspectives Pago is silly and
it's also silly from a political
standpoint so and because I just don't
think there's that much of a
constituency out there that are looking
for their legislation to be valued you
know a revenue excuse me deficit neutral
I just think don't go ahead and I just
also another question how many times did
the Republicans have to be is what in
the face with Donald Trump's ineptitude
before they actually realize that
supporting him will damage their party
and I hate Republicans I have
Republicans in my family reason why I
had to watch foxes because I had to get
their talking points and know how to
debate them at the family table because
with a disability you know my housing
situation is a little bit iffy and I
will acquire you know managing stuff
with my family and not gain
and to complete another argument so you
have you have my sympathies that year
that I can tell you what that number is
it's called infinity we will never get
there there will never be a moment where
they go hey wait a second this guy seems
to be a bit of a jerk and and and
clueless that's not going to happen so
all I can tell you is hang in there and
have fun at those family meals remember
you know there's a lot of other things
to recommend your family aside from
politics oh absolutely I told to watch
you guys and you know check you guys all
the time and I feel like they you know
some of them have started to because
they go wow yes oh yes oh you seem to
know everything you seem to be so ahead
on these issues I know yeah you should
check out the majority you will put so
you guys have a great day thank tell
everyone in the studio I say what's up
anyways thanks man yeah I appreciate it
jack from Palo Alto college from a
five-10 area code who's this where you
call that me yeah it is you oh hi fam
this is Asia from Indiana hi um I've
been listening you guys I'm good I've
been listening to you guys for a few
months now I love you guys I just wanted
to I guess call into kind of a little
bit defend tulsi gabbard
okay um because she did vote against the
pay-go provision she's um during the
house vote last night and also I think
um in general regarding India I know
Michael had mentioned being
anti-imperialist on all fronts not just
against American imperialism and I think
like a forgotten aspect of India is that
it has experienced hundreds of years of
Islamic imperialism with the Mughal
dynasty so and like a lot of leftists in
India want to learn about politics and
like political ideology from the West
and kind of map that over and it doesn't
map over as neatly and easily so I feel
like a lot of people in the West are a
little I want to say maybe misguided
about where people are coming from when
they talk about like religious minority
issues in India you so can I can I just
say okay so I understand like in the
grand sweep of history that that might
be true like in a very long term sense
but in the last say like just postmodern
independence and at least when I'm
responding to is let's get really
specific
when Modi was head of Gujarat state like
the right he was essentially they I
don't forget the title but he's governor
right would be like the analogy there
was a two-day cut like mass murder of
Muslims like and Christians as well
now there's disputes of like what was
the precipitating event and there's a
dispute basically of whether Modi
actually ordered and was part of
literally like orchestrating mass murder
or whether he just simply totally stood
by and watched it and let it happen now
in the eighties the Congress party stood
by while Sikhs were murdered after the
assassination of Indira Gandhi so I get
that there's a history for that too but
that being said this guy was banned from
visiting the United States and you know
in the United States it was not because
of the Muslims it was because of
Christians right like this guy is
directly a participant in a serious
crime against humanity and that sense of
of Hindu far-right politics I understand
what it criticizes with a Western
centric perspective but it also negates
like if you read I'm a big I'm very
influenced by Amartya Sen he wrote in
the argumentative Indian about the
history of Indian pluralism and Indian
Hindu Buddhist and Muslim tradition the
Hindu right like every other right-wing
fascist movement and
it's a history that excludes others and
is chauvinistic right now right so she
supports that I can't get with that and
it tracks with Syria it tracks with
Israel it tracks with her refugee stance
like that's why it matters to me I I
think it's something to get into and
there's subtle points to be made for
sure but there's big macro takeaways
that make her a big problem yeah I mean
I agree like I don't think she should
have like blanket support from ODI I
don't either even though a lot of people
around me do I mean there's definitely
like you can have a more nuanced
criticism like he's doing good in some
like socio-cultural ways but he's also
pushing like a neoliberal agenda behind
the scenes obviously so yeah like I get
that there's nuance to it but I guess
like the left is just really hard wait a
second we just talked just I gotta say
specifically that he was complicit in
the mass murder of several thousand
people in two days including like we're
talking like cutting uterus off of
pregnant woman stomachs like but I mean
how if he completes it he didn't order
the security forces to stop it from
happening at the least and that's the
most benign interpretation
there's credible reports that he
instigated it and called for it in his
rhetoric and people close to him and his
government have been arrested and
charged on it well look here's the
bottom line
there I am glad that she is providing a
vote in on you know in in situations
like the pay-go thing and I and I think
that's helpful I just think to the
extent that we push back on these things
it's not so much that she's not right to
be a congresswoman from Hawaii it's that
there is stuff that's going on and she
and she has a good record on some other
things too I'm not so excited about her
sort of full-throated it's what comes
off to me is full-throated endorsement
of
of Assad in Syria it's one thing to say
we shouldn't be there but it's another
thing to say we shouldn't be there
because we don't have the ability to to
have a good outcome as opposed to like
Assad is you know just a guy who loves
his people right and and so the the
issue I think for us is is less that she
shouldn't be a congresswoman from Hawaii
it's that the the the deification of her
is unwarranted and is dangerous and I
think that's where we're at but I I'm
sorry what was your name again
he shouldn't yeah all right well you
should thanks so much for the phone call
I appreciate it all right thank you Sam
Mike thanks Michael
thank you so much please call back I
want to I want to do more and learn more
about it for sure and obviously I'll be
doing more of this on my show come from
a 405 area code who's this where you
call them from hey Oklahoma Gregory from
Oklahoma there is long time no talk to
ya in a bit what's going on
oh um everything and nothing um let's
see here last time we talked was like
April of last year okay so let me start
I have a lot to say I'll try and keep it
short there's a lot here Gregory don't
go don't don't don't don't make this
like everything since last April
all right like just like no since I like
today November like okay so I became
really depressed last year a lot of bad
stuff happens like my parents got
divorced or are getting divorce
um I'm sorry to hear that yeah a lot of
things yeah a lot of things in my
personal life kind of got you know out
of whack and tried to deal with that and
um let's be here had some
issues with politics going on in my
state not very not looking very good
here in Oklahoma
although one thing I am proud about
which you guys didn't really talk about
is we finally have our congressman from
Oklahoma who's a Democrat and it's for
my district Oklahoma sit this trip well
that's good I can warn ya it's a really
good she's a beacon of hope for
Democrats here in Oklahoma because we
were like really disappointed that our
gubernatorial candidate lost to a Trump
mini-me oh so you know education and
health care is gonna keep going to
here in the state but that's insane here
and yeah so I was gonna say Kara was oh
I've had a revelation about Jimmy Dore
oh all right
but wait a second no I worked up we the
rest of us in the studio were concerned
about your well-being Greg but now yo
Sam's alright well I've got a comment on
your parents split but let's hear what
you have to say about Jimmy Dore first
august-september like my depression was
real like bad right - did I jump I
stopped following politics a little bit
I even stopped watching majority report
and but I remember watching a Jimmy Dore
video where he criticized aoc for
endorsing andrew Cuomo right after the
primary right and after that I kind of
started thinking a little bit more about
Julie or and how he doesn't really like
meet him we might be both progressive I
mean I'm think I'm more to the left if
he's him but for me I support the
Democratic Party and I want to change
the Democratic Party he doesn't really
care about and me watching his videos
kind of like you know made me feel like
weird about watching his videos and also
the
a person who's trying to change the
Democratic Party I got to feel like in a
way he's childish towards that idea yeah
at the end of the day even if we don't
change the Democratic Party it's still
better to have it in an hour than you
know not right Gregory sounds to me like
you are doing great and you know you
have Carl at fact-check she did not
officially endorse Cuomo she gave an
anodyne answer to an interview question
where she was like I support all the
Democrats right right people made a
mountain I don't know she danced a video
because she loves him so much yeah oh
yeah awesome great yeah Greg everything
sounds like it's going well for you I
can tell you this about the the breakup
of your parents having both had my
parents split and being part of a split
I can tell you that it gets better you
know with some time I know it's
difficult oh so difficult I'll be I'll
be 21 next month
uh-huh and then like their anniversaries
like right after my birthday so I it's
like that it's awful cause like I'm not
gonna get into it well let's not get
into it but to to deeply but I can just
tell you this like you know you gotta
their people they deserve happiness
going forward you are all gonna be
happier hey you're still a family it's
just your structured a little bit
differently and so you know your parents
still love you so that's the important
part and you you know certainly yeah
if you I mean you know you've joined DSA
you got that going for you and you've
realized the Jimmy door is not worth
watching and so as far as I can tell
buddy you're doing good so hang in there
all right thank thanks keep doing what
you're doing guys thanks Greg take care
Greg good luck man Oklahoma there you go
that's one of those guys that you're
talking about what's that
billionaire that shouldn't homestead
leftists yeah my subsidy exactly come
from 267 area code who's this where he
called from hello hello hello hi hi this
is yeah
Stanford home to a nice to talk to you
yeah I would bring up two things one I
really cook story is that like I am was
encouraged by Mike and Cal kolinsky to
call my representative or a
representative after that whole vote in
Congress to about Yemen trying to pull
us out yeah yeah so I followed their
advice and you know I never done it
before you know called my representative
I was really so I mean I called but I
didn't no one told me that anyone would
actually answer I thought it seems like
an answering machine they're like I I
rent I was gonna rant you know really
let him know how I was very unhappy but
no so I actually answered and it's very
different to do something like that when
there's like a nice staffer who's
quietly asked answering your questions
right you know I Kyle was saying like
you know like they're the genocide
caucus I think what was his name for
them and so yeah it's I mean it's an
empowering moment and to actually call
you represent it was something you've
been encouraging yourself in some times
before and I would say look you know the
bottom line is look the these people are
they're they're they're normal people I
mean in the sense that they react to
things like people normally do and so if
you call and you sound
like a you know a responsible you know
calm individual it's gonna have you know
more weight I mean at the end of the day
it's just a number but if you know
there's no doubt in my mind that these
staffers get off the phone and they go
whoa you know they'll they'll take it
down they'll put you in the computer and
they'll say one call and that call is
worth they have an algorithm I don't
know what it is these days I would
imagine you know I don't know what it is
but it you represent 100 maybe 200 maybe
500 people in the district that one call
and on top of it when you get off the
phone you know when they're done
answering the phones at the end of the
day there's no doubt in my mind they go
into the chief of staff and they're like
how did these collars sound and if that
person says sound like very rational
people that that implicates their
thinking on this I mean it just does I
don't know that's gonna change anybody's
mind but it does and so you know so all
sort of the same theory is that clean
for gene movement you know fortunately
society is changed in such a way that
you don't always have to wear a suit to
look like a responsible individual but
thank God yeah but but appreciate your
calling us and so I was also going to UM
talk about the the Guatemalan child who
who died uh-huh yeah so the big I
believe our democracy now who brought up
the fact that you know she wasn't an
indigenous I'm envisioning arm family
and how her whole tribe was uplifted um
uprooted by like the US and Western
extraction policies and how they
actually had to bounce around uh their
tribe to escape this of extractive are
policies that we've been implementing
right on there are
their land right and then from there
it's kind of like a direct line also
with the violence that we've spread in
Central America you whether through our
drug policy or through i deceptive
practices right and all these things you
know had pushed their family right to uh
to force them dumb and great to us right
and then the idea that it's simply a
choice right
you know Kristen gel brand gets on Fox
News and says you know this is a choice
they made not Kristen Gillibrand I
Kristen Nielsen ODA Kristen yes ma'am
thank you sorry about that to come to uh
come to the border to take on this
dangerous Trek and then she dies and I
think there's a direct line of thinking
and this in this conservative mindset
there were lates back also to your
called with that libertarian gentleman I
forget his name but he had said
something about how you know it was
wrong for the north it's the man to
demand that slaves be released right and
how it's so easy to sacrifice bodies
right the bodies of black and brown
people and that like well we should have
gotten in some sort of dialogue with
southern slave owners all right and then
to convince them to release their slaves
or wait for my market forces to allow
that to happen
meanwhile generations of black people
would have been born and died in slavery
under that brutal system but it's just
okay now I just I just you know Breck
arriving news like this a spectrum this
long tradition and the conservative
mindset
they're simply sacrifices bodies for a
white box is a white Congress yeah it's
also you could also just say that
there's a lot of racist principles
in in the way that they operate
appreciate the call stand the three of
the children that have died at the
border were all indigenous and spoke
indigenous languages right and yeah I
mean you can also see it in terms of
like sort of these the the there is some
type of a lot of it also to sort of
comes from this sort of conservative
mindset that it's quasi-religious that
like if you found yourself in a bad
situation it is because in some way you
you deserve it and whether it's like
poverty or whatnot and of course but you
know I just saw this story today we
don't have the clip of it but in Britain
there was a there was a headline
something to the effect of like you know
judge says drug dealers can get off
because they're Texas the texts that
they wrote had such great grammar and I
was like the whitest defendants you
could ever find right I mean that is
good days uh-huh where might that key
though be procured well and then it also
turned out that their memos actually
atrocious that's the other that's the
other benefit you get it's not what they
meant by grammar yeah they had great
couple of clips this this clip I
actually found pretty touching the for
the first time a Native American woman
was elected to Congress and in fact so
happens we have two this year first is
Deb Holland Holland Holland who I did
wasn't on this program I interviewed her
for yeah it was in at Netroots nation
and the second is Charisse David's
David's is a an attorney in a form of
mixed martial arts of fighter she's a
member of the ho-chunk nation she's also
the first openly LGBTQ member of
Congress from her state and Hollen is a
member of the Laguna Pueblo she's an
attorney and she once served as their
state's Democratic party chair here are
the two of them hugging it's it's pretty
touching the 100's that's very sweet
that you know that grandma meanwhile
really enjoying this incoming class of
I'm a big I of course AOC is great but
I've been going strong in the like let's
always include Rashida to live and our
shout outs and she's like the Damian
Lillard to the Steph Curry yes and just
the the class rage the energy I love it
yeah she's she is someone who's gonna
need a lot of support in her next
election because she got in there it was
a bit of a surprise I think and they're
gonna be going for I mean they're gonna
gun for AOC but that I good luck with
that I think they're gonna have a tough
time unseating her but receded to leave
she's but she is not it does not appear
that that understanding that she's going
to have to fight very hard for her
reelection
is in any way inhibiting her expression
as a congresswoman she is I'm not sure
from where in Michigan she's from I
imagine close to Detroit I think it is
right she was endorsed by the Detroit
DSA that makes me think she's from near
there she was yes
she's a Conyers old district yeah so
there was a I guess a function for
moveon.org and here she is speaking
about what she hopes will happen to
Donald Trump people love you and you win
and when your son looks at you says mama
look you won bullies don't win and I
that baby they talked because we're
gonna go in there we're gonna impeach
the
see Wow think they're posting they're
swearing what can't Congress women do
now I also like how I I'm just I've all
the political skepticism of the
impeachment that you have and then it's
like that well that was the best for
human case I've ever heard right exactly
now it's articulated like that that I
totally support this effort
I hope the right wing manages to put
that to music and so they think attacker
right oh there's tons of outrage cubism
and Rasheeda well I mean it's like okay
there first is the is the obvious with
regards the trunk but even an even on a
smaller level and I I don't care I think
the best thing about Tom Perez is his
swearing but like Tom Perez went out
there to carry some norms are bad and
don't need to be respected oh that's a
good point
I don't scar her her son it was like a
palestinian-american so he's out of
super easy
hey you never dealt with any kind of
challenge and this here is mom say the F
word about this grotesque monster that
runs our country most and even Congress
people that I'm not necessarily a fan of
are at least saying the right things
here's represented madam shift I'm not I
don't you know I don't have strong
feelings about Schiff one way or another
I'm not
I think his voting record is fairly
decent not great but here is Chris Hayes
let me put this way this is a good
measure of where the Democrats are today
as opposed to less than a decade ago
here is a Chris Hayes interviewing Adam
Schiff there's a broader question it's a
question I want to ask all Democratic
leadership we're living right now
through this era of a kind of both
polarization institutional norms finding
and I think maximalism increasingly be
employed tactically legislatively okay
one of the big victories the Republican
Congress when they got the majority 2010
was they used the debt ceiling default
as a kind of threat to get an austerity
legislation passed it worked
it was incredibly reckless it was
unprecedented nearly what is your
personal theory of your wielding of
power and your respect for norms
balanced against imperatives to deal
with what you're dealing well I think we
need to get back to operating rationally
and civilly we have to stop holding the
government and all of its employees and
contractors hostage when you can't get
the votes for your priority whether it's
a wall or anything else so we need to
get back to some rational law order we
don't want to repeat the mistakes the
excesses the the over you know zealous
partisanship of the Republicans I hear
that all the time but what if that's the
way the world works now what if you
cannot unilaterally put Humpty Dumpty
back together you know I I don't accept
it and I can't accept it
I think you know we fight hard and we
fight tough and smart for our priorities
but we also recognize there's something
bigger than us that we're going to come
and go in this beautiful building behind
us and we have an obligation to the
entire country and and to its
institutions right now this is the most
precarious time in my lifetime in terms
of our republic we have a president who
denigrates the freedom of the press who
goes after the independence of the
judiciary and in so many ways I think is
threatening the the livelihood of our
democracy the answer to that cannot be
more of the same that just drags us all
down congressman Adam Schiff tea new
chair now the the part that I that that
I'm I guess hanging my hat on on some
level is that his criticism of breaching
of norms where all of the Republicans I
don't expect this guy to get out there
and say we're gonna impeach them the
mf'er but III do think that there is an
awareness there that they cannot allow
and we saw it in the context of the
the rules that they passed where the
Gephardt rule for instance where there's
no longer a separate vote on extending
the the debt ceiling and raising the
debt ceiling stuff like this where they
used to do because we want to make you
know the process fluid and want to give
people an opportunity like they're
basically saying like look we're done
playing those type of games now I don't
know how long that lasts and I can
understand why shift you know it's not
using the same sort of partisan language
that we see from others because he could
very well be the the guy who is
presenting the most amount of evidence
in the head impeachment trial frankly
what if shift conserved sort of work as
our Jeff Flake where he just acts like
as if this is where attorneys normal
order but meanwhile the grounds
underneath him are swell into like
massive progressive action see that's
what I've always wanted to that's like
the guy like the person who runs like a
Clinton or Tony Blair campaign and then
just like governs like Corbin or Sanders
but is always like this mass
reappropriation
of housing to give to homeless people
that's a public-private partnership this
is the third way exactly well that's my
plan for the libertarian debate for the
presidential debate that I'm going to be
attending I saw somebody somebody on my
disco yes Social Security this the
libertarians definitely Third Way and
somebody in my discord I think said what
do you think about as a you know an
offering because we're being honest
clearly you're not sort of you're you're
on the center of the Libertarian Party I
am in the radical center of the
libertarians Eisley and to appeal to a
grand coalition what about block is a
running mate I mean I would yeah let's
float Walter block wow that's a
fascinating I'm just spitballing
could've done anything are you Jewish
shut the federal government be in that
business
really pay that business to roll Sam if
you have a play choice have you ever
played chess 13 ah add videos reductant
day free ages this was interesting ALC
was on Anderson Cooper you're not going
to play the video because CBS very
uptight about that but we will play the
audio and it's interesting like this is
just an example because Brenda and I
were listening to this beforehand and it
struck me there was two options that
that AOC had in answering this question
and both are worthwhile but it's
interesting construction but you know
let's just listen this is Anderson
Cooper giving her they like hot deal
what planet are you from type of
questioning because there they are
they get very nervous with anything that
is left of left-of-centre is it his mom
like Gloria Vanderbilt right yeah yeah
well makes sense yeah or just I mean he
doesn't even need I mean like you know
Anderson Cooper's got a nice chunk of
change himself I mean it is the the fear
is not that they're gonna they're there
their wealth is going to be X
appropriated the fear is just of like
there's just an uncomfortability like I
think an inherent uncomfortability with
with any type of genuine leftist
proposal and this isn't even that
radical but that's the issue here you're
talking about zero carbon emissions no
use of fossil fuels
within 12 years that is the goal its
ambitious yeah how is that possible you
talk about everybody happening to drive
an electric car it's going to require a
lot how's it know just early think about
this like the idea first of all we are
inundated with stories about self
driving cars right like like you know
like the idea that Anderson Cooper would
say to someone like everyone like
self-driving cars in 12 years he would
never say that like you know technology
like but the idea that we all have
electric cars in 12 years is that really
that crazy I think also can't get out of
the paradigm where everyone drives
around in cars all the time require
major change to our infrastructure
you're totally right Jamie but that even
undermines even more how ludicrous that
is like more people being in electric
cars is like the easiest part by far
event like the part that all business is
on board with the part that there's R&D
on the part that we valorize in every
form of media what Tesla like it's just
bizarre
right that is like the most like ya know
like I could say like well maybe
certainly by 20 years does anybody think
that there's gonna be that we're not
gonna be driving all-electric cars in 20
years maybe an urban planning is gonna
be completely different I mean what does
he think what it would it when Jerry
Brown just signed all California's
renewable I think in 20 years of the
target what do you think that means
and Jerry Brown's like an agust
respected centrist you know governor
that that's such a bizarre pull now if
she had said we're all gonna be driving
electric jetpacks
that would be crazy no but god yeah how
was that possible he talked about
everybody having to drive an electric
car it's going to require a lot of rapid
change that we don't even conceive as
possible right now what is the problem
with trying to push our technological
capacities to the farthest extent
possible this would require though
raising taxes there's an element where
yeah there people are gonna have to
start paying their fair share in taxes
do you have a specific on the tax rate
you know you look at our tax rates back
in the 60s and when you have a
progressive tax rate system your tax
rate you know let's say from zero to
$75,000 maybe 10% or 15% etc but once
you get to like the tippy tops on your
10 millionth dollar
sometimes you see tax rates as high as
60 or 70 percent it doesn't mean all 10
million dollars are taxed at an
extremely high rate but it means that as
you climb up this ladder you should be
contributing more what you are talking
about now I just want to say something I
get I want to be overly critical but
she's underselling it the tax rate
changed in 1963 I think under Kennedy
Kennedy and it was dropped the top
marginal tax rate was 90% and it was
dropped to 75 percent or so under
Kennedy and that 90 percent was not on
the 10 million dollar in in 1950s and
1919 sixties dollars that would have
been the top that would have been 3
million you get 3 million and then every
dollar after 3 million this is in
today's dollars you pay 90 cents in
taxes so she was soft-pedaling it yeah
but of course to Anderson Cooper who has
been a news person for 20-some odd years
and I get it we're all busy ok but you
could just Google historical tax rates
just for the heck of it and realize like
what she's saying is a mainstream
proposition or it let the very least
like think you know this like astound
like astonishment that he registers like
either he is acting pretending or just
like completely ignorant of like some of
the more basic questions like if you get
there and you're gonna ask for a
specific tax rate from a congress person
which you never ask anybody like you
know you never if you never asked that
question but if you but if you're going
to you owe it to your viewers and
frankly to your own self-respect to get
a sense of what she's saying means in
the context of American history right
and he doesn't but he responds like this
like flying cars and well by the way do
you know what FDR's threat was for the
top
marginal rate can anybody guess 100%
under percent little revolution yes and
and so alright but but but continue on
cuz he's just his mind is alone she she
might as well have said to him like
alright here's the plan
everybody's gonna walk on stilts
everybody including pets including pets
and we can train them we can train the
pets to walk on stilts next an extremely
high rate but it means that as you climb
up this ladder
you should be contributing more what you
are talking about this big picture is a
radical agenda compared to the way
politics is done right now well I think
that it only has ever been radicals that
have changed this country Abraham
Lincoln made the radical decision to
sign the Emancipation Proclamation
Franklin Delano Roosevelt made the
radical decision to embark on
establishment programs like Social
Security that is radical do you call
yourself a radical yeah you know if
that's what radical means call me a
radical now here's the here here you
know that was the part that Brenda and I
were listening to and I was like yeah I
don't know if I would have taken that
tack because she could say like well you
know it's not radical in the context of
American politics beyond like the past
25 years 30 years this country you know
we're talking about 10% of the history
of this country that I can understand
why she took that tact but I can tell
you that an hour later
CBS headline was Alexandria Acacio
cortes dot dot quote call me a radical
you know they're not going to like you
know it's not that big of a deal
but this is this is you know like there
is a tremendous amount of of forces that
are arrayed to make her seem like she's
some type of alien some type of like of
dancing on roofs alien it's funny
because I you know I proposed this this
morning an 11
I am whoever runs Bernie's account I
think you know it was kind of indirectly
responding to that said is it quote
unquote radical to demand all Americans
have health care that billionaires pay
their fair share of taxes and workers
are in at least 15 hour and that we
transform our energy system in order to
combat climate change I don't think so
and I I I don't shy away at all from the
word radical but I actually think it's
effective especially if you are a
radical to really keep pointing out that
single-payer health care and a slight
bump in the minimum wage and doing the
bare minimum of what scientifically
necessary to deal with climate is
moderate obvious shouldn't be
controversial remotely of course I think
it was a similar construction to what
she said in the interview like I don't
think she was literally saying I'm a
radical no no no no I agree there's two
different constructions one is like you
know the classic if you know defining
down what radical means or the other is
defining down what you know what is one
is defining down what the term of
radical is and the other is attacking
the concept that what she's proposing is
radical and so you know it's just a
choice it doesn't really it probably
didn't matter which one she chose one
way or another they were going to try
and make it seem like she's proposing
you know everybody we're just
everybody's gonna be on stilts that's
just the way it's gonna work and if not
then you're up against the wall
but red-state caught on a little bit
this is pretty fight that we should have
done this after the you don't say yes
afternoon they're like attacks on Acacio
cortes are reaching self-defeating
levels let me suggest this one of the
features of 2018 was the ascension of
the rights favorite young upstart
socialist defeating a longtime
Democratic member of house and it goes
on but what was justified criticism over
her early mistakes of showing off her
ignorant is crossing into self-defeating
pointlessness and gaining her defense
from fair-minded conservatives I would
say not reaching self-defeating levels I
would say sir
passing self-defeating levels but I
would say keep up keep up the good work
well I would say you know I'm thoughtful
but dude you know you never know if
there might be other clips of her out
there doing things that are benign so
you know keep looking that's right don't
sleep on humiliating yourselves here she
is
jump roping at one point yes don't
forget this is the third way in between
continuing neoliberalism and full-on
proletarian revolution jokes so third
way she's a moderate she's the
compromise candidate come from a 2:1 for
area code who's this where you calling
from
2 1 4 2 1 4 2 1 4 let's go to call from
an 8 1 8 area code who's this hello can
you hear me yes 8 1 8 who's this big Sam
Dave from drinking hi I'm mark ooh hi
Michael hey everybody Dave enjoyed
holidays and all yes now thank you
I hope yours we're good to spent most of
it in the bathroom
what sorry yeah but so uh are you guys
worried about AOC slack security because
this level of obsession is kind of weird
I meant having seen stuff on the discord
where anything she does they're like on
it I meant it yeah I don't know it seems
kind of bizarre for me who in the
discord is creepily obsessed with a oh
no no no no that's not what he means he
means no you're noting every single
far-right reaction yeah I get what you
mean yes I see I mean I I think I I
imagine that she's you know being aware
of it but I don't know that she's in any
more danger or any less danger than than
most it's conceivable I mean frankly I
think like you know the the danger is
less like her politics and more
just said she's a popular woman you know
and this is something that I think women
who are in the public eye are all you
know the subject to but maybe she goes
out in public you know a little bit more
than your average sort of you know
celebrity politician is endangered on
multiple levels right because she's a
woman she's a woman of color and she is
some kind of democratic socialist so
there are a lot of people who might be
out to get her
yeah yeah I've been I mean I'm just
looking at it like even Daily Caller
when you guys brought out the dance
video which made her look normal to me
and say oh she's not a weirdo politician
but for them no I don't know it seems
like it's almost like meat red meat so
I'm a little worried about it because
look how crazy the right one was behaved
when they were in power know that
they're losing PO who knows what they're
going to be yes I think there's
something to that for sure but my guess
is my experiences they're a lot more
toxic when they're in power that they
you know that they energize it's just
more of a bully Munt mentality I think
they're toxic no matter what well I
think that's true but I mean I guess
just from my experience during the Bush
years like I know that I was always
aware of stories about you know when
Jeanine would get approached and
threatened and whatnot and it was you
know close proximity to the beginning of
the war and her speaking out against the
war but as you know Republicans lost
power they they recede in some weird way
but start acting like libertarians yeah
exactly but I appreciate it
I understand the concern I appreciate
the call Dave have a happy new year up
same to you good bye
let's go to a to15 area code who's this
where you come from
hey Sam how are you d happy holiday
happy
holiday to Michael and everybody just
wanted to say hi the new year great to
hear from you so you have a good new
year yeah um what sees me did you have a
good New Year's yeah yeah yeah yeah we
had a good New Year's everything's good
I'm really happy again I'm kind of happy
that we're in control I mean I kind of
feel like we're the tides turning and
it's better and it's kind of like you
can watch politics a little bit more now
and be like not so pissed off every
second and I love how Trump's not
getting his wall and I hope Nancy
stays the course because we're
supporting of her so I'm feeling good
about that and um I just wanted to say a
few things just real quick in reference
to the presidential Kenny for 2020 I
mean I know it's fun to talk about
everybody that wants to be President and
I know everybody has a certain person
that they'd like but don't you think
that we all should just get around
whoever gets nominated well yeah after
the nomination but yeah but after the
nomination I mean I think that's the
thing is it I think like look I am all
for people being full on you know how do
I say aggressive but but but not holding
back in terms of supporting their
candidate their choice that's what
primaries are for I don't believe in the
concept of that you can really
materially damage a candidate in a in a
primary particularly particularly in a
national presidential election I just
don't I don't I don't subscribe to that
idea I I don't subscribe to that idea
sorry I played this this is not beanbag
oh it's not beanbag and that was just
for you I didn't even get it look it's
not being back it's not being back I
mean like I have a certain count you
know like I I will support anybody
whoever I mean I have like something
more that I like more than I don't like
I mean I'm not real excited about
certain ones but well
play close to the battle why say no you
know Mindy and I think very similarly in
some ways I'm always curious right I
said sometimes we do yes so I want
curious um why who I would like to ron
did you give me would you mind giving us
I mean your favorite your favorite
Twitter thing I mean whatever this this
thing over yeah okay the feed is gonna
get brown okay blow me up wait first of
all let me up before I say that I want
to give back from Paula out to a big
shout out that was a really good call
yeah and I serve from Indiana no
clue what she was talking about and Greg
from Oklahoma please feel better cuz
we're all with you okay just wants to
say that okay but who my dream ticket
would be you'll yell at me I love Kamala
I love her just you're her least
favorite after car just wondering I'm
not gonna say anything and people be
don't bother Mindy on Twitter about this
well slowly I don't care I can take it
sure you can exactly she loves the
Twitter battle alright who's your least
favorite um I mean I don't like somebody
like wait who's the boring ones that are
running thinking about running running
what I said Kamala Harris boom no no
couple the senator guys that are running
uh Booker Booker so boring you can't
really sure when I'm not crazy about
Sarah Brown I would not be excited about
a Bloomberg Ryne I'm glad my cliven odd
he's gone of course
another one I will have to call before
everybody else might I say Jesus Christ
what what what's your thing oh I mean I
said of course we want birdie but we
always said of avenatti was whack and
people love you and then he of course
went away anyways alright
fair enough well I know anyway my dream
a good ticket for me who I would being a
middle aged middle class woman with kind
of like I can go either progressive or I
can go centrist depending upon because
of my age I could be more centrist but
because of who I am I could be a little
more progressive I mean I think Biden
and Kamala could win that's just my
opinion I think I got it I think I
literally like my last choice ticket I
think as a could win yeah I think that's
totally true Lions gonna get me food
right out of the gate that's my
prediction what's that I think BIOS
gonna get me to right out of the gate
I'm suspect I don't know that he's gonna
win we're gonna run I don't think he's
gonna run cuz I think bado cancels his
path yep but I would like data on Iran I
mean but they do and Kamala would be a
good ticket there's a lot of good thing
I mean I'm not thrilled about a Joe
Kennedy if Iran's you know I mean the
rolls a lot of them are corporate their
take they take big money I mean I don't
know it's it's gonna be a tough deal is
with Warren I don't know if she can win
do you think she can win I think she can
win what about Bernie huh what about the
main man do you think he's got some
pretty bold ideas right oh come on he's
like what's Booker he doesn't seem real
Jewish to me
are you kidding me
no I like Bernie I'd be happy seriously
I think that whoever wins in 2020 we can
start refining it in 20 to 24 like to
refine it to get more progressive that's
the way I think I think we just need to
take back the office I don't think
Trump's gonna run again I don't think
he's going to be around to run I think
he's going to gonna get make a deal I
think he's going to be gone by the end
of xix that's just
my opinion and I don't think he's going
to run again I don't think he can win
against Randy I I don't I the the idea
of Donald Trump making a deal to escape
conviction after that is not
inconceivable I appreciate the call
Mindy happy new year although I predict
I think it's gonna be Trump nikki Haley
and we need to particularly that's
another one what centrist idiots
disgusting that they ever gave her any
cover but people really need to sharpen
the knives on her and I think that I
think she's gonna replace pence and I
think that in the dumb idiot news cycle
that's gonna get you a little bit of
luck oh my god of course she's from a
different background and she said that
Trump is rude was she's a woman not a
jumpring right right it's gonna be
disgusting and we need to remind
everybody her record what she said about
Boston ro and be extremely aggressive
and and I'll tell you something in and
you know this is why I think there's
like folly and this is why we've been
saying from day one that the never Trump
or phenomenon
you know to the extent that there's any
of these individuals who are sincere and
I don't know I don't know how you rate
their sincerity but even the most
sincere of them are really not useful
they're not useful you can you can you
can assume that they are but it's really
look they have no constituency and here
is here is well I don't know if I would
call this exhibit a this may be
exhibited I don't know somewhere around
J we're in numbers now right
but here's exhibit whatever of a never
Trump or that is you know basically
showing their hand here is Anna Navarro
right she she's been a longtime
never Trump right yeah wrong since the
campaigning from the beginning and she I
mean Trump is actually even called her
out hasn't he yes I believe so I think
so I think so and here she is on CNN
with who else is on there with their
bill kristol Symone Sanders Symone
Sanders Symone Sanders former
spokesperson for Bernie Sanders
Frank and bill kristol a former
cheerleader of genocide and and wrong
about everything looks like he's eaten
all his mistakes to these days but
nevertheless I'm not gonna go there you
just I'm sorry I didn't mean to but
here's Anna Navarro telling you if you
didn't know before that never Trump errs
are useless
I mean look you're going to have this is
gonna be a Democratic primary where
maybe 25 people put their put their name
in the Hat out of those 25 people I
think maybe 10 of those campaigns be
very viable to go very one way we need a
robust primary I think Democratic voters
are really looking for someone that they
can trust and what they're saying you
know I don't like Donald Trump I'm not a
fan but the people that voted for him
trusted what he said even though I think
he's a liar so the owners are looking
for somebody that they believe it's
candidly and authentically delivering
their message as a Republican who cannot
stand Trump never supported him never
will I am begging Democrats to please
give me somebody that I can vote for I'm
ready to vote for a potted plant I'm
ready to vote for a hologram I'm not
sure I'm ready to vote for Elizabeth
Warren and so you know I I think I hope
that Democrats think about you know
themselves falling in love and somebody
that can get their juices flowing and
their love tank filled but can also
appeal to people like Bill Kristol and
Anna Navarro who really don't want to
vote for a hologram we'd rather vote for
somebody that's got a pulse on a brain
who is that person
I don't know I like the idea of voting
for a hologram though that yeah it could
be an upgrade yeah well but here's the
point I mean aside from like this sort
of the creepy fall in love with and get
your love juices flowing
we don't need Anna Navarro and Bill
Kristol to vote for a real Democrat as
opposed to a hologram or a potted plant
who's not going to do anything
it offends them in any way we don't need
them we just need them not to vote for
Trump and if they're not gonna vote for
Trump great great
we have the numbers the midterm showed
that if they stay home and don't vote
for Trump but you know what they
supposedly didn't last time they're
useless
so don't promote them because all
they're going to do is undercut a good
Democrat running for office period end
of story
there is no other part of the story
that's why I just put a period I think
there's a phrase called beggars and
beggars can't be choosers when Ronald
Reagan funded the Contras he did it with
a degree of glass and it caught my love
juices flowing and when the Contras
murdered non's
and killed the people they did it with a
degree of class and respect for the
office listen think about how many
Democrats you're going to lose if the
standard for a to vote for a Democratic
presidential candidate is one that Anna
Navarro and Bill Kristol can vote for
sets potential Democrats Bill Kristol
and I are looking for someone who is not
overtly racist and supports many worse
in the Middle East Rand if you cannot do
that you might not get maybe well she's
nominate Jeb Bush Jeb Bush would be an
incredible Democratic nominee he has a
certain degree of class the never Trump
conservatives are gonna try to find a
home in the Democratic Party and this is
a tactic that the Democrats have tried
before and failed trying to pander to
moderate conservatives wealthy suburban
iets like if we are going to realign the
party into something that is more of a
Labor Party than it's ever been in a
long time we can't have those people
right they're useless they're useless
Jeb worse than useless had not used the
n-word since at least 1990 that is the
type of integrity that Bill Kristol and
I are looking for along with an invasion
of Iran you
any proper pronouns that will give my
love juices flowing alright lastly
speaking about love Jesus this was a
very sentimental moment where Mike Pence
had to pretend to not be freaked out by
this is really funny as you know Mike
Pence is a is an ideological and avowed
homophobe he is an ideological and
avowed oppressor of women is a
fundamental fundamentalist Christian who
is also a theocratic to swear in
Christian cinema who is going to
probably be tied for my least favorite
Democratic senator but in this one
moment I'm going to allow myself to
enjoy the avowedly homophobic Mike Pence
having to swear in the first out
bisexual senator on a law book she's
also an atheist not a Bible and she
seems to be perfectly aware of the fact
that she might have the ability to make
Mike Pence uncomfortable and is enjoying
it almost as much as I am
and here we go
[Applause]
we're speak
why don't you stand you'll be right can
we get a spouse posit did we should hear
it said can we get a spouse right
because of course now Mike Pence is not
allowed to be alone with a woman and
that is what she's referring to without
you yeah without without his wife there
to protect him from the badge in the
dentate so so if you hold here with your
right hand raised do you solemnly swear
to support and defend the Constitution
of the United States against all enemies
foreign and domestic
like a bear true faith and allegiance to
the same that you take this obligation
freely without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion and that you will
well and faithfully discharge the duties
of the office upon which you're about to
enter so help you God
did you ask him what did she ask him I
feel like she asked it like what it what
it what is it like working with with the
president truck I just play it back I
can't make out what she said she's just
giving him a hard time
yeah in a very big way look at look at
the handshake that's what I also notice
like I think she like like she pulled
the Trump and like held on for a while a
slight Trump Paul there but it's fun but
it's like she's kind of what I like it
what's very funny to me is she's like
she's I mean she's flirting with him
like that's what's so funny about it
she's and she's wearing like it's you
know it's totally fine but it's not like
a typical like what you see showing
elbowing elbow she's showing shoulders I
mean I was big no I mean but especially
by pence and I I think like I don't know
when she's like a horrible sort of joe
manchin type i'll like her style more
right all right let's just hear it let's
see if we can make out what she's saying
and also watch the hands here okay stop
go back he lets go and she does it yeah
right there right there right there
right watch show him who's boss
he's got double the by germs now so does
he go from a horribly self repressed
person which is one theory or like is he
crushing on cinema there well he no she
he tried to let go of her hand
no I know but I think all that but at
the end but it was like did he try to
let go because this is I should not be
modeling what I feel by sex yeah there's
too much too much love juices okay dude
that is that's exactly why he that's
that that's the explanation for his
entire world of you like but that moment
with the with it where he lets tries to
let go of her hand and she holds it
there to ask him one more thing and he
quickly deserted like he doesn't not
want to be alone with women because he
thinks he would just not talk to them or
touch them or look at them right he
doesn't want to be tempted exactly
temperature says he's gonna go back and
be like God is gonna be so proud of me
for how about that or do you think that
he like takes out some type of like of
you know thing that you slap your you
whip your own back right like an Opus
Dei thing their shirt on right my god
he's beating himself with a switch while
she like jokes about it with a friend
exactly exactly the film cut yeah
all right let's go to the phone's gone
from an 8-3 to haricots - who's this
where you calling from hello hello hello
hello hey hello hello yeah who's this
where you calling from
Dimitri's from Houston Dimitri's from
unison what's on your mind buddy well
first and foremost I just wanted to say
thank you guys so much for the work that
you do you guys been a really huge
influence on me and because of that I'll
become socialist basically um but uh oh
yeah yeah I mean you guys you guys his
work is just amazing so please keep it
up but I wanted to get you guys's take
on the whole like I don't know if you
already addressed this but I want to get
you guys to take on the whole like louis
c.k situation and like the kids like the
super weird like auntie pc like stand up
baby kinda did and how like this seems
to be like a lot of right-wing
reactionary for like basically taking
what yeah excited over and yeah like
there was a saw this particular tweet
from many arm i think his name is Kyle
Smith he's a like art are like a film
critic for the National Review and he
basically framed CK's joke about the
parkland students basically saying that
what he said was correct because you
know being a survivor of a school
shooting doesn't give you title it
doesn't give you any type of policy
expertise and the tree just pissed me
off because it was like well that that's
not what the joke was about at all I
guess how he was saying he basically you
know chastising people these these are
parkland students for basically being
activists being young and having an
opinion right he wasn't making some type
in-depth political well let me address
it because yesterday we talked about it
was it yesterday I think Wednesday on
Wednesday we talked about it first day
back to things okay let's take the
Parkland thing first and let me just say
broadly speaking I mean I only heard
those two minutes I just thought it was
bad comedy just to start with the
Parkland thing like III thought it was
sort of just silly and I mean silly
insofar as like really inconsequential
and and just not funny I found it a
little bit you know it's transgressive I
get it it's a little bit shocked Jokke
the part that I found that was really
disturbing to me was the the stuff that
preceded that the the trans stuff I
found to be even more disturbing I mean
look the Parkland stuff III think it's a
it's a dumb joke it doesn't fit with the
premise of his joke which was hey you
know when I was a kid we were just F ups
and we would just party and you know
50-year olds like me said you know you
guys are losers it's sort of like a
Gregory yeah you know one thing that I
know I mean I know Louie and I know that
he did not go through a school shooting
and you know he definitely maybe have
had you know some definitely went
through some difficulty as a kid but but
nothing that traumatic I can only
imagine you know but you know comedians
make make jokes like that and they're
they're you know offensive but I thought
the trans stuff was he was was far worse
because in addition it to being like
literally a joke that you would hear
someone tell in like 1982 and I think
literally told many times by Rush
Limbaugh using that same actual like
voice that favoite the politically
correct you know whatever
it used to be gay people and it's trans
people well but also trans people I
think even you know back then and in
addition to that that the happiness of
it you're talking about people who are
there and and you know you could make
this argument about parkland kids too
but but they're you know the Parkland
kids you know exist you know because of
a moment as it were but you're talking
as a group of people people who are
literally beaten to death because of
their identity and I mean you know
Parkland kids obviously went through a
horrible trauma but they're they don't
go around they're like you know and are
potentially beaten to death because
they're parkland students trans people
are and right it's not only just like a
stupid joke that I think is is beneath
his talent as a comedian it's it is
really like you're it is it is bullying
and it is a a virulent form of bullying
and the whole construction of the joke
is just ridiculous the idea that like
you know to say the the subtext of the
joke is this when I was a twenty I was
an F up and fifty roads look at me go
like you're an F up what do you do with
your life get it together
and now that I'm 50 I'm like looking at
20 year olds going like what do you do
with your life get it together look he
misses the whole funny part about that
which is that he's an old person like me
and his perspective on the world has
ossified and it is stuck in the same
perspective as it was 30 years ago where
people should be like me that's the
proper way to be a youth right which is
always what the complaint olds is it's
just that it just that what being a
youth means changes 50 years ago people
were not taking mushrooms they were you
know snapping their fingers and
listening to jazz
and that's how the you think I screwed
up like you know it's just it's just a
myopic dumb joke that also on top of it
is a just a right wing talking point and
it's incredibly bullying and insensitive
and it's really disappointing but it
really is a lack of self-awareness right
when I Holly heart has always been
self-awareness absolutely appreciate the
call his colleague guards always been I
get that self-awareness and some measure
of empathy for someone who does not it's
somewhat empathy unexpected right like
he's done some stuff that I think is
very empathetic and that's what was so
really disappointing about it it was
like there was a total lack of
self-awareness and a total lack of
empathy yeah and he usually like
acknowledges the ways in which he is
shitty and kind of makes a joke out of
it and that was not there this time
exactly come from a five-30 area code
who's this where he calling from hi
Steve from California Steven Callahan
what's in your mind I have a I was
wondering if you could go over a little
bit what happens with the pledged
delegates at the 2020 Democratic
convention the reason I'm asking is for
example if you had a race in which
Bernie got let's say 1500 delegates and
Biden got 1,300 and Warren got a
thousand is there pressure / a rule in
which Warren's delegates would be
prompted to vote for her or can they
switch over and can that be an excuse
for the super-delegates to come in and
say nobody got to the magic number and
so we're going to give all of our votes
to Biden and pass Bernie the I don't
know when the super-delegates pledge at
that point but I there's no I will that
forceful good
the new rules seem to be that
seem to be that they're they don't come
in until the second vote but that seems
to suggest that if nobody gets to the
whatever the magic number is then there
would be a second vote
and if you're gonna have a bunch of
candidates you're probably not going to
have like last last time it was two
candidates so you get somebody gets over
50% by you know by the way that works if
you have six candidates it's going to be
much harder right or ready to get 50%
the candidates then go back to pledge
their pledge their delegates to another
candidate now I don't know if those
delegates actually have to have to and
it may be a function of the states rules
specific rules and the Democratic Party
in those states but I don't believe that
those delegates have to be faithful to
whom pledges them right in other words
like Warren could come in and say I
pledge my delegates to Bernie Sanders
and I'm perfect I'm pretty sure I don't
know how faithful they all have to be
but that would be happening out which I
also happen to think would be more
likely in that situation I did I just
want to what why when we're beginning
and talking about how it could
theoretically be a good thing to have
several progressives in debates and so
they can sort of debate the nuances of
these issues and move the Overton Window
I don't want to get into a position in
which a bunch of progressives end up
screwing themselves because they let the
super-delegates in no no I'll check on
that as we get closer to it I'll check
on that but I'm people throw their
delegates to in the second round to the
candidate of their choice
I believe appreciate the call all right
thank you call them from an eight five
seven area code who's this where you
come from still have 25 people in line 8
5 7 8 5 7 going once going twice
well hello yeah is this literally the
first time you've ever used the phone
but
it's not good I asked you guys are the
speakers finishing some accounts and
homework ok alright what's your name
where you come from
Oh actual Chicago George from Chicago
what's what's on your mind gotta be
start to pick up the pace a little bit
here buddy
okay sure so my question is actually so
I'm looking at the 2022 bay so I'm under
the belief that Hillary is gonna make an
attempt to run do you think it would be
good strategy that all the progressive
candidates make her the function bag as
in point out that she's the reason to
that we have trauma
you're gonna focus on your accounting
homework right now I think like like you
know that that you you're like for
hypotheticals down the road
I love it bro i I yeah I don't
make who the punching bag I miss that
oh yeah totally of course punch that
 in the face primo be your punching
bag actually you know what Bhaskar said
on my show last night who was the guy I
appreciate the call man Bhaskar was like
if you're like and this is us like pique
you know socialist Bernie brought
whatever he's like if you're still like
that's just battle I forget the way you
put it but like if you're still on
Hillary Clinton and but an on an
addition net if you don't feel some
measure of like sympathy for just on a
personal level right you like a mental
unless you're I mean always with the
caveat unless you've literally been
unlike the receiving end of her policies
like particularly foreign policy that's
that then okay of course but like if
you're just like Schmo on the street
doing your accounting homework with a
really bad phone connection might never
happen right calling for me
let's see sounds like it's an overseas
come from a seven seven zero Erica I
don't know it's uh +44 who's this where
you come from gonna be quick hello hello
hello hello am I on my own hello you're
on okay yeah I know I see
a good quick one it's only a few weeks
away from Valentine's Day do you think
that a trump would be inviting the new
Brazilian president over considering I
can share ideas on the fascism in you
know in the Americas as part of
Valentine's Day celebration that would
be lovely to see that would be so cute
and always better to see someone in
person than send a card that's what I
always say but I got to put his main
opponent in jail his justice minister I
put the biggest most important figure in
their country in jail Jeff Sessions
wouldn't even stay on the Russian I
would much rather them just have a
romantic dinner together then decide to
like invade Venezuela let's put it down
we're gonna put a trump resort at the
source of the Amazon yes appreciate the
call probably in the works man thank you
come from a 5.7 area code who's this
where you come from
gotta be quick hey man mrs. Jake from
Michigan Jake from Michigan what's on
your mind I'm home from work right now
sick that's how much I love you guys I
did it call in
Marisol I'm sick so nothing better to do
um so I had kind of a question about
outdoorsman people conservationists and
people that are fishermen and hunters
whatever it's kind of interesting being
from Michigan and it kind of seeing
different people out in the woods and
stuff and and all the diverse
backgrounds of political of you know
conservatives liberals right being
outdoors and I think there's a real
opportunity for people to kind of come
together on this yeah and and basically
basically for the overarching thing with
with the environment instead of
bickering at each other like teddy
roosevelt conservation right I mean
these they used to call themselves
conservationists
and outdoorsman and outdoors women used
to be that used to be a big
environmental pitch like you want to
save the the environment so that we can
have enough you know animals to shoot at
and or to go camping or hiking or
something like that like yeah look I
think that's healthy but you know the
NRA has done a very good job of
poisoning that well and you know III
think I think look there has been an
attempt to over the past 10 15 years to
figure out how we can bridge this gap
and frankly Dec when I look at Anna
Navarro who has built a career on being
not a nevertrump per se I would vote for
a potted plant but not actually a
thinking member of the Democratic Party
who represents the fundamental values of
it like fairness and whatnot when it
comes to like you know predatory lending
whatnot it it I think it should drive
home the point to people that it's great
you go out into the woods you're going
deer hunting or you know pheasant
hunting or whatever it is and you can
have a good conversation with the guy
next to you and get them involved that's
great I'm all for that but as a
political movement to go start seeking
out those people I think the return on
investment is just not enough to warrant
the effort and the the downsides and so
that's my feeling there but but yeah
that conservationist thing that's been
around for a long time I understand
Democrats have appreciated it but what
if you could find someone who is
involved in I don't know as an example
to bankruptcy and Wachovia who signed an
early letter saying that we should
invade Iran and Bill Kristol and I our
juicy we go it has a drop the auction
will you take that like I want someone
that Bill Kristol and I can vote for
will you pull that as a drop please the
opportunity there is for letting local
DSA is because the privatization of
public lands is not popular right those
rights and that reframes the debate and
I think I think there are
people who also in the Nebraska section
of the pipeline Keystone that also
well the eminent domain Senate domains
but no but some of those people some of
them particularly that one hits so hard
on them
it opened them up to a wider critique of
oil industry the environment it shifted
a broader politic
okay good I mean well we'll see but I
think more so than trying to get
right-wing populist to be left-wing
populist which is maybe not gonna happen
like I saw my friend try and fail
miserably to get her guns loving swamp
Yankee dad into Bernie instead of Trump
he was like nope he watches Fox News all
day that's that's it but what we maybe
do need is to get left populist more
into things like self-defense and
prepper ISM because we might need those
things down the line I think I would
focus on doing the split between there
are two different kinds of outdoorsmen
now and how they see themselves there's
the one that came like basically
post-90s who are sort of the weekend
warrior types who by ar-15s and camo and
pretend like they're soldiers but there
are a lot of like guys who just have
been doing pheasant hunting since they
were kids and I think those people like
they like I think there is ya know I
definitely don't we Democrats are T you
know and I do think in all these areas I
do think that it's not huge margin but I
do think there are some people who
they're not swing voters in the dumb way
that it's usually presented like they're
waiting for Bloomberg but they are
actually swing voters in the sense that
they are kind of not they're sort of all
over the place all right I'm gonna we
got to be quick on the rest of these
calls here come from a 6-1 to area code
who's this where you come from hi Brenda
how are you I'm doing great
and I just wanted to call and thank you
for a year of fantastic podcasting and
commentary I wanted to thank Michael for
I really like Michael he's he's
fantastic and I wanted to do a shout out
to Jamie because I know what it's like
sometimes to have to try to fight for
you know a little bit of space in a
roomful of guys
thanks Brenda and Matt Brandon yeah
sorry not it's not exceptional
commentator not except me well Brenda
happy new year thanks thanks really oh
and let's hope that you know I'm on site
based assistance you know from from HUD
say based hud-assisted let's hope that
that doesn't go right hang in there
hopefully this'll bury ya in the next 3
or 4 weeks hopefully this is it doesn't
go any past the next couple of days but
yeah can I ask one question yeah I'm
sorry I'm white as white as white and
could you tell me what the significance
of the shofar is for you oh well the
shofar is blown at the High Holidays at
at Rosh Hashanah and during Yom Kippur
and it's basically just to announce you
know the new year essentially and the
the 10-day period in between there which
is sort of weird but it goes the new
year begins and then you have basically
a 10-day period to a atone and assess
what you did last year and then not do
that next year
appreciate people don't
she calls an apology accepted she calls
it at least the shofar as opposed to of
the juju award cause what we
traditionally call it in the community
gone from a 302 area code who's this
where he come from this is Lincoln and
I'm calling from Philadelphia Lincoln
from Philadelphia gotta be quick buddy
okay um well just since it's a real
quick the previous caller Brenda that
sounded like a dude oh well it wasn't
well it sounded like it great
good for Lincoln you listen if you're
going to call in and troll bring bring
you're AGame
not you're like EF orgy game all right
come from an eighth one Oh cuz I like
trolls I would have engaged you for the
rest of the show
yeah that they're the only part of my
relief of that total failure was the
fact that we're not going to be here for
another 30 minutes yeah Sam argues with
some colleague from an
a-10 area code who's this this Sam cedar
boy
[Laughter]
shortly
who's this nope this is Matthew from
Michigan Matthew from Michigan what's on
your mind what's going on but only
getting calls from Michigan in
Philadelphia but I wanted I'm driving
right now so okay I'm sorry to interrupt
but uh I'll make I'll make it quick
yeah this last two years with this
monstrosity that we got in the Oval
Office right
it's just driving me crazy but I gotta
take drama because I discovered you guys
know well then you know I guess silver
linings yeah so I just wanted to say hi
and Happy New Year and I'll call again
alright and appreciate the call you
alright good to talk to you too sounds
like you know he sounded like John
Glaser also from Michigan come from a
706 area code we got three more calls
706 who's this where you come from
hey this is Thomas calling from Georgia
Georgia Thomas from Georgia what's on
your mind got to be quick okay so I
consider myself a progressive but I'm a
little bit concerned that just raising
the minimum wage is going to fix the
problems and the the issue is that the
system is still going to be the same so
these corporations are just going to
hike up their prices because now
people are making more money so they can
pay more what are your thoughts on a tax
system where the profits have to go
towards the employees so if a company
makes more than you know say 80 percent
of their profits you know go over what
they're paying their employees the
government just comes in and sweeps it
off the top so they're penalized for
doing that what are your thoughts on
something like that I think what you're
talking about Bernie Sanders had
suggested something to that effect like
a confess Kotori tax if there was some
type of relationship maybe between the
c-suite and the workers I mean I think
look I I don't know I mean I think
there's arguments about you know
corporate tax versus personal tax I
broadly speaking and for a confiscatory
tax policy on I I would be very
comfortable with returning to you know
the the tax system that we had in the
50s and 60s where if you make over 3
million I might change the number down
or you know up but it butBut brought but
you know like the broad outlines you
make over 3 million dollars every dollar
after that is tax at like a 90 percent
rate I would have no problem with that
and I think that's really I don't know
if you want to like have it go directly
to the workers as opposed to a go and
fund governmental programs that are
universal in their nature you know and I
think like we know what broadly speaking
what we want those to be we want there
to be a universal health care insurance
system we want there to be a free
college option in every state in the
country
I would then move to relieve a student
debt more or less across the board
and then I would nationalize some of the
some of the stuff in this country that
involved like you know energy and maybe
also like Internet infrastructure but
that you know I specifically going in
and going company by company to return
profits specifically to workers I mean I
think like I would there and we're
seeing already legislation that would
encourage worker owned enterprises and I
think that's good but I think the way
you're talking about it I don't know if
it's the most efficient but I appreciate
the call alright this is a head shot
from Bernie right here I love this
Bernie said representative Liz Cheney
daughter of Dick Cheney yesterday
attacked the fraud of socialism really I
wasn't aware that it was socialism that
lied about weapons of mass destruction
in Iraq got us into a horrific war that
we should have never started Mike drop
well the Wow yeah okay look at me
keeping up with the young uns there you
go
 yeah two more calls calling from a
six to six area code who's this where it
come from
hello yes it is you you are the
second-to-last caller of the week oh
hello Sam I'll make it really quick
thank you for taking my call and I
really enjoy your last libertarian
debate I don't remember the guys name it
was very informative thank you and very
funny thank you for for doing that and
my brother starting to get into that
sort of philosophy free-market and the
government is so stupid and I would like
if you could give me 30 seconds at a
time to explain to you how I understand
that there's no free market okay good so
you can just okay the way understand
that there's no free market is the
reason is if a free market is completely
free it's not free from that dark hands
of cheating and cronyism and all that
bad stuff so that's not free so if you
regulate a market then to keep it free
from all that bad stuff then it's not a
free market anymore so that's why
there's no free market well it kind of
sort of get it right yeah there's no
free
market because government is the market
only exists because of society and
government having set up a structure in
which that market exists money would
have no value money would have no value
were it not for taxes right the reason
why the money in your pocket has value
the store will take it because the store
can only pay its taxes to the government
which has a monopoly of force in those
dollars okay and corporations all the
players in the market in some way are
implicated by government policy on day
one the he needs to show you if he
thinks there's a free market he needs to
show you a market that takes place
outside of the confines of government
regulation and it doesn't exist and so
once the government has entered into
once the government is there and has
created the market it is all a political
choice as to who is going to have the
most power in that marketplace whether
the power is going to be asymmetrical or
whether it's going to be there's going
to be some type of of equality of power
when you allow people to assemble as a
corporation and allow them tax benefits
on the money that they make allow them
to add to step back from liability for
products that they make or a mass a
certain amount of money at a different
tax rate then the people they're
negotiating with you are putting your
thumb on the scales and so the question
is only this question is simply going to
be where where are you going to put your
thumbs and how much force are you gonna
exert and that's the question there's no
question there is no free market it
simply does not exist for you to why
have a free market you got to go to like
maybe like you know the outskirts of you
know in Somalia and and even then let's
stop using Somalia what an example
because they're pulling it together yes
it's basically just warlordism yeah I
told my brother
well he gave me an example that
he stopped at some bank and some guy was
offering stereos really cool serious at
the back at the back of his truck and he
bought one really cheap and as soon as
she was driving home was like I should
have checked the inside of the box if
there was a natural stereo in there
could have been selling rocks because
that's one of the main scams are they
doing right right and I told it like
that that's exactly where there's no
free market that's exactly what Best Buy
is said okay you know yeah you can go
further because not only is there no
free market how did that guy get to
where he was how did that guy Drive
you didn't do that you drive on a road
to solitary one hunkered the land were
honestly there's already there's just
not possible all right I got to take
final call of the first week of 2019 we
have taken every call except for one
that has been on the line for over 60
minutes we still have 19 callers on the
line but we've done our best to get
through as many calls as possible today
but you calling from the to10 area code
are the final caller hey thank you the
first week of 2019 hi hi it's an honor
I'm sorry my name is Cody I'm from San
Antonio shoutout to John from Cincinnati
hey Rick I should feel because I've been
dealing with my dad trying to convert
him a little bit for a while he's kind
of he and I grew up watching like bunch
of Fox News like back 2008 we're like
your stereotypical Fox people but you
know I was only like I was like 12 at
the time so kind of you know and you
know I didn't really actually know
anything about politics but I was just
repeating a visual stuff right there
about the party so it's kind of a kind
of a lens I look at Republican politics
through now just a load of uninformed
stuff I would just say since he got the
libertarian debate coming up and
everything I would just ask you I hope
my question now quick
is there just because I think I keep
arguments like that about a
medicare-for-all
it's not getting heard of him really I
think mostly on the taxes part of
everything but he loves to come back and
say you know the massive military budget
which is the next seven or 11 countries
or whatever combined it's really
necessary I guess I would just ask you
is there a good way to get through to a
libertarian kind of a right libertarian
about how much military spending hinders
this country and how much and how it
could well them and translate to a
better policy for people like me the
reality is is that we don't need the
money we don't need the savings from the
military to pay for Medicare for all I
mean the reason why it's a problem to
expend that much money on on the
military is that we're expending a lot
of money and we're not getting a good
return on investment in terms of
improving people's lives and on top of
the fact that it encourages us to do
stuff that really hurts hundreds of
thousands of people now I don't get the
sense that your father might be amenable
to that argument but I mean the the the
the point being I think that like you
simply say like if we were to return to
the tax rates of his heyday in the 50s
and the 60s we could pay for Medicare
for all multiple times over we could we
could provide for a free college
education multiple times over I mean so
you know we didn't worry about the
deficit when we gave a massive tax cut
to corporations who didn't need that
money and so you know I wouldn't even
focus on pulling it from the the
military you know just particularly
based upon what I think I suspect your
father is interested in but there is
there a way that instead of I mean I'm
just thinking like I don't know maybe
I'm maybe I'm trying to make her with
Oracle point it's you've got a good
you've got a good point I don't think
I've been seeing it from that angle if
you don't need the military budget I
just you know I think it's it's funny to
me how many libertarians or
are don't spend a dollar on a damn thing
except for you know the military
obviously fertilized right there yeah I
would just oh yeah this I'll close real
quick you know she go I just want to say
to mr. Michael Brooks I'm a big fan
thank you for on Derek Fisher
for 20 minutes of the fan of San Antonio
watch that shot live so the one
appreciate all you guys how you guys are
all great let me keep watching thank you
close that that needed to happen all
right appreciate the call Cody all right
folks
that is the program for today we will
see you on Monday
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
