[Music]
Bernie Sanders put out in the last three
days so now in addition to single-payer
health care a complete student loan def
cancellation the centering of the
fulfillment of broad-based economic
rights for all significant interventions
and foreign policy in terms of Yemen
Iran war a broader the only person with
any kind of courage and clarity on
Israel in the Middle East calling for
freeing political prisoners Lula which
has a direct relationship to the Amazon
crisis today Bernie has put out a group
of packages in the last several days
criminal justice reform labor rights and
the green new deal of which even a
fraction of which were implemented would
completely reshape American society in
an radically positive radically
transformative direction now is the time
to start talking a bit about plans
because a movement has been enacted in
the context of the campaign to actually
take up all of the endless interest that
will fight against all of these
transformations all of the corporate
oligarchs that run this country and part
of the group of dangerous oligarchs that
run this country of course fossil fuel
companies people who whose whole
business structure and living and
massive wealth is based off of
extracting a public good a public
Commons polluting it in the putting it
in the air polluting our global ecology
in a way that threatens the
survivability of the human race and
Bernie Sanders has a message for them it
is no secret that we must transition
away from fossil fuel period end of
discussion
there ain't no middle ground seal there
is no middle ground
there ain't no middle ground just as
there's no middle ground on a radical
labor reform package that would improve
the lives and offer secure jobs and
benefit the tens of millions of people
an incredible criminal justice plan that
would cut the criminal popular the
prison population by half we went into
detail yesterday the range of things in
this green New Deal
this is the most thorough innovative and
integrated policy proposal anybody's put
on the map in modern politics I can't
stress how exciting and meaningful it is
to see a candidate in campaign put this
forward and I hope people will be again
actually get serious about this campaign
and get serious about the absolute
unique potential of what Bernie Sanders
in the campaign represents
