I found this video we sometimes get
emails from we get signed up for all
sorts of right-wing stuff and some type
of Republican war room sent us you know
sent an email saying like even MSNBC
admits the truth about the migrant
caravan and the thing that we've been
hearing for a long time about this
caravan for months is that there was a
lot of military aged men I think it was
that Seb Korca said the implication
being I mean you know in the United
States that we do we refer to military
aged men getting around it's more like
hey there's some college students or
there's some Jenna you know millenniums
or there's some pursuits there is men
vomiting in front of the pizza right
exactly I mean we don't say this unless
they're in the military but the
implication is of course you say this
when you want to scare people and the
right seems to be hanging their hat on
this notion that the majority of the
people in this Caravan are male which of
course makes total sense because these
are men who are going up to the United
States to either escape violence or look
for work to send money down to their
parents or their kids or whomever and
they have generally the most strength to
make this incredibly difficult Trek and
even then they have to go in and show
that they can they apply for asylum and
they have to show that they warrant it
and if they don't warrant it this is
what happens they are not led into the
country now I don't necessarily
subscribe to a policy that puts the bar
that high but that's the policy that we
have but somehow this
video according to the Republicans blows
the lid off all this listen folks and
find out that the majority of the people
there are actually men there's only a
significant portion of women and
children just stay on this for a moment
because some people look at these images
and they listen to the president who
says it's not women and children it's
stone-cold criminals so my first
question is you're in that tent camp
besides that family give us the profile
of who is there mostly and what are they
looking for because it seems as though
to your point they don't actually have
the necessary information so they know
how to cross the border there could have
people there could be people yesterday
who were running because they thought it
was their only chance right and it's
very difficult because this has become
such a polarizing issue if we kind of
take a walk you'll you'll be able to see
for yourself again this is the inner
sanctum of the shelter so you're gonna
see a lot of families here a lot of
women and children but the truth is the
majority of the people that are part of
this Caravan especially outside if we
can make our way all the way over there
will show you the majority of them are
men so our positive procession now he is
walking through a huge encampment with
hundreds of tents where there are
families and children and women hundreds
of tents he is walking through them and
he says yes the majority of the caravan
is Mel and they're outside of this large
area to protect the families and the
kids they're in a distinct area so the
idea that is like well if they're not
all women and children that we're tear
gassing if we're tear gassing any men
then it's okay in some way this is a
bizarre the one-drop rule the exact drop
all right one man at least the gasps
here we go there were men so when this
becomes a polarized political
the United States you have people on one
side that point and say there are women
and children here and that is true and
then there are others who point and say
these are men that are trying to cross
the border and that's true too
from what we've seen the majority are
actually men and some of these men have
not articulated that need for asylum
instead they have talked about you know
going to the United States for a better
life and to find work but if we come
this one here okay we're just listen
that is what the big revelations are
then he goes out and he sees people
getting food and and and that there's
you know police officers that are down
the road and they may be coming into the
camp or they may be protecting the camp
but this idea that like oh we've got
them there's men there there's the
majority of men there's only 40 percent
women and children either well exactly
and then it's like aha there are some of
those men who are not gonna qualify for
asylum the vast majority of these people
are not gonna qualify for asylum under
our per uh some of them are being honest
that their economic migrants injured and
then on top of that it's like oh to
reveal yes they want a better life they
want to work hard the bar has certainly
dropped from those times where we were
getting thousands of ms-13 people who
are here if they're terrorists in there
this is the big revelation now that the
Republicans are holding their hat on is
that there are people there who just
want a better life and want to work and
some of them the majority of them are
men ms-13 is also an export from us of
course it's literally crazy just looking
at the narrowness yes of there the
evolving fear of the migrant Caravan is
now there are men who want to work and
make a better life for them and their
families
that actually sounds like the exactly
the type of traditional values we need
more of exactly I thought we weren't
supposed to be afraid of masculinity
exactly well that some things get a
little
to masculine if you know anything these
Mexicans bringing toxic masculinity over
here here is the traditional ideas here
is the Sinclair media with the embedded
borscht epstein gift from the Trump
administration who is explaining to all
the viewers from these thirty nine
thirty some odd percent of the country
why we really got a gas these people
tear gas the kids the women and
especially the men here is Boris Epstein
it's one of those must run segments that
get sent out from Sinclair HQ all the
local stations need to carry it the
migrant crisis on our southern border
has greatly escalated this past weekend
the United States was forced to
temporarily close a major point of entry
in San Diego California in response to
hundreds of migrants attempting to storm
the us-mexico border in hopes of
claiming asylum
dozens of migrants attacked US border
enforcement by throwing rocks and
bottles ultimately American authorities
had to use tear gas to stop the attacks
some on the Left such as Democrat
congresswoman Maxine Waters were
immediately up in arms about our
president and his team standing up for
our men and women uniform and for our
national security the fact of the matter
is that this is an attempted invasion of
our country period our border must
remain intact and secure it is not a
partisan position to believe that our
immigration system is broken and needs
to be fixed however it unfortunately
appears that there are many on the Left
who believe it is wrong to defend our
country and abide by the rule of law I
would bet that many of those same people
live behind walls and locked doors but
do not want to afford this same benefit
to our country as a whole
here's the bottom line
notion that a caravan of migrants can be
allowed to break through our borders is
ludicrous and dangerous the United
States of America should not and cannot
be intimidated by those willing to use
force and we're gonna get into our
country illegally share with me your
bottom line big for yourself
it is share with me your lines to the
bottom I bear out with it and let me
just add get out of my country right
Boris goodbye yeah Levi's bringing their
best yeah leave my home I know a lot of
people in that hire Boris live behind
gates and locked doors but as an
American right does not have a gate to
live behind I don't want this guy in my
country oh but you lock your door don't
you know I'm - it's kind of hypocritical
you want open borders but you have a key
if you allow people into this country
you can still keep your door locked no
you can't know you're not by your locker
that's hypocrisy oh now let me ask you
this
Michael at your home you lock your door
but do you have a runway for airplanes
no I do not well but you are perfectly
happy having an airport having a runway
you got me right boom I should be
calling for an immediate there's a god
of LaGuardia there you go complete
political incoherent tell me something
Michael do you have a dock at your
apartment I do do you have a dock that a
massive shock for my life I know a ship
and I understand no I don't have it okay
well you have no problem with there
being docks all over this on the ports
of the United States yeah that's
interesting pure hypocrisy that is
unbelievable mmm bottom line I like that
I like the figure posted bottom line you
have no dock in your department but yet
you want ships all over the president
Trump say no the home will stop ibaka
see the hardest part of the hardest part
of a Boris Epstein impression is like
making yourself out of breath
the correct way about what he's reading
that was a log one packing Roman comma
please next comma please there were
Boris a president presents read born up
there were the three different commas in
that but you ran right over that
liberalism mithya he will stop swamp
every time every time he gets on camera
he gets a panic attack because he
realizes like I can't believe I got this
job did I get this job people come in
country in different ways some doctors
some refuge others family involved in
human trafficking nobody remember it was
acidophilus who vouched for me I think
he mama da polis is my friend he
probably has a certain amount of anxiety
about this right I mean it's not like he
writes these things what is he bringing
to the party no I don't know he's very
smart in a certain charisma which
relegate natural assume I shared out of
breath anxiety and fear of Fran thumbs
which I share with rest of base I wonder
if he knows an immigrant who wants to
pull up the ladder behind him okay fine
you pressure me I have to pee-pee the
camera is looking for it I am one who
over there I think I think it's quite
possible he he was the guy who shot the
P tape and that's why he has that job no
one thought that we could get Oksana
Baiul to do it but President Trump is
great negotiate let's go to the phone
