so Daniel at the end of the last segment
we were talking about the propensity for
Democrats in the past to pre-negotiate
or theoretically who pre-negotiate when
it comes to immigration they would
compromise and then give the right no
room to go anywhere except for to
further to the right we had Barack Obama
who was who deported a record number of
people but he couldn't quite advertise
it because the theoretically the
Democrats wouldn't appreciate that and
the right didn't care they wanted more
they wanted no immigration so what
should be the position and you've
written it in the context of Bernie
Sanders but I also think this is a
position that you know broadly speaking
on the left people should be taken which
what should be the position both from
like sort of a a moral and a policy
perspective and from a political
perspective in terms of like entering
into you know negotiations with a right
wing that's not gonna go away they're
still gonna be out there so what should
be the position well I think the lesson
for the left from the two decades of
comprehensive immigration reform
establishment immigrant were for
immigration reform to buckles has been
that if you attempt to give the right
what they want as your opening proposal
in negotiations that will only embolden
them to both demand increasingly
draconian measures ie Trump's wall
that's how we got here and to it'll end
up pissing off your own base the
immigrant the immigrant rights movement
radicalized under Obama against Obama's
deportation programs and correctly
labeled him the DePorter in chief and so
at the end of the day I think it's very
clear that the only way to achieve real
immigration form ie the legalization of
undocumented immigrants in this country
is not to reach a compromise with
Republicans
it's a pragmatic reality one that's been
empirically proven over by the past two
decades experience that the only way to
do it is to defeat the Republican
and pass a good bill compromise is not
only morally odious in the with these
anti-immigrant forces that have become
so powerful in this country but it
doesn't make any pragmatic sense we have
two decades of evidence to prove this
okay so that's the political strategy
what is the what is the moral and also
the sort of the like you know certainly
the best I guess policy I mean you know
that that policy may reflect our our
sense of morality but it's also in terms
of like efficacy in terms of like you
know what is in the best interest of of
people broadly speaking what is that
policy what does it look like well I
think it's multi-pronged again it
involves standalone no compromise added
push for legalizing all undocumented
immigrants in this country
second it involves no more border
security measures and in fact
significantly dialing back this massive
border militarization that we've
experienced in recent decades we went
from you know very little border fencing
to hundreds of miles of border fencing
we went from a few thousand were patrol
agents in the early 90s to roughly
20,000 today we have to turn that around
because what was that that was creating
political space to legitimate NAFTA that
is why border militarization took off in
the 1990s and then we have to deal with
global warming and we have to understand
that right now global warming caused in
significant part by emissions of us
capitalists is pushing Central Americans
off of their land into the US border and
so I think I think that moral case is
also a pragmatic case because what
nativism what anti-immigrant xenophobic
politics do in the US and everywhere is
divide the working class and
consistently throughout US history
immigrant workers have been at the
forefront of labor struggles in this
country look at Haymarket in Chicago
look at the Bread and Roses strike in in
Lawrence Massachusetts look at the CIO
organizing
eastern and southern European workers
alongside black workers and other people
that that you know the AFL didn't want
to deal with into just this incredibly
muscular striking union force in this
country look at the justice for janitor
strike in 1990 in Los Angeles immigrant
workers are at the vanguard of the
American working class movement that
Bernie Sanders is politically leading
right now and so I think he needs to he
needs to better recognize that and
better and better speak to it and
understand that when he gives any
credence to to right-wing anti-immigrant
politics it's not only bad for bad for
immigrants but it divides the working
class that he needs to unite to win well
let me ask you this in terms of like you
know one of the things that when we
talked about that that town hall with
Fox one of the things I think he did
very effectively when it came to
Medicare for all was he didn't try and
hide the ball about taxes mm-hmm he was
very upfront with what you know people
perceive is the painful part about it
taxes go up but he made an argument that
the net costs to individuals into the
country is gonna be the kid's gonna go
down what's the equivalent to that I
mean aside from like you know like what
is the what is the policy sales pitch to
people who are not concerned about class
consciousness to people who are not
concerned about you know I don't want
labor strife that's not why I want to
let immigrants in this country like you
know what is that pitch well I think
it's a two-pronged pitch pitch one is
the one that we hear from Democrats all
the time which is a sort of basic moral
pitch that it's wrong to two separate
families it's wrong to put people in
cages and that is a necessary component
of any immigrant rights program and I
think could be effective at winning over
you know perhaps like you would suburban
right-wing voters but I think you really
need to move beyond liberal moralism
into a a class-conscious immigrant
rights politics
that directly expresses and explains how
how immigrant rights are critical to
advancing workers rights in this country
I think that's how you don't hide the
ball of that is that you'd be very clear
about the role that immigrants play in
American politics society and economy
and not do the liberal establishment
thing which i think is very dangerous of
saying the American economy needs
immigrants to do labor that American
workers don't want to do I think that
really irks a lot of American working
people and understandably and I think it
plays into sort of Vanna Night Heron VOC
you know social nationalist kind of crap
that's very dangerous and I think we I
think that has to be not the message as
you bring these folks in and and put
them into a system they are protected
and they're their wages are protected in
the same way that Americans wages are
and therefore they cannot be exploited
and that exploitation doesn't end with
them it is also a means in which to
exploit others it seems to me regardless
of where they are on that on that
spectrum of what jobs they'll take but
Daniel Denver I really appreciate your
time today
interesting stuff thanks for your time
