[Music]
let's move on to the other big story was
we still don't know exactly when we're
going to see Bill Barr send the Muller
report to Congress we don't know what
kind of shape the model report will be
in when he sends it to Congress but this
I found super disturbing and if it's
indicative of the way that he's
functioning
I think there's reason to question bill
bar on everything that was always been
my assumption I mean this is a guy
people should remember was involved in
the iran-contra sort of cleanup duties
and he's a bit of a fixer we don't know
what he's done in the context of the
Mahler investigation but here is Bill
Barr explaining to Jaheim Janeane
Shaheen in the Senate Judiciary
Committee that the DOJ is looking into
the FBI actions that led to the
investigation and what will stop at the
really stunning part but roll this news
just broke today that you have a special
team looking into why the FBI open an
investigation into Russian interference
in the 2016 elections I wonder if you
couldn't share with this committee who's
on that team why you felt a need to form
that kind of a team and what you intend
to be the scope of their investigation
yeah I as I said in my confirmation here
I am gonna be reviewing both the Genesis
and the conduct of intelligence
activities directed again at the the
Trump campaign during 2016 and a lot has
already been invented
a lot of this has already been
investigated in a substantial portion of
it has been investigated and is being
investigated by the Office of Inspector
General at the department but one of the
things I want to do is pull together all
the information from the various
investigations that have gone on
including on the hill and in the
department and see if there are any
remaining questions to be addressed and
can you share with us positive one
second and and drop this on there too
I'm sorry Matt and I know it's difficult
but alright so it's interesting because
what he's talking about is looking at
the Genesis and remember we know the
genesis of why this is was a criminal
investigation against the president
because as it progressed from an
intelligence investigation there became
indications that perhaps there was a
conspiracy involved that other people
may be implicated as far as we know the
intelligence investigation began when
there were reports from foreign
diplomats who basically tipped off the
US government as to what had been told
to them by people working on the Trump
campaign we also I think know that
foreign intelligence agencies in the
course of them monitoring Russia and
Russian government officials Russian
sort of near government officials kept
seeing contacts with people who were
associated with the Trump campaign and I
think it's you know the Inspector
General of these agencies should always
be monitoring how investigations start
and how they're conducted I think that's
perfectly legitimate but we're bar goes
next is nuts and really it is it's a
little bit scary that this guy's willing
to sort of lie like this in public
you know this came up during the
Kavanagh stuff where Brett Kavanaugh
it seems to me was the first guy well
let's play the the tape and I'll explain
what I'm talking about
Ilyn need to do that well you know for
the same well for the same reason we're
worried about foreign influence and
elections we want to make sure that
during elect I think spying on
a political campaign is a big deal it's
a big deal
generation I grew up in which is the
Vietnam War a period you know people
were all concerned about spying on
anti-war people and so forth by the
government and there were a lot of rules
put in place to make sure that there's
an adequate basis before before our law
enforcement agencies get involved in
politics or valence I'm not suggesting
that those rules were violated but I
think it's important to look at that and
I'm not just I'm not talking about the
FBI necessarily but intelligence
agencies more broadly so you're not
you're not suggesting though that spine
occurred I don't know well I guess you'd
be I think there was a spying did occur
yes I think spying did occur
well let me question is whether we
predicated adequately predicated and I'm
not suggesting it wasn't really
predicated but I need to explore that
but it's my obligation Congress is
usually very concerned about
intelligence agencies and law
enforcement agencies staying in their
proper Lane and I want to make sure that
happened we have a lot of rules about
that and I want to say that that I said
I'm reviewing this I am going I haven't
set up a team yet but I do have I have
in mind having some colleagues help me
pull all this information together and
let me know whether there's some areas
that should be looked at and I also want
to make clear this is not launching an
investigation of the FBI I frankly am
the extent there were there were any
issues at the FBI I do not view it as a
a problem that's endemic to the FBI I
think there was probably a failure among
the group of leaders there at the upper
echelon and so I don't like to hear
attacks about the FBI because I think an
FBI is an outstanding organization and I
think Chris Rea is a great partner for
me I'm very pleased that he's there is
the director and if it becomes necessary
to look over some former officials
activities I expect that I'll be relying
heavily on Chris and and work closely
with him and looking at that information
but that's what I'm doing I I feel I
have an obligation to make sure that
government power is not abused and I
think that's one of the principal roles
of
I certainly agree let's pause it there
and everything he was talking about in
the 70s the abuse the procedure that
whatever agencies spied and I am NOT as
up in arms I think is a lot of you know
sort of the the mainstream media is
about the the idea of spied although
it's clearly he's trying to inflame the
the Breitbart Ian's and the Trump East
is here but everything he's talking
about what happened in the 70s all of
the spying that went through all of the
surveillance on people who ultimately
were associated with the Trump
Organization because the spying did the
surveillance or spying or whatever you
want to call it did not start on the
campaign it started with individuals who
were then associated with the campaign
and it started on those individuals not
because they were part of the campaign
but because of their contacts or their
alleged contacts with people that our
intelligence agencies spy on or surveil
but all of the procedures that and
there's been no indication that those
procedures were not followed we're set
up in the wake of things like pointelle
Pro and I mean there's no investigation
he says there's not even a team set up
but he knows they were spying on the
campaign I mean it is it's clear that
they are very concerned about the report
coming out and they're trying to create
the counter narrative that has been
floating around on Breitbart for years
it's pretty stunning and it makes me a
little bit just a little bit of
concerned about bill bar I don't think
he's really the the fair broker the
honest broker that that maybe he was
made out to be
