[Music]
[Applause]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar Monday September 30th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Sam hybrid
Monday it's the Jewish holidays holla
holla Sam making me be a bad half Jew
Jamie be a bad full Jew were working
he's repenting hopefully I wish on my
grandma's house last night thank you
very much very nice
I'm sorry Hashem that was my impression
of Sam but I can't promise to speak
nicer about Chuck Schumer on today's
program Tom Hartman that Sam just
interviewed him radio legend Tom Hartman
they were talking about the peach mint
other important things going on in the
news Rudy Giuliani
said that Mike Pompeo pushed him to open
the just false investigation to abide in
Ukraine just not to say that Joe Biden's
kid didn't get a job that is clearly
nepotism drop out Joe drop out Joe Trump
reportedly worked with two off-the-books
lawyers the pressure you train for
damaging information about Joe Biden
Schiff is planning on asking for
documents from Rudy Trump's envoy to
Ukraine resigns new partnership
announced between California and China
facilitated by former California
Governor Jerry Brown
climate crisis barbados prime minister
she's incredible she spoke with absolute
courage about us interventionism in
venezuela at the UN General Assembly
Lindsey Graham is so indignant Bernie
Sanders has a lead in Nevada as a time
for a bunch of other candidates should
drop out pieces and new speculation that
a AOC endorsement might be going in the
right direction but it's all speculation
all that and much much more on today's
majority report folks I have never been
somebody who has you know I like Robert
De Niro he's great I think when he says
F Trump okay doesn't do anything for me
the last time he did it at the Tonys
what did do something for me was that
these guys in Staten Island took down
like their Goodfellas posters in their
houses like beat them with baseball bats
now that was awesome that I loved but
you know look it's cool I have you know
I'm also not judging anybody you know if
that's your thing if it's cathartic for
you great obviously F Trump
I also if it personally upset Trump
that's terrific but you know I don't
care about this sort of stuff it doesn't
do anything for me this did do something
for me this was Robert DeNiro unreliable
sources of brian Stelter now there's
actually a kind of serious point to be
made here for what it's worth I mean
it's a serious point we've made plenty
of times but it's worth revisiting and
brian Stelter getting upset or I should
say uptight is funny let's check this
out mmm this guy is should not be
president period and when you say that
folks on Fox come after you I remember
the day I had to say that
that I like that just like contra hoax
on Fox like whatever dude like I like
can we really even have time for this
stop it I thought you're gonna say the
contrast in demeanors the contrast in
did well I mean this is already this is
this is like a it's not exactly heat I
mean this isn't this is a new boovie I
mean this is a beginning of a trailer of
like he was a neurotic newscaster who
followed boring media stories he was an
ex-con somehow they're like basically De
Niro needs that somehow it's like De
Niro has gotten out of jail and somehow
has been like allowed to leave the Mafia
because he's like such a boss that
they're just like hey Bobby you know
whatever his characters you can leave
it's no problem he is somehow scored an
internship on CNN probably through his
son his son is clean his son is legit
and wants his dad to get legit in the
last phase of his career he's interning
on reliable sources Stelter 'he's a
total whoops bag and like can't get the
girl he wants or something so Stelter
needs to teach De Niro the news business
to meet his parole requirements and De
Niro needs to teach stealth or how to be
a man I just gave you the script alright
let's watch the hell out of that that
sounds like a great movie alright let's
watch this mmm this guy is should not be
president period and when you say that
folks on Fox come after you I remember
the Tonys when he got up there and
cursed a lot of fun have you up
okay well you know so it's not an FCC
violation but it is still a Sunday
morning well I used to go that way say
something why do we are we are at a
moment in our life in this country where
this guy is like a gangster he's come
along and he's said things done things
we say over and over again this is
terrible that we're in a terrible
situation we're in a terrible situation
and this guy just keeps going on and on
and on without being stopped hmm
well it's been in a break let's squeeze
in a commercial more with Robert De Niro
in just a moment yeah I love De Niro's
just like yeah would
dude uh but you know it's it's it's
funny because like I thought the DeNiro
did something I think was before the
election that a bunch of people like I
remember the most embarrassing thing one
of the more embarrassing things I've
ever seen in my life was David Axelrod
quote tweeting it and being like he's in
New York you got a problem with that it
was just like it was so embarrassing
that he needed to like put your phone
down and go outside take a walk and try
to forget that you saw that but in that
interview I actually think that's very
revealing because you know what for what
it's worth whatever else you want to say
about Robert De Niro he's that that's
coming from the right place we have a
disgusting dangerous president he hasn't
been held in check he's grotesque he
just keeps going and going going all of
this is a hundred percent true and
you're uptight because I used the booboo
word whatever dude do we know who DeNiro
does support I kind of colors it for me
a little bit that would color it for me
too but my guess would be is that he's
probably my guess is he's like a guy
who's probably not he's like kind of
Taylor Swift it he probably won't even
endorse until after the primaries up
with Katy Perry yes DeNiro joined the SA
that would be awesome
oh I feel like Danny DeVito is closer to
doing that but maybe he could get him on
board
I feel like Danny isn't Danny DeVito
Indy si Oh what I mean I could be I'm
not I'm not trying to spray I just know
that Danny DeVito he should join any
videos a legit Danny DeVito is more
close to like Danny Glover like these
are like serious like and uh yeah all
right Sam loves to read ads let him Bay
View and one three G's folks it doesn't
matter if you have him barbecue in your
backyard god I would love to have a
backyard backyard you have like movie
nights out there you can set up I saw a
guy actually I saw a Walken in my
neighborhood somebody had projected a TV
on to the wall next door and they were
sitting out like on they had a deck
imagine having
beautiful joy bird outdoor furniture joy
board has it all
well they got that one-of-a-kind
furniture that you can be you can
actually craft to your own unique taste
you want a sofa an aquatic blue or
indigo a loveseat and the hottest red if
you can dream it joy bird can make it a
reality they got rich buttery leather to
the plushest velvet you've ever felt you
can find the fabric the texture the
color that's right for you
joy bird even offers a range a kid and
pet friendly upholstery options that
stand the test of time
plus they have free personal design
consultants they help you nail down your
perfect design and they get a 365-day
home trial so if you don't like your
couch after three hundred and I don't
know 30 days of sitting on it you can
return it and you can return it
completely free within two weeks of
delivery I have said this before but we
got a joy bird stored around around the
corner and I'll go in there and check in
just sort of daydream see how joy bird
can help you design your dream space and
make your furniture at your own joy Bird
dot-com slash majority 25 that's joy
bird dot-com slash majority 25 to create
the furniture that brings you joy today
joy bird dot-com majority to five and
you get 25% off your first order by
using the code majority twenty five
again joy bird dot-com slash majority
twenty five check it out you're gonna
love this stuff and you can make it your
own that's what's amazing about it most
of these places are pretty rigid joy
bird you develop your own furniture I
love it also today's show supported by
Kerry OMA what they do is they marry
old-school designs with new-school
ethics ah check these bad boys out this
reminds me of when I was not just a kid
but like a young young
they want your shoes that you wear to be
made responsibly feel crazy comfortable
and provide effortless style like these
are you know think the classic high-top
sneaks I got mine in black leather but
they have they had brown leather they
got canvas and they make their sneakers
by hand with premium natural materials
their canvas made from cotton sourced
via fair trade initiatives the cleaner
premium leather which is made with water
that's been reused and treated with zero
chemical waste output their outsole is
even made of natural raw rubber plus
they're shipping footprint balance is
zero offsets which is amazing
considering they ship worldwide and here
in the US and they even have Express
shipping and can deliver your shoes in
just two to three business days
if for any reason they don't fit
perfectly you can return them free of
charge these things are incredibly
comfortable super stylish which is
important because I'm trying to up my
look and like I say it's there they're
there they're made responsibly plus
these are much more they give you much
more support look at these uh this the
sole in here is sweet I love these
sneakers they become my go-to and I have
a problem right we can't you got a you
can't here Michael what are you saying
he's giving me I'm leaving you the like
first of all you should wear those they
look cool and I'm this I've got a little
bit of sneaker head credibility this I
even have a sneaker coffee table book in
my apartment and from the called where
did you get those about New York's
sneaker culture from the 70s to the 90s
it was an exhibit yeah well it came out
well before the exhibit at the Brooklyn
Museum my point is those look great you
should wear them I do wear them but I
have this dilemma now like where like
I've never felt this with sneakers
before I don't want to get him dirty
so like I'm hesitant to wear him on some
way go what you gotta do is you got to
go to two pairs you gotta get your fresh
to death pair that you only wear for
special occasions and your other pair
that you let get scuffed a little boom
I'll do it and for a limited time our
listeners can get exclusive 15% off your
first pair
Karrie Yuma sneakers go to carry Yuma
dot-com / majority to get 15% off that's
carry uma dot-com / majority for 15% off
today get your two pairs right there
what did you call them the you get your
fresh to death pair yeah and then you
get your pair that you can scuff up
which by the way if you do it right and
those shoes look cool enough you can
scuff them up with character they're
still gonna look really good
I love it and lastly this program is
sponsored by the outfit that allows me
to have such high quality dental hygiene
what's the best way to ease back into a
post summer routine
simplify the morning and the evenings
with an electric toothbrush from quip
quip has timed sonic vibrations that
give you an effective clean but gentle
on your sensitive gums in two minutes
twice a day it times it for you you
gotta be got to take care of your gums
folks this is where all the problems
happen and it has a multi-use cover that
works as a stand and mounts tumors put
your brush front and center you never
forget to do it it's super convenient to
do it because this is not one of those
bulky electric toothbrushes that are
falling all over the place
drop into the garbage by your pedestal
sink it's not like that the design is
incredible it's it's it's lightweight
its compact you can also bring it with
you on it on an overnight on a trip get
an extra one leave it at a friend's
house brush heads are automatically
delivered on a dentist recommended
schedule every three months for just
five bucks it makes it super easy send
you also toothpaste you the whole point
of brushing teeth you've got to make it
a habit you got to do it all the time so
you got to make it easy and you're gonna
make it effective boom quip that's why I
love it and it looks cool they do I
gotta say like every cool person I've
ever met
the deal that you know when I don't
wanna get too explicit but you know we
walk into someone's bathroom and you see
a quip
I know I know this is gonna work out why
I love quit and it's perfect for getting
back into a routine I told you my sister
right I mentioned that I got a cop I got
a compliment from her dentist because I
got her equipped it starts to just 25
bucks if you go to get quip dot-com
slash majority right now you can get
your first refill pack free
that's your first refill pack free at
get quip GE t qu i p.com slash majority
back to michael thank you Sam I wonder
if Tom Hartman uses quip but we do know
that Tom Hartman is a great broadcaster
historian progressive Sam just recorded
this interview a couple days ago it's
fresh it's about Tom's new book a hidden
history of the Supreme Court in
portrayal of America sounds about right
all right back to you Sam we are back
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a great pleasure for me to
welcome back to the program the number
one talk radio a liberal talk radio host
to progressive talk radio host in the
country author of multiple best-selling
New York Times bestselling books and a
personal favorite of mine and in many
respects a a teacher of mine Tom Hartman
welcome to the program I've been
learning from you Sam to four years
that's very sweet of you to say but and
I'm honored to have you as a friend and
as a colleague well thank you so much
for joining us and you have you've
basically started a a series of books on
the hidden history basically hidden
history pamphlets and you've come out
one for one that is for October of this
year which frankly couldn't be more
timely as we enter into the 2020
election and a and trying to get a sense
of you know what what's at stake here
and in some respects of them we should
talk about this the two that you know
maybe we may be a little bit late in
terms of the stakes and and your book
provides perhaps a corrective for that
but that is you have a hidden history of
the Supreme Court and the betrayal of
America
I want to go go through it obviously
because you provide a an extensive
history obviously of the of the Supreme
Court but in what respect do you
perceive it as having when we look at
the totality of the history of the
Supreme Court in what respect is it
betray America well there's there's
three kind of story lines that go
through this through the book the first
is how the Supreme Court rose from being
basically the court of last resort
necessary an important function of
government to being the most powerful of
the three branches of government and
they did that by seizing a power that
was never granted them in the
Constitution and that most of the
founders didn't think they had until
they asserted in 1803 and President
Thomas Jefferson totally freaked out the
second fascinating piece of this that
involves the betrayal of America is how
the Constitution explicitly says in
article 3 section 2 that the Supreme
Court not only is to be regulated by
Congress and that would be as to how
many members it has you know when they
meet and what their budget is and where
they meet all that kind of stuff but
also that Congress can pass legislation
and put specific exemptions into that
legislation on which the Supreme Court
may not rule so Congress can pass a law
this is called jurisdiction stripping or
court stripping it has happened in our
history Congress can pass a law and they
can build into that law a sentence that
simply says the Supreme Court may not
rule on the constitutionality of this
and Congress has failed in that regard
in a big way and and then the third is
is the politicization of the court which
really started in a big way with the
Nixon administration and 71 the Powell
memo and then 72 Nixon puts Lewis Powell
on the court and then 76 and 78
in the in the buckley versus vallejo
decision and then the First National
Bank versus Pilate decision which Lewis
Powell authored the court rules in 76
that if a billionaire wants to own a
politician or throw hundreds of millions
of dollars into a into a political
campaign or for lobbying that that is
that cannot be regulated by the
government it overturned a whole bunch
of good government laws that were passed
literally from 1907 right up through
right you know they have right after the
Nixon bribery scandals and then in 78 in
the First National Bank case they
applied that same logic to corporations
and then tied it all together in neat
little bow in in 2010 with citizens
united so we've got and and so as the
court acquired this power and as it gave
this power to wealthy people in
corporations the the the the Republican
Party in large part and in part because
of their shock over the 1954 Brown
versus Board decision in the 1973 roe v
wade decision decided that they were
going to get control of the frigging
Supreme Court we're going to take this
thing back and they did it by rigging
presidential elections and in the book I
documented how Richard Nixon committed
treason to become president 68 by
blowing up Lyndon Johnson's peace deal
with South Vietnam ever dirksen the
Republican leader at that time
acknowledged it was treason we we didn't
hear the tapes of this until 50 years
after LBJ died but they're out there now
how Ronald Reagan committed treason in
1980 to become president cutting a deal
we now have the testimony of the
president then President of Iran who
said that the Reagan campaign approached
them and said if you guys will hold out
of the hostages until November until the
elections actually they held on to them
until January they released them to the
second the minute that Ronald Reagan put
his hand on the Bible to be sworn in if
you guys will hang on to the hostages
Carter's humiliated will make sure that
you get all the spare parts from
in weaponry that you need because they
were you know they had an all-american
military infrastructure and the Shah had
just been overthrown and then how george
w bush his daddy had several friends on
the court and they went to bat for
george stopping the recount in Florida
in 2000 a recount that when the New York
Times actually did it a year later they
found sure enough Al Gore actually won
Florida and then you know the the
failure of the court to be involved in
anything having to do with Russia
involvement now and and the corruption
of the court by Mitch McConnell holding
off on Barack Obama's nomination and
Merrick garland for almost a whole year
this is unprecedented unconstitutional
and frankly I think criminal but the
court was just fine with that so the
court has become essentially as Sheldon
Whitehouse pointed out in an op-ed in
last week's Washington Post an arm of
the GOP and we should say I mean just
that White House and a couple other
senators that letter an op-ed that he
wrote and they I think they wrote a
letter as well to the Supreme Court with
about four or five other senators yes I
know if it was in the context of of a
second amendment cases but it was I mean
as far as these things go and in almost
the threat right like like this was this
is a precursor and I don't want to get
ahead of ourselves because I think there
is a very very strong movement in your
and your book your book is part of sort
of the intellectual case that is being
developed now so that lawmakers are
compelled to do something in the event
that Democrats have the ability to do
something you know after the 2020
election but let's go back to 803 to
1803 rather and and talk about how the
court changed here and I and I have to
say this too that one of the things I
think that that you know is clear is
that a lot of what we're seeing with the
court today is it's reverting to where
head is traditionally been right like
the court has always been certainly like
in the lead-up to the
to the Civil War and and and really in a
dramatic fashion I think you know during
Reconstruction and then throughout Jim
Crow the court really functions and we
could talk about this sort of the
smaller aspects of the court remember or
the cases that that that that deal with
different aspects of society but from a
structural standpoint the court has been
has intervened to make sure that it
allowed the scales to be tipped in favor
of powerful interests you know when I'm
talking about like Jim Crow and whatnot
a lot of that vote suppression you know
Congress may have opened the door on
some level with it you know with the
with the limitations and put on the
Thirteenth Amendment but the court
certainly sort of like busted that door
open and said yes the anyway you can
come up with disenfranchising black
voters or frankly and poor voters go for
it and because the the court was always
edifying power largely and then you know
there was a we had you know thirty years
I think of the court in the mid
twentieth century where that was
reversed for a time but basically the
Warren Court yeah yeah which is why
which is why the John Birch Society with
Fred cokes money had it billboards all
across America that a pitcher Earl
Warren throughout the 50s and 60 delete'
50s and throughout the 60s all right but
let's go back to to 1803 so when we talk
about the court just explain to us what
was the when the court was contemplated
and you know I mean I think there's only
so much we can do but it's important for
people to understand the the point of
this look what was the court
contemplated as being and then what was
it in 1803 that that shifted its role
and and how did that happen well
originally the Supreme Court was set up
to be basically the court of last resort
you had to have a place for the buck
finally stuff
so you know if your dog ate my chicken
and and one of us sued the other and you
know one of us wins and then the other
one appeals it goes back and forth and
back and forth and eventually it gets to
you know it keeps going up and up and up
the food chain of the courts it has to
stop somewhere and that was the Supreme
Court so the Supreme Court was
considered the appellate court the final
appellate court that the court of final
appeal in addition to being the court
that would adjudicate arguments between
the states or between the United States
and other countries those were the basic
three functions of the Supreme Court and
as Alexander Hamilton wrote in
Federalist number 81 this is in June of
1788 he said the authority of the
Supreme Court of the United States which
is to be a separate independent body the
power of construing the laws well
actually let me jump to the next
sentence in the first place there is not
a soul this is Alexander Hamilton in the
first place there is not a syllable in
the plan under consideration which
directly empowers the national courts to
construe the laws according to the
spirit of the Constitution or which
gives them any greater latitude in this
respect than may be claimed by the
courts of every state in other words the
Supreme Court in Hamilton's mind and
this is how it was sold to people in the
Federalist Papers and and how it's
written in the Constitution the Supreme
Court is the final Court of Appeals but
doesn't have the power to say this is or
is not constitutional does not have the
power to strike down laws a process
that's referred to as judicial review or
judicial supremacy and in fact the the
part of the Constitution that
specifically authorizes the Supreme
Court article 3 section 2 reads very
simply you know all cases affecting
ambassadors these are this is that other
area where the court has original
jurisdiction in all cases affecting
ambassadors other public ministers and
consuls and those in which a state shall
be a party the Supreme Court shall have
original jurisdiction in all the other
cases before mentioned the Supreme Court
shall have appellate jurisdiction or the
final appeals court both as to law and
fact with such exception
the word exceptions is capitalized and
under such regulations and that word is
capitalized as the Congress shall make
so the court you know was basically the
the dogs and chickens court and in 1803
there was a case that had to do with the
Judiciary Act of 1790 7 that you know
without going into a whole lot of detail
basically in this case the Court struck
down a law which had been passed by
Congress and signed by President Adams
or President Jefferson Washington
whichever it was in any case yeah it was
it was washing it was a dish Judiciary
Act 17 night I don't have the year any
outside the Court struck this law down
and Thomas Jefferson went absolutely
nuts he he wrote and I'll just give you
a couple of quotes these are in the book
the opinion which gives to the judges
the right to decide what laws are
constitutional and what not not only for
themselves in their own sphere of action
but for the legislative and executive
also in their spheres would make the
judiciary a despotic branch if this
Marbury decision be sound then indeed is
our Constitution a complete fellow to
say which is Latin for a suicide pact
the Constitution on this hypothesis is a
mere thing of wax in the hands of the
judiciary I mean he was just outraged
but the problem he had was that he had
won the case and so he couldn't appeal
his own victory and but there was such
an explosion in 1803 around the Marbury
case that John Marshall who was probably
the longest serving chief justice in
history or one of them sir conceding
never again used judicial review you
know in a consequential way and in fact
the court just totally stayed away from
this all the way up until 1856 the
second time that they used judicial
review for a consequential decision and
that was when Chief Justice Roger tawny
decided that he would once and for all
resolve the slavery issue in the Dred
Scott decision which of course caused
the Civil War led to the Civil War
exacerbated the the power you know the
the the movement toward the Civil War so
historically the court did not decide
which laws were constitutional in which
weren't historically the Court did not
strike down laws and historically the
court did not write laws and and with
those two exceptions in the first 80
years the existence of this country the
court never did any of those things
they started aggressively doing doing
that sort of thing in the in the 1880s
after the failure of reconstruction and
you know picked up some steam with the
Lochner court in the 1920s slowed down
in the in the 1930s and then went nuts
again with the Reagan administration and
and and we should say I mean I think you
know the partly responsible for the
failure of reconstruction frankly by by
okaying you know these sort of
restrictions on voting but but getting
back to article 3 section 2 has there
ever been and so so the court asserts
itself and takes essentially rights if
you will or duties that are not
enumerated or granted to it by the
Constitution is there ever a time where
Congress says hey wait a second under
Section 2 we have the ability you know
and I maybe this is what you're talking
about in terms of like removing
jurisdiction but we have the ability to
to limit the I mean the Supreme Court
shall have the appellate jurisdiction
both is to law in fact with such
exceptions and under such regulations as
Congress shall make the erratically
Congress should you know could say you
don't have the ability to to
conceptualize the the second amendment
you don't have the ability to that we
mean could could Congress to strike down
the Civil Rights Act yeah yeah I'm yeah
absolutely well nobody signals to
different things like so so I mean does
does can Congress say you don't have the
ability to interpret the second
amendment
it seems to me they're on stronger
footing to say you don't have the
ability to if we have a you Nana you
know if we have ratified the Voting
Rights Act section five I mean you can't
it's one thing for them to say you can't
interpret the Constitution it's another
thing for them to say you can't overturn
our laws particularly if it's not you
know unlike an explicit constitutional
grounds I mean I guess maybe that was
their argument was section five then and
somehow it was like a 14th amendment
that's ironic it was a constitutional
argument that they made and when they
when they stripped the Voting Rights Act
and it's always a constitutional
argument sometimes they really had the
shoehorn in but they recognize that
that's the one area where they have
authority or have acquired or taken
authority but Phyllis Schlafly and I
used to talk about this a lot on the air
she wrote a book called The Supremes
about this and she told me on the air on
several occasions that back when Tom
Daschle was the head of the Senate that
in one of the farm bills he had included
a court stripping provision and I think
it had to do with ethanol basically
saying that the supreme court could not
challenge this law now I looked for that
when I was writing this book and was
unable to find it but I kind of gave up
in frustration after going through you
know hundreds and hundreds of pages of
laws but you know the where it gets real
interest is in in the early 1980s the
Reagan administration wanted to overturn
two Supreme Court decisions the first
was the 1954 Brown versus Board of
Education decision that that you know
outlawed segregation and overturned the
1898
you know separate-but-equal Plessy
versus Ferguson decision I imagine John
Roberts was was in the was in the the
the DOJ working on that well we'll get
to that just a second and then secondly
they wanted to overturn roe v wade the
1973 decision so ed Meese hired this
young lawyer to come into the Reagan
White House
and gave him the singular assignment to
spend a year figuring out how without a
constitutional amendment which is
typically how we've overturned Supreme
Court decisions without a constitutional
amendment could a an entirely Republican
House Senate and White House overturn
these two decisions and this young
lawyer worked on this and he came up
with a rather substantial document see
I've got it in my hands here I see how
many pages it is it's like 50 it's all
it's 26 pages
he wrote this incredible 26 page draft
in which he starts literally with the
founders and the and the Federalist
Papers in the Constitution and ends at
the present moment and says yes under
article 3 section 2 Congress can easily
pass a law which says that the Supreme
Court may not review it and Congress
could simply pass a law saying that you
know segregated schools are just fine in
the United States and that women do not
have the power to decide whether or not
to have an abortion and that that report
kind of got buried I don't think
anybody's ever seen it before I was
amazed when I came across it and it was
written by John Roberts himself who was
working in the DOJ at that time as you
as you point out and he's now the Chief
Justice of the US Supreme Court so you
know the Reagan administration never did
that I mean one of the things that
Roberts points out in his report is that
doing this will create will be like a
nuclear bomb going off at DC politically
speaking and you know it'll it'll
provoke a constitutional crisis because
no doubt the court will say no you can't
do that and the Legislature will say yes
I can and there is no mechanism for
resolving a dispute between the court
and the other two branches the court has
claimed that they have primacy that
they're there they have the final say in
all matters and nobody knows how that
would shake out but that's the last
chapter of my book it's it's titled in
cases emergency brake class like you
know if all else fails we can use John
Roberts suggestion to get around the
court now there's other things that are
probably much less problematic like
doing what FDR tried to do in 1937 which
is increase the size of the court which
is
been a number of times over the years
both increase and decrease actually when
when Andrew Johnson became president a
member of the Supreme Court died in the
first few months after he became
president and he was going to appoint a
new member and Congress which hated
Johnson I mean keep in mind they tried
to impeach him and came within one vote
of doing it lisanna Congress got
together and they passed a law saying
that the number of members of the
Supreme Court would go from seven which
is where it was then down to six and so
Johnson couldn't appoint a new Supreme
Court justice and that lasted until
Johnson left office and as soon as he
left office and the next president was
installed but Congress came back and
added a seventh person to the Supreme
Court and that person was appointed by
the next president I'm sorry I don't
remember who followed Johnson but
whoever it was that's that's what
happened I think might have been Ulysses
Grant
yeah and and so let's talk about this I
mean you know and folks should read this
to sort of follow the the court which
you know largely again but for the the
Warren Court here has been on the side
of corporate power of established power
that may have been corporate power
moneyed power I mean throughout our
history I mean like you know like we say
you know the Dred Scott probably was one
of the things that lit a match on the
the Civil War insofar as it brought
about you know to had a sort of argument
between the north and the south as to
slavery and expansion of slavery and you
know what what the the the federal
government what rights the federal
government had in regards to this and
then we so as people read that let's
talk about potential solutions like as
you know the the I think you know
largely this book like this creates the
sets that starts to set the table for
people to see that we have a structural
problem with the Supreme Court I know
you go through this
Oshin and you just talked about you know
the number of justices on the court
let's talk about term limits and I'm
curious from your perspective a what is
the best result if you could snap your
fingers and then B what is the best
approach to get to that result presuming
that you don't have the ability of snap
your fingers and having create this type
of reform right well the the in a way
what Franklin Roosevelt was proposing in
37 was term limits he didn't suggest
that anybody be removed from the court
the Constitution quite clearly says that
during times of good behavior which
might be an interesting exception with
regard to justice beer blonde weenie
waiver but in any case during times of
good behavior judges federal judges
whether it's the Supreme Court or any
other federal judge have lifetime
appointment so it's just period so the
question isn't how do you get somebody
off the Supreme Court by retiring them
the question is how do you move them
into some other federal judiciary
position and what Franklin Roosevelt
suggested was that all the justices who
were over seventy years old which at
that time was 505 of them would become
one would it would end up with one vote
they would all become justices emeritus
collectively they would have one vote
and that new justices would be brought
into the court to make up the missing
for votes and so that's one way to do it
they're still on the court they just
have their roles change they've been
regulated by Congress and that was
presumably entirely constitutional the
way that is being talked about more
frequently these days you know by
progressive activists and Democratic
politicians is saying that after a
certain number of years on the court a
justice moves off the Supreme Court and
back into the federal into the federal
bench and there was they they would go
back say they came out of the Ninth
Circuit and went to the Supreme Court
they go back to the night so typically
it's the DC Circuit or the First Circuit
but you know
wherever they go back home where they
were but there's still a federal judge
and they still have a job for life and
and that you would try to do this in a
way that the justices are retired in us
in a staggered fashion so that every
president had you know every four-year
term of a presidency has an opportunity
to appoint one or two Supreme Court
justices guaranteed this I mean you know
and that it only becomes a larger number
than that if somebody dies or retires
untimely all of those are viable soon
yeah I mean I think Matt Ford in the New
Republic had had a scheme that and I've
heard other schemes that involved that
notion of rotating maintaining their
lifetime appointments to the judiciary
just rotating them through different
places in the judiciary between the the
appellate level and the Supreme Court
itself what what is it about when we
hear FDR escort packing there's a lot of
people who talk about it as if it was
apocalyptic and it was it was an affront
on democracy and that it was very
dangerous
you know there's it there's definitely
that sort of notion out there that like
that's such a radical idea where did
that come from that comes out of the
Republican Party that is a historic it
doesn't comport with the actual
historical record although you know I
think I've told you this story back when
I first moved to Washington DC years and
years ago or you know started doing our
show from DC this is like you know 15
years ago or 13 years ago something like
that I was given a tour of one of the
conservative think tanks and I was down
in their basement and there was this
large room with maybe 2030 people
sitting at computers and as I was
walking around and then you know young
people working on computers and I was I
was walking around pretty much all of
them had Wikipedia up and they were
editing Wikipedia pages I'm just a
lickety-split and it's amazing to me in
writing these books as I'm doing
research
you know the first one was on guns this
one's on the Supreme Court that one
coming out the spring is on the war on
voting the one I'm wrapping up right now
is on monopoly how often I find just
naked right-wing bias in Wikipedia
entries whether it has to do with the
Great Depression
you know or smoot-hawley or the
presidency of Franklin Roosevelt or
anything else the simple fact is that
FDR was pushing through a bunch of
progressive reforms in his first term
from 1933 to 1932 the to January 9th of
March January of 37 and and the Supreme
Court kept knocking them down he passed
a law that said child labor was illegal
the Supreme Court declared
unconstitutionally created the American
reconstruction agency I forget the name
of our something and which included
long-term unemployment insurance and you
know the the WPA programs like this that
that would have provided long term jobs
to people it's pretty clear knocked them
down and over and over and over again
and the Supreme Court was knocking these
cases down and in 37 the Supreme Court
was set to hear Social Security and so
America was just absolutely on edge the
the majority of Americans loved Franklin
Roosevelt he was overwhelmingly popular
and he had a strong Democratic House and
Senate but the Republicans were
hysterical they were convinced the
Social Security with socialism that we
had started down the road to communism
that we were on our way to becoming the
Soviet Union that long-term unemployment
insurance that child labor laws all of
these things were proof that FDR was a
communist and so FDR realizing that
Social Security was on the line and not
just Social Security also the the Wagner
Act was going to be decided in the court
term of 37 which was the National Labor
Relations Act which made it legal to
have a labor union and so the stakes
were like really really high and so FDR
knowing that the court in all
probability would strike these things
down started doing a sales pitch for
expanding the number of members of the
court and
the blowback from the Republicans was
absolute screaming hysteria but when you
go back and actually read actually read
histories of the time and I quote them
rather extensively in my book you find
that the majority of the public actually
supported FDR and he could he could have
done it the thing that pulled the plug
on it the reason he didn't do it is that
the two of the justices there were there
were four justices that were constantly
that voted against him on every single
case and they could usually get a fifth
one to come along they refer to
themselves as the four horsemen the two
of these justices changed their mind in
one of the critical decisions in 37
right in the middle of FDR trying to
sell this court packing scheme and it
turns out and this was something I found
in a in a some correspondence that
Francis Perkins had with her sister
turns out that Francis Perkins had a
conversation with this guy's wife and it
was probably the thing that turned him
and so once that happened the court
started agreeing with FDR they agreed
with him on Social Security they agreed
with him on labor unions and he was left
with no political constituency anymore
right and it was no longer an emergency
and so he abandoned his court packing
scheme he was not defeated you know the
way that you if you read it on Wikipedia
and some of this revisionist right-wing
BS what you hear is that you know the
Republicans successfully fought him back
no not the case well I don't hold out a
lot of hope for someone convincing Jenny
Thomas to to impact the future Court
decisions so we may be looking at and so
from a strategic standpoint what what do
you think you're advising president
Sanders or President Warren God willing
God willing what do you advise them
let's just assume that they have the
Senate to I mean what from a strategic
standpoint do you go for expansion of
the court or do you say I'm gonna
threaten expansion of the court to get
to get term limits or
the Congress should vote to narrow this
the the jurisdiction the Supreme Court
has done certain issues what what do you
choose in 37 there the you know public
opinion polling was not as well
developed as it is now but there were
there were a number of ways to measure
public opinion and just 20 years earlier
when the Lochner court was you know
striking things down we're taking right
wing positions they were still viewed as
a credible and legitimate institution by
37 the majority of Americans viewed the
court the Supreme Court as a political
body and the Warren Court kind of pulled
that back and and and well really the
the 3738 you know going forward Court
the Supreme Court kind of regained their
own credibility over the years but I
think we're at that point again where
the majority of people see the court is
a political agent and so as such my
advice would be do all of the above
proposed legislation that includes court
stripping provisions go after the court
with proposed term limits proposed
expanding the court I you know I would
assuming that the and this is a huge
assumption as you Sam assuming that in
the election of 2020 that not only do we
get the white house but that we get a
substantial majority on the House and
Senate and if that's the case then I
would go for not just the cosmetic
changes and not just the fight of the
day I would go for major permanent long
term structural change well like you
said God willing Thom Hartmann it is
always a pleasure we will put a link to
the hidden history of the Supreme Court
and the betrayal of America at majority
dot F M always a pleasure thanks so much
time I really appreciate it thank you
Sam I always enjoy talking with you and
I really appreciate your having me on
welcome back Michael Brooks here we're
gonna go to the fun half and take well
go over a bunch of sound take some calls
take some im's you know how we do
let me first start by saying become a
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M slash become a member
that's how this whole things happens
just coffee
dot co-op Fairtrade tea coffee or
chocolate
um don't hear much about the chocolate
actually yet he used to say that am I
wrong he does say that but this first
time I've actually listened to it and
I've never had any coffee from them well
you haven't had chocolate from them or
chocolate sorry yeah we drink the coffee
their coffee fuels the operation no yeah
that's what I'm saying I haven't had the
chocolate yeah trees boy Matt will
investigate the chocolate let's do it I
like it folks go check out the Michael
Brooks show today tomorrow
Big Show Ana Kasparian joins us to get
into the details of why we need
single-payer health care housing for all
and she makes a strong case for
impeaching the mf'er I'm giving you a
guide of all of the political factions
inside Palestine and Israel as well as
this incredible speech at the UN General
Assembly by the prime minister of
Barbados whole bunch of other stuff this
Sunday analyse elicit history of counter
hegemony and the new partnership between
the state of California and China on
climate change patreon.com slash TM yes
Michael Brooks show on YouTube and grab
your tickets today November 23rd very
excited live show in Philadelphia with
crystal ball Emma villain artesia ball
drop and two other quick things I'll
just let everybody know I was on with
crystal ball this morning on the hill
you can go check that out and just at a
peace co-published with Ben Burgess in
the Jacobin on how Bernie could answer
the disingenuous question on Venezuela
by actually giving a really broad answer
on US interventionism in Latin America
that connects his really brave and smart
and correct stances that he's taking on
foreign policy with a more holistic
answer as to why like what
have fun as well would be like Sweden
hmm I wonder
go check the peace out all right Jaime
what's cooking this week on the anti
Fattah we speak with Naja Gullo an
organizer from no new jails NYC about
what prison abolitionism means in theory
and in practice and the current ongoing
campaign to close Rikers and not replace
it with anything instead reinvesting the
money in communities and going through
various Dakar serration measures and I'm
really excited about that also we have a
live show coming up October 12th at
Littlefield here in Brooklyn and it's a
little feel them is in just even closer
to the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal God Heartland America yes yes yes
that's a Kiwanis Brooklyn us a full
venue and we are doing this show with
our goth socialist sister show PAH damn
America that's Jake Flores Alex Pataki
and Andrews lead we also have some
really amazing good ass guests including
Virgil Texas Matt Chrisman Simone Norman
Leslie Lee the third and comrade Barbie
so I and that last one by the way is a
famous drag queen okay it's not
Brennan's alter-ego I mean we'll see
yeah you never know you have to come to
the show to see if you recognize comrade
Barbie all right very dope so yeah get
your tickets me on comrade Bobby it's
Sam for literary hangover I released on
the weekend the first time I've done a
book solo I did a whole hub amok
a tale of early times by Lydia Maria
child who Cornel West yes has said we
must read Cornel West says we must
uplift her she was a early feminist and
abolitionist and I mean she's great she
also wrote like The Frugal housewife's
guide to leave its some some book like
that which was a sort of more every
person that like basically how you deal
with poverty and like getting by and not
just and people thought it was tasteless
because it's like you shouldn't talk
about that sort of things oh yeah like
women shouldn't have
like you shouldn't acknowledge that you
deal with poverty so she was very very
good role model I talked about her first
book which she wrote when she was like
22 and it was basically a response to
james fenimore cooper's the pioneers and
maybe a little bit more interesting but
people can be to be the judge of that so
check that out
hub amok fascinating alright folks we
will see you on the phone Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whippin like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right you want to smoke
this joint yes do you feel like you are
a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win it's a win-win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven two
thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow he's the ultimate math nerd don't
you see why don't you get a real job
instead of spewing vitriolic hatred
you're left with one bomb everybody's
taking their dumb juice dance dance
dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars you're calm you're not
they accuse me you right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber classic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses Hey
[Music]
[Music]
a little bit it's a free speech issue if
you don't like me thank you for calling
into the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
welcome to the fun half everybody
greetings to all sentient beings
listening let's see bumper sticker
update collar this is from Colorado guy
bumper sticker update Colorado edition I
Drive hundreds of miles every week in
the vast majority of political bumper
stickers I see here our Bernie followed
next by Trump I've actually seen one for
Ben Carson let's not talk about that
though loool Oliver a and much love to
everyone I like that just still keeping
it in the game water boat from Kashmir a
lot happening in Kashmir soldiers are
forcing multiple people out of their
homes so they can move or forcing them
to rent out portions of their homes
trust me they will not seem this money
for this and that's not a big deal for
Kashmir ease anyway in the meantime
continued destruction of food rations
winters effing cold in the home aalia's
and roads get blocked off they did the
same thing in the winter of 1990 and
literally thousands of families starve
to death except they're doing on a
bigger scale now this so much is
happening is hard to explain all I want
to say is that this is turning much more
and more into Bosnia every day but on a
much bigger scale I think that there is
you know I've been covering Kashmir to
some extent and also what Indonesia is
doing to West Papua which I I apologize
on my pronunciation but you have these
provinces that have always been because
they're primarily minority they have at
least in the Indonesia and West Papua
case they have a lot they've gold they
have new huge natural resource assets
there's an economic dimension to Kashmir
that I think people need to think about
much more closely which is that
basically if you
socially cleanse Kashmir you open up a
big real estate investment and tourism
market I mean this is supposedly and I
believe it visually I haven't had the
privilege of visiting one of the most
beautiful places on earth and you're
talking about even things like skiing
and you know like there's a lot of
opportunity to make a lot of money there
so you can almost compare there's a
Bosnia dimension there's a China and
Tibet to mention there's a US in Puerto
Rico or the Virgin Islands or Guam
dimension when you tear up the at least
partial autonomy that this place had I
mean it still already was literally the
most militarized place in the planet in
the sense of I think highest proportion
of military troop presence relative to
population and then of course you have
China doing what they're doing to the
euchre's and I think in some ways I was
just thinking when you talked about
people getting pushed out of their homes
like that I mean Israel is so is the
precursor of so many things there's so
many stories about Palestinians getting
kicked out of their homes for Israeli
occupations and operations and the
terror and horrifying consequences of
that and having a home garden and
destroyed by IDF soldiers and then you
know like oh yeah fill this out fill out
this forum will will compensate you for
the damage yeah please
so you know hearing like food storage
their food stores are getting destroyed
that's like basically a watchword for
genocide it's it's absolutely I mean
look if you go back to the RSS Hindutva
philosophy which underpins Narendra
Modi's politics and again not Hinduism
and people who back neuro D just as Modi
just a cross as I mean look the rhetoric
of identity and the disingenuous
dishonest readings of that language is
weapon I mean balsan ro is using the
language of sovereignty to cover for
burning the Amazon and I'm talking about
McCrone
colonial mindset everybody can play
these games but and so we're definitely
not talking about Hinduism or the Hindu
political tradition in a whole but there
is a far right and literally fascistic
fascistic in the sense that early RSS
writers which is the paramilitary
organization that umbrellas this
including the BJP which is the party
that Modi is from you have writers
openly praising Hitler back in the day
right like I'm talking literal fascistic
I'm not saying we could find it thread
line saying like they said what Hitler
what Hitler did we should learn from
they also wanted to learn from early
Israel as well because it's ethno state
politics and an imagined past I mean
that's the that's everywhere you find it
saudi-iranian the United States Brazil
hungry that's Russia
I mean Philippines that's always the
same dynamic that's no exception here
but she will here and it really
parallels Israel the talking points the
Tulsi did a couple weeks ago where she
talked about how it was complicated and
how there wasn't women's rights in
Kashmir and the gay rights situation was
bad this is all Israel stuff this is all
like oh we just had to dump a bunch of
white phosphorus on Gaza because they
don't have gay pride parades so you know
it's there's very close parallels there
between the situation's and a very
formalized partnership between Netanyahu
and Modi here is um Tulsi Gabbard fresh
off of backing off of Medicare for all
uh I guess talking about peace and the
inherent dignity of all humans with
Narenda Modi this is an image yeah this
is just an image I also just want to say
really briefly on the health care tip
I'm gonna do I'm gonna do more of this
in the coming weeks but I'm I'm really
starting to like nerd out on global
healthcare systems like how does France
actually provide health care how does
the NHS do it how does Canada do it how
to South Africa do it how does Israel do
it has Germany to it and so on and I
just want to say that like some people
say
and it is true in France as an example
private insurance exists and a lot of
studies basically show I think like
Britain is maybe 2 or 3 in France is
number one like France has just like the
gold standard in health systems and I
just wanted to be very clear though that
anytime you hear somebody saying like
using an example like France to say that
there's another way of having like
socialized medicine which is what it is
other than Medicare for all in the
United States that sounds interesting
and that better be immediately followed
up by a even more invest aggressive
taxation scheme and investment into
public healthcare which France has
France has such expansive public health
care that you don't even just forget
free at the point of purchase and all
the other things that any decent system
would have you're talking like like
people sent to families homes to help
with child care you're talking about a
and even things that might be and not to
mention it's like report from like the
Republican like hundreds of years ago
yes and you're talking about mental care
dental care which a lot of candidates
including I warned not clear on what
she's offering so and the insurance
companies that still exist are all non
profit or Mutual's and Mutual's
literally means owned by the collective
shareholders so like if the four of us
owned a health insurance company
collectively I would feel a lot more
comfortable about how that would take
care of our respective Health's so I
just want to say like you know it's very
I mean Warren
there's objective ambiguity and she's
good in the debates and she's not good
at all in other contexts but and clearly
and Biden is overt and how bad he is and
Budaj edge and Harris are dishonest but
I think that in my opinion but I think
that when you start hearing people say
that there's other systems that can
achieve the same level of expansiveness
that meet then okay then what's your
french plan to go up against the Sanders
Canada plan and I would be interested in
hearing that because that would even be
way more systemic and involve bigger
money and more offerings more regulation
and a bigger government role because at
the end of the day even though those
things still exist there's huge public
ownerships of hospitals there's most
government as you know is controlling
people's and taking care of people's
health and you know there's there's
doctors have autonomy but that's a
different thing and that doesn't really
get implicated by any of these bills as
far as I understand them so be very wary
of people who might sort of point
vaguely towards other models that
they're not talking about the debate was
between whether we want to model
ourselves over the NHS or the French
system beautiful but that ends not where
we are I've said this before but with
the French s and when I was there a year
and a half ago the person I was with got
sick and had to spend an overnight in
the hospital and when we were done that
just waved us out of there no didn't
have to sign anything just nothing all
right to sign something but like there
was no bill at all yeah it's way way
better I like it I like that you're
getting very granular on this I feel
like in the same way that Social
Security is Sam's bailiwick I feel like
this could be yeah the Michael Brooks
bailiwick it would be very well I care
about health care and I like going
global so that could be fun uh I will
try I have a lot more to read but yeah
when libertarians mentioned the
Singapore model
yeah the Singapore model is not what
they think it is I mean the Singapore
model like so many things Singapore is
like super aggressive government and
public intervention like I love what
libertarians like I don't know I would
feel really uncomfortable with that but
you know in Singapore were they just
like deduct things from taxes so it's
almost like it's like souped up ACA and
they use that as their model like that
libertarian chair that debated Sam is
like well if you were smart about what
you wanted to do I not let people die on
this
to go into medical debt for lack of
healthcare you would do what cynical
port Singapore is doing it sounds like
is that what you want to do no I don't
want to do anything right
precisely um I do want to do I I think
it's really interesting and I also want
to know and this is stuff I don't know
so tell me if you guys know or anybody
knows like okay the UK is the NHS which
is great and to the extent there's
problems it is because of cuts and I
don't buy any waiting time arguments
because like there's things people wait
for right like you you're if you're
about to die from you know a heart
attack
or a gunshot wound you can die in the
United States for something that could
be preventable because you went to the
wrong hospital that will never happen in
the United Kingdom
so okay you have the United Kingdom then
you have France and then you have but
then and then if you look at the list
like even the top ones there starts to
be like a slightly gradual decline like
Germany and Switzerland it's great but
it's not as good as France or the UK
and then certainly Canada is really good
but not as good as those because it
doesn't cover things like dental and
stuff and what I wonder is like like I
know in Germany there is like a there's
more of a role for private insurance if
you want it it's not in my understanding
it's not quite as regulated as France
basically it seems to me that like the
more there is an actual private
insurance industry the lower the health
outcomes and I wonder how long that I
mean first of all I'm just tapping into
this so if I'm wrong I'm wrong but I'll
keep reading it this is like first
run-through and then I wonder like the
how long it took a country to implement
a national social system relative to how
long a parasitic industry got to
establish itself and eat up room in
terms of political patronage because
that's what happened in the u.s. reason
we don't have single-payer I mean
literally Harry Truman put that on the
table and what some of the first PR
influenced fake news campaigns in the
country were funded by the American
medical association to terrify people
about communism and healthcare makes me
so mad
yeah it's it's I mean it's a wild
history check out Kim Kimberly Phillips
fine
the invisible hands I believe is the
book on that I'm the DuPont's and those
sorts of names yep
also Tim fasts book I haven't read all
of it yet but it is very good so far at
ferret he's a real wonk on Medicare for
all and any answers any questions you
have he will probably answer them health
justice now dope he's coming yeah we
already had him on oh all right I don't
know how I missed that all right
sorry the shape of pickles I want to say
I'm a paid subscriber to tea MBS and the
anti Fattah hell yeah hold on I would
humbly suggest offering adding a
literary hangover well worth the
investment also considering getting to
the fine the fin Dom pay pig membership
level of anti fat I love you guys thanks
for everything
hell yeah I explained what that part
means oh yeah that's our ultra exclusive
fin Dom tier I made it as a joke because
I didn't think anyone was actually gonna
sign up it's it's $100 a month
the benefits are you get nothing and you
will like it worm and a couple of people
have actually and not to be dominated or
sexually humiliated by us but because
they just support what we're doing and
then of course we give them the benefits
because it would be really rude not to
but if you do want to be financially
dominated by us and insulted of course
we can do that too but thank you so much
for everyone who's done that it's
insanely amazing awesome you're calling
from a 306 area code who are you where
you're calling from
you're calling from a 306 area code who
are you where you calling from
yeah Michael it's Jeff from our Janet
jackal Cowen's how you doing - Jeff from
tell me where again Regina 30 I know
it's a bit of work I'm sorry
did think you were pranking for a second
my dad okay that's on your mind I was
coming in Mike Union is Wow
we're not certain yet we're taking job
action and it's kind of an interesting
Keith because it's the uniform Union
last scheduled year still days sorry
they represent the doctor family I'm
familiar with crown corporation it's
basically a government-run company so
anyway in the job back to work making
it's basically gonna fit yeah
the gas company the power company
telephone company as well as another
other larger organizations around the
province so yeah and right now it's a
job actually going to be affecting
basically the entire province and if
nothing gets resolved by Friday we're
going to be moving straight to the
full-on strike action starting Monday I
believe it's amazing how are you feeling
it's exhilarating at the same time but
you know it's uh going Florida so you
know insects and stuff like that we did
get some strike teens it's uh it's scary
but at the same time I mean we're we're
kind of I mean kinda stick up for
ourselves trying to get a hair heal so
it's uh no have you done anything like
this kind of no not really no I wasn't
going to compete for a while so it's
gonna be my first yeah your first time
doing something like this awesome
well good luck we please keep us posted
woody
alright solidarity work for what Canada
does better than America they seem to
have a big problem with monopoly capital
definitely very bit from monopoly
capital and they're you know frankly a
pet rest heat right calling from a two
four eight area code who are you where
you calling from
this is Tyler from Great Falls Montana
hey Tyler what's going on so on your
minds uh nothing much I was calling
because I've never followed a primary
this early on mm-hmm and I'm just like I
don't know I don't know what to make of
all the polling and everything it just
kind of seemed to be all over the place
right you know what I think
here's what I think I just watched a
really fascinating interview with Adolph
Reid who I would say is definitely the
type of person that agree disagree I
happen to mostly agree not always but
mostly he's just brilliant right like
there's people like that you just need
to like actually on the other on the
other end of the equation somebody who
I've always read and maybe I actually
don't talk about this as much but I've
I've been a reader or at least I've read
um bell hooks right that's somebody that
I don't necessarily like that's not my
framework for I look at things and so on
but it's like no you got to read her
like this is a really important person
right so I would anyways strong plug for
Adolf Reid class notes his incredible
book he just did a good interview with
current affairs and one of the things
that he said that was more kind of
really practical I liked where he he
said that when 2016 when he was
campaigning for Bernie he was telling
like the young people constantly he
talked about and I'm forgetting the I
want to read more about this but
basically these 25 Soviet soldiers who
held a building for weeks they literally
fought off like thousands of Germans and
his point was was like we're doing
something we're in the middle of
something and when you're on the
opposite side of what we do frankly and
I think what we do is important too you
know you just gotta you just keep
knocking those doors and and and
building those coalition's and that
really matters a lot and then the
arguments matter to I mean of course you
need to debunk lies about you know the
candidate and so on but I think it's a
more answer your questions specifically
police everybody else say your thoughts
obviously I think the biggest thing that
it measures is essentially like
viability going into Iowa
like there's clear like like if I was a
Kamala Harris supporter I would be
getting pretty worried and then I think
there's other people that it's like you
know of course I want Bernie to be doing
even better but he's actually doing fine
if I was into Warren I'd be excited if I
was into Biden and I would actually be
like hmm he still leads but I think that
uh I think that really what it measures
is literally are you in a position to
win Iowa and or New Hampshire and then
when those results in the whole equation
changes you know like I mean let's just
game this out if Bernie wins Iowa and
then he wins New Hampshire then all of a
sudden I mean you know would love to
have a live cam in the green rooms at
MSNBC and you know that's an incredible
thing if Warren wins Iowa New Hampshire
you know dare we go monster frontrunner
if Biden wins Iowa New Hampshire then
all of it says what we know what was see
all this nonsense but here we go
if it's a split then it's a war of
attrition then you know if if Warren
wins Iowa and Bernie wins New Hampshire
than the Biden people will say well we
our Alamo is South Carolina and then you
know chances are one of these other
candidates will over perform in one of
those states and then they'll spin a
whole media narrative out of it so I
think mostly what it's what it's really
just demonstrating right now is just
basically you know you want like again
obviously I'm a pure Sanders supporter
you want you want to be in a position
where you know even if he's behind the
polls he could definitely win Iowa
combined with the fact that their ground
game I think is absolutely the best and
you know you go in there being like all
right this is viable to see what happens
let's let's knock on every single door
and fight if you're starting to get at
like two three four percent you know and
that usually correlates with other
things like not that much organic
enthusiasm not a broad donor base so
anyways that's what I think it measures
I don't know what do you guys think yeah
I mean personally as far as if
the question is how you handle it
mentally I would say you know don't get
super invested into any of the
narratives to wait until people start
voting I I totally agree and I would
think the words of Adolf reads seriously
like you know if you're invested in a
particular candidate go help that
candidate right how much how so there
you go and that's great too and that's
super important but instead of worrying
about every you know poll and whatever
go if you have time go knock on some
doors I'm like I am I literally don't
got a terrified saying this I sound
exactly like Sam but I am insanely
dementedly busy and I am still gonna
start to cut some time out of my
schedule to do some either phone banking
or door knocking very soon because in my
opinion it's just you know it's urgently
important to elect Bernie Sanders and
that's a major part of the game that
needs to happen how much of an emotional
effect should polls be having on people
right now I think is the question oh man
I mean should is different than what
it's actually doing kind of rates like I
am annoyed that I care this much about
an election at all this early before the
election it's uh it's a little unnerving
for me but guess what I do I can't help
it I see the numbers and I'm like oh my
god is he gonna do it like you're just
looking for any sign that something good
is gonna happen but just you know stay
positive I think really based on all the
information that I've taken in so far I
think Bernie could win it and definitely
absolutely I think he can win and course
when we stay positive about that I think
it has a better effect on the the mood
the turnout the morale of people in the
Bernie Army then if one bad poll comes
out and we're all like gloom and doom
you know I totally agree with that I
just want to say too without bringing up
you know the whole look everybody should
be aggressive and clear for their
candidate and debunk lies and
and be clear about their policies but
the one thing that I do not like to see
some people
who support Bernie kind of doing is
falling a little bit into kind of like
noble loser discourse and he's not he's
easy one of the three main candidates
raising an unbelievable amount of money
and literally like a million people
conservatively have in some form and
because his coalition is serious
working-class coalition have put
themselves particularly on the line in a
material way whether or not that's a
twenty dollar campaign contribution or
knocking on a door or making a call and
they're in it to win it
so you know this isn't the time to just
be like he was the original beings me
and Warren wasn't as good and she took
his demo tape and got a Tower Records
contract which I is true like I'm you
know I make no bones about it
he is the superior candidate and I won't
and I've made quite clear I'm not
indulging any false equivalency but
don't get into negativity don't get into
resentment fight the good fight and push
it hard and of course he could win I
mean right now Joe Biden Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders can all
definitely win I mean really like its
its candidates outside of that three are
the people that really need to start
having like Rube Goldberg scenarios as
of now like you know well maybe if this
happens that a da those are the three
candidates that as of now it's like yeah
they can win so let's see how it shakes
and built in what Sanders obviously is
that you know uniformed opposition from
the press and the oligarchs but that was
baked into the cake from the beginning I
mean as soon it as soon as Bernie
Sanders became a real candidate in 2016
all of these you know shucks really cool
Bernie's joining the race and then as
soon as he became a real contender they
had you know absolutely had aneurysms so
you know of course hey guys I think also
some people on the Left who are kind of
used to losing yes and they don't
they're very comfortable with being sort
of Outsiders and throwing bombs from the
outside and they'd like when when
something comes along that could
actually win and we have been losing for
a very long time so it's understandable
but when someone comes along who could
actually win it's hard to change that
mindset especially if you've been in the
trenches working
bashing away at things for years and
seeing very little progress yeah I'm
doing a snap that I agree with that very
strongly and the distinction I would add
to that is I think that there are some
people who have been really beaten down
and bludgeoned but still really care and
have the fight in them and then I think
that there are a number of institutions
and certain uh there's certain things
that are designed to be the Washington
Generals and that's all I'll say
and they're quite comfortable with
losing because I don't really think they
are designed to win word uh let's uh
okay let's just do this
what could be more peek 2019 then a
multi-billion dollar trust fund baby
lying about and smearing people to
support Bernie Sanders I don't want to
just be really clear about things or
2016 to me I think it's I think you know
history just goes and goes and goes it's
a flat circle the flat second folks
flat circle folks I mean the fact that
you know the MSNBC Booker's didn't even
feel the need to like hey you know what
maybe instead of in 2016 instead of will
still have people lie about and Sacro
test things about Sanders but they'll at
least be like I don't know some you know
you could find any number of random
mediocre pundits that will do this you
know it's it's like really like like no
no it absolutely has to be a good aren't
you and trust fund baby to do this so um
three quick points before we play this
clip and then we'll elaborate them but I
want to just keep three things in mind
one is a campaign point yeah this does
matter because two two are actually
campaign related points the third is
more general one yes it matters because
you know if if some guy names like you
know birdie bro you know Big D 32
with 45 followers says hey WFP or jerks
this will lead to days of recriminations
and press coverage and smears and lies
and exact
generation and a demand that the actual
presidential campaign condemned this
stuff right this is a nationally
televised performance by the way and not
an abnormality we remember the cringe
comment from a couple of mooks skin
crawl comment from a couple of months
ago so it needs to be dealt with and
called out because the structural bias
against standards is astounding now the
second point I would say is if we're
gonna play the game and I think there
needs to be limits on the game as I've
said I've heard people who've you know
opposed Sanders of support Warren
certainly supported Clinton who said
things that if I wanted to be in that
sort of like you know a certain kind of
mindset I could definitely say we're
definitely anti-semitic
and and it's certainly a gist and all of
this other stuff I don't think it's the
responsibility of you know the Warren or
any campaign to condemn what random
people on Twitter say but I will say
this if a prominent supporter or at
least sympathetic analysts to Sanders
went on national television and said
Bernie Sanders is a great candidate he's
putting the most progressive politics on
the table of any presidential candidate
in the modern era which are both
objectively true statements and if you
don't support him you're showing your
anti-jewish bias by the way that might
be true and I am actually gonna be
talking about more of that frankly
because that is definitely true in some
cases but if that was just your general
comment that would be a obviously a huge
overstatement and a smear of some people
and the fur and Bernie Sanders campaign
again and this person could be you know
they would have no title they would have
already had to condemn this statement
you know 50 times so I just want to say
if that's the game we're playing uh
senator Warren's campaign should condemn
and reject all this stuff a hundred
percent and three I'll be really short
the bias against Sanders is bigger than
a bias against him because you have the
most overtly working-class candidate in
modern politics who represents a
multiracial coalition so what you do
when you do that and what you do when
you say that you know
Nina Turner is getting paid to have sex
with Bernie as somebody with a platform
said guys Oh or you call and a guaranted
this is a you know this now we're
getting one level of lower-level people
but you know some of the things that
have been said about Cornel West Brianna
joy great Nina Turner and others not
only are people revealing obviously all
of their hypocrisy and contradictions in
some cases just overt racism and sexism
Bernie is a stand-in for a profound
contempt for working people in this
country that's why someone could still
say someone's bringing now we're going
back to he's promising Pony lines and I
could tell you that as someone who's not
had health care and knows people who
still are under cared calling that a
pony is it's sociopathic if I'm a desk
it's absolutely grotesque and the very
functionality and look I'm sorry I don't
care her gender in this instance this is
eight hundreds of millions a
multi-millionaire is a family that owns
buildings at NYU we're talking to a
representative of the board here this is
a woman per se and yeah we're just
talking about oligarch that's it
I mean what's on there was investing
money before he was a teenager because
he got it from his father
exactly these are billionaire
billionaire they're worth one point six
billion those this is the fifth this is
the daughter from succession and she's
on MSNBC using the cheapest most you
know weaponized identity trash in the
book upshot of which in reality whether
she even knows it or not is I don't want
to pay more and you can die and by the
way not only can you die advocating for
yourself is sexist this is this is one
of the most grotesque things I've ever
seen on television and I know that
Warren has a wealth tax it ain't as big
as Bernie's and I'm quite confident now
and this is where look Warren is not
Hillary Clinton she's not as far from
Hillary Clinton as I'd like her to be
particularly on foreign policy but she's
not
Ellen but because now she is absorbing
and benefiting from the professional
middle-class right-wing corporatist
disingenuous caucus like Tishman um
she's gonna also in that sense have to
take responsibility for her supporters
anyway that I'm sorry I had a lot to get
off my chest there let's play this clip
there's there's a ceiling there is
nowhere to go but there is no up to go
and all of those where I actually heard
overheard someone saying that I thought
was an interesting point sorry but
remember when Tom Scavo was talking
about ventriloquism of other people like
pundits online this is just another
instant that on smaran goodness they
read it overheard someone saying that I
thought was an interesting point that
basically at this point if you are still
supporting standards as opposed to
Warren it's kind of showing your sexism
because she has more detailed plans and
her plans have evolved I thought it was
an interesting point and I think there
may be something to it
yeah I agree with all that okay right
that's a good answer you just completely
smeared a whole electorate of people
blah blah by the way you know and again
I am over the performance of plans and
this is another area where the n-no I
mean look I'm annoyed you know whatever
the Warren campaign did their brand
thing that's fine I don't hold it
against them but the fetishization that
people have these so-called plans first
of all they're bought their blog posts
their blog posts and you're not
convinced I have yet to meet a single
person who gives me that should be like
oh that sounds cool what plans are you
talking about oh well the duh oh could
you tell me some detail I actually have
read a couple of these plans I've never
met anyone who comes to me bragging
about them and tells me that that's a
reason to support her over Sanders who's
read them I literally have not met that
person I'm sure they exist I've never
met them and now Bernie has quite
detailed plans as well so that's a moot
point but I mean look the the bigger
point here is just the disgusting
grotesque disingenuous nough so we
talked about before but please guys have
I mean I have a few thoughts on this I
mean first of all when I talked before
about how we need to be civil to the
good faith Warren supporters
not who I was talking about um this
woman should know better but even if she
doesn't write like maybe it's not at the
forefront of her mind her fealty to her
own class her not wanting to pay more in
taxes wanting to block some sort of
progressive ideology blah blah blah it
might not be at the forefront of her
mind she might just be thinking they're
not that different it's time for woman
and she has the privilege to not have to
think about anything else because when
you do come from a wealthy family as a
woman like yes her only experience of
any kind of oppression is probably a
long lines of gender and it's probably
less like oh my boss is sexually
harassing me but if I quit I won't be
able to feed my kids more along the
lines of like longing to see yourself
represented at the highest elite levels
of government you know so that's not who
I'm talking about but like yeah it's a
privilege not to think about these
things also like I gotta give Warren a
bit of a shout-out here because I feel
like she's better than supporters like
this and I've seen a lot of the energy
of the gay raw Hillary people going a
hundred percent behind Warren this time
around and like you said they are very
different and I think what it reflects
about these people is not necessarily
that their ideology has changed
substantially since 2016 but it's that
they don't really care about ideology
that much they don't really care about
politics it's 100 percent right and I
would just add though one if Warren on a
campaign basis wants to keep getting
credit for it she needs to disavow it
and the same demand is made of Sanders
and the second thing is is that yes but
she is not Sanders in terms of
progressive and left and she is turning
into the new proxy for destroying the
left and it's starting to remind me I'm
not saying it's the same thing but it's
starting to remind me of Tom Perez
versus keith Ellison in the sense that
like Tom Perez was the establishment
saying because you people forget because
he's been such a disaster but he was
known as like a real liberal inside that
context and he did some good things in
his position in cabinet but he was put
up because
they did not want an actual left
presence in keith Ellison so she needs
to Anna and look I get the calculation
of triangulating it but then again that
actually leads back to the conversations
that all of us are having the left
ecosystem which is that's the lane fine
but let's not gas late and play games
and pretend and lie and obfuscate about
a center-left triangulate er
versus a crusading social democrat with
a movement those are different things
and you can be honest about what you
pick but you can't lie about the
distinction one final note and this is
less to do with the candidates and more
to do with sort of the media and how
inheritance is a subsidy I'm
reading Emily tear Sussman's bio Emily
Tish Sussman has been at the forefront
of the progressive movement in America
for more than a decade and I mean she
has less followers than all three of us
of course
like she has a third like she has 5,000
followers that's horse you've been doing
this for a decade and yet that's the
follow and you've built that and I just
said that's the most important metric
but and what I just said mic drop mic
drop and I just want to say when I said
like the daughter in succession that
isn't I don't actually just mean
generically billionaire daughter though
I could and I make no bones about it but
actually specifically if you watch that
show part of her sort of cultivation of
her being something different than her
family is being involved as like a
liberal political consultant so she's
completely the same as the rest of her
family but she has like a self brand
concept of being different and you know
whatever I don't know the psychodrama of
that family but I do know that a
billionaire is on television lying about
people who are fighting for their very
foundational existence that's absolutely
disgusting but they laughed at it and
it's normal programming on MSNBC and
that's grotesque and I oppose it I mean
look if I were a billionaire with a
vested interest in maintaining some form
of market capitalism in this country and
in this world
and I you know didn't want something
worse to happen I didn't want the
pitchforks to come for me during the
revolution I would make a big show of
supporting Bernie Sanders because he is
the one who's gonna reform who's gonna
create the reforms that
keep capitalism going because guess what
if that doesn't happen it's not like
it's just gonna go back to normal
would you like a really good expansive
New Deal or do you want to fall you know
fully into barbarous fascism and I think
you know honestly I think some of these
people who like to have the morality
credits of posing at the end of day
don't care they'll be in gated
communities I think anybody who comes
from a couple of generations of wealth
on both sides and isn't basically taking
the maximalist class antagonist position
should keep their mouths shut
100% completely well but to be fair
there were there are a lot of people who
share this belief about Bernie Sanders
and maybe us we just talked about why
maybe a billionaire oligarchs should
probably not be making that message on
trust fund baby should probably not be
talking about that at MSNBC but how
about a really prominent film producer
this is from 2000 I yes this is well how
about back in the day when it was a
really prominent film producer making
that same point she said to me there
that when when Bernie said Hillary
wasn't qualified they took that a little
like a little sexist you know just like
how could the Secretary of State 103
countries that she visited two times
senator right no first lady civil rights
lawyer not be quality yeah so just to
remind people what that whole thing was
about speaking of disingenuous smears is
that it was floated that Hillary said
Bernie that that was the attack on
Bernie and Bernie said well let me let
me just say in response to Secretary
Clinton I don't believe that she is I
don't believe that she is qualified if
she is if she is through her super PAC
taking tens of millions of dollars in
special interest funds I don't think you
are qualified if you get 50 million
dollars from Wall Street through your
super PAC so it was a return for the
unqualified thing apparently only
Hillary is allowed to call Bernie a
senator unqualified well that's what all
and that's another reason why I'm just
being really clear about this stuff
because it's like we know that like if
they ever have a debate moment where he
says you know my friend and colleague
senator Warren who I respect a great
deal and in which case in this one like
that would actually be true
he would say you know but we have a
fundamentally different belief about
medical diet or rent control you know he
do that and then all of these people are
gonna say did you see the leering sexism
in his eyes condescend yeah so it's just
like you know we just can't we can't
play all that and just one final note
for me on the whole Washington Generals
conversation we're having earlier Tish
Sussman was a former vice president of
something at Center for American
Progress
I gotta say like I really do understand
the desire to have a woman be president
and not everybody who has that desire is
as privileged as this class enemy that
we were just watching here but you got
to think about the other stuff too you
got to think about the big picture you
have to think about America's role in
the world you have to think about the
people who are dying because they don't
have health care and all of those things
are super super important and there's no
there's no contest material consequences
for consequences folks well here's I I
don't know as much about her as I should
um I do know something about her um but
and I can't lie I'm very strong Bernie
partisan but if she was in the race this
is clip number 11 on if this candidate
was in the race then we can have a real
conversation about two great candidates
maybe being indistinguishable I would
need to know more about her domestic
record but this is Prime Minister Mia
motley who is the Prime Minister of
Barbados
this speech at the UN General Assembly
really caught my attention for a couple
reasons one because I'm quite invested
in the project of counter hegemony from
the perspective of periphery countries
in Caribbean in but even sometimes in
northern Europe certainly in Africa and
so on so she's speaking to that and the
courage it takes for the Prime Minister
of Barbados to speak this way about then
as well alike
there is no like I mean look the United
States not gonna invade Barbados but I
mean you know Donald Trump will Donald
Trump is is a global trade war that
jeopardizes his re-election because of
his you know whatever he's made up in
his head about China I mean so there's a
lot of courage here on this clarity and
Mia motley is an incredible leader I
actually hope to interview her one day
but what we know is that you cannot
propel war over dialogue the people of
Venezuela must be allowed to decide
their own future in accordance with the
principles of the United Nations Charter
principles of non-intervention
non-interference prohibition of the
threat or use of force respect for the
rule of law human rights and democracy
it is regrettable that other
multilateral organizations have not
followed their own charters and that is
what makes the actions of our
secretary-general of the UN more
laudable for refusing to breach his own
charter and take actions even though
member states have hurled in to the
recognition of those unelected that is
why Barbados readily agreed to the
request by Norway and I salute my
colleague Prime Minister who just left
this platform to host the talks between
the Venezuelan parties we salute the
government of Norway for walking the
walk and taking leadership and
facilitating these talks equally we
regret that the talks have broken down
and we remain people that dialogue
remains critical if there is to be a
meaningful outlaw outcome and benefit
for the Venezuelan people and its
neighbors not just its neighbors on the
Latin American continent but this
neighbors in the Caribbean see because
people forget that Trinidad and Tobago
is less than seven miles
from the coast of Venezuela our
Caribbean Sea must remain a zone of
peace and for that we shall fight this
is a really powerful leader this is
somebody who's actually was honored by
Rihanna recently ah for being the first
woman Prime Minister of Barbados I love
that so much
it's a awesome and big story and
Trinidad and Tobago yes destabilization
regime change efforts are having a major
consequence on Trinidad Tobago I've been
just written to be a go and you know so
I feel like Sarah Palin but you can like
see Venezuela from certain parts of
beach with Bernie's foreign policy can
you imagine how like you you go into a
coma for four years and you wake up and
she's visiting him in the White House
how good you'd feel about the world so
good seriously don't tempt me yeah I was
just gonna make a self-deprecating joke
about how I absolutely did not know
about that geography so everyone study
your globes folks and maybe you'll know
where Venezuela is both a globe it's
really cool all right let's take a few
more calls folks uh I have a dentist
appointment so we're gonna be ending
pretty soon ah let's see let's looking
around here you're calling from a six
100 area code who are you calling from
hey this is John in Philly
hey John's gone not much I'm calling
because I'm an undergraduate student
right now and I'm studying political
science yeah and I have this yeah yeah
and I have a professor actually I have
two political science classes one of
them is about the EU awesome well it
would be awesome but I had this
professor who this is a magic land -
thirsting because you have a and that
did you have a pretty strong view of
world you know global politics anyway
she teaches about the dynamics of the EU
but she she had
it's very blatant you know kind of
right-wing sort of Bend like you know
like kind of like The Economist right
magazine right so you know as your
safety thing that if them yeah and she
states you know certain things that are
actually very biased and I would argue
wrong about different countries on the
EU you know in a single market and she
states them as fact and it really pisses
me off
um well she's - hold on I'm nodding out
for a second little Jordan Peters thing
drugs in there for you well that's
actually funny because she she assigned
Steven Pinker books
wow man she's has not sound like my cup
of anything so what's your question you
got a professor but you know it's good
man sometimes you gotta just get the
grade yeah get the grade and learn the
and by the way learn how the enemy
thinks absolutely okay well here's one
question I have for you about some of
the things she's said she she blames
Greece for all of the economic issues
that they face she said that they spent
too much and that basically what the EU
is doing you know strangling them and
implementing austerity is right and that
they deserve it Jesus so I would say I
mean that's just so nuts i I don't cuz I
actually to me my understanding is like
it's it's like it's very conventional
opinion now that I mean I mean here's
like a really brief gloss on Greece and
I haven't been haven't thought about in
a while but basically to the extent you
could blame Greece it is not for their
social spending it's because they do
have you know there's corruption there's
in efficiencies whatever now the
center-right the European core benefited
from all of that
like I'm not remembering the specific
deals but like yeah they invested a ton
of money in Greece because they thought
they were going to get a return on their
investment but they already did say no
to it that's true they needed it but
even on the up front they did write like
a lot of this like Oh Greece
was so profligate well you mean buying
like you know buying building equipment
from Germany doing you know probably
help goldman sachs facilitating deals to
go private like the whole there was so
much money that was generated out of
even the dysfunctional you know practice
this was predatory lending don't get it
twisted your percent it's a win-win for
the ones doing the lending because they
get a return on their investment that's
great if greece can't pay it back guess
what it's on the backs of the Greek
people in Greece's for a really
long time
totally and but and also when you read
you know like very even like very focus
I mean he's a hundred percent right
there like it wasn't even a monetary
question it's a political question it
was like if we torture Greece that will
threaten in Italy or another country
from asserting you know debt relief or
protections of its workers which by the
way and this is another thing I'm sure
professor does not understand is doubly
dangerous because what happened in
Greece and I I'm not I have some
sympathy for cereza
I don't I don't know how much room for
maneuver they had I mean they definitely
failed and they shorted hard they failed
but they were under a lot of objective
forces and pressure right but what
happens is serezha totally submits
continues utterly gutting greece and so
this flash point of hope of like an
actual left gets destroyed and
discredited guess what political party
and he actually recently miscalculated
some matteo is sidelined but if you look
at matteo a actual neo-fascist in italy
he was just total swagger with like
the EU i'm gonna tell us how to handle
all the labor policies crazy
it's the become the right-wing forces
that are able to level accurate
critiques at the european policymaking
community and then that reinforces the
populist right-wing wave that's so it
 like breaks it right so it's all a
disaster your professors a fool
yeah but get the great
yeah yeah I mean she I I have a tendency
to you know whatever I'm thinking kind
of shows up on my face so she'll be
saying some of this and she'll look
at me and on my face will be bright red
but I mean then maybe she has a crush on
you man maybe she's just like messed it
up I would take maybe she could debate
that later I would take this as an
opportunity to where maybe man so you
can win an argument with her because
even I've had this I know I think I'm
debate with her by the end of the year I
like know that I'm right but I still
can't win an argument because he's just
the best arguer in the frickin world and
it really inspires me to learn more what
Sam is like argument the oj defense team
it's like I guess technically you're
right here's one small bit of advice why
do they care when you're arguing with
somebody like that especially a teacher
from the class the more they're talking
the better you're doing so just ask
questions you know they're gonna be hard
for her rather than having to you know
going near that's exactly what I would
do if you do if you read like what
actually happened in Greece and even
just really like verify because his
account don't go in and quote very focus
and argue just formulate questions that
you glean from that that she's gonna
find a very tight hard time answering
because ultimately she's just gonna give
you a political answer right like
ultimately dude well I mean to be fair
on some level it's all just too
simplistic kind of views like that's
sort of my point it's like part of it
really does just come like at some point
you're just making a normative decision
of what your priorities are and that's
true of everything problem with
economists is they always try to pretend
they're not doing that anyways I
appreciate the call man thank you
oh and check out episode 29 of the anti
fada if you want a sort of detailed
investigation of what what happened with
the Greek debt crisis nope glad Matt is
back but can we add Brendan to the mic
Wow Wow
why did you wait till so late in the
show I'm busy booking for November and
getting all that done today well I'd let
Matt go away to New Orleans less this is
not being bag
well he's letting me on the mic now so
this is a reciprocal relationship folks
yeah this is yeah I appreciate
appreciate it he's not just sitting
around twiddling his thumbs when the
show is live trust in a certain sense
you have a wonderful day bro but I'll
see you again soon all right let's uh
let's do we got only like three I think
we'll do one more sound one call and one
I am how about no we'll do that one
tomorrow
I saw a Pete Buddha judge talk to Al
Sharpton several months ago and I said
I'm starting to feel like Pete Buddha
check the only other interaction he had
was when he fired the african-american
police chief in his City but if you
thought that was awkward look at mayor
Pete talked to workers
they're talking to not talking yes now
what resources is there any kind of
bridge program or something get folks
drew no dope sorry you gotta rewind that
that's that is unbelievable the question
he asks here the people need to hear
this question it's true
how long do you feel like the strike
fund Canada I guess as long as it takes
yeah they got a pretty good took the
money in the butter the good it's been
you know twelve years since I last right
oh my god he's basically asking them how
long they're gonna strike for so there
was a meme that somebody made of Budaj
edge emailing GM saying exactly so they
couldn't find out how long they're
planning how long do you guys think you
can like what kind of indictment and
look the Democratic Party is definitely
not a traditional Labour Party in any
type of mold but however it is a party
it has had an alliance with labor unions
and really at certain times obviously
during the New Deal in the 60s delivered
a lot of great things and you know this
is the friendly quote like that this is
the Wonder Boy of the Democratic Party
elite and this guy mean we are at the
point now like Bill Clinton was terrible
for organized labor but my god did that
guy know how to be like so how does the
strike going I mean this guy uh he looks
like it's like dude you're not like
you're not on a you know I can't even
think what the analogy would be like
nobody should look that uncomfortable
talking to
to voters in your primary guys are just
out striking why do you look so
uncomfortable man look I will take
somebody with good policies and bad
effect over someone like a Bill Clinton
type how about 9 out of 10 times but we
have one who has both right now so
what's the problem and how about both in
the other direction like I mean his case
his effect reveals his policies what I'm
trying to say it isn't just like look if
yes I totally agree with you if you well
although there's a great JFK story and I
read this in a proper JFK biography and
this is where you really actually get
some of JFK's charisma he was in West
Virginia talking to coal miners in the
 1960s like could you imagine and
one guy finally you know raised their
hand they say have you ever done like an
honest day's work in your whole life
JFK looks at the round and he's like I
don't think so I guess and they all
laugh and they are all like well I guess
you weren't missing anything and then
they just get back to like what they
need which he was actually at the time
mostly happy to commit to so it was like
that right like and and there's a power
and that honesty and level of self
comfort that really diffuses a lot of
stuff because it's honest but like Budaj
edge you know I mean part of the reason
Clinton was good is there's a part of
Clinton that should have known better
because of his background in some ways
but like I don't think Buddha judge has
a me he must know labor unions exist his
dad was a Marxist professor but I mean
he just God I always forget about that
as no I mean that's just yeah I mean
Kamala I mean the fools
fell off a cliff I looked up Buddha
judges labor plans and actually like if
you took his name off of it you know
there's some good stuff our or $15 an
hour plus index to inflation and then a
ban on right to work which is our very
most important I mean I think I want to
start seeing them you know Rashida said
21 they shall follow her or 20 unless
it's important but it should be 2025 ban
right to work that's a big deal but uh
but the thing is is like I don't you
obviously can't trust him on that stuff
and he doesn't have the
you'd need more than just plans frankly
to appeal to people like that like he
does strategy he doesn't have a class
analysis of how the economy is
structured he doesn't know about
labour capital he thinks of organized
labor as one more special interest group
that he has to pander to exactly final
call today you're calling from a 406
area code who are you where he calling
from sorry couldn't get to everybody
obviously we'll be back here tomorrow
406 what's on your mind hey Michael this
is Brennan from Montana
hey Brennan what's going on um not much
how are you guys good I I was actually
uh I guess to start off solidarity with
that first caller whom is potentially
going on strike solidarity with the UAW
workers lose olive Ray bash the fash and
 Bill Gates um covering a lot of
good bases right yeah I was hoping to
actually ask you guys I've been noticing
online in various like Facebook groups
and just different places that I
strolling through the interwebs a lot of
people are having disagreements and I've
called him before and talked about my
experience with sunrise movement locally
and so obviously I support the green new
deal but I've been seeing a lot of like
even within the list but all over
honestly there's a whole bunch of people
that are extremely married to nuclear
power and so much so that they won't
they think that you know like even
people on the Left I've seen they don't
like Bernie because yep he wants to
phase out nuclear yep and I'm like how
can you just cancel the strongest
candidate because he wants to phase out
nuclear I understand we can't phase it
out right now maybe but shouldn't that
be on the like list oh I I don't even my
understand I don't even know if he's
talking about phasing it out I think
he's actually just doesn't include a big
investment in it for his green new deal
he doesn't include it at all
I mean okay you know my thing is is like
clearly somehow nuclear technology
became and I know I mispronounced that
and people are just gonna have to deal
with that because it's nuclear yeah and
that's never gonna be Thank You Jamie
because I would like to tell that person
that Jamie's embodying so well right now
I'm never gonna pronounce it correctly
so just just breathe that in but it's
become there are these techno fixes and
scientific solutions that really become
a form of deep magical thinking for
people so you know I've said you know
I'm willing to have it well I'm not
particularly willing to have a debate on
it to be honest with you because it's
just not remotely as important as like
infinitely other more important things
to talk about but the political reality
is is you know do you support and trust
things as they are constituted now to go
on a massive power point power plant
construction spree like you know do you
think that that is safe do you think
that's cost-effective um do you have
answers for the fact that we have
material from these plants that we still
don't know how to deal with and I
understand that people say no it's these
new does and it takes care of all the
problems I I don't buy it and I have not
and and to the extent I've actually
looked at like real literature on it
there's a lot of optimism but it does
not have the same kind of like utopian
hope that people seem to have with it so
I think that it's I think that once you
take on you know radical deployment of
green technologies you deal with things
like obviously deforestation but you
also you need to redesign cities you
need public transport you need like you
really need to do these things like even
nuclear even even cut like I'll totally
grant that France you know has better
relative admissions because of that but
I also will tell you this that Germany's
been phasing those out and they still
hit the best targets and there's no way
around dealing with um really I would
say actually how people transport
themselves
I mean I I and and and agriculture yeah
dad I think that one thing people need
to look at to that the green new deal
just talks kind of broadly about
renewable but most people think wind and
solar but if you look at broad like
hydroelectric is huge and it's what runs
of majority of some countries and I was
doing some reading honestly when we
built all of our dams years decades ago
we only utilize like 10 percent if that
of our waterways to produce
hydroelectric power and I think if we
you know do yeah that has big
environmental implications to so you
know that's oh that's the C R dams are
problematic but look everything you're
saying is totally I mean look China's
doing a lot of this stuff and they are
focusing on the things you're talking
about so I I just and the and also I'm
sorry I know that there is a certain
type of very linear person that hates
these points but I I'm sorry like Nassim
Taleb he calls it the turkey principle
like every day a turkey wakes up on a
farm in its head there is a because
million to one probability that it will
live out another day having a great time
chilling out in a nice little family
farm until it doesn't and gets its head
chopped off like when these things have
problems they are monumental yeah you
know so yeah I don't know yeah I I'm
sorry I was concerned we share the Gulf
to some online this weekend it's like if
Republicans want to start talking about
all this stuff then pass a nuclear bill
let's see what happens with it but like
I don't think it's a priority than the
left at all we have the option to
transfer to clean energy without having
to utilize something that might cause
the second Chernobyl I feel like we
should take it I would go with that
final I am the day nomad
[Music]
big fan the Barbados PM speech was great
how do you guys reconcile
non-interventionism with the argument
the BJP supporters used the defend human
rights abuses in Kashmir or did arte
defending his insane drug policy well
I'm not I'm not a non-interventionist
I'm talking this is why I work with
Daniel bessner you there are all sorts
of other ways and by the way also for
all countries to apply pressure because
there's I mean I don't have a problem
with China releasing reports and using
its diplomatic corps to talk about the
United States prison and racial policing
policies I think that's great
so there's a lot of other tools the
State Department I have no problem with
the state the State Department should
release what it knows about what's
having and happening in Kashmir
sanctions that are not on an entire
population I think they can be selective
and put it leaders or specific financial
institutions I don't necessarily have a
problem with so I think that we really
need to decouple the idea that just even
practically because I mean say we wake
up on this you know say Bernie Sanders
is president and all of a sudden you
have somebody who might actually try to
use u.s. foreign policy in constructive
way you still need to actually fill that
in with detail you're not gonna just
like stop doing stuff and so the detail
of what you do needs to change radically
and there are diplomatic tools I mean
that's another major failure of the
modern era like diplomacy exists it
isn't literally just like bomb people or
pass genocide 'el sanctions regimens
there's other things to do
that's my shorthand yeah there's a
difference between being anti invent
interventionist and anti imperialist as
well that's right and I would I would
hope is some future us would reflect the
foreign policy of anti-imperialism but
not be dumb about it like not everything
that the u.s. does is inherently
imperialist like I also object to the
sort of dumb dumb anti-imperialists who
think it's bad that the the Obama
administration was supporting the Kurds
in Syria with some limited airstrikes I
think that's a good thing I mean if we
had a conflict on the level of
the Spanish Civil War right I would
certainly hope that a sort of socialist
social democratic US would help the the
leftists and I'll try to so Roosevelt
tried to he tried to sell arms to the
Republican or but you should have done
more but he did try to in the Congress
killed it and I think the Kurdish
example is a great example because of
course the United States is not doing it
because they care about having
solidarity with Raghava but it's within
their strategic interest and this is the
point I always make and some people get
it and some people don't
but I want Russian presence in Venezuela
because I want to disincentivize us
regime and military action they're a
hundred percent I want Chinese presence
in Latin America for the same reasons
and if the United States having a
presence in rojava
blocks Kurd Turkish plans for genocide
good like that's how you also have to
start to and and you need to really
start thinking about like Lula has
talked about recently that the BRICS
needs needed to have been an actual
alternative institution with an
alternative currency and counter
hegemonic forces but these are all
conversations for I guess all of our
lives we'll see you tomorrow thanks
to get to where I want but I know
I'm going
I just got
[Music]
yeah
take it
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
