from a 7-3 to area code who are you
where you calling from
7:32 hello hello hi this is Alex hey
Alex what's up how you doing two things
where's your stuff I'm calling from
Edison New Jersey
oh cool hey Alex what's going on Alex
from Edison New Jersey big New Jersey
show today without dogs the show
yesterday was the funniest ever I don't
mean just and see their shows I mean all
YouTube but like that's that being said
yes Jim Bar is different from you in
three ways and I'll tell you three ways
you're different
number one honestly he's funnier and
these are all subjective you are so
close to getting hung up on right now
that man should not alone with that so
now you're on a clock you have 30
seconds left to finish the rest of your
points and begin 30 any inspires people
to give money and and inspires me and
many of my friends to give money to
these non corporate Democrats you guys
are more serious but when you talk about
Lula I'm not reaching for my checkbook
to give a OC any money and I hope that
you guys won't spend so much time
defining yourself as a contrast to Jimmy
door oh my second thing is can he do it
another impression I love you that's
great no but look here's but let me tell
you where you're wrong so all right
first of all the Lula coverage should
inspire you to open your checkbook up
for non corporate Democrats Brian mirror
actually explained that brilliantly
today and you can write you know what
you should do is you should write a
check to mark Pocan for if you can for
50 bucks and save a note and say thank
you for speaking out on behalf of Brazil
and for freeing Lula that's what you
should do and the thing is I'm sorry I -
he goes on Tom Hartman every Wednesday
right so great and in addition to that
look the
to beef with Jimmy Doran and it's funny
even Matt just set it off Mike but even
what you just framed like it's
consumptive we're not trying to be and I
know we have a reputation as being the
most smug and arrogant show on YouTube
which is awesome and hilarious to me I
don't I mean I kind of care like in the
sense that I think it's funny and I'm
definitely funnier and that that in and
of itself definitely undermines your
credibility but I'll try to go out on a
limb with you you know I'm just I'm just
a jerk-off caller yeah well you
essentially they're like a Scientologist
you're so delusional but no but let me
just say this let me just say this the
difference is there is actually what
people don't understand and if you
recall there was a period of time where
I did stuff with Jimmy Dore and I
honestly if right after 2016 he he
didn't even have to say in my opinion I
might not be totally on the same page
with Sam if after 2016 happened he
completely turned his focus to dealing
with fascism
um and continuing to support non
corporate Democrats and all the rest but
the endless what about ISM the endless
false equivalencies the endless moralism
and the endless just focus on electoral
ISM is is and it's
substantively wrong it's miss educating
people about how to think about politics
and so if there was a dude who did a
show that was less wonky than ours that
was less you know whatever the and
it was but conveying the same message
about power and strategy and capitalism
that would be awesome I would give it
nothing but props and I'd continue to
want to collaborate with him and even
the thing the way you speak about Brazil
I'm sorry dude doing a
uncritical piece of cover this guy will
do Syria conspiracy and then
does a credulous segment about a
far-right fascist facilitating project
which is imprisoning I'm sorry dude one
of the most important leaders on our
planet and if you don't care about that
we're not on the same team I mean
these are substantive problems and the
guy just if the guy was just more like
meat and potatoes that's awesome
in fact that's needed and that has never
been the beef ever it's in substance
period and by the way as far as I know
Jimmy door does not support Alexandria
Ocasio Cortes no well he helped her he's
got her on a show in the beginning when
she ran for office and he helped her and
that's great I'm glad he does that I
think he also had on Kanye Lange that's
a good thing that he does now I don't
think it's a good thing that he
immediately starts thrashing her which
is probably what Jamie's referring to as
soon as he says as soon as she says like
the most innocuous thing about anything
and also to put your gun sights on
Andrew Gilliam right now and the context
of the race he's in and the implications
for voting rights 2020 not to mention
the racial dynamics of it cui bono there
yeah very stupid so these are
substantive things they have nothing to
do with how much you curse how much you
hate you know near a tandon or Hillary
Clinton nothing to do with whether or
not you want to be walking or not you
know what he could have done the same
Brazil said but he could he could have
looked out and he said hey Bryan Mir
he's talking about us CIA and corporate
influence in Brazil that's the kind of
thing that I'm thinking about let me
have him on for six minutes to explain
why TYT giving private positive coverage
to carwash in the mainstream media's
 we should be supporting the
Workers Party that's actually his
 mandate so that's the beef okay
this is why people this is why your show
is great you have a sense of criticism I
think unrivaled by anybody
maybe jank but that's offensive maybe at
best this is why I like your show but
his show is hilariously I'm sorry
honestly all right that's cool you think
is funny I don't that's great I mean
I'll joke about that all day but that's
totally secondary the befriend this show
has nothing to do with his comedy I've
done comedy bits with Jimmy I think
Jimmy is a funny entertaining and
interpersonally in my experience nice
guy but for all of the substantive
reasons he outlined those are problems
and how you're doing politics
and I'm not trying to create broad
reactive populism I'm trying to create a
left path to saving democracy and
generating some type of what we call
socialism which means different things
to different people
but that's an actual thing and a major
part of that thing is building alliances
across lines that include not
unnecessarily alienating people who as
an example might support and do gilliam
and it also includes recognizing that in
today's world the primary threat is the
 fascist running it not something
that john edwards said in 2009 you can
make a clip about to do a false
equivalency that's
it's wrong and it's substantively wrong
and if he swears and he's less wonky
that's great not to mention ok then you
had then you have to admit that he's the
Fox News on the left no I don't know
it's not Fox News helps win Fox News has
a strategy Fox News is
relentless do you think Fox News would
do over 70% of their clips if they were
Fox News of the left then Fox News would
have killed Trump and they would have
done it segments every day on how he's
not a real conservative and he's a
sellout he's not Fox News on the left at
all
if you mean stylistically maybe so and I
keep telling you that's the part I can
have no problem with you're missing I
mean I admit I mean stylistically and
mathematically not pragmatically not at
all not at all dude we got to let you go
any kind of coherent socialist ideology
analysis or tactic he doesn't advocate
calling him a sellout
it's a sellout if you look at
what he said about that coherent
progressive sorry hashtag mine device
employs he used this when he said
basically because people were like well
Jimmy is an ice a problem for your
analysis about the Dems being the same
as Republicans just said well it's in
its the employ it's the lower-level
employees of ice who really should bear
the blame because they're following
orders which like I'm all down for like
the whole following order Singh but
you're blaming the local workforce and
not the power structure that you
said wouldn't be a difference because
you need to build a scaffolding to
justify your stupid false equivalencies
and that's more exciting to people
instead of the simple we need something
that's not Hillary or Trump it
transcends this whole corrupt rotten
system and the relative choices are
obvious one is less damaging than the
other and that's less exciting and it
makes less dumb people flock and freak
out on social media but it also happens
to be true
well that's it people have a lot of
opinions today on how we should be doing
our jobs that is true but I'm not I mean
I gave that's actually my most sincere
like I'm not doing again like my sincere
explanation of jimmy dore because i'm
and if you're listening and you're not
like completely in a cult you've
actually heard me give him a lot of
props there and none I'll just say this
one more time none of my problems with
that dude have anything to do with the
fact that he swears or he hates
Democrats or he's enraged at the
disgusting buffoons on our cable news
networks that's all great I have a
problem with the false equivalencies
moralism electoral obsession and
standing with what about ISM for fascism
those are my problems and I I don't mean
to speak for all of us because as we've
said we have a diversity of opinions
here but I don't think any of us is too
concerned that we're punching left with
regard to Jimmy Dore I know I don't know
it to be the real I am NOT I think he
has I think he is it has exact I think
he has opposite and reactionary politics
because he and I bring this up a lot of
times but the way he got and he still
has us up there this fake George Orwell
quote that says a people who elect
corrupt politicians there's the
corruption again people who elect
corrupt politicians Impostors thieves
and traders are not victims about
accomplices now I am a big horrible guy
people should probably know this about
me by now
there's no way Orwell would ever write
that because he wouldn't Center blame on
the people even if you had only read
1984 he says the people are where the
hope is and Jimmy does not believe that
no unless and so and that's another
great irony all look if you you spent
all that's an actually I have no
problem I think we can't actually have
some critique since the electorate
sometimes to be frank but if you're
gonna spend all day literally doing
segments about why you wouldn't vote to
prevent fascism because like some
Hillary comms director tweeted something
or some and your vote shaming
that's a big phrase they like well
that's exactly what you're doing
to more people and we're doing more
people and we're doing it to nobody I
will match my support for Bernie Sanders
and that primary against anybody's and I
never was in a position of saying that
people who voted the other way from me
that were normal everyday people were
stupid or wrong or whatever I actually
said we needed to do a better job to win
because that's actually what the
job of politics is you're calling from a
203
