[Music]
taken into custody in Britain for
skipping bail
he is facing extradite extradition
charges to the United States ostensibly
for helping in my understanding now of
the indictment involving Assange and it
includes a lot of stuff that people
should be very concerned about putting
aside we really need to be group
grown-ups here when we assess these
things I know people think that Sanchez
cooties
I am also maybe close to being in the
cootie camp but despite the fact that he
has cooties
we don't want acts of journalism to be
criminalized because that will have very
bad implications for our society moving
forward there are elements of that
indictment that do that the apparently
his the the non elements attacking his
journalism is that he supposedly gave
Chelsea Manning advice on how to crack
some of the encryption I guess at the
DoD that advice turned out to not work
is my understanding according to the
indictment so they're getting I mean
they're and I don't think that's
appropriate behavior I think that that's
probably chargeable insofar as if that
is you know can be proven true like that
you cross the line in that moment where
you're not functioning as journalists
it's one thing to be a journalist to get
the information
to hide your source protect your source
it's another to engage in the activity I
mean the line has to be drawn at one
point you can take someone provides you
photos of someone in their house that's
newsworthy very different from breaking
into that house and taking those photos
when when Sky News reporters hacked into
people's accounts to steal information
from them was criminal so with all that
said it seems that Julian Assange has
lost a friend in Donald Trump here is a
montage of Donald Trump in 2016 talking
about WikiLeaks he was really into
WikiLeaks 2016 WikiLeaks I love
WikiLeaks the Hillary Clinton documents
released today by WikiLeaks make more
clear than ever just how much is at
stake in this election so much
corruption this wiki Lee stuff is
unbelievable it tells you the inner
heart you got to read it the WikiLeaks
documents show how the media conspires
and collaborates with Clinton campaign
including giving the questions and
answers to Hillary Clinton before a
debate
I don't get them I want him for love
Achilles boy they are really
Esther said of Hilary she has bad
instincts no we knew that just look at
her career in a newly released email
John Podesta has been caught saying we
have to dump all of those emails can you
believe this that's WikiLeaks wikileaks
wikileaks wikileaks wikileaks wikileaks
now from WikiLeaks
did you see what came out over WikiLeaks
we love WikiLeaks we've learned so much
from WikiLeaks
WikiLeaks wikileaks wikileaks wikileaks
wikileaks wikileaks just came out with
lots of really unbelievable things the
wiki links the wikileaks wikileaks
wikileaks again nobody's covering wiki
leak I sort of feel like he just loves
saying the word or I should say letting
put this way Trump 2016
WikiLeaks hot Trump 2019 WikiLeaks not
play it I know nothing about WikiLeaks
it's not leaking and
I know there is something having to do
with Julian Assange I've been seeing
what's happened with Assange and that
will be a determination
I would imagine mostly by the Attorney
General who's doing an extreme job so
he'll be making a determination I know
nothing really about them it's not my
it's not my deal in life I know the
Attorney General will be involved in
that and he'll make a decision okay
I took my totally I totally grew out of
my WikiLeaks phase I have ideal in
Nights am I thinking no no it is funny I
ratify WikiLeaks phase it's a like I
never listen oh oh you do know you know
you mean it the white rake a guy I guess
there's something along those lines I
never I never was blasting hoping but
never in every single day last I
listened to his singles
yeah I mean I might have heard it at a
party but I certainly wasn't playing it
on blast
Katy Perry I never let it down nobody
wait you owe me 80 Perry fan you were a
big fan of WikiLeaks I were I never I
don't I never heard mean perhaps other
people liked WikiLeaks but this trying
to remember I mean this is such a great
lesson in fascism though right cuz I
just feel like there's there's two so
one it's like okay you know resistance
types who are celebrating the Trump
administration
do you know pressing these charges are
demented I mean these are the same
people to think that like Oh Trump
called Jim Acosta a jerk it's the end of
journalism are okay with this which is
odd but then and then the left was as
parts of the left or ridiculous on this
because he's I remember those you know
the email leaks of 2016 were nothing
they barely revealed anything and then
you know the actual stuff was 2011 but
that being as it may like this is how
people like this work when it's you know
when it's expedient to have WikiLeaks
awesome when it's time to put you in
jail for revealing war crimes great that
like how it would surprise anybody that
Donald Trump or Mike Pompeo or Sean
Hannity
have an expedient relationship with
these things is a highly diluted right
and we should be clear that these
charges stem from the 2011 leaks of that
included video image of US military
firing on Iraqi civilians and then and
it's really interesting to watch the
news media recount at least some of the
reporters I've seen who now acknowledge
that the materials that were released by
WikiLeaks that were taken and leaked by
Chelsea Manning had legitimate news
value it's fascinating because I can
tell you at that time they were in
complete denial despite the fact
literally everyday you would see another
article written based upon those cables
and so yeah we're gonna see what happens
and and again there are parts of that
indictment that are highly problematic
part of the conspiracy that Assange and
Manning took measures to conceal Manning
is the source of disclosure of
classified records the WikiLeaks liked
the idea you protecting your source
provide information a part of the
conspiracies that Assange a Manning used
a special folder on a cloud of Dropbox
used Dropbox and signal yeah you know
you go to a Ken clip and Steen's Twitter
page he's a really good investigative
reporter and I think his pinned tweet is
here's my signal number right if you
have something for me they all they all
do this and so the part the idea that
this is part of the indictment is highly
problematic it seems to me and credit
where credit's due
tulsi gabbard went on was it on with the
are those it's christmas chris matthews
to make this very point
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was
arrested today for his alleged role in
hacking classified US military files and
I'm drumming down by US Representative
in 2020 presidential candidate Tulsi
Gabbard of Hawaii what do you make of
our effort to extradited and well
indicted putties probably join us on I'm
deeply concerned by what's happened
today we look back at the Obama
administration's decision during his
time not to do this not to try to
extradite Assange and charge him because
of their concern about how this
government action would impinge on
freedom of the press this is a blow to
transparency in a blow to a Free Press
when you have a situation where our
government is in a position where they
can basically create this climate of
fear against somebody or those who are
publishing things that they don't like
or saying things that they don't like
and that's the concern here this is a
threat to journalists but it's also
something that threatens every American
because the message that we are getting
that the American people are getting by
what's happened here today is you know
be quiet
toe the line otherwise there will be
consequences it's so good for her I did
not know that there was an affirmative
decision by the Obama administration to
not extradite that well they didn't I
don't know that there was an affirmative
one but I at the end of the day they
didn't as far as we know you know they
didn't press charges against him well
this has been an ongoing investigation
this grand jury now I don't know if it
had shut down and they did it restarted
we can alleged Greenwald says regularly
that the Obama administration stopped
short at the end of the day of pressing
ok and it charges and I would assume
he's pretty up on this and all's well is
not looking to do the Obama
administration any favors so I
understand it's not inconceivable to
that that the way that Trump makes most
of his decisions is like what did Obama
do okay do the other thing wait Obama
stopped short guess what I'm not going
to do not
stepping shy but jump right over it Jim
I just I also just want to add to like
again I just outside of the United
States there is no controversy amongst
like Center left and left parties about
this position like what what the stakes
of this are and also what the initial
revelations showed yeah without a doubt
there is
