with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday July 1st 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Anthony McCain McCann author of a
Western tale of America in crisis
Shadowlands fear and freedom at the
Oregon standoff also on the program
today Trump wilts may settle for a North
Korean nuclear freeze versus a drawdown
meanwhile the country we had convinced
to do a drawdown has now broken the
stockpile limit set by the now destroyed
Iran deal federal judge forces the Trump
administration to allow doctors to
inspect their migrant concentration
camps and new reports suggest that the
DHS was warning of riots two months ago
things were so bad
meanwhile in the wake of the
first and second first debates Joe Biden
drops because of his debate performance
and everything else he says meanwhile
fundraising numbers in Budaj raises 24
million in q2 Hong Kong protesters
stormed Parliament on the anniversary
its returned to China and the latest on
lava jato key witness changed his story
multiple times to implicate Lula Harvard
says fu to a generation of kids in Flint
Michigan and names Rick Snyder as a
fellow to be fair they just started
their new criminal pollution of the
Environment Program so
and lastly George Soros teams up with
the Koch brothers to do what did we call
those episodes crossovers to do a
crossover episode in funding an anti-war
think tank like Jetsons meet the
Flintstones
yeah exact some good some good people
involved with it so far yeah I don't
know how I feel about that but all that
and more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen you know you'd think like a
George Soros could just step up and do
it himself that's all I'm saying
oh yeah I mean I think if anything the
critique should be wire they're not more
you know where's steyr like why are
there not more liberal plutocrats
willing to oppose interventionism i
thought they have to you know do
something like this but i know like as
an example i treated Parsees a big part
of it he's been instrumental in or I've
heard base of itch I mean we need these
people to be funded and happy and
working on this all I'm saying is
if you're inclined to stop war which I
don't think most billionaires
necessarily are I would imagine a
significant portion of them make their
money in some fashion or another by war
conflict the fallout from war or
conflict etc etc if you're inclined to
do that why why give the Koch brothers
some measure of cover but to each their
own
I know it's intolerant of me to suggest
on how someone should pay their I mean
know that they should use their billions
of dollars for that was actually you
recorded it from I guess I just realized
you can hear us laughing over we could
add that clean he was being very honest
all right so joe biden his polling
numbers dropped five points in the wake
of the poll according to according to a
morning consult still in the lead but
under the cedar theorem of the demise of
joe biden postulated months ago that by
october early october maybe late
september he would be third in the polls
which may be subject to amending in
terms of like fourth in the polls
what will we'll see now is that every
point in which he drops in the polling
begin to create more downward pressure
than it would for most candidates
because his biggest selling point is
that he can win every time lately
allegedly and every time he drops in the
polls
it is evidenced that maybe he can't win
maybe he's just not that good of a
campaigner maybe he's not aware of who
he's talking to or what his liabilities
are and
but hold your horses the debates not
everything
this guy's gonna get out there this
weekend this past weekend and try and
change some minds show that he still
sharp his attack here he is this is at a
Chicago rally what day was this on
Saturday and he's trying to show that
hey he's with it he's hip man he knows
the score on the street listen to him
talking about how he understands the
plight of black America feel confident
when they send their child and their son
out on the streets it's gonna be safe
forget it recognized we've got to
recognize that kid wearing the hoodie
may very well be the next poet laureate
and not a gangbanger ladies and
gentlemen are too many black men and I
might add women in prison all right now
when he says we've got to recognize that
the guy in the hoodie man may be a poet
laureate and not a gangbanger is he
aware that most people recognize that
that the problem I mean he's obviously
referring to Trayvon Martin right I mean
that's where the whole concept of
hoodies became a thing that the problem
with Zimmerman killing Trayvon Martin
was that he was bigoted and presumed and
there was a lot of people saying like he
shouldn't be wearing a hoodie bababa the
vast majority of Americans is quite
aware that a black head in a hoodie is
not necessarily a gang banger but I
would also add that there's also
something in between you don't have to
be a poet laureate to be allowed to walk
through a gated community you don't have
to be a poet laureate to not have the
cops roll up on you
you can just be a dude you can just be
like a guy who's gonna be I don't know a
clerk at a store or a plumber or a
doctor or a dancer or a father a father
a waiter or a waiter a waiter or a
seller of hoodies I mean you could be
just about anything even and I don't
know he is its construction is a little
convoluted from that segment but and I
don't know if the question is like we
want to curb violence but or you
shouldn't have to be afraid of the cops
abusing you I think that's the case
we're guard las' of what you are I
didn't mean I think like and I don't
think that all the gangbangers are just
gang bangers all the time like even if
you are a gangbanger you still have
rights like the right not to be murdered
when walking down the street yeah that's
the things I couldn't tell from his
construction if he was saying protect
them from the cops or protect them from
violence or whatever it is but the
bottom line is is that Joe Biden thinks
he's talking to a nation of racist and
he's the voice of reason so in addition
bodies you got to understand you have
these old concepts in your head that if
a then if I can't black kids wearing a
hoodie that he's a gangbanger meanwhile
I just saw this great showcase of
underprivileged kids who go to LaGuardia
and they were reading poetry that's the
Biden plan in addition to body cameras
before a kid gets drugs planted on him
or attacked by some random freak in a
housing development but I didn't would
have a special tactical team trained to
check if inside the kids backpack
there's a poetry collection and then you
could judge the merits of how far that
work will get him forgive me father I've
sinned I thought that maybe a black kid
could be a poet laureate I'm sorry I'm
sorry
wait this kids scribbling oh this is the
type of stuff no poetry take them out if
there's one thing cops have respect for
its poets yeah a whole dog fix keys
gotcha a poetry
slam is headed to the concrete but the
more this that Joe Biden does this type
of stuff
he basically shows like look I'm sorry
you're at a rally in Chicago
you're clearly talking about criminal
justice reform because you know you have
a liability here so you are this is your
a game you're bringing out your a game
and you're trying to convince people I'm
not the guy that I'm being sad or
parodied or satirized about I know this
stuff and I know that just cuz you wear
a hoodie doesn't mean you're a
gangbanger right who's with me
I mean this hurt us all well this is a
liability that when the chips are down
when he's got to deliver on something he
can't do it because he just has not
really opened his eyes I look I don't
know why I don't know if it's because
he's still the way he was 30 years ago
or he's progressed but he just hasn't
progressed that much or he doesn't
realize where the rest of the country is
or I don't know what it is but it
doesn't matter it matters whether he can
deliver on that moment that's part one
so part one is Joe Biden just showed us
in that earlier clip that he is a little
bit rusty when it comes to trying to be
the vanguard for racial justice in this
country his his whole hoodie does not
make you a gangbanger as if it's a
revelation to everybody in Chicago well
here he is basically doing the same
thing when it comes to the LGBTQ
community I was when he was gonna get
around to them well he he is at where
was this one what is this a clip from a
Human Rights Campaign ceremony in
September of 2018 okay but he just said
it the other day though - he said it in
Seattle but we don't have the video that
okay so in Seattle
he gave a quote which went like this he
said this was just like what a day or
two ago right he said you know if you
come here in Seattle he said saying five
years ago if someone at a business
meeting in Seattle made fun of a gay
waiter people would just let it go it's
according to a pool report the audience
vocally responded to their mark and some
of the crowd said nah not know it's that
you're in 2014 if people had made gay
comments in Seattle about Seattle buddy
well I'm pretty sure that most of your
major cities in fact in the country if
somebody had said that in fact I think
probably all your major cities if they
had said it around a table someone would
have said you know really like that was
a little anachronistic even five years
ago but apparently he loves this
anecdote and will not let it go he said
this a year ago but now remember the
timeline 2014 in Seattle they're doing
business guys are doing gay jokes here
we go you guys have done more to free
straight women and men than you have
gays and lesbians so you don't
misunderstand me
think about this once at one example a
lot of your very successful businessmen
and women if you were at a fancy
restaurant in Washington five six years
ago and an important business meeting
and a gay or lesbian waiter came up or
transgender spoke with a lisp or
demonstrated they were gay or lesbian
and someone at that luncheon table said
made fun of that person no one would
have said anything not a joke I want you
to literally think about this too
if that same thing happened the other
four or five people at the table say you
horse's tail get out of here
[Applause]
now his point is well-taken but for some
reason he keeps changing the timeline in
a very weird way because apparently in
2014 he told this story and it was about
and he used it 15 years ago for 1999 so
in 2014 he thought that era was over in
2019 he thinks that era still existed in
2015 the point being is he's got these
catch phrases which suggest that he was
in the vanguard of something and he
doesn't realize that things have changed
how dramatically things have changed
exactly it's like he learned he learned
to like pop you know like he could do
that when like we we used to you know do
this thing with the breakdancing and he
could but he learned to pop and he just
assumed like I can hang on to this for
the rest of time and be the guy on the
dance floor who looks like he's really
with it just to give you an example
about what was going on five years ago
this was a hidden camera
ABC showed that they did in Mississippi
in Mississippi in a restaurant to see
how people would react to gay people
five years ago just to give you a sense
Joe Biden is extremely out of touch are
you serious see
what do they do they're making
but their day
are you gay are you gay
these guys have reached their limit and
now they head off to find their server
is there a problem I'm also an actor
working for us but instead of kicking
Tracy out our waiter ASPs our couple to
Lee's gives me guys I just spoke with my
manager we're gonna have to ask you to
leave just because some people's
religious believes we have to leave yes
he's visibly shaken and upset meanwhile
Tracy just keeps pushing
you understand why I had them picked out
right no not all
[Music]
there's a reason why they have no
acceptance for anything else in the
world I'm so I know I can see I'm not
trying to make you mad
get out because there is no point and
you said you're talking me when I'm he
was pretty pissed
no that is first of all obviously any
typical example of how intolerant the
left is she was trying to have an
exchange of ideas and on the left you
could just be like I know I'm I'm joking
I don't know but the the point is Joe
Biden every time he opens his mouth and
tries to say something nice and helpful
he's just out of touch he has lost sight
of where America is and that is why in
many respects a lot of people feel like
his candidacy is so regressive and look
Joe Biden's very popular in the LGBTQ
community because many people give him a
lot of credit for marriage equality and
some of that may be warranted but the
fact is is that if you're worried about
Joe Biden's ability to get elected this
should really bother you because again
like he could tell this anecdote over
and over again that's all well and good
and that's fine and like I say I think
that he he deserves some credit for
marriage equality as much as anybody at
least within the context of the the
Obama administration without a doubt but
if he if this is where if this is his
wheelhouse there's a problem yeah he's
like the creepy white family and get out
where they're trying to show they're not
racist and the dad's like I would have
voted for a third term for Obama if I
could have yeah I it's not even that I
think that he's Nessa I think he has a
problem or of a problem on race than he
does frankly on LGBTQ issues but the
issue is is that he doesn't know where
where the countries act
and that is I think a big problem for
him but we'll see we'll see if other
people think it is because I'm not the
only one in charge of that apparently
hey its reminder a support for today's
show comes from The New Yorker The New
Yorker represents the best writing in
America today you can enjoy the works of
Emily Nussbaum
she's the television critic for The New
Yorker who in 2016 won the Pulitzer
Prize for criticism could check out
Doreen st. Felix staff writer at The New
Yorker who covers the highs and lows of
today's culture 2019 she won the le
award for calms and commentary or John
Cassady covers politics and economics
for The New Yorker all of it folks you
know The New Yorker it's the most
prominent periodical in the country
Cassie's written articles on topics
ranging from the intelligence failures
before the Iraqi war to the economics of
John Maynard Keynes right now you could
head over to New Yorker calm as a story
will hunter Biden jeopardize his
father's campaign John Hickenlooper
swore on socialism Democrats cautiously
returned to the war on poverty we see
and then there's stuff about the the
Democratic primaries moving margins it's
a lot of political stuff Trump's curious
rendezvous with Kim jong-eun I I could
only and then Oregon tsunami risk which
I did not know about there's stories on
Turkey
the politics of going on Turkey right
now Robert Caro and LBJ Matt just
literally couldn't help himself the word
of the the crossword you know New Yorker
every time we do in New York I add
actually I like its I could I have
bragging rights with my folks
finally think that what I'm doing is
legitimate
yet 12 weeks for just six bucks plus the
New Yorker tote bag weekly home delivery
of the print edition and unlimited
access to New Yorker calm with 10 to 15
exclusive site only stories every day is
when you go to New Yorker dot-com slash
majority and enter the code majority
you'll be able to access the apps the
online archives the crossword puzzle and
more again that's New Yorker dot-com /
majority enter the code majority to save
50% on a 12 week subscription and get
the exclusive tote all right check that
out folks we're gonna take quick break
when we come back
Anthony McCann on Shadowlands fear and
freedom at the Oregon standoff
you
we'll be are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it's a
pleasure to the to welcome to the
program poet and author Anthony McCann
author of a Western tale of America in
crisis Shadowlands fear and freedom at
the Oregon standoff of course this is
about the the Bundy takeover of the
Malheur National Wildlife in 2016
Anthony welcome to the program uh thank
you glad to be here so I want to start
with this question and then you know
we'll get into part of the story the
book comes out
I guess it's tomorrow and so people can
check it out and there's a lot of stuff
obviously happening in the news that if
not directly related to this in
Washington State certainly I guess
tangentially so at least in terms of the
spirit of what's going on but I want to
start with asking you about a quote from
your book because you did a tremendous
amount of reporting you covered
obviously the sort of the the things
that led to the takeover and then the
the trial itself but there was one guy
who was part of the Bundy i'ts a guy
named Jason Patrick who had sort of
joined this group as a as sort of a
someone who I guess was suspicious not
suspicious maybe or maybe suspicious but
as a critique of sort of state power in
the form of police officers and at one
point the Patrick tried to make common
cause with black lives matter and one of
the leaders of the local don't shoot
organizations Tresser Rayford I guess I
don't report hland yeah terrific eraser
yes he's actually running for mayor of
Portland right now oh is that right well
she had she had said his ideas are who
he thinks he is will you just talk about
that and then let's go into the story
because I'm just curious
just like you know explain to people
what that means oh I'd be glad to thank
you that's one of my for me that's a
real touchstone quote in the whole book
for me and it's so it's such a simple
quote but so complex what - I said I
think is saying there about Jason who is
very sincere about his opposition to
police militarization and police abuse
and is sincere in his desire to you know
to ally with Theresa and that cause and
has done a lot of work along those lines
as part of more the libertarian
conservative wing of police
militarization critique which has been
pretty strong for a long time but he's
part of also this Bundy circle and Jason
himself to his credit was not surprised
when Carissa was that interested in
aligning with him because of the baggage
that his group brings what I took
Theresa's quote as saying and what she's
saying there I believe is that uh it's
not enough with inside the abstractions
right your big universal generalizations
that that underneath all of this is
history with tremendous gravitational
and deformative force on on persons and
bodies and institutions and that you
can't just pretend that you are what do
you say and you can't operate as if
that's true because then you will
blithely and naively go into situations
and just mess things up right and um in
the worst case scenarios end up just we
perpetuating either symbolically or
actually the vials of the past when you
don't actually attend to the work of
understanding how as a human being we
are historical beings and that means
that you know we're traversed by a lot
of ugliness and there are ideas which
maybe even our ideas which might be on
the surface might seem universal and
good and beautiful and true are also
traversed by then it would yeah I mean I
think this is you know this describes so
much of what I think we talked about
pratik particularly in this era
because so much of it seems so much of
our political moment seems to be well is
obviously everything is on some level
rooted in the past but so much of it is
being brought up in and maybe it's
because of just the sort of like the the
fire hose of information that we get now
that sort of like historical context in
the history that imbues all you know
positions and policies and opinions are
sort of like almost inaccessible we
can't sort of climb over the the the
huge surge in information but so much of
this lack of historical context it seems
to me imbues everything right now and so
just I mean go a little bit give us
something like a little bit more
tangible I mean when this guy goes out
there and says like you know I've got a
problem with the with the way that the
cops treat citizens like we're get more
specific because you write that that
much of what happened with these Bundy
i'ts I guess you know harkens back to
the failure of reconstruction yes for me
it does yeah well I think that the whole
the whole era to me I saw and this is
where I think the history comes in and
connects also with a huge part of our
neoliberal dispensation which would also
be the social media dispensation and the
effect of that on governance and with
also those companies emerging is almost
governing structures all played into
this story too but the story of the
occupation itself right
I see as deeply connected to that period
of reconstruction as a forum like when
they went out there and they occupied
that refuge and they said that they were
there to return the land to the rightful
owners there's an aspect of that that I
couldn't help seeing also with the help
of the perspective of the burns Paiute
Tribe which saw it this way immediately
as a kind of Wild West Show and a kind
of reenactment of settlement of violent
settlement of the West does not how
those people saw it or they did the part
of it that they wanted to see was you
know the heroic comes to Herrera - all
the horror right
so they're restating this basically
claiming of the land to distribute it to
the people and make everyone for you the
whole frontier myth but they're doing it
in this book messianic way full of all
this just religious all this religious
content and they're doing it as a live
streaming on Facebook right so you have
like both the and and they're also
talking in all these registers of our of
our present in all this very familiar
conservative and reactionary talk about
overreach and federal tyranny and all
this stuff so the past and the present
mingles together and the kind of images
that they were that they were sending
out from there but the past that they
were particularly channeling often with
total ignorance they didn't know that
the land was had been particularly or is
I mean had been particularly important
native land and his health to be very
sacred native land Oh in a lot of ways
you know we're talking about like the
center of all the water in a very dry
region it's pretty obvious that that
would have been the center of all human
endeavor first thousands of years so
that history that particular period that
there reenacting is in that part of ori
and really comes to a head with the
failure of reconstruction in 1876 you
have the election of Rutherford B Hayes
who was a Republican from the Republican
Party but it was one of the most
controversial elections that we've ever
had and the compromise that brought him
into office basically climate like
brought reconstruction to an end
including a removal of federal troops
from the south and a reorientation of
the country towards sort of a unifying
white priority in settlement of the West
including the removal of troops more
troops into the West for pacification
quote-unquote and that immediately
immediate result of that was to one very
famous and less less famous wars against
native populations in Oregon that
happened to be led by General Howard who
was the head of the Freedmen's Bureau
which was dissolved with the failure of
reconstruction before actually who
happened to be the general in terms of
displacing the Nez Perce in 1877 the
first year of Howard's term in 1978 they
came to land exactly where
the whole Oregon occupation took place
and displaced the pirate people who then
emerged in this story of Ammon Bundy
when he claimed that he was taking this
land to give it back to the rightful
owners they were the people that been
displaced first by white settlers and
then by finally by military force with
the change and orientation of the
country that came with the end of
Reconstruction at the same time the
Bundy's a lot of the rhetoric of the
Bundy's often again unbeknownst to them
there's the mark of that time period one
of their favorite theories is the
constitutional sheriff's theory which
they tried to work at Bundy ranch and
also in Oregon when they were trying to
get the sheriff which of course you know
chef Dave Ward of Pawnee County to
shelter that the two ranchers who were
at the center of the whole conformer
that the occupation bloomed out of from
being returned to federal prison because
according to that milieu the Buddy I
milieu and a lot of militia will you
the sheriff is the highest law
enforcement officer in the land I'm
higher than the Supreme Court but this
idea has a whole history going back to
all the way back to Jim Crow wandered
through or it comes through some of the
most vile
white supremacists anti-civil rights
organizations of the nineteen sixties
the Posse Comitatus which a lot of these
guys don't seem to know it comes from
there but that's where that idea comes
from in the comic artist is named after
the act that that ended a you know
military use of military force in in the
south and reconstruction okay for that
long no yeah there's a lot to unpack
there and we I should remind people that
at one point governor Lapage of Maine
met with some of these sovereign
citizens who had this theory that he
could contact the sheriff's and have
them arrest the lawmakers who have who
were bucking Lapage and there was a big
story about how Lapage his lawyers
waited till they got out of the room and
had to basically talk him down and tell
him no this is not this is all bunk
I mean it's hilarious and it's also
horrific but all right so yes so now
just to be clear the Bundy heights were
they looking to return this land to the
Paiute they were not um but that was the
irony they were does right oh yeah in
that hit and the play we're able to you
know intervene in that very adroitly
very quickly very early on in the
occupation they held a press conference
and to hold the area was saturated with
precedent so they got a lot of
attendance and they really they
basically came out and were like well
that's interesting that they're talking
about the rightful owners and used it as
a platform to give their history island
is their history is little known but uh
all right well okay pretty big story yes
and that was you know I mean the I don't
know if there's any dynamic that can
show that sort of the the nature of
particularly from my experience the
libertarian strand in this in this type
of movements where the date of the
original inhabitable
and I would say rather arbitrary is I
think maybe being generous it tends to
be when the first white person took
ownership of something is when property
rights essentially start according to
them but be that as it may tell us just
so let's back up how I think people
remember the Bundy ranch standoff but
just remind us of that and then tell us
how it ended up why did they go to
Oregon like how did we end up with you
know this part of this story well so
that yes a 2014 was the showdown at the
at the Bundy ranch over the federal
grazing land of the Bundy family on
their ranch in eastern part of Clark
County Nevada Mojave Desert but Clark
County is awesome where Las Vegas is and
that whole story while thing is is
actually very involved in it but that
gets forgotten because it goes back over
20 years and there's a whole issue there
with the protection of the desert
tortoise which was declared an
endangered species in the early 90s this
caused the problem immediately this
Vegas as it often is
in a mega growth spurt and this
threatened to halt the growth of Vegas
and so a lot of money was invested in
them and somehow a deal was negotiated
that basically the county was able to
account these were all desert areas in
its Eastern extremities as a special
desert tortoise protection zone and that
included new BLM Bureau of Land
Management regulations on the grazing of
the the ranchers who are out there which
meant they had to move their cattle
during say the spring green up when the
tortoises come out of the holes and heat
and they could run less cattle and this
put a lot of financial pressure on those
ranchers actually all of them except for
clive in bundy in the end went out of
business
clive in bundy came up with another
solution he looked in the constitution
and reading as a very very devout
latter-day saint from a very super
conservative mindset so reading the
constitution theologically as he tends
to do he found a magical clause in there
which told him that the federal
government had no right to own land and
so they stopped recognizing the federal
government's authority in the state of
nevada and it played out in the court
for twenty years and finally after back
and forth the BLM came to confiscate his
cattle for having been on the land
grazing without permission or without in
paying his fees and because Ammon
Bundy's his son who led the standoff in
Oregon in a little kerfuffle at BLM
police after his antlers burned to the
ground by one of them was himself tased
a few times and then that video went
viral in sort of a patriot militia
milieu and due to some logistical work
by a young militiamen from Montana
disaffected Iraq war veteran we've been
trying to organize all the dispersed
militia groups to come to the defense of
the people against federal overreaching
constitutional you know abuses was able
to put out those images and people came
from all over with their guns and very
quickly the BLM decided the situation
was too dangerous and they went through
and then and then two years later that
situation was still exactly as it was a
minute moved to Boise Idaho and the case
happening in Hardin County came to his
attention involving a ranching family
really
why did he matter why did he move to
Idaho I mean as of what was it yeah they
would look at the sky or what he told me
that part of it was they were looking to
move my it sounds like you know there's
one that kind of get away from all
veterans Lama he was leaving a Phoenix
at that point he's actually not a
rancher
Ammon he runs a truck fleet maintenance
business and I think he can do that
remotely so they were looking around the
West and he he claimed that actually you
know him he and his wife and family came
to this place and Idaho that's at a
Boise and you know that everything
Hammond does is you know guided by the
holy spirit so he had a moment there and
he moved Idaho and now he believes like
that that that that coincidence has to
be meaningful because that brought him
within three hours of Harney County
which is actually otherwise near nowhere
it's the it's a place with the point in
the continental United States that's the
furthest from an interstate but he ended
up moving within three hours of there
and then you know he said that he was
moved but I the Holy Spirit or in in the
way that he figures it to research this
Hammond story about this family that was
being resented due to this case about a
long-standing dispute about management
of you know federal grazing lands I was
being returned to prison and he felt
wolf could go there and that begin this
whole process of calling these same
people who had defended his family in
Nevada to come in pressure to sheriff's
to shelter this Hammond family when the
Hammond family rejected this help and
the sheriff's you know rejected these
constitutional share of arguments they
took it to another step and occupied the
refuge and then why let me let me answer
is like returning yeah well two things
first is and maybe this is just because
I like the way that my mind works and
I'm a little bit obnoxious
did you say to him like how do you
justify like having a whole business
based upon a federal highway system if
the guys doing the trucking well would
have been my first question of them
but I imagine you wanted their their
take on that stuff you wouldn't when a
man gets hit with those wives of
questioning which he does a lot his take
is that you know there are certain
things that the federal government
should do okay and Roach is one of them
the post office is one of them his
father will be like weights and measures
you like to see that we can measure that
you know a pound needs to be a pound in
New York and Nevada you know so we can
do our commerce okay so that would be
his response to something like that but
that's a cupboard protecting the
environment not one of those things
absolutely not and that definitely where
falls into like also like a the
political theology of their particular
Mormonism there's they definitely for
them this is an earthly sojourn you know
human beings aren't from the earth the
earth is here is part of like a test and
you have to pass that test and so the
earth itself is here under human
dominion to be used as part of that test
so preserving aspects of our earth not
for our use doesn't make sense to them
because the earth is holy for our use
right that's also another one of the
conflicts of worldview that happened
here
yeah all right fair enough and so let me
ask you this why did they decide to in
support of the Hammonds or despite the
fact that the Hammonds didn't want their
support and because they got because the
sheriff didn't realize this
constitutional role why did they decide
why did they go why did they look around
was it they just basically like we need
to take over some we need to basically
take something back from the federal
government to show our power and they
just sort of decided on on this refuge
because they were it was sort of the
most defensible ground and they were
more I guess you know better trained to
deal with that in the woods then to go
drive down to I don't know to the you
know some Federal Building
you know Social Security Administration
Building or something I mean why was
that basically it
I said well first of all you mean they
were doing it within the county
they were also operating obviously in a
pretty impressive way guided by ceilings
you know say that they saw his religious
but in terms of the strategy that refuge
is is really key to that region it's a
it's a marshland
out in the desert so it's also like the
source of kind of where the water pools
which is obviously incredibly important
for any agriculture and also for all
animal life it's the it's the source of
life in the region but I mean that's not
how they were thinking everything at the
residence in particular and its role the
Hammond family had had a lot of
conflicts of the rescues earlier on and
a 90s the conflicts they were in trouble
for now with the BLM but the BLM didn't
have that kind of facility Ammon
actually had never been to the refuge
before he occupied it but Ryan Payne the
militia leader who was kind of partner
and this did go out and check it out and
even discover that that it had a lot of
uh you know met a lot of their
logistical needs for something like this
they wanted to do a kind of occupation
they were inspired by the Occupy
movement but of course being like big
Second Amendment people they're going to
bring their guns because they thought
the idea that you could just get
zip-tied and taken away from a protest
was unacceptable to them so what you
know and a refuge because of the Amano's
the budgetary limitations of so many of
our federal agencies especially when it
comes to environmental protection they
rely on a volunteer so they have great
loan cows facilities for volunteers to
come out and do work which they saw and
like this is a great place to bunk down
whoever will come out and join us
it was also 30 40 miles from town so
outside of town but also readily you
know it allowed them it worked as a
guerrilla base you know it allowed them
to move from there into town to do
propaganda and then shelter at night out
there so they were you know far out of
town had a big there's a big fire tower
that could see who was coming but also
it just divided a lot of facilities for
them to host people so and it was
January so it was winter and that was
really important very it's very colder
ok so that was important in so far as it
strategically it was easier for them
because who's gonna camp out and wait us
out type of thing
yeah and also for like getting people to
come that they were going to be cold
yeah and then the other thing is that
they knew that County you know that
County is the size of Massachusetts it
has seven thousand people on it and
there's four deputies in the county at
that time so they also know that like
they whatever they're going to do
they're going to do there because the
amount of people that they could bring
just through their horizontal through
their horizontal you know Facebook
platforms
thank you thinking like one percent of
the people in that county basically
seventy people they could have they
could have up there essentially okay and
they could immediately challenge like
the the federal sovereignty and local
sovereignty and the region just like
that
yeah and they did so so basically I mean
what happens while they're up there I
remember watching the videos I mean they
were live streaming this on on Facebook
I guess it was or I can't or maybe it
was on Twitter I can't remember I
remember people are separate book in
your group people were sending them all
sorts of like sex paraphernalia in the
guise of being supplies just to watch
them having to pull out you know like a
big dildo and that was not that was
funny
I mean so what so you social media
obviously plays a huge role for them
because they're able to sort of contact
people and find their supporters across
the country what else happens up there
that implicates the story later I mean
obviously there's one casualty which
happened at the end of the standoff
basically in some respects marked it
lavoy finicum but what happened during
their that that ends up really
implicating stuff later in terms of the
trials or in terms of like what how this
story like resonates yeah I mean
obviously the the the trial of you know
narrowly you know things narrowly
implicated in the context of the trial
but I'm saying you know what were there
any things that happened there because
obviously Amon Bundy has has sort of has
we can't recanted I guess but was there
stuff that happened there that that
changed their perspective or was it all
the the sort of the fallout that did um
well yeah when Simon has recanted his
federal land standards exactly the same
but he has renounced he never was really
a militia person and he's announced that
a certain sector of that patriot
movement that has gone whole hog for
trump and particularly in relation to
the rhetoric around immigrants and
refugees which Hammond doesn't support
he's a superb mormon libertarian and so
these imported or not of years of
nativist templates and also he sees a
lot of this sort of rhetoric coming from
like trump militia people as being you
know he called it fascist so that that's
the source of that break he also learned
a lot in prison i think about using a
private prison for a long time i think
that seen some of his perspectives by
the time he got out of there or from
that prison he was advocating for the
abolition of the prison system which is
not something people are expecting right
and the replacement of it with assistant
was like restitution and reconciliation
which i don't know if you've done
anything about that since you've gotten
out of prison but in terms of what
happened out there you know it mean it
became the whole thing was like it was
so tense in here also for a long time
nothing was happening they had a press
conference every day right they staged
media events they were pretty good at
doing that you know they cut a fence
line to show that they were you know
fighting federal tyranny they had they
had the whole issue with the artifacts
of the of the tribe that turned into a
big issue right towards the end that
lavoy finicum there who was one of their
leadership who was the one casualty of
the occupation that very involved in
tried to use as a method to bringing the
tribe into into the occupation in some
kind of alliance which unsurprisingly
did not work especially since to the
tribe that idea even handling the
artifacts that were stored on the refuge
or at the center of fennekin's reach out
to the tribe
was both an offense and also a dangerous
thing to tell you just don't touch
things and mess of things that are that
were handled are made by the dead in
terms of Jetta luck right
in terms of luck or you're basically
messing with the energy of the person
who made that thing is the idea
basically to put it to simplistically
really but an element basically of their
power stays the thing they made and if
you mess with that it it sets up a bad
relationship with other aspects of that
person I mean it's gonna mess with your
health yeah and Maler actually means bad
luck essentially in French yes it means
bad luck or misfortune which nobody none
of the Bundy had seemed to know well it
seems like I was often the person
informing them that that was the name of
the place they dock you pied another
thing that they that they didn't know
about then there was also the role of
the militia people who didn't join Ammon
felt that baby he hijacked their thing
with their rally for the Hammonds on
January 2nd but also wanted to play an
important role at one point even coming
out in full tactical gear to hijack and
it's press conference and surround
themselves with guys with long guns and
actually say we're playing a very
significant role so what the role of
airplane was never exactly clear though
that created some of the most famous
images of the occupation of these
militia guys that weren't part of the
occupation guarding their leaders out
there saying we're playing a very
significant role so there's a lot of
comics moments like that including with
all the snacks and video missus from out
there and also like the tension in the
county though began to build and build
and there's a lot of concern that it was
going to explode into something pretty
horrible and violent and dig out the
county I mean did they have support
measurable support anywhere they had
support there but not of the degree they
believed but they definitely had support
they were being people were coming out
there and bringing them whatever it is
and they were getting more attention I
don't think they didn't seem to be
getting support from the established
Lansing community at all
that maybe some smaller ranchers who
don't have as much access to federal
land and also from smokes in town it's a
really depressing area I used to be the
wealthiest per capita income county and
Oregon now it's by far the poorest
mainly due to like changes in what's how
the forest is being used there was also
the northern part of the county is pine
forests so they had they got some
traction with you know people
disaffected people there but it never
seems to happen we were in here half the
county a man believed it was everybody
or that everybody was against him work
for the federal government that does not
seem to have been true but it was
definitely dividing the county and they
were starting to be sphere that yeah
it's also a very heavily armed area so
everybody's armed out there so there was
fear that that could who knows what
would happen if people started shooting
they chose I mean beyond just even to
the federal government going in and
arresting them at that point the FBI was
just playing a waiting game waiting for
them to be in a position where they
could you know right take out the
leadership which is what they did all
right so so looking back on all of this
like where does this fit in I mean is
this are we looking at a phenomena that
has never left us or one that is
resurgent or or what like I mean it
because it the this disposition towards
the federal government it seems to me is
something that just continually raises
its head in one form or another and
largely even and I guess the story with
these guys is it's sort of almost
unbeknownst to them as to what the roots
of this are right like all of the all of
the the legal precepts that they are
basing their views on that the sheriff
is the key element you know the the most
powerful I guess law enforcement or
government official that exists is
something that grew out of a theory that
that basically grew out of I would
imagine on some level like chasing down
runaway slaves or chasing you know like
a you know some measure of relationship
to
maintaining slavery or the vestiges of
slavery what is like contextualize this
phenomena for us and what does it say
about the era we're living in
well again yeah I think that it's what
we see it and what I mean one of the
what I really saw in the occupation
itself right is it made this figure this
complex image of our now I would call it
thinking of like now as being like where
the past and the present combined to
form an intertwined pictures that and
certainly that occupation again in the
way that they were seeking their way out
of you know actual economic and social
malaise in the West through this
reenactment of the other the heyday of
the second way of manifest destiny and
settlement which is also the Jim Crow
era and that you know the era the end of
Reconstruction and the era of that
doubling down on you know white
supremacy and and Western settlement if
something that speaks to American
history acrost you know across the
decades since the 19th century
you know periodically whenever you have
a push towards more movements of social
liberation you get this kind of backlash
but that has to locate itself in some
kind of historical historical period you
know there's a lot of how they talk as
extreme as they seem there's a lot of
how they talk about this reminded me of
everything that came out of a Gonzalez
growing up you know I mean a lot of it
you know I mean Ronald Reagan talked
about Ronald Reagan talked openly about
you know a government assistance
programs as being the federal plantation
remember that whether steps people still
use that's all coded again that's just
pure Jim Crow rhetoric right and it's
still circulating in and so much of our
political discourse often poorly totally
understand that the people are using it
but not poorly understood by people who
are hearing it you know and that makes
so impossible so many conversations you
know including ones that maybe you know
to be very useful to have I don't think
it's possible to have conversations
different kinds of intertwined
sovereignty and sale and management
involving local state and federal
sovereignty if people coming in with
this anti-federal rhetoric are just
channeling all in this horrible history
without knowing it you know how do you
have a conversation when that history is
not being acknowledged when your states
rights rhetoric in states rights
rhetoric is Confederate rhetoric and so
how would wait for the whole well I I
don't want to interrupt you but but I'm
guess I'm curious mmm the concept of
states rights right I mean just you know
to use a sort of the broadest sort of
measure of this was almost exclusively
developed and to the extent that it was
used in other let's say forums or in
regards to other issues was simply to
further edify the idea that you can't
come in federal government and tell us
how to treat our black people it's
basically right what what you know our
slaves or you know are now freed slaves
I mean it was it was I imagine you know
early early on there was a notion you
know maybe when we're talking about the
13 colonies of like hey it's not fair
that you get resources that we don't or
that you you know or you want some of
the the value that we get because we
have crabbing you know we have access to
whatever like I imagine there was like
or seaports right right there was an era
where sort of for the states the
geography created certain value that
they wanted to make sure they weren't
having to give up because maybe there
was some you know difficulty associated
with it like you know we it was hard to
build these docks or perhaps there is
you know well we've been founded by a
group of people and we don't want you
know
we want polygamy you know or whatever it
is and but the like what's left
I mean what's left today in this era for
those type of arguments if you strip out
the sort of the coding there like
honestly like what is Rhode Island want
with its sovereignty because of what's
going on in Massachusetts well I think
that first of all like that though that
the states rights rhetoric is you know
that the legacy that you're mapping
there seems absolutely true to me and
that's what makes it it's like as a
position one that like not an argument
that that goes anywhere but to a
standoff what do they believe like if
they like when you told them like hey
guys do you realize like this was just
about slavery and they go oh my gosh had
no idea darling well they say that it's
not that it's not that it's you know
that it's about federal tyranny blah
blah blah right and that's about but
then they go into an argument that local
people know that you know the the ones
are the most articulate we're going to
an argument about how local people know
how best had a manage their affairs and
you know bureaucrats in Washington
shouldn't be managing it blah blah blah
the usual kind of Reagan stuff right you
know and I think that where those
arguments have legitimacy are are about
like local versus big power structures
right that you know having local people
involved in the decisions you know
affect affect them make sense yes and
and federal structures that make
innovative room for local people to kind
of direct the operations in
collaboration as actually it has been
going on in Harvey County unbeknownst to
the occupiers at the refuge who wouldn't
know anything about that because none of
them were from there or know anything
about the place have been going on for
about 15 years with local people
basically getting to operate federal
sovereignty collaboratively by consensus
in terms of new policies putting down on
federal land like that kind of stuff
that kind of conversation see
simple legitimate to me but how do you
get to a place where you can have a
conversation that's just about those
practical things about land management
and about different relationships to the
land about coming to some agreement when
you have this rhetoric that's full of
this horrible history that's being
denied I think it's incredibly difficult
and nothing you know nothing happened
and nothing happens partly because of
that horrible history but you know it's
also of course it's been mobilized super
cynically by the climate libertarian
right as part of it it's like they don't
they don't mean for stage tax would be
more powerful they like states be of
states a week and they like exactly
local governments are weak that's the
amazing thing about this it's like
anybody who's lived in a small locality
knows that the corruption there is is
it's far more naked in many respects
than it is in a more bureaucratic state
a and then B the whole point
theoretically if you genuinely buy into
this notion which i think is legitimate
like you want people on the ground to
understand the unique circumstances that
exist in a community so that any type of
federal law or assistance or whatever
can be changed you know
there's flexibility to meet the needs of
that area but how do you establish a
principle beyond that like things like
the idea that you could come in into a
non place where you're not a local and
offer anything in that context other
than you should work with the feds is
ridiculous it undercuts the exact point
right I mean it's like it's almost oh
yeah it's it's I don't know it's it's
almost there's a there's a quality of
like sort of like you know education
reform and educator in in this argument
that I think is legit but then you sort
of step out of like hey wait a second
the whole point is they know this area
you don't
so beyond saying that there should be
some type of partnership you've got
nothing to offer these people
well I mean that and that that blatant
hypocrisy 12 people and Harney County
bananas you can imagine like you guys
don't know anything you're coming here
to represent us a lot of the talk of
people in the county is like you don't
speak for us you don't know anything you
don't have a clue get out of here and
you know the irony of that was really
obvious and also I think you see in that
- I mean to go back to where we started
with - this is quote about Jason you see
like the violence of abstractions and of
living by abstractions that give you
good feelings right so they come with
these abstract ideas about localism to
impose them on our locality that they
don't know because it makes them feel
like their lives are full of meaning and
purpose that they're saving America and
we see in that the violence of that
underlies that kind of pure abstract
thinking right that is you know I mean I
think that go ahead was and and yeah and
then that's all happening within this
larger context of so many of our public
institutions in public lives public
public spaces and public spheres and
things like unions and being eviscerated
and replaced with these privatized
public spheres of the internet which
obviously also like this whole thing
wouldn't have happened without and and
be able to organize this flock of
fleeting sovereignty right to come and
pose at the abstractions on this place
what happened without without all those
social changes and in different forms of
privatization I think that I'm
undermined all levels of power yeah I
think that that dynamic of abstraction
is being dangerous and then particularly
hypocritical when that abstraction is
that local overlays and you're not from
that area misses the point but it's it's
a fascinating story Shadowlands fear and
freedom at the Oregon standoff
Anthony McCann we will put a link to
your book at majority dot F M it is
available tomorrow everywhere thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you thank you so
much thanks for the time thanks for
attention and thanks for the
conversation my pleasure thank you all
right folks
fascinating stuff
yeah and this notion of like you know
how much do we how much of like and the
various things that we talk about on any
given day deal with a people who have
essentially inherited these abstractions
without any sense of the historical
context from which they came which gave
them birth and meaning and like I I've
found just across the board even stuff
is non-political like the idea of like
people just thinking that there is
nothing to symbolism or nothing inherent
in ideas or or images or whatnot and the
problem is is that if everybody was
completely ignorant then maybe it would
just be a bad idea right but the problem
is is that there's the the same caught
the same idea which I have said on this
program and I think now there's data
that shows this in terms of like
protests and whatnot all you need is
about 5 to 15% of any given population
to make change and to cause problems
obviously the number goes smaller and so
when you have people who adopt rhetoric
and they don't understand what the the
foundations of that rhetoric are
understand there are people who do know
what that rhetoric means they do know
what the lineage comes from and they
build upon that I mean that's on some
level that is a story that's happening
in Portland this past weekend right
where there was clashes between some of
the Patriot you know some proud boys and
that ilk and anti-fur folks and
obviously most of the media attention is
some people who were engaged in black
box tactics attacking this guy who was
who writes for Colette and frankly I had
never heard of the guy I haven't seen
enough footage or reporting on it's like
what
what was the basis of this the right
would have you believed that antifoam
was attacking journalists but as far as
I could tell there was a ton of
journalists around watching that attack
now I I don't I don't think that that
guy looked a lot more beat up than then
he should have I don't think there
certainly don't condone violence not in
that context you know people milkshake
they shouldn't and I think you can get
ticketed for that but and I mean actual
milkshakes there's some question that I
think there was an attempt for Soviets
been stirring some stuff yeah and
supposedly that they're cementing it now
my experience with cement isn't is is
not quite like that you would be able to
get away with that but there's been some
skepticism expressed let's say yeah III
reminded all of my anti-fur super
soldiers not to drink the wrong
milkshake by mistake there you go it's
gonna be murder on your insides but the
bottom line is like you know there's a
lot of people out there who are just
sort of hanging on to sort of outer
Cohen centric circles of ideas that are
founded and are structured on really
really bad and oppressive ideas and they
they may or may not know it but and they
may or may not know that they're helping
promote these ideas right I mean and you
see it I will talk about you know I
interviewed Caleb Kane again and did a
longer interview with him and he's that
kid who sort of fell into that wormhole
it started with Stefan
and then by the time he started climbing
out of it he was I can't remember what
he called it a race realist or something
to that effect
and which is I guess like white
supremacists adjacent and it's a white
nationalist and it you start to climb
down a hole and it leads you there
because once you accept one premise I
mean this is the case with anything
right I mean both positive and negative
if I can somehow find that I could
actually jog one mile then maybe it's
possible I could jog two miles like the
the point is is that human beings
constantly are recreating baselines from
themselves and if you get yourself to
the point where it's like hey you know
just the reality is that race you know
you have like you distinctions between
race and IQ actually means something
beyond how you do on the IQ test then
the next step is easier to take and the
next step is easier to take and that's
the whole danger of these ideas I mean
we see this we see people take down you
know a building's now these ideas are
also obviously a function and they're
generated within contexts historical and
material contexts and some of the people
are subject to these contexts and some
of them are just like receiving the
ideas and passing them on and then when
they run into people who are in the
right context and into the right
political scenarios that's when these
ideas get really problematic right I
mean if Amon Bundy's just sitting in his
house and not doing anything by just
talking about the ideas fine but they
float around they hit the right person
who is within a certain context that
makes it problematic and that's when you
start having problems yeah Marx famously
hated ideology and never referred to
himself as amar
exist even though Marxism is arguably
not an ideology in and of itself it is a
framework for understanding capitalism
well he and Marx and I share that same
thing
hi Marx hello but he had the advantage
of just saying it like I'm Marx and
people just assume he drops the ist's
yeah he actually in in the we talked
about this uh he endorsed a the labor
this labor this labor ID program in
France which is interesting because
everybody always talks about the
critique of the Gotha program which is
his basically his version of saying
something analogous to social democracy
will be insufficient in a capitalist
context but then conversely he embraced
this French worker party and said and
the program he outlined at that time was
all like equalized wages eight-hour day
and power labor unions total social
democratic program and he said you know
basically the people who opposed him in
doing this like basically like yeah I
would not like you know don't attach
yourself to my name because you're idiot
thank you you in other words he had a
concept of the dum-dum left before I
mean honestly I don't want to take it
there but that was pretty much what he
was talking you should read what he said
about Bakunin dum-dum left all right
just a reminder this this program relies
on your support you can become a member
by going to join the majority report
calm when you do folks you support this
program for just pennies a day and we
give you in return extra content
virtually every day virtually every day
almost every day that we do the show
this week we're going to be off on July
4th and then we're gonna have a
shortened show on Friday that will be
pre-recorded I believe because everybody
goes out and barbecues except for me
apparently and I'll be on Twitter I'll
be on Twitter monitoring monitoring
things
you're wrong you can become a member I
going to join the majority report calm
also don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
it's always free shipping so check that
out and oh when you get the when you
become a member we also cut out the ads
so if you want to know like how for
instance you get today's special New
Yorker deal and you remember you just
look in your in your member feeds
podcast description and you will see the
deals so you get the deals without the
chitty-chat so become a member today
join the majority report com
we have oh one more thing we have a big
announcement to make in the next week
and I sort of I sort of spilt the beans
on that startup podcast with destiny and
Dan we're rolling out something new
oh this is great I think it's this is
literally even something that you've
been wanting to do first something I
want to do for a long time because I've
always like it's something that I wanted
to hear right and I just assumed that
everybody else does too but they
probably I don't know maybe everybody
else does maybe they won't but we'll
give you more details in the next couple
of days but stay tuned
today's Monday tomorrow is Tuesday
Tuesday is the Michael Brooks show day
if you're not aware of that Michael what
is gonna be on it tomorrow we're gonna
be talking about reclaiming the future
organizing for a post capitalist world
and the Joe Biden time warp with Malaika
jabal II and in the commentary and then
the Anthony Fontenot who have been
buddies with for a while online host of
the needle drop he's gonna join us we're
gonna talk about our he's he might
interrogate my we were gonna have him on
the majority have him on huh cool I got
him Scoob knows no scarcity guys think
of be like Andrew yang so everybody can
have time with
the needle drop on all the podcast
platforms unless you have food stamps
unless you have food stamps then you
can't speak to him or you'll choose
whether you talk to him or you feed
yourself so anyways we're gonna be
talking about reggae and 90's hip hop
till today we're also both followed by
the at Lula official account so we might
talk about that a little bit looking
forward to it seven o'clock on the
Michael Brooke show YouTube channel
patreon.com slash t MBS Jamie this week
on the anti Fattah in our free episode
from Wednesday we had a wide-ranging
conversation with Chad vigorous aka
pretty bad lefty from twitter.com about
white people music race socialism class
and more and in our bonus episode that
dropped for our patrons on Friday we
interrogate Chad vigorous is somewhat
hot take that he would rather have
communism with some racism than
perfectly woke diversity capitalism so
check it out a very chad vigorous take
indeed it's also yeah it's it's just
it's just a good a good problematic
shall we say also this week we're
running pro lit cult as our main episode
on wednesday so if you're interested in
hearing AP andy talk about the new
season of black mirror as well as ufos
the paranormal the pair of social and
the pair of political check it out also
just a little note about me I'm going
away to commie camp tomorrow so I will
not be here for the rest of the week
it's in an undisclosed location in the
Pacific Northwest charge hopefully I
don't run into any Bundy types when I'm
there there you go um humor that guy who
challenged Chris Christie to a sumo
wrestling match you remember that sumo
wrestle he was he was at the Bundy ranch
she was one of the umpires and he got
literally into a diaper and challenged
chris Christie to a sumo wrestling match
I was reminded of how this movement fit
into the all of the great political
movements of our history apparently
speaking of Joe Biden we were just
talking Jesse Jackson just basically
went on said he's been on the wrong
history side of history terms of civil
rights can't I can't help at the same do
you mean on the same day that Symone
Sanders said that he was modeling his
idea after the rainbow coalition Jesse
Jackson said it was the opposite of that
it appears Symone Sanders is regularly a
little bit behind the results is by nine
cycle like her she is like always a
couple of I'm starting to wonder if
Simone Sanders is still committed to the
nanners revolution yeah literary
hangover check out the most recent
episode on the Nathaniel Hawthorne's a
Blithedale romance where he makes fun of
the utopian socialists sort of premark
socialists of America but he was kind of
a part of and then later this week
I'm recording with my co-host Chris
Rutger Bergman's utopia for realists
we're gonna talk about ubi we'll
probably talk about a lot about yang
Gang there too
and his work week and and there's other
some of his other proposals but
basically it's going to be a ubi thing
is ubi Trojan horse or is it a universal
strike fund we're gonna get to the
bottom of it Bregman came out it was in
favor of a ubi but not as a meet not as
an either/or I think he has a more left
ubi yeah he's an enhancement not a cut
you know I think we need he's a genuine
liberal leftist we need to come up with
some shorthand for describing like ubi
as
an add-on or add or subtraction UV I
basically left ubi right ubi that's how
I think about it
sacrilege alright folks see you in the
funny and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich I have
an absolute them on YouTube their buggy
I am NOT your employee I'm sorry we're
just going to get rid of you alright yes
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal seat I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars to come here not they
accuse me you you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber laughing I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to us evil Shitler
with such No
[Music]
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
thank you Sam we'll be with you shortly
that was actually I was the voice model
for that I had a drive mile at a camp it
was like a five-hour six-hour endeavor
yesterday I still have not quite
recovered so I'm bringing my a-game
folks for most of it zamyla go into
commie camp - now just YMCA Camp it's
kind of commie it's cool it's not I
wouldn't know I don't know they don't I
don't know what they gonna get the sense
there's a lot of political ideology
there I try
they say it's fun to stay there but okay
so let's just go over some of the the
debate stuff we should say do we have
that image here is what we got out of
the debate not terribly surprising I
mean I think this is consistent with
what we were saying
I thought frankly that putas judge had
done a little bit better than this but
it does not maybe people saw his like he
was a little sweaty he just he's teased
he's like he's body I mean whatever the
word is that people use to describe like
an empty suit now this is a YouGov poll
and I don't know if they're considered
to be as good as the morning consult but
the morning
consult my understanding is had Biden
dropping five or ten points in the poll
that's a big difference but I'm pretty
sure here that Joe Biden this is let's
see Politico is saying okay Politico is
saying that Harris was raising record
sums of money for her campaign following
debates Warren drew one of her largest
crowds yet Harris announced Saturday she
had raised two million for more than 63
thousand people in the 24 hours
following our debate best single
fundraising day the campaign she shot up
six percentage points in the morning
console poll tying Warren at 12 percent
Biden and Sanders camp uneasy according
to Politico and this morning consult Joe
Biden lost five points in the first post
debate survey still leads with 33
percent Sanders had a slight drop in
favorability but not necessarily in his
polling here is some more of the
electability and again this is really
problematic for Biden for everybody else
there's room for them to make the case
and whatnot
and to attract voters because I think
they're electable but I love their
policies or and you know electability
obviously goes into everybody's
perspective in a primary the problem is
is if it's all electability
come time for the general it's hard to
find volunteers right in part because if
there's no Delta between them getting
elected in their electability you feel
like well what do I have to do I chose
the electable one definitionally their
electable I don't have to do anything I
think that that I think certainly hurt
Hilary Clinton without a doubt also was
compounded by the fact that everybody
including this program was saying Donald
Trump has you know anywhere from 85 to
99 percent chance of losing it just
turns out that in if it's 99 percent one
in a hundred comes up and it doesn't
necessarily have to be a hundred times
before that one comes up I was surprised
myself so here are the elect abilities
Joe Biden dropped 13 points in the
perception that he's electable in the
general election now he's still ahead
he's still ahead but again my theory is
is that as that drops the rate in which
it drops is going to increase the
velocity right the velocity of the
electability ability of the rate of
decrease Elizabeth Warren she gained 11
points in electability and that for her
is pretty well not only is that a big
number to jump but again I think there's
a lot of people out there who are
supportive of Warren but are not sure
that she can win and as more people get
convinced that she win it has I don't
think quite the same velocity effect as
Joe Biden's fall but our centage points
they're just like candy from a pinata
indeed Kamala Harris up by 10 percent
Bernie Sanders more or less the same
Sloane stood in terms of electability
I guess one point but this is that's
well within the margin of error so
that's just noise cory booker jumped a
couple of points again not big enough
necessarily say it's with the outside
the margin of error pete buddha judge
dropped two points again margin of error
but julian castro went from nine to
twenty one percent that's a pretty
significant jump that's a that's a real
job that was a real job amy klobuchar
went up by three points only because
people probably didn't even know she was
in there
that must be just pure though the
Gillibrand get the same Gillibrand got
two points okay so Gillibrand closer
yeah
but the big story is basically the do P
two to two of the three B's actually all
three B's went down they were the only
ones not bado bado Drock you myself
today he's gonna be so sad though well
here's the sad part he got did well he's
good the sad part is he can't even say
like he gets an A in terms of drop
because his was only 12 points in Joe
Biden's with 13 percent so he's really
came in how are we defining drop here I
came in second I came in same as those
who dropped and that is why I am so
excited to keep making a total ass of
myself and burning up the money you're
giving me like lighting a cigar or a
spliff with a hundred dollar bill
hope he doesn't post any sad videos I
bet you he drops out if he's in another
debate with Julian Castro there yes he
really should well you know what turns
out you drop out Julian Castro does not
speak Spanish he does not speak Spanish
he his Spanish apparently is is actually
piss-poor
I mean he's he's he's trying to bone up
but he does not speak Spanish you know
he's not it's not it's not a first
language let's put it that way or second
language rather I should say so oh there
it is I mean look I try not to spend too
much time on the horse race stuff but we
have talked about these policies odd
nauseam and you know we'll talk more
about them as as we go on as they're
introduced at this point in the race in
2008 if I remember correctly all three
or maybe at least two of them Edwards
and maybe Obama maybe Clinton didn't
come out with hers until later had
released fully articulated plans
now bernie sanders has put legislation
in others have have offered legislation
and have signed on to different
legislations but as candidates putting
out a plan really locks you into very
specific things and none of them have
done that up to this point there have
been other plans that have been put out
that have been very specific things like
the the college debt proposals or the
free college etc etc criminal justice
reform so we will we will get to that
when we get to that one of the things
that came out of the debate that I think
was a big deal for people on the left
was to see Elizabeth Warren raised her
hand when it's would you be comfortable
signing on to a medicare-for-all and
abolishing private insurance now it has
been my position that the idea of
abolishing private insurance like I
think that question is even loaded the
idea is you want a program that
everybody has to sign up for because and
participate in because you want to have
the biggest risk pool possible so
everybody pays their premiums you can
call them premiums the premiums are
gonna be less than most people pay for
private insurance we're gonna call them
taxes and the benefit of this program is
that not only your premiums gonna be
lower or taxes special special Medicare
for all taxes but at the point of
service it's not gonna cost you anything
and you're not gonna deal with out of
network in network
everybody's gonna be in network but I
love spending time on my insurance
company's website I have like I can't
even tell you what are you Ezra Klein
what it's like what it's like wait till
as your client has two kids and he's
gonna deal with all the crap that comes
with like I like all the different
things well it's even more interesting
now I have
yes it's honestly it's honestly like a
legit part-time job do you I think that
is such the the sales job of making it
that like government bureaucracy is
somehow an evil but it's fun to deal
with corporate bureaucracy is one of the
greatest scam I've ever been couldn't
agree more and I think you could say the
same thing about fraud and everything
else and corruption and overpaying and
all that but because that's that's just
institutions but so Elizabeth Warren
raised her hand so didn't Kamala Harris
but apparently when Conway Harris did it
here's the here's that moment I want you
to listen to Lester Holt carefully cuz ,
Harris has walked back her holding her
hand up and it's I think for maybe I
don't know you decide listen to Lester
Holt carefully to the words he uses and
he's directing it to the candidates do
you know we're gonna do it again now
many people watching at home have health
insurance of their employer who here
would abolish their private health
insurance in favor of a government-run
plan now posit who here would abolish
their private insurance in favor of a
government plan I'm asking you guys who
here would abolish their private
insurance in favor of a government
health care plan my hand was raised
everybody raised their hand of course
but what if the there which we all
assumed at that moment applied to the
premise of his question I don't know
it's confusing and certainly apparently
common law Harris was confused
senator another defining moment in the
debate was when every candidate was
asked to raise their hand if they would
abolish private insurance in that moment
you raised your hand but afterwards her
campaign says actually that's not your
position so what is your position on
private insurance
so the question was would you be willing
to give up your private insurance that's
not how it was such a plan and that's
what you heard right okay yeah that's
certainly what I heard and in terms of
the I am supportive of Medicare for all
and under Medicare for all policy
private insurance would certainly exist
and for supplemental coverage but under
Medicare for all and my vision of it we
would actually extend benefits so for
example vision care dental care hearing
aids which currently are not covered and
anyone you know who's a senior can tell
you they're extremely expensive and
people have to come out of pocket to pay
for them included in my perspective on
the issue of private insurance is this
and I told the story last night look any
night in America there is some parent
who's got a child who has a fever that's
out of control and going to the
emergency room to get help in the middle
of the night and then looking at those
sliding glass doors as they're in their
car in the parking lot concerned that if
they walk through those sliding glass
doors they're gonna be out of pocket
$5,000 because of the deductible they've
got insurance
out of pocket $5,000 we're gonna have to
leave it there so you know 91 percent
and I'll just had 91 percent of the
doctors in America today are paying
Medicare all right so there you have it
and I personally the way that she
articulated her plan I think is good I
think the idea of abolishing of private
insurance is it's just it's not helpful
and necessary the idea is that everybody
has to belong and and I'm quite
convinced that the reason why the
question is asked in that manner is
basically a red herring I I think that
that's true I just think the bigger
thing they have to ask what somebody
like common law Harris is honestly
whether or not she will be actually
committed to following through on this
should she be in the position I think
that's the bigger question in the same
way that she would mean she just said
what she's supported if you say like are
you serious about it though I'm not
talking about that I'm talking about
looking up her record her you know
previous policy positions campaign
donors the obviously do you trust it
right that's just a weird way to phrase
that question
right to say who would abolish their
health insurance like you don't abolish
something that belongs only to you right
like wow I really abolished that egg and
cheese sandwich earlier like it's a word
you use for stuff on a policy level so
even before you get to the red herring
of abolishing private health insurance
in general which is another I agree with
you it's a bad way to frame it and
they're doing it on purpose like the
word they're there makes it really weird
I mean the simple point is you know it's
not about making private insurance
abolish it's about making it irrelevant
we pray do you support creating a single
pool of national insurance for every
single person in the United States so
but there it is I mean I whether she's
genuinely committed to that idea of
single-payer health insurance is another
question but at least her the idea of
abolishing insurance is just I don't
know I wouldn't even say that either
would you just make insurance illegal
they don't like a Bala doesn't make
any sense nobody would have bought it
you would never say like I'm gonna
abolish private insurance except for
supplemental you know abolishing
anything you're just basically saying
we're gonna limit it you don't abolish
like footpaths because you're building
interstates it's just weird
but that's the way that they wanted to
frame it the frankly if everybody pays
into the system and doctors must respect
the system they want to work within
certain parameters Harris said right
there ninety one percent take Medicare
it's a smaller number that take Medicaid
and really this Medicare for all program
is really closer to a Medicaid for all
but expanded but I will tell you this I
know people in Medicaid and if they have
access to doctors which is big if but it
tends to be in bigger cities you do they
love it they love it the question is do
you get access to doctors and that
something that we can do by regulation
another question that people have and
they have been asking this quite a bit
and intuitively I think I've known this
but I've done some research on it what's
gonna happen to all these jobs there's a
half a million people who work in the
insurance industry the private insurance
industry as adjusters as all of it the
vast majority of them will find a job in
the expanded Medicare bureaucracy it's
not like these people who are doing
these jobs to implement private
insurance are making off like bandits
that's not where the skimming is
happening the skimming is happening with
the billions of dollars of profits that
go into the hands of CEOs board of
directors and other shareholders that's
the part that's gonna get lopped off
there will be a fairly sizable group of
people maybe big enough to fit into like
a Marriott conference hall who are
executives of medical insurance
companies who will be out of work but as
you know they make the big bucks for a
reason so I'm sure they will find new
work well they can always you know build
some infrastructure as part of our
Federal jobs guarantee there you go they
can be part of the next industries we
have to uh but quazy about the vast
majority of people who work in the
insurance industry because as it works
now private insurance companies are
contracted by the government not just
from Medicare Advantage to implement
Medicaid and so you could easily do that
it's just they would not be companies
that set the parameters they would be
like almost like permanent temp
companies but with actually with
benefits and whatnot they are just
coming in and they're their ex
cuting the program but the program
itself would be government-run the
funding for it would be government-run
so the the massive job losses that would
happen there are just it's really
another red herring let's go to the
phones come from a 702 area code who's
this where he come from
hey miss bro from little from Las Vegas
what's happening bro flamingo are you
doing today sir
good how you doing oh pretty good
I want to give a quick shout out Mike
and Brendan um funny story real quick
you guys did that kind of segment Birkin
on Chuck Todd and you guys dripped on
them during the Democratic debates but I
distinctly remember I just kind of
transitioned mostly off for cable news
he was the first guy to go because he's
the worst you know Chuck cottage really
just won't be worse like the epitome of
like kind of mainstream media mediocrity
as a streams adherence to like the media
center it's just really really strange I
hate that guy anyways um no I just want
to bring up the Democratic debates oh
great just just for my perspective I
felt like the one area where I
disappeared you saying I don't think
Buddha judge did himself any favors
in fact I read great things that he's
playing with the house money at this
point you really shouldn't be there but
he also has like no black show so I
think black support in my thing and you
know so he also has a race problem
that's just my just completely my
opinion he didn't do any favors
he's smooth I don't think he did any I
don't think you didn't feel any favors
in the in the Democratic debates also
slow or clip them actually Hickenlooper
kind of clip them too I'm glad you do
anything while you were the mayor I
don't think you'll get that fall well I
think I I will say this certainly I
think that's what Michaels perspective
was and I think others in the office and
the polling certainly doesn't show that
he got any benefit out of it if anything
you got a little bit less and then I
also saw some thing where some
Millennials I don't know what where I
saw this but said that like they thought
swol well out millennial
well sort of swallows you more it's a
mate right oh I'm sorry guys let's say
that again credit come on this one he
just kind of say he the west wing
character just with the race problem
with the race problem is a matter of
fact if Bernie wants to win ok this is
my thing guy
if Bernie wants to win you attack these
guys on race simply because they're all
terrible rate on race relations I with
black people to both buy it in 94 crime
bill that's the next thing they should
be they should be in the clip we've been
going at Joe Biden same thing for Kamala
Harris come on Harris look I mean she
was affected during the Democratic
debates but she has her own problem with
blocking black people love crime bill Oh
- no nothing Bernie should be the first
one to bake Hey look I apologized for it
I apologize I messed up there's a song
out there are at the time there's clips
of him in fact already doing that I mean
there's a very effective one from a
couple of weeks ago where he in concha
and it was an easy contrast because
Biden of course said he was still proud
of the bill and Biden's and Bernie said
look none of us should be proud of that
bill and then he explained the political
realities of the time and the vibe and
you know of course let's also be real
that if he voted against it then it
would just be blaring at him 24/7 that
he voted against the Violence Against
Women Act but I mean he's the only one
who has the credibility of at the very
least recognizing the problems at the
time and I think it is important in
general to really historically
contextualize I mean that bill was
supported by everybody well my point is
you can't criticize Biden yeah you can't
for doing it when you did it - I think
exactly my point
exactly because barb is on this bill
everybody has some latitude to run away
from this bill Biden bragged about the
fact that he altered the bill never say
so dooba dooba down with them and by the
way he refused to apologize for it so
therefore he was to die by this if you
live by the sword die by the sword and
one more thing guys on top an answer
after I'm done Sandra quick to seeing
how badly
Biden did our surprise as well seeing
how badly he did how how these have
should react react to this you know our
buyers raised at this I wait a minute
this guys did really this week or the
looking system Kamala's but the self
candidate like what's your take on that
because I feel like he was surprisingly
weak I mean that was awful I mean it
really was bad well so so so how does
establishment view understand and thank
you for everything guys take it all
right I will
I appreciate the call I mean I was not
surprised but I think even for him yes
this was a bad couple of days so I got
to remember this is a guy who got
schlonged by Michael Dukakis in 1988
right just be careful when you go after
Dukakis I might get caucus and come on
super wicked awesome ideas a drug grid
dude shoveled his own walk all right so
all right but I thought I saw the people
have the idea of Biden versus Paul Ryan
in their minds yeah Biden did very well
against Paul Ryan I just want to say but
I think I think what's happening I don't
think that people are gonna jump I don't
think the establishment to the extent
that I don't think as much of the
establishment had lined up behind Biden
in the way that people might think I
think they thought like as long as he
does well then he's good but again I
think there's a threshold where people
are gonna leave in droves because and I
would guess that that support they're
waiting to see and it's it's a dynamic -
right it's not just a question of Biden
drops at this point if if I think
they're waiting to see how well Kamala
Harris bumps up I think that's totally
true and so if she gets if she rises in
the polls I think you'll see people
leaving Biden I think they would go to
her first war and second assuming nobody
else is available because they're I
think there's a lot of fear about Bernie
but it really it really depends on
what's going to happen with Iowa and New
Hampshire although I think like I say by
the end of September and October the
establishment
either gonna he's either gonna go all-in
on Joe or all-out on Joe
I only caution I would say is is you
know there was you're totally right he
was not gonna stay as popular as he was
when he first announced because it is
the Hillary Clinton principle it's like
nobody's really assessing him he's
Obama's vice president but I I'm not at
a point yet where I would just say like
oh yeah he's totally done I don't know
about that and I wouldn't Bank on him
always underperforming like this so be
great but I wouldn't bank on it come
from a 504 area code hello hello who's
this oh hi this is rogue fembot I'm
calling from a five for one for you I'm
sorry but I have one I'm sorry your
Ferguson wet Ferg's fembot broken of
course of course yes rogue fembot yeah
everyone with their 2t guns well I'm I'm
calling from a rural Oregon and there
were a couple things in your interview
today that I really I didn't hear mr.
mcann talk about and I think really need
to be talked about to understand both
currently what's going on in Salem and
also what happened at the Wildlife
Refuge okay um so the thing about Oregon
is that Oregon's working class is
incredibly racially divided like really
bad you know most people don't realize
this but in Oregon State Constitution it
literally bands black people from even
coming and you know that that history
does not go away and it doesn't
presently
well it doesn't presently but the the
original state constitution was created
okay and I'm just saying like like again
like that that history just does not go
away
especially when you look at you know the
types of jobs that the work that's
available in this state you know pretty
much you have farms you have ranches and
then you have Portland's which is just
god-awful and I don't talk about
Portland I'm I'm I'm 300 miles away from
it and I need it um and the second thing
about Oregon that I think is really
important to understand is that a lot of
the environmental policy has really hurt
rural people so uh mr. mcann talked
about this very slightly in the
interview but the reason why the the
once richest county in Oregon became one
of the poorest it's because of the
spotted owl so you know I'm an
environmentalist I want to protect the
spotted owl but what happened is you
know these these lumber companies that
were you know just absolutely clear
cutting forests and doing horrible
things they were only stopped by the you
know the feds wanting to protect the
spotted owl and the problem with that is
all of these working people you know my
dad was a new worker we're out of a job
and it basically happened overnight as
far as I remember it I was you know a
very small kid it didn't help that this
was also around the time that Clinton
did welfare reform I think it was so you
know my family went from being pretty
stable and pretty okay to suddenly you
know I I really don't even think my dad
had ever had a steady job after that
and you know it's I I can't speak for
the Bundys and I'm sure they were they
are way wealthier and my family has ever
been but when you're looking for a place
to drum up um anger against
environmentalists organ is a great place
for that I mean like the hatred of the
spotted owl is it's so known that there
was literally a triple-a video game that
took place in Oregon and the
conservative of that game was bitching
about the spotted owl so it's just it's
just it you know I could see why
ranchers who were upset about this
turtle apparently you know also found
people who who you know were complaining
about an owl and they saw similarities
there and they decided to go there and
that's also probably what broke up that
that county as well is it the Wildlife
Refuge because even if you don't agree
with these peoples policies or their
politics rather you a lot of rural
people in the state feel on a very
visceral level just how airheaded a lot
of this environmental policy husband
which is why we need something like the
green new deal we need a job scary well
that's the idea yeah you need to you
need to do that in the context of any
major policy move and in this instance
it was a policy move that was major
relative to the to the locale I mean
it's interesting insofar as and I'm not
I'm not diminishing it I'm just actually
more I think like people should think
about the reasons why this is the case
one of the the big complaints about uber
to the extent that people actually you
know big complaints about Hoover you
know make it into the mainstream was the
way that they changed their pricing a
lot of people particularly in New York I
mean
I think this is maybe New York centric
but went out and invested in buying like
two cars three cars hiring other people
to to work for them trying to create
businesses and uber changed the pricing
sort of overnight a lot of people lost
their shirt and similar dynamic you
don't hear businesses criticized in that
way
in the main but yes you're right I mean
that's why if we're going to have
policies that are going to end up
displacing people we need to have along
with those policies some mechanism in
which to support these people whether
it's supporting them to go into another
industry or supporting them with some
type of like early pension type of
situation there has to be a a mechanism
yeah and the thing that just like deeply
irritates me about this too is you know
like talking talking to people about you
know Oregon and how we as a state are
you know kind of there's a lot of
different biomes in the state and that
you know when you when you factor in
climate change is kind of a big deal we
have a lot of rivers we have a lot of
forest lands we also have the desert and
it it's one of those things where there
is so much work we can do here that we
could be a green powerhouse State and I
really want that but unfortunately it's
just in a lot of people in Salem and
Portland making these you know making
these laws doing doing this policy and I
don't feel like you know any of my
people at the table to talk about you
know how this is going to affect you
know our lives and you mention you
mentioned uber and you know funny story
about uber so I'm in a row
part of the state but we already have
remover and so the problem with it right
now is that we were just starting to get
a pretty good public transit system
going and knee bruise gonna undercut it
there is it definitely were already
we're already seeing that starting to
happen
um it's and it's just really really
unfortunate well hang in there
appreciate the call
rogue fembot in Oregon Donald Trump was
in at the g20 summit and one point he
jumped over in North Korea here he is
though giving his Monday Morning
Quarterback take on the on the debates
he was asked by what's this guy's name
Carl John Carl in Osaka at the Imperial
Hotel Osaka Japan of legal 20 it's okay
Trump day it's all right here we go I'm
sure you saw the exchange between Joe
Biden and Carla Harris on the issue of
federal busting a federally mandated
busing Biden thought that was a bad
policy he tried to stop it
Kamala Harris said it was an important
part of desegregation including in her
own experience where do you stand on
that issue of federally mandated busing
uh well first of all before I get into
that I thought that she was given too
much credit he didn't do well certainly
yeah and maybe the facts weren't
necessarily on his side I think she was
given too much credit for what she did
it wasn't that outstanding and I think
probably he was hit harder than he
should have been hit I thought he was
hit actually harder and as far as that I
will I will tell you in about four weeks
because we're coming out with certain
policy that's going to be very
interesting and very surprising I think
to a lot of people Jennifer do you have
a question what do you think Carmel
Harris would be a tough opponent for you
given what you saw in the
debate you never know who's gonna be
tough they never know he seems tired but
oh but the good Mary Louis and gentlemen
we're only four weeks away from a policy
that is going to in some way inspire the
idea of busing I was gonna say you what
do you think like do you think that in
his mind
first of all it indicates to me that he
feels like he doesn't know anything
about bossing of course not now to the
extent that he thinks he knows something
about buzz know so there's there's a
couple of scenarios one is he knows
nothing about busing and it was just a
classic Trump lie he he altered it a
little bit cuz usually you'd say two
weeks instead of four weeks but so
there's a major policy coming out in
four weeks now he could think he knows
what busing is about and the policy
could be literally about buses like with
new safety features on buses I'm gonna
go with he thinks busing is about merely
getting kids to school or it could be
like good no one's allowed to take a bus
no more buses Metro cars or workout or
maybe he has a national plan to
integrate schools lifts maybe we have a
national rollback brown v board plan or
it could be they're coming out with some
type of voucher plan I'm gonna actually
guess that in hits a twofer in his head
it's a new monster truck program which
the kids will like and will look good in
2020 and his advisors are devising a
really horrible voucher I don't think
right now why yeah and I don't even
think he's referring to that I think
it's just lying I think well here's a
here's a follow up question on that
thank you I have a question about the
border but I just wanted to follow up
quickly on the question about busing do
you see it as a viable way of
integrating schools does that relate to
the policy that has been something that
they've done for a long period of time I
mean you know
there aren't that many ways you're going
to get people to schools so this is
something that's been done and in some
cases it's been done with a hammer
instead of a velvet love and you know
that's part of it but this has been
certainly a thing that's been used over
there I think if if Vice President Biden
had answered the question somewhat
differently it would have been a lot it
would have been a different result
because they really did hit him hard on
that one so but it is certainly a a
primary method of getting people to
schools does it relate to the policy
that you're going to unveil pause it
wait a second what is now who is this
it's what's-her-face I can't I can't
yeah yeah the idea like does she not
realize in that moment that he doesn't
know what busing is like that she didn't
go like no I'm sorry sir like it I guess
maybe you can't ask like hey also just
incident you remind everybody what
busing refers to yeah joe biden thought
the kids she gets to school some other
way that guy's so stupid
look that's how he gets to school most
kids want to have their folks drive them
or go in a town car so you got a like
velvet glove it when they come into the
bus you gotta say like maybe make the
bus and nicer bus he doesn't know what
it is but kristen welker right but but i
wonder like does she not know that he
doesn't know what it is let's go back
President Biden had answered the
question somewhat differently it would
have been a lot it would have been a
different result because they really did
hit him hard on that one so but it is
certainly a a primary method of getting
people to spirit and is it does it
relate to the policy that you're going
to unveil that you just floated it
relates to everything we're doing and
you'll be hearing about it and over the
next couple of months okay
I just I just doubled it I doubled it i
deviled the time line it was on those
four weeks but it's really a couple of
months look here's the thing
we run we're in veiling a walking
initiative
everybody's gonna walk all by kids go to
school in Lincoln continents Lincoln
that is gonna ban buses come on it's
time for a bus be so cowed like how do
you not like how does one of you just
not say well I know how they don't I
mean maybe I'm wrong but it felt like
that question she's like is this gonna
pertain to the policy you just floated
was her trying to protect his blushes
from being like obviously just not
knowing what bussing even means in
America people need to ask the hard
questions which is you have no idea what
this thing is do you what is this you
want me to be harsh why I just really
could you explain what that is sir we
need to start a program where reporters
get their YouTube clicks monetized so
that they're incentivized to ask a
question like um you know what I'm this
is where I cash in do you know what
you're talking about and then that you
know we've got to figure out a way maybe
like we we do a some type of like hybrid
GoFundMe because someone like any of
these reporters are thinking like well
I'm not gonna get a bump from ABC or
MSNBC or NBC yeah I'm just gonna get my
credentials bumped and then I'm just
gonna end up having a cover
you know either like I don't know some
horrible subcommittee hearing or get
fired
you raised money for a weekly award or
they actually had a system like that at
Gawker and it does pit journalists
against each other in a really nasty way
but in this instance yes it might be
helpful real real shame all right now
of course at the g20 summit what is this
one on the right is that the one with
Ivanka okay yeah so at the g20 summit
[Music]
Ivanka Trump was was brought as a senior
advisors here like an official title
yeah globally nerve acid ER four
daughters you'd like to bone now I don't
think that's the official also senior
strategic advisor whatever it doesn't
matter
um advisor to the president kind of
hottie to other dads am i right III
guess I'm sensitive to this because I
have a lot of times where I bring my
children to a place they've never been
before and they feel somewhat
intimidated they go to camp like
Brendan's a young enough that he
remembers the anxiety associated with
that go to camp for the first day if you
look around you're like I don't know
anybody everybody seems to be smarter or
cooler yeah I call that way right now
yeah I don't I feel uncomfortable and
and I don't know what to do and I maybe
I'll just go throw myself into this
conversation that is those moments of
uncomfortability I tell my kids are
perfectly fine anybody who holds it
against you as a jerk and you don't need
to deal with jerks and it's a good way
of weeding out the jerks and we can go
through life with your own jerkweed
outer device however the calculation
gets a little different when you're an
adult and you know it's one thing to go
to let's say a conference of biologists
and walk in there and they're all
talking about biology you want to jump
in yeah how about yeah protoplasm I'm
getting a little fat around here
biologist you know you just throw away
because you don't know anything you
don't know anything right you're just
like yeah well what's good what's going
on here with this hair growing out of my
ears
yeah right am i right anybody well
Ivanka Trump had one of those moments
she is in a room full of world leaders
she is not a world leader she was
appointed whatever she is by her dad
and none of these people really respect
her dad you can imagine the disdain that
they have with Ivanka and here it is
they're all basically trying to I mean
this is like a scene from Heather's
except for you they're all Heather's
there's no no one here you feel
sympathetic about all really bad people
these are all really bad people the only
thing that's enjoyable about this is
watching the lack of honor amongst bad
people in terms of letting one into
their club christine lagarde very thin
woman she's not your friend she's your
the real cool reason really cuz you know
what real coolness is stilted hand
movements so just for people who
couldn't see it like McCrone is there oh
is that Trudeau right with us yes and
may and the head of the EU mmm and and
Ivanka is like doing that thing but
worse like where you tell a joke and
you're like oh and they fell on their
face and people going and laugh but
she's doing that for people are not
doing laugh lines she's literally just
repeating what they're saying and you
can hear her throughout we got to play
this again and the best is lekars look
on her face so she's just like very
French believe I gotta even be a rarely
French
every theory about this yeah a lot of
people start listening to otherwise
listen
it looks like Ivanka is like a ghost and
nobody else can see I'm so scared that
it's gonna be me a commie camp guys you
know what the second most funny thing
about this book though is that Theresa
May and Christine Lagarde and McCrone
are discussing social justice and she's
going getting it's very male-dominated
yeah hey man anybody the biggest thing
you can measure with this course tell
them yeah exactly it's super
male-dominated you got here a nice
little girl now go away oh yeah you're
gonna wear the 19th century girl in
trouble
Oh Mike no I have a theory that that
that this was like I gotta get up there
get some pictures taken to me hand
gestures because we want to be able to
see that you were the one doing the
talking and holding court with all of
these world leaders he did make a lot of
hand gestures I I think that was I
honestly think that she has a
photographer who's like do some hand
gestures so it looks like you're talking
and she wore the big sleeves as if to
accentuate the hand gestures deep
conversations with important people how
you really are
really really taking no prisoners
sweetie
real smile good stuff I'm taking you on
the next trip I love that they have like
the to like it's so amazing that when
you think about like the sick
projections his kids are of him because
it's like she's the like the part of him
that wants to pretend that's like I want
to be invited to the Royal Castle and
we'll all have tea and like like that
kind of delusion and then like the idiot
son on Twitter like George Oh Pablo
Harris is you bored here is like how he
actually gets things done this David
failed there
I guess done in sympathy for this was a
bit earlier but Ivanka Trump on the town
having the time of my life with a budget
that is an evergreen evergreen to eat
there were so many scenarios so good
well Michael Tracy five to that tweet
what oh boy I did not say that you said
that what you said that right no let's
let's keep going with Trump in the way
do we have him at the g20 condom trumps
bragging about what's happening with
America right now in the g20 if you're a
business owner you may not be aware of
what you're calling America this is clip
number five you may not be aware of what
what how we're referring to America
these days but as a small business owner
myself I'm I'm perfectly aware well how
we referred to America but here's Donald
Trump letting you letting you know
activity we have a lot of activity now
where companies are coming back to our
country with a hot show with a hottest
show in town without a show in the world
right now our economy is the best one
thing that every leader virtually every
leader that I dealt with said is that
congratulations it's incredible what's
happened to the American economy we're
the best economy in the world and it's
something and it started from election
day I put it out yesterday because we
took a tremendous boost from the day
after I got elected the stock market
went crazy from that point until
essentially now I think we hit uncertain
of the markets we hit the all-time high
again for many many times I can't tell
you what it was but many many times we
broke the record and we were you know a
stock market is great our jobs are great
we're the best job numbers essentially
we've ever had in several categories
definitely we've ever had
stock market I mean
I don't know like a lot of listeners and
viewers who are from the rest of the
world and I just want to say I'm sorry
like I don't know what else to say to
you I would like to add I'm sorry that
we're crushing it so badly
hotcha yeah it's a hot hot show in town
sorry and I'm also sorry to your
translators I can tell you that the
stock market obviously has been on a
tear I can tell you that about 80% of
the country citizenship do not own
stocks I can also tell you that to the
extent that judging our economy in terms
of shareholder value ask those people on
the the 737s that went down its
shareholder value was increased by the
$9 an hour they were paying like some of
the computer coders shareholder value
was increased because and I did this do
we'd run this interview with Billa sonic
on the show the one from Ring of Fire I
don't know if we ever did we should grab
that one hey I'll have a sonic on to
talk about this story Boeing had an
opportunity a couple of decades ago to
change the way the basic structure of
their air of their airplanes Boeing had
built their air there the basic
structure of their Airlines of their
airplanes to deal with airplane airports
that did not have elevated walkways and
when elevated walkways were in they had
to redesign their planes but make some
adjustments at one point they could have
gone a wholesale change like Airbus did
but Boeing didn't
so they had to compensate with materials
and the shape of their engines I guess
and that's what led to the problems with
the 737 they needed to institute
software fixes for what was essentially
a hardware problem and the software
fixes were not communicated in the the
proper way and bill was on ik traces
that back to basically a decision
because they didn't want to lose stock
value so aside from it not being a good
measure as to how the vast majority of
Americans are doing it's also far more
problematic frankly you can also look at
industries like the for-profit College
industry which it is true literally on
the day he was elected shot up like a
rocket and have remained up there
because they knew they would be in an
environment where there's no regulation
we will be able to rip off people
without any accountability and that
continues unabated Betsy DeVos is like
rolling out and rolling back all sorts
of protections for students that existed
during the Obama administration that was
one thing they'd actually did quite well
in the last term so so there's Donald
Trump with the hot show people saying
that to me all the time you get you know
a hot show here's one more clip from
there this is about his student visas
global number seven of the g20 Donald
Trump is going around talking to world
leaders about how they're going to only
take the cream of the crop here he is
it's going to telling the leaders around
the country don't worry about the
student visas a great universities
they've been great students and
tremendous assets but
we did discuss it it was brought up as a
point and I said that will be just like
anybody else just like any other nation
and we're actually going to a point
where you know we're looking at if you
graduate from a college because our
great companies we talk about Silicon
Valley in other places we have a problem
in this in our country that you graduate
number one in your class from the best
school in the country and yes they say
you have to leave we can't keep them and
we're gonna make it we're gonna call it
the spark person's waiver but we're
gonna make it so that they can not only
stay but maybe they have access to green
cards we want to keep these people here
we okay this is what he's talking about
he it sounded like to normal people that
he was saying college students in
America but what he's saying is that
college students come over they graduate
from foreign countries they graduated
top of the class they want to go work
for an American company but they have to
leave cuz they're not a student you know
they never work visa cuz they had a
student visa I was stuck on the smart
persons waiver thing that's probably the
official and it's a good title i nest BW
and we just say that's fascinating about
that is that the one area and I don't
support like I'm I'm you know I'm I'm
pretty relaxed about these things but
like one of the smart things to
distinguish when you just generically
talk about immigration is basically like
a bunch of very low income very
unexploited of and deeply abusive jobs
that a lot of undocumented people do and
like an example like the meatpacking
industry and the companies that hire
them don't get held accountable for
their just numerous violations right but
like in Iran Iran not smart person not
swell that's what's amazing is that
Silicon Valley is probably one of the
only areas that if you wanted to just
make like we got to get people in the
states here well-paying jobs first
before we think about relatively
privileged immigrants who could probably
do just as well in China or India or
Kenya that's like the one area where
that argument has some validity and
that's like the one area where he's just
like yeah we should just make sure
people to be here no problem so think
about that I mean that is the full
complete fulfillment of every single
populous lie he's ever told in the
economy think about the pressure that
puts on kids immigrant kids like you
better get all A's or you're out of here
oh absolutely it's terrorism all right
and here is a Donald Trump this is the
last Trump we have right yeah where he's
meeting with Kim jong-un okay this is uh
Tucker Carlson talking about Donald
Trump's historic visit with North North
Korean leader King kim jeong-hoon tucker
apparently was brought along on the trip
he pushed out john bolton maybe he is
our new Secretary of State I imagine not
but here he is talking about trying to
justify Donald Trump basically giving on
a a big domestic victory not necessarily
a bad idea but a very weird way of
explaining it by Tucker Carlson that's
the type of thing that does make some
people nervous though he recently
husband Trump recently made a comment
about having a certain type of good
chemistry with Kim jong-un and that may
be true but when you're talking about
someone who has been responsible for so
many human rights abuses
does he run a risk with that kind of
language of a coming off to Kim Jong
lung like he's pandering to him to an
extent or be upsetting the American
public that that elected a president
that they want to stand firm and be
tough on those human rights violations
and stand firm on American principles
which exists in in virtually complete
contrast to how the North Korean regime
is Ron yeah I mean there's no defending
the North Korean regime which is a
monstrous regime it's the last really
Stalinist regime in the world it's a
disgusting place obviously so there's no
defending it on the other hand
you know you got to be honest about what
it means to to lead a country it means
killing people not on the scale that
North Koreans do but a lot of countries
commit atrocities including a number
that we're closely allied with so you
know I'm not a relativist or anything
but it's important to be honest about
that and it's not necessarily a choice
between you know the evil people and the
great people it's a choice most of the
time between the bad people and the
worse people that's just kind of nature
of voice it's really nature of power and
I do think that's how the president sees
it he's you know he's far less
sentimental about this stuff and maybe I
think more realistic about him this is I
don't agree with everything that Trump
says but this is one thing I do agree
with you know there is a kind of
Samantha power you know dorm-room like
oh they're so mean and it's kind of
silly and stupid and and not helpful
like in the end what matters is what's
good for the United States and you deal
with bad people a lot of the time in
order to help your own country at that
that kind of the way I think either now
some of that I think is fair enough
I don't think that you should justify
meeting with Kim jong-un by basically
saying we should lower the standards for
everybody else and he is being a
relativist I don't know if that's
necessarily bad in and of itself he's so
easily whenever someone says I'm not a
relativist but they're probably about to
do moral relativism right and I'm
Melissa I don't think there's anything
necessarily wrong with relativism but
the idea that you're not going to that
in some way you're justifying it by
saying like look everybody kills it's
you're lowering the expectations and
you're basically saying this is the way
that it should work I would also argue
that there is no indication that this is
in the u.s. is best interest I don't
know that there's anything wrong with
Trump's actions other than the fact that
follow-through does not seem to be the
issue for him and in the hands of
someone else maybe I would feel a little
bit more
suitable with what the follow-through is
going to be in this instance of course
if there were genuine interest and some
type of making the world safer they
wouldn't have breached the Iran deal and
broken it basically started you know
theoretically contained one fire
theoretically because that's what it
sounds like and then started another but
Tucker Carlson of course this is a very
convenient position for Tucker Carlson
to take because while I think it's a
good thing
having you know talking is always a good
thing I think
if you you've got to be a little
circumspect about it in terms of like
what kind of legitimacy you offer to
people or what how you use and leverage
the legitimacy they perceive but Chuck
Carlson hasn't always had this
perspective here he is all the way back
now
some of the younger folks in the
audience may not remember this but this
is most a year and a half ago a little
bit less for some of our 16 month-old
listeners might be may not recall this
but here's Tucker Carlson tweeting out
progressives have a long history of
supporting the world's most repressive
regimes it's hard to find a dictator to
the left the left hasn't supported
Chairman Mao Yugo Chavez Idi Amin what
all these people have in common they all
hate America Tucker at Fox News
damn right yeah Idi Amin's a little bit
of a stretch yeah I think that's a
stretch and they also think maybe we
could historically disaggregate some
people might have supported now when
they thought he was a revolutionary
overcoming feudalism and then what was
the last one Shabbos Shabbos oh I
totally some part of the left or
something mixing was now the Chavez when
he met with Miss Chavez has there ever
accused of random not randomly I guess
killing people on rent I mean he was
accused of abuses but certainly not of
like cutting up a journalist in a
an embassy no ample yeah no Mohammed Ben
Solomon stuff is really not young lungs
literally running drugs in 2019 but I
just can I just say real quick I mean
one I definitely think all things being
equal I absolutely
I much prefer Trump is talking than not
talking in North Korea and I'm not
interested in scoring Hawk points on it
I encourage them to talk and I think
especially if you hand the presidency
over to somebody who's smarter and more
competent and more ethical but doesn't
revert to the mean in terms of u.s.
foreign policy this might have set some
good preconditions for that so I glad
they're talking but it this goes back to
the Bill O'Reilly with Trump thing from
a couple years ago when Trump was like
oh you you think we're so innocent about
our relative human rights abuses and
it's just you know what's interesting is
that clearly that Samantha power
position is getting totally shrunk out
of the public discourse and it should be
humanitarian intervention ISM is a
failure but the real contestation
obviously is do you create something new
that still actually puts value on human
well-being or do you just revert to like
pure cynicism so I want to just detect
you know and that's what you can
represent that's what is like at one
point you here Tucker talk to me
oh he's recognizing a fact that we've
been arguing for a long time like we
bracele and then he's saying and that's
okay that's okay the problem is the
problem and the problem is though is
that the other problem is though is that
most of the responses to Tucker that I
see broadly speaking amongst liberals
and the left there are both wrong right
like there's some people on the left
that are so funneled into oh my god
Tucker's saying something that's true
this is amazing they're missing the pure
cynicism of it and then there's liberals
who are doing the whole like this isn't
who we are how dare you Tucker when it's
you look we're at ER and we have to
change as opposed to like we should
accept it and what does that actually
entail the change that's a major project
they always do this about everything
like the tucker carlson trumpian
politics our politics of negation
they're negating the kind of liberal
ideology that's
hegemonic in most circles for a really
long time it's the same thing is when
people complain about kids dying in ice
facilities right and they say well that
happened under Obama - that's what my
friend's dad said in rural Rhode Island
the other night oh it happened under
Obama - that doesn't make it okay that
makes it extra bad right I would also
just like to add really briefly on North
Korea cuz I do see I see Murphy who I
think is one of the better people in
foreign policy in the Democratic Party
and Warren they've both tweeted out a
bunch of cliches about this from my
internationalist perspective this is
what the president of South Korea wants
he supports this process a hundred
percent and he's both progressive and
internationalist and has good
credentials and to say the least has the
highest stakes about how this things
goes so let's follow his lead on yes I
think that makes sense
and of course Laura Ingraham though we
should just for good measure just to
show the enormous hypocrisy around here
I don't know it's sort of silly but why
not Laura Ingraham it's 5:00 p.m.
Eastern which means President Obama must
be meeting with some dictator somewhere
are there any left I mean I think we can
agree that own is as far as dictators go
he's the gold standard he's up there
right I mean well our dictatorial the
last is more authoritarian dictatorial
state than North Korea none none right
like this is I don't think any place in
world with less pay for an old
contestation right there's I mean this
is like being locked in somebody's
basement and he shows up and he's just
like it will put the lotion in the
basket to his people but also like it is
the progressive left and the sock down
left and the socialist left's job to
present an alternative to this kind of
smarmy liberalism that tucker carlson is
constantly negating and calling out the
hypocrisy of in a way that makes sense
both logistic lee and morally well to
that point bernie sanders was asked
about Trump
meeting Kim jong-un on George
his program here's Bernie's or splat
replying I have no problem with him
sitting down with Kim jong-un in North
Korea or anyplace else but I don't want
it simply to be a photo opportunity the
whole world's media was attracted there
what's gonna happen tomorrow in the next
day he has weakened the State Department
if we're going to bring peace to this
world we need a strong State Department
we need to move forward diplomatically
not just do photo opportunities and
right now while he is you know meeting
with Kim jong-un he is still provocative
in terms of almost moving toward a war
with Iran he vetoed legislation that I
supported and that we won in the Senate
and one in the house which would get the
United States out of the horrific war in
Yemen which is led by the brutal
dictator Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi
Arabia so I don't have a problem with
him sitting down and negotiating with
our adversaries I just don't want it to
be a social unity we need real diplomacy
so so you don't aren't going to take the
bait on this really and the bottom line
is it is a photo-op and there is no
substance behind this and at the very
least like do I don't know what the
agenda was my understanding the agenda
was get them to give up nukes and now
say you think they're going into a
fallback position of like no more nukes
for the time being and then we'll give
you everything you want I don't know
less nukes is better than more nukes no
nukes is better than some nukes saying
no nukes is good news no nukes is good
nukes would have bail fissured because
we're a big serious with the club
meanwhile well we've mentioned other
words abolish it's unbelievable we're
gonna do this story tomorrow but
apparently the Border Patrol
has a problem and this is not I mean is
anybody surprised about this no the
Border Patrol and we'll talk more about
it tomorrow but the Border Patrol has a
problem there are internal groups of
people within the Border Patrol who are
incredible I don't know would you call
them white nationalist neo-nazis some
bags fascists I mean is anybody
surprised I mean if anything the
surprise would be like that there's not
there's like non those in that patrol
based upon what they're asked to do no
one thinks they're woke exactly but
we'll talk more about that tomorrow in
the meantime yesterday I guess this was
it was this today or yesterday in New
Jersey yesterday
a Jewish group I'm not sure what they
were called is it if not now the protest
was Jews against Isis will check out if
it was if not now there isn't a
basically a concentration camp in
Elizabeth New Jersey and apparently 36
Jewish protesters were arrested in
staging the protest and calling
attention to this thing here it is
[Music]
[Music]
so I'd say never again action and
they're there holding a sign that says
never again means never again and it
really is calling Chuck Todd very
offensive comparison very offensive
comparison I mean again we've talked
about this but the question is at what
point do you say we're gonna we're going
to protest this at what point do you say
like okay I mean do you wait now
obviously people have died in custody
and obviously the treatment is bad
enough to have inspectors and judges
recoil so what at what point do you say
this is on a path doesn't mean it's
going to get there or you're gassing
people or killing people in these camps
but it's on a path that could under
certain circumstances lead to it what
are you going to do and so good for
these folks I don't know if we have any
information on how you can join up with
them we will let you know meanwhile
apparently a Canadian cartoonist
I don't know if he was working for a
paper or or what but political cartoon
here it is it's an image of Donald Trump
getting out of having just gotten out of
his golf cart looking down at the bodies
of the two immigrants who died recently
trying to cross the Rio Grande this is a
25 year old man and his 23 month old
daughter he apparently brought her
across the river went to go back in to
help his wife the daughter wanted to be
with him so she came out into the water
with him it appears maybe he was trying
to keep her on his back as he was going
through the water and so put her under
his shirt and whatever happened they
both drowned and the image is horrific
but the idea of Donald Trump getting out
of his golf cart and saying do you mind
if I play through to them I think
captures exactly the the sentiment he
has through this I don't die if anything
you could say it is too sympathetic to
Trump that he's asking even if he's
doing it just paying lip service because
yeah I don't even think he paid lip
service to this so the cartoonist
Michael de adder was let go from all the
newspapers in New Brunswick Canada by
his I guess his distributor or
publishing company
you went on a long sort of tweet thread
about it I think maybe the nub is here
says in past two weeks I drew three
Trump cartoons two went viral the third
one supernova a day later I was let go
and not only let go the cartoons they
had already had in the can were not used
overnight it was like I never worked for
the paper make your own conclusions with
this said I've been giving the NBP
newspapers what they wanted for several
months Trump wasn't on my radar I work
for Canadian newspapers so there's no
need to cover Trump 24/7 Canadian
politics is quite interesting right now
the Premier of New Brunswick Blaine
Higgs is a former Irving oil executive
and any cartoon I drew was slightly
critical of was systematically axed you
know I always let go I wanted to do my
job as an editorial cartoonist and they
wanted me to do their job
it's distraction with the big picture it
says Donald Trump it gets to the point
where I didn't submit any Trump cartoons
for fear that I might be fired does it
matter if I was fired of one Donald
Trump cartoon when to every Donald Trump
cartoon I submit in the past year was
axed I do this reluctantly and only
because I'm cornered I don't know how it
happened but I feel my credibility's
online all I did was lose my job but I
will defend myself and I will talk about
why I think is let go it was per my
perspective and clearly they have their
perspective misspelled there I could
write a thesis on my experience at the
newspaper that would be captivating do
you know what I'm not going to they gave
me 17 years of employment a job when the
Daily News folded and what would that
say about me anyways he's going on this
uh this rant I mean obviously look this
cartoon it captures a real dynamic
captures a real dynamic eloquent in its
simplicity I don't know if the guy has a
gofundme thing or he's gonna set up some
type of patreon or something like that I
hope they realize that he realizes that
he can do this happy thing I should also
say the nib is being let go from first
look media and you can google that and
support the nib which also does some
really great cartooning political
cartooning in fact when they reached
this cartoon they paid deatta for it
oh they did yep so check out the nib as
well they could use your support all
right we don't have too much time we'll
get to some of the other stuff tomorrow
which you've got time for oh it's to 48
all right one phone call then we're out
of here sorry you've been holding for 98
minutes called from a 703 area code
who's this where he called from we got a
lot of people have been on hold for a
long time sorry folks we'll take a bunch
of calls either tomorrow or Tuesday 703
who's this where you calling from hello
Sam
yes oh hello Maxwell from Maryland hello
Maxwell what's on your mind so I have a
brief stab Gorka story all right let's
see yeah caller the bartender oh I
appreciate it I'm a bartender in DC he
comes in with his wife and a couple
friends I was uh III had the pleasure to
take care of him I had no one no one
else in the whole restaurant knew who he
was so I was very very happy I got to
take care of him I was like oh my god
that's Sebastian gorks our literal like
fascists right here and everyone was
like I have no idea who that is
so I go over to the table and like hey
like like that what's going on which
guys want and he's like I want to stay
well done and so I I get him the steak
and he gets a salad and he's with his
wife I didn't know at the time his wife
is like its financier like literally
like funds him yeah yeah yeah so uh so I
got to take care of him he ate it so DD
fast he ate it so fast like he had
meeting in a few day and yeah yeah I got
to be like hey like are used to Bastian
Gorka he was like yeah and he had that
pin on to the other thing apparently
that's like some like awful fascist
thing
wasn't aware of any of this this was
before I really started watching this
show and he's like that's me as well
you're right I was like yeah I thought
I'd seen you on TV is like yes I don't
know on TV anymore you know I have a
radio and very very bizarre Sydney very
well he paid with this card I have the
number available if you guys want it at
all do you still work at that restaurant
well they actually they promoted me to
not bartender anymore so uh so even if
he were to I wouldn't be able to take
care of him but I would definitely give
him a free steak on the house for sure
I'm just saying though if you were to
give us the credit card number how much
trouble would you get into who are you
just just no I mean it would be funny
what they don't know either why not to
just kick a little contra contribution
Olano more now right that would be the
comedy thing to do
exactly ooh $55 it Lord oh ma they've
cracked the system my hope my my DC
payments be off well listen if he comes
in again what should we do what
donations from the mo universe yeah
exactly just say that he blocked me a
long time ago on Twitter mmm all right I
appreciate ya make sure that steak gets
extra seasoning if you know what I mean
I appreciate the car all right there you
go all right folks
that's all the time we have see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
and
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice was made
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
