this is pretty funny do we have this uh
Ben Shapiro
let's start with this first okay so
there's a Hoover Institute identity
politics panel that was announced I
think it's happening the Hoover
Institute is this it's pretty right-wing
Hoover Institute
and here is the the panel it's about
identity politics
brought to you by Andrew Sullivan
Heather McDonald of the blue lows matter
frame no different Heather McDonald oh
is it
is it well I think that's a blue peter
Berkowitz John Fante Michael Lind Mike
Frank and Mike Gonzalez and I would say
these guys range in age from probably 46
to 64 or maybe that may be pushing it a
little bit 50 yeah I amazing you could
say like they're in their 50s all those
guys and I do mean guys except her of
course Heather McDonald she's one of the
guys and if you are not watching this
you should know that they are all
seemingly Caucasian and so the the the
palette of the the the panel is up there
and someone tweets out to Dillon
Matthews tweets out a tweet that says
there are more people named Mike at this
event than there are people of color
this isn't the Hoover Institute identity
politics panels mics aren't pocs
and bench Bureau know is on the case so
what's fascinating is this just gives
you a sense right of what the difference
between how a normal person and how a
conservative looks at the term people of
color so he says so Shapiro shoots back
as if it's all self-explanatory so Dilla
Matthew says there's more people of
there are more mics at this event than
people of color and Shapiro writes back
Sullivan is gay and I should tell you if
your English is not your first language
gay is not a euphemism for people of
color it's just not a straight person
and if Peter teal is not a person of
color that's right McDonald is a woman
and I should tell you that again women
are not people of color Berkowitz is
Jewish not a definition of someone who
is a person of color not typically
anyway Gonzalez is Hispanic parens Cuban
now I guess you might have an argument
their ethnic ethnically but he is of
Caucasian heritage it appears anyways
but what's fascinating is like you know
and I've said this already twice today I
think the way that racists and
misogynist and maybe homophobes look at
people who are black white or gay is not
like I'm racist against you and I'm
misogynist against you because you're a
woman and I'm a homophobe because you're
gay it's I don't like any of you because
you're not like me it's just this basic
notion of like that you're the other
which is what my point is about somebody
who voted for Obama saying like
I'm not gonna have to non-normal
presidents in a row we just had one non
normal one I want to go back to a normal
one and to illustrate this point
Ashley Feinberg writes back just simply
is a beautiful tweet quote what's your
ethnicity question mark and quote and
then another quote woman they don't even
get it
they don't even get they don't
understand even what witnesses they just
don't disagree with it with the critique
they don't even get the most basic
critique it's fascinating
incidentally I should tell you if you're
not familiar with Ben Shira as Shapiro
he is the foremost intellectual on the
right and also POC by his own logic and
a POC ben shapiro serve that one up to
you Michael when you're back you can do
ben shapiro POC there you go oh that's a
good one that is a good one let's go to
the since that out i am self
commissioned officer after that mrs.
fields ad we know that there's more than
one baked thing in that mr office
jonathan Armstead i'm torn part of me
wants to lock Ivanka up for risking
American lives by using her personal
email address but can we blame her she's
married to a felon in training has a
father-in-law in prison was raised by a
deadbeat dad with no respect for the law
it's really just a failure of fathers in
this community in their community and
yes this is part of my new character
paternalistic black guy lectures just
like Fox News does Tommy d2 could this
be the worst rendition ever of that
horrible horrible song Dragonslayer with
the more mounting rumors of a seeder 22
20 22 Senate run is this the way to sell
out and do the classic Republican move
of promoting your new book blaming the
electric how your vote was stupid
Michael Newman from Mass
do you think the reason conservatives
are so desperately attacking aoc is
because they are terrified of the
possibility of her becoming House
Speaker is Senator yet one day without a
doubt and not just her individually
about but like more of her she's what
they're worried about yes
like almost ticks off every single box
and the socialism is the only one that
they can actually cop to right like what
they're really worried about is the
ascendance of women and people of color
but they'll call it socialism because
their dad's thought it was scary well
they called race-mixing communism
you know seventy years ago there you go
brave o matic the only problem they have
now the problem they have is that
seventy years ago when they talked about
communism you had the evil Soviet empire
right and the money and the tanks and
their ability to send people to the moon
and now the best they got is like
Venezuela where I think most Americans
are like vana what where is that is it
somewhere around all of my debt exactly
exactly
it's just Venezuela is just not the
terrifying sort of force that I think
the Soviet Union in the Soviet Union it
was a question of like are they going to
destroy us and will we have like three
minutes to find out about it and go
under our desks the fear about Venezuela
is are they going to start paying for
free heating oil for poor people in this
country again
