I want to just as an example we saw last
week and I'm sorry that I missed talking
about it but Michael my understanding
did been Shapiro's disastrous run-in on
the BBC where he revealed that his
debate strategy is to accuse the
questioner of left-wing bias but this is
a clip of Nigel Faraj and Andrew Marr on
the BBC and what's fascinating about
this to me is that Farraj uses the same
exact tactic as ben shapiro does and I
don't know Andrew Marr I don't know what
his politics are but it looks even more
ridiculous in the wake of ben shapiro
telling essentially a tory that he's
super liberal and that's why he's asking
these questions but here is a nigel
farage
does not want and he is now the head of
the brexit party does not want
apparently the BBC audience to know what
his positions are on a whole host of
topics I still believe that global
worrying about global warming is the
stupidest thing in human history I
believe that if we decide in this
country to tax ourselves to the hilt to
put hundreds of thousands of people out
of work in manufacturing industries
given that we produce less than 2% of
global co2 that isn't terribly
intelligent but as I say here we are
with one of the biggest changes in
politics has ever occurred okay and
you're not even interested do you steal
what's wrong with the bees still want
what is wrong with the BBC you still
want to rollback gun controls and reuse
guns well in this country this sums it
up do you know I've been going around
the country speaking of PAC rallies
every night and you know who's not there
the BBC and from this line of
questioning now I can see why do you
still know you're just not interested I
do you still feel uncommon let's talk
about democra
say let's talk about trust let's talk
about competence in politics this is
ludicrous do you still feel that people
with HIV shouldn't be allowed into this
country do I think the National Health
Service is there for British people yes
I absolutely deceased you still do do
this is absolutely new because I've
never in my life seen a more ridiculous
interview than this you are not prepared
to talk about what is going on in this
country today you're in denial
the BBC's in denial but Orion labor
parties are in denial I think you're all
in for a bigger surprise on with those
do we have call you can even imagine
have talked about it do still admire
Vladimir Putin no I've never admire that
a bit Putin you well you I said I
wouldn't like this current this is my
leader you most admired you told GQ
magazine as an operator but not as a
human being I would say well they've
them the way they the whole hysteria
thing not as a human being so I don't
like it
I don't like him as a human being what
is your question what is the relevance
of this only you are aware the brexit
party which once I destroy you have is
you haven't asked about a single other
member of the brexit party you haven't
commented on the fact we've got the most
diverse list of candidates of any party
fighting in this alone the Revolutionary
Communist Party right well no well
that's worth discussing isn't it what
have we managed to get left and right
together these things are really
interesting to your viewers not trolling
back the rest here is of quotes from
years ago not asking me what my
positions are you know what I think is a
mistake is to say that the way that I
admire Vladimir Putin or frankly any
sort of quasi authoritarian or
authoritarian leader is to say I don't
admire them as a person I just admire
the way they operate I think you're much
better off going like you know in person
Putin very charming fellow I don't like
him as a hockey player I don't know you
know I think he's a nice guy very great
with his pets and his kids and his wife
and whatnot
but the whole operating thing like where
he's you know imprisoning people or
killing people or gotta be tough that'd
be tough that gambit of like is it true
you believe this well I believe a
different thing that is very when you
see it in a row like that it becomes
very
yes yes I'm here to talk about democracy
but also yes I just love the way an
autocratic leader were operates but he's
not I don't think he's a nice fellow
that we mentioned this on the bench
appear Oh takedown on Friday but that's
the Motte and Bailey fallacy have you
heard of this one know where the Bailey
is sort of like the little pasture area
and you can go out and play in the
Bailey with your more sort of out there
statements and then when actual people
who might call you on your BS come
around you retreat to the Motte which is
the common sense things like I believe
the NHS should be for British citizens
and that sort of thing you retreat to
the comment the things that apparently
everybody agrees with commonsensical ii
yeah you know I've had
