[Music]
do you ever think that there's any
situation where a Democrat shouldn't be
primary no I am of the real Khanna
mentality he primary a progressive and
his state now he says primary me I
believe in democracy it's expensive
let's be like I understand the rationale
behind don't primary good Democrats you
know definitely be strategic but are you
doing it because you want to ask a
progressive are you doing it because
you're a mechanism of an institution are
you doing it because you want to raise
your name ID and it might actually hurt
the person maybe not the best idea but I
believe in the democratic process
there's two things that have brought me
around on primary Democrats regardless
of who they are
one is that they need even in the
instances of like even if they're good
they need the pressure for certain issue
sets that they can bring back to a Nancy
Pelosi and say like you know I'm in
trouble here and I've got a vote this
way and so I can't be you need to
release me or you you know I need to
vote for this you know like I think
Nadler with impeachment I think that he
at the very least is pretending like
he's impeaching because of his primary
challenge also the second thing is a
Jana Presley let's play this clip here
you know I think it was I can never
pronounce the name Capuano cap you oh no
Cappy ah no from Massachusetts was a
good Democrat a very progressive uh but
I think that having youth and you know
some measure of diversity and there is
younger Democrats hat tend to be more
partisan even if the politics align like
they tend to be more partisan they tend
to fight more and I think that's
important it's time in the swamp III or
it's not even the swamp because I don't
think Capuano was like corrupt I just
think that that you are shaped by the
era many people are shaped by the era in
which
they sort of you know develop and then
you're stuck in that you know it's like
me with music and I think on some level
there is there's a there's generations
of Democrats who are just raised to
believe that the the the political
landscape is one way and it's not
anymore and they don't realize that and
I think IANA Presley does and one point
about that a lot of these primaries
where people of one are their Democratic
primaries and Democratic districts it's
the ones that are I think super
important where we really need to have a
progressive economic voice is is the
swing districts and that's I think what
why Nancy Pelosi in particular saying
stop primary Democrats because you have
you know the New York Democrats who are
great at raising money and they're now
at home having to fight off challengers
because they're raising money for the
swing districts that's sort of their
machination they can't say that publicly
is not very sexy but that's really
what's happening is that it's expensive
and oh well do your job right and
exactly here's the Jana Presley on the
what committee is she in here this is
the Finance Committee and here to play
this clip what does all this mean
ultimately it means that people are
alive but not living this debt is not
just choking at our ability to build
wealth or purchasing power it is quite
literally choking people we had a
hearing and oversight and reform on
trauma and and we learned that suicides
are on the rise for many reasons and one
of those reasons is debt despair so this
is choking at the promise of our country
and quite literally we are losing lives
because of the debt that folks are
burdened by so it is a crisis and for
those across the aisle that perhaps
think that we are being dramatic
you cannot overstate a one point six
trillion in debt
crushing close to 45 million borrowers
you cannot describe that as anything
less than a crisis
she's talking about student debt in this
country which is and there's a lot lot
going on here it is really important for
Democrats
lay the groundwork for a Democratic
president to come in and take some
dramatic steps to alleviate this debt
from people not just in the future but
also the existing debt that exists there
and one of the things that is not in
that clip that is the case is that there
is a place in bankruptcy there is a
bankruptcy law that says that you cannot
discharge that student debt even in
bankruptcy so if I had a company and I'm
getting widgets from the guy down the
street mm-hmm and I've used those
widgets and I've actually sold my
dishwasher with those widgets in it or
whatever it is I'm selling it's out the
door and that money come in and giving
me some compensation I can get protected
from what I owe that widget maker but if
I've borrowed money from the US
government making money off of me
I cannot get protection there and now
under Betsy DeVos even if I can prove
that I was defrauded by the school that
they lent the money to me to go to I
can't and the reason why that is the
case that you cannot discharge that debt
is because of the bankruptcy bill that
Joe Biden was a big champion and I think
we're gonna hear more about that
tomorrow night but in the meantime quit
your bitching Millennials and you know
the fact that you can't discharge that
applies to people who are even older now
of course they didn't have to take as
much debt because at that time we
financed public school options which I
think depressed the the rate of
acceleration of tuition etc etc and we
didn't have the advent of these
for-profit universities that to his
credit Obama had had started to crack
down and quit quite a bit on and now
that's that's done but
