you know I this this term gets overused
but I think it's really the
establishment Democrats largely the
Democratic leadership which i think is
awesome i din many ways and seems to be
completely out of touch or not even with
the issue sets that that the democrats
and frankly the American public is is
sort of energized by but the the idea of
that that dynamic even exists it's it's
almost as if they're just like operating
in a parallel universe where there's
just like just a completely different
set of rules for physics and whatnot and
Joe Biden this week seems to be
operating under that and maybe you have
a theory as to why he is but I'll just
lay it out
he had one night in New York where he
went to three big money fundraisers to
me that suggests a problem with his
fundraising insofar as he's not getting
small donors that's a problem the
Democratic Party and not just
ideologically speaking I think that is a
competitive disadvantage yeah
significant one but we can talk more
about that in a moment at one of these
places he praised the segregationists
that he served with in the Democratic
Party in the 70s I think he won plane he
said you know they never called me boy
they just called me son and which is a
stunning thing to brag about as a white
senator you know congratulations you
were not called boy and he also went on
at his next fundraiser to talk about how
and it was a jumbled mess as far as I
could tell but he said we can't demonize
anything but don't worry guys nothing's
gonna fundamentally change it sounds
like he's basically saying like you're
just gonna have to you know you have to
pay a little bit more in taxes maybe but
it'll be lip service because there'll be
no fundamental change and you know we're
not gonna demonize you I mean what what
what is Joe who is Joe Biden trying to
appeal to
well it sounds to me like he's
completely taking for granted the
Democratic base many of whom are you
know appalled by both of those
statements on the economic side the fact
that he's kissing up to you know these
big but you know Wall Street funders and
saying don't worry we're not going to do
anything and by the way you know you're
not you're not bad people we're not
going to demonize you you know I mean I
I couldn't help but be you know reminded
of the fact that I mean Hillary Clinton
was very seriously damaged by the fact
that she gave us gave some speeches to
Goldman Sachs I mean she wasn't even you
know in there just saying things like
that it was they were pre when they'd
speeches finally came out they were
pretty anodyne but just the fact that
she did it was enough to inflame the the
Democratic base and then this thing with
the with the segregationist James
Eastland I mean that guy was one of the
worst this is not just somebody who you
know was from the south and had some
kind of old-fashioned ideas I mean he
was a hardcore segregationist why he
would choose to pick that guy that
particular one I mean there are any
number of other ones he could have
picked or talked about Robert Byrd and
his conversion or you know any number of
ways he could have said hey you know
I've been around a long time and I know
how to get along with people that are
hard to get along with Hiep chose this
guy and either he is so obtuse that he
doesn't understand the current
environment for those kinds of comments
or he's doing it for a reason and I
suspect he's doing it for a reason to be
perfectly honest I think Joe Biden is a
cynical politician and I think he is
speaking above the Democratic base
suggesting that they have no choice but
to vote for the Democrat they understand
their lesson and they're all going to
come around and vote for the Democrat
and basically he's going for a general
election strategy this early in the
campaign and frankly I think it's a huge
mistake although maybe revealing himself
this way is good news for the Democrats
because I don't think that's going to
beat Donald Trump I don't think it will
I think he's basically you know making
it quite
that he that he's planning to run a
campaign that will not you can't beat
Donald Trump on his own terms that's
just not going to happen no I could not
agree with your assessment more and you
know Bill DeBlasio hadn't actually liked
this could be the best thing he does in
the entire presidential campaign he
tweeted at Joe Biden saying just so you
know your buddy
you may thought he was very civil but if
it was up to him I wouldn't be able to
have my family and you know he was
talking about you know today's a good
day to hang an n-word or something like
that
the I but I'm with you I think Joe Biden
knew exactly what he's doing I think
he's saying I'm gonna reach some of
those voters out there who you know
maybe in practice a little races but
they don't wake up in the morning and
and look at themselves as racist and I'm
I'm gonna give them a little lat you
know um pat on the shoulder and say hey
just because we have a disagreement
about you know whether black people
should have you know are are is you know
the same as you and I people who are not
called boy that doesn't mean that he
can't vote for me I mean I really think
that's what was going on there and I and
then we saw in The Times like his his
advisers supposedly saying like we're
trying to dial Joe back I also find that
a very cynical ploy that that to me
sounds also there's no campaign
professionals who are gonna start this
early in the campaign criticizing their
own candidate in the New York Times
unless that criticism is supposed to
signal something like oh don't worry we
get it we get it
Joe's just being Joe I'm very very I and
I'm with you I I just if you depress
your own base
if you depress your own turnout that is
the recipe to lose I mean if you had
asked me six months ago if any Democrat
could lose to Donald Trump I would have
said highly unlikely but this playing to
Donald Trump's people instead of
playing to your own I think that's a
recipe for disaster - all right we got
to take a quick break
Heather if you'll join me in the next
hour we get a lot more to talk about
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back with more
