[Music]
let's go first to Donald Trump he's on
the White House lawn he's a little bit
concerned because his consigliere has
basically gone in and admitted that he
perjured himself in front of Congress
maybe Donald Trump has perjured himself
we don't know there's nothing wrong with
being cool and doing a cool building
with a cool country and giving it's cool
leader if I said I wasn't cool it would
be perjury it would be perjury so took
an oath took an oath took an oath to do
it all I had to be cool for everybody
but here here is Donald Trump here he's
back I mean I'm not allowed to do
business I was doing a lot of different
things when I was running after I won
obviously I don't do business one from
January 20th but more importantly which
is a following year but I ran a business
in fact I often joke about the fact that
I was the only person that campaigns and
simultaneously ran a business but that
was that was I don't do you recall that
like maybe maybe he did there was a lot
of joke now it was all personal jokes it
was it I did it I thought he was joking
about how he was going to like distance
himself from his business and that was
funny yeah I will totally separate my
business look at the classes of folders
of binders that exactly the enemy yes
with the sad lawyer from midnight
that was great bit all right eject that
we didn't do I didn't do that was a
project that wasn't done for a lot of
reasons number one is that I was really
not that I had to do it but I was
focused on running for president I
wanted that to be my primary focus not
running or building a building now
well this was a deal that didn't have
four that was no deal I mean if you look
this was an option I guess I don't know
if I want it I want to be very specific
so of thinking it was an option that I
decided not to do so we didn't so if you
look we really didn't have Disney so
excuse me excuse me this was an option
in a forum but here's very simple we had
two percent a position to possibly do a
deal to build a building of some kind in
Moscow I decided not to do it the
primaries that could have been other
reasons but the primary reason it was
very simple I was focused on running for
president there would be nothing wrong
if I did do it I was running my business
while I was campaigning there was a good
chance that I wouldn't have won in which
case I would have gotten back into the
business and why should I lose lots of
opportunities so here's the story go
back and look at the paper that Michael
Kohn wrote before he testified in the
house and/or Senate it talked about his
position what he's trying to do because
he's a weak person and not a very smart
person what he's trying to do is end and
it's very simple he's got himself a big
prison sentence and he's trying to get a
much lesser prison sentence by making up
the story night looks like what I'm sure
people would have trouble articulating
that my personal lawyer of 13 years whom
of whom I was his only client is going
to prison for a long time and it's
because he's not very bright and we like
a lot of people to say like hey are you
not a little bit concerned it's a
charity case I hired him as a favor
$2 that's what he said time I know
that's what he said yesterday it was a
big favor idea there he is so
right now you could see he's a messy bed
he'll distress though when he gets
 like that that's and he's just
like I don't like how this is going
I told Nancy I liked her so this
of all stopped unbelievable but we shall
see I really has anybody seen Donald
Trump jr. lately no is he still like out
and doing stuff stop hearing this is
Donald Trump oh I get it
I'm a very good developer happily living
my life when I see our country going in
the wrong direction to put it mildly
against all odds I decide to run for
president and continue to run my
business very legal very cool
talked about it on the campaign trail
[Music]
yeah 45459 am like a part of a very
psychically emotionally healthy schedule
where is he when he writes this is he in
Argentina
oh he's enroute okay I can't sleep on a
plane all right so I get up early to do
my exercises and then I I i tweet at
4:59 lightly looked at doing a building
in russia lightly put up zero money zero
guarantees didn't do the project witch
hunt scroll down to see the first reply
that might actually be funny yeah there
you go it's just somebody's in pretty
the Trump's are like the Bluths but less
charming yeah do you know that the
Bluths are actually modeled on the
bushes in some ways and the whole
housing development thing is it's a some
of it as a parable or for the invasion
of Iraq
