a little bit of time here so I want to
talk about this ridiculously stupid
Jonathan Chait okay here we go
may I say go off king well this okay
okay so Jonathan Chait I don't know this
is just I've never seen anything this
sort of naked Lee stupid by someone who
is ostensibly respected by the I think
an increasingly smaller and narrower
band of people I mean at one point
Jonathan Chait who is ostensibly a a
democratic partisan is going to end up
being a a member of the sort of the Bill
Kristol never Trumper never AOC er yeah
I mean Oh without a doubt he's a
democratic when he attacked Elizabeth
Warren and he writes the concerns I have
well here's the headline what happens
when Elizabeth Warren sells out to
powerful interests now may I ask a
question so is he doing a hypothetical
scenario where Elizabeth Warren caves to
the credit card industry and she
reverses herself on the history of her
advocacy of financial reforms that when
I saw the headline I was like hmm that
yeah people will be bummed
or maybe he's talking about like what
happens when she has to compromise on
something are the you know purity trolls
gonna have a vision and I was like I'm
not reading another one of those dumb
Jonathan Chait things that are like
hippie punching because that's usually
what he writes right like and so I was
bored at that but I didn't realize how
stupid this piece could be so he writes
the concerns I have about Warren as a
policy maker and not the issues she
talks about but the issues she doesn't
hear are two issues where I believe
Warren has done the wrong thing
there's a common theme here they
challenge and complicate her populist
appeal
now the reason why he picks two things
is because he wants to launder one of
them the first is the medical device tax
one of the ways the Affordable Care Act
was funded was via the medical device
tax and the Democrats when they
controlled the Senate under Obama we're
coming very close to repealing the
medical device tax
Al Franken was one of the people who
wanted to do that because Minnesota has
a big medical device industry guess what
else does Massachusetts lots of devices
this repeal of the medical device tax
right particularly in the shadow now of
a 1.5 trillion dollar giveaway to
corporate taxes or the Chuck Schumer
plan to repatriate offshore taxes is
negligible is it something that I am in
favor of absolutely not but the idea
that this has been sticking in Jonathan
Chait skra crotch or craw or whatever it
is wherever he's been keeping it for
this time is impossible the idea that
this is some type of deal breaker that
people are gonna care about in this day
and age the medical device tax after
there's been a 1.5 trillion dollar
corporate tax giveaway after the
repatriation which Chuck Schumer and
Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan had
planned as per Chuck Schumer's bragging
in October of 2016 is just absurd it's
absurd and I love the fact that he leads
with it because he thinks he's being
clever because what's his real agenda
what he's really concerned about is now
this is something that she's
co-sponsored legislation to repeal the
medical device tax she's written an
op-ed advocating the tax for
for the industry's own newsletter and
proposed the bill that would penalize
manufacturers of pharmaceuticals but
crucially not the medical device
industry for misappropriating funds
intended for scientific research so in
other words she has been really good at
going after big pharma which is actually
you know one of the bigger problems but
not so much with the medical device
industry that we're we're we're
splitting hairs here particularly based
upon what issues this guy's had in the
past but whatever I agree with them
we shouldn't have a repeal of the
medical device tax but this is like the
idea that this would derail Elizabeth
Warren this is sort of like a version of
Bernie Sanders and guns if guns were a
wholly irrelevant issue to the entire
country but then there was another thing
too now that I'm now that I'm writing
this piece I'm gonna write another thing
about it
education reform so a valid although
unbelievably narrow right objection to
set the stage for the real aim of the
piece right which is that Elizabeth
Warren has sold out to powerful
interests in this instance the teachers
the National Teachers dun-dun-dun a very
very small constituency of the
Democratic Party right like I mean this
guy even if this guy had written this
five years ago it would have seemed
awkward but right now it's just
incredibly tone deaf and stupid there
may be no state in America that can
clearly more clearly showcase the clear
success of charter schools than Warren's
home state of Massachusetts professors
Sarah Cody's and Susan dynarski
conducted a study proving the massive
gains produced by charter school
students in the Bay State because
Massachusetts has a cap on the number of
students allowed to ten charters its
students have to enter a lottery to
apply this allowed CODIS and danowsky to
compare the performance of students who
won the lottery with
who lost a perfectly randomized sample
across a broad suite of metrics the
students who won the lottery and
attended a charter outperform the
lottery losers in every way state test
scores SAT scores number advanced
placement classes test scores in those
classes in college attendance okay let's
just stipulate that this study was done
perfectly well and is accurate that
those people who applied for the lottery
and got in and went to the charter
schools did better than those who
applied for the lottery and didn't get
in and so you are eliminating at least
the control of parents who are equally
motivated to be involved in their their
kids education you can't necessarily
make up for maybe the disappointment
that the kids that the parents feel you
know and maybe they're did a little bit
less engaged in the kids but but let's
just let that ride okay let's just
imagine that you that is a perfect test
and you can you can measure that the
gains were equally large or larger for
low-income students students who entered
school low test scores etc etc the
Charter sector would like to admit more
students in Massachusetts but the state
has a cap preventing more students from
enrolling there was a state referendum
in 2016 to increase the cap and the
teachers union spearheaded the the
opposition to this measure and Warren
also joined that opposition - question -
which he writes crushed the chance for
thousands of low-income urban students
in Massachusetts to have a chance at a
great education and a future in college
okay now first of all his
characterization that last line there it
did not crush the chance for thousands
of low-income urban students in
Massachusetts to have a chance at great
education and future in call
because the thing that also doesn't
mention is that public schools in
Massachusetts outperform all other
schools around the country so while even
if we stipulate this study is absolutely
accurate there's no indication that
these people that these students in the
public schools didn't have the same
opportunity to get into colleges or have
a future that's not what the study
measures the study measures SAT scores
certain percentage to increase in SAT
scores and certain skill sets a B what
he doesn't mention about Massachusetts
charter schools is that they are unique
in that Massachusetts has an incredible
amount of control as a state over the
authorization of these schools over the
accreditation of these schools over the
entire process of these schools
Massachusetts has a better system to
deal with charters there's a lot of
research that also suggests the reason
why charters do well in Massachusetts is
because the public schools themselves do
well because there's an already a large
foundation for public schooling in
Massachusetts and thereby the charters
are platformed on that but the other
reality is is that every time you put
money into a charter school what you're
doing is you're taking money out of the
public schools so there very well could
be a point of diminishing returns
charter schools are not set up to be an
alternate form of Education in a locale
it's supposed to be a mechanism in which
to provide a laboratory to enhance
public education so that ideas can be
dealt with in charter schools that may
have a little bit more flexibility but
then be scaled up it is not meant to be
a
a replacement for public schools and the
fact is is that there is certainly a
time without a cap there's certainly a
point where you start to undercut public
schools for the for all students not to
mention the fact that that's important
because charter schools even if it's
lottery don't take the same array of
students that the public schools do you
still have rules and where people can be
kicked out of even if Massachusetts
charter schools are not like the vast
majority of charter schools which are
for-profit because the for-profit ones
are not allowed in Massachusetts the
reality is they do inhibit the quality
of public schools and there is like I
say a lot of evidence that shows to the
extent that you have charter schools
succeed in a place like New Jersey or
Massachusetts it's a function of the
underlying public school system so if
you start robbing Peter to pay Paul
Paul is actually going to start doing
worse as well not to mention all the
other apostles who I can't aren't
allowed to get into the charter school
yeah but they break the power of those
greedy greedy teachers unions well that
turns out to be the sellout to the
powerful interest now mind you the money
on the pro charter side was much bigger
so the problem Elizabeth Warren has is
she sells out to be lower bidder you
just imagine a teacher like rolling a
gold-plated pencil across the desk
towards her like here have this Apple
exactly my concern is what these issues
tell us about Warren as a policy maker
she has done an effective job of
mobilizing public opinion against the
finance industry which has many
nefarious impacts on public policy Oh
incidentally the biggest contributors to
this charter movement because they know
there's tons of money to be made in the
other states even if Massachusetts at
this moment does not allow for-profit
charter schools there's tons of money
for these big finance ears to make in
other states hedge funds are deep into
the Charter movement but presidents have
to deal with all the issues and many of
them have organized lobbyists defending
terrible policies that fly under radar
there's no such thing as a perfectly
pure politician of course but from my
standpoint medical device tax repeal and
the Massachusetts Charter can
I mean the entire ACA is founded on such
compromises and the idea that the
medical device repeal is the one that
really sticks out in his mind is just
laughable definitely was not the lack of
a public option that was not it
definitely not it or the the lack of
negotiating with drug prices with
farmers who knew no no keep your eye on
the ball or the eyes medical device tax
too massive subsidies to the insurance
companies the whole thing was a
compromise bill do you have some money
tied up in a Worcester medical device
company that you're downplaying but from
my standpoint the medical device tax
repeal and the Massachusetts Charter cap
are especially unjustifiable policies
first of all the fact that that charter
schools in Massachusetts do marginally
better than public schools for kids even
if that was provable does not mean that
capping how many students go into
charter schools is a bad policy that
just doesn't follow on Twitter jate was
questioned about this like dude there
were two powerful interests one that had
more money than the other and she went
with the one that had the less money in
this fight in Massachusetts and his
response was fascinating insight its
behind there it sits behind the it's
behind the razor one see it on the left
oh no no I guess it isn't sorry
his response was fascinating and it was
fascinating because he doesn't realize
what a cell phone it is aside from it
being something that he writes so
someone says to him oh he's talking
about incidentally the forces that were
for this were hit with the largest fine
and state campaign history for illegally
hiding the identities of its billionaire
donors and Ben Mathis Lilly says if it's
selling out to the powerful to not
support that group it seems like maybe
selling out is not the right frame for
that issue and chaid says the interest
group in this issue holds power over
Warren's political futures the teachers
union if it was a Republican the
calculus would be different the donors
to the charter schools may be rich but
their interest in this issue is
philanthropic making it quite different
than an interest group protecting its
own income now here's aside from the bow
astronomically disingenuous they're a
couple of Pinocchio's okay because the
donors to charter schools in
Massachusetts and the charter school
first of all they're not donating to the
charter schools they're donating to a
political action committee or trying to
expand charters it's a comment they want
to privatize you dense and they
want to do this in other states where
they make a ton of money so but even if
we were to believe that the reason why
these billionaires are all giving money
to the Charter movement because it's a
philanthropical
and that they are giving the money not
to the charter schools themselves and of
course not to public schools with no
strings attached
but to the political action committee
supporting charters even if we were
completely moronic enough to believe
this this last part making it quite
different than an interest group
protecting its own income what he's
saying is that when you're talking about
protecting your own income and your
advocating for something that is
extremely suspicious that is extremely
suspicious and so when you have a
scenario where someone's advocating for
something like that and their income is
in any way involved you should not take
what they're saying seriously or at
being in any way an honest reflection of
their opinion well sadly jonathan chait
s-- wife works for charter schools this
is the same guy who like was like oh I
can't believe we utilized the biker
bosses the dice is boss now I ever had
I happen to believe that it's possible
that the teachers even though the
teachers union even though it would
protect their own income that they
actually have the education of students
in mind that's a big reason why you go
into education but um you go there for
the cold card currents this is the
George Mason economics also by the way
this public choice theory sir all right
Ronnie because when she worked for a
charter school wildly irresponsible New
York magazine not to make him disclose
that in this piece yes absolutely every
time he writes about charter school she
should be saying like I'm not the kind
of scab to like try to tweet at
someone's employer in an effort to get
them fired but if I'd scab on anyone it
would probably be Jonathan shake because
he's also a scab and he's already scared
early yeah fall you scab you can scab
this gas cap but I but also like the
only thing Jonathan shade has ever done
that has like any credibility is you
know writing I mean frankly pretty easy
pieces about why like libertarian
economics is delusional and here he is
forwarding it in the entire public
education arena yeah without disclosing
a massive conflict of interest well I
mean a one that he actually believes is
necessarily a conflict of interest
you can't possibly advocate for
something that protects your income in
any fashion oh he's such a dumbass it's
unbelievable I mean if we're gonna
cherry-pick statistics maybe we should
talk about all of the studies that found
charter schools have often horrible
racial disparities in their punishment
of students that's simply a fact it's
they have disparities in that regard
they don't have the same obligations
around the country to to let in all
sorts of students from public schools
they don't outperform broadly speaking
across the nation public schools so the
idea that Massachusetts is limiting the
number of of charter schools the idea
that that is inherently a bad policy is
just absurd it's just absurd it's not in
particularly in the context of
criticizing her as a national candidate
yeah this whole piece is bloated with
neoliberal ideology well this whole
piece that's a thing you could say about
it you hold this whole piece is a is a
good reminder of even as I prefer Bernie
and critique her the really admirable
parts of Lizbeth Warren's record I was
gonna say thanks i if you're Warren and
this is my cigar this Jonathan Chait
Pete is so bad that it has occurred to
me that warns people paid him to write
it people doubt it's that bad my respect
levels for Warren's people and Jonathan
she would sky rock that was he could
very well be a a secret huge proponent
of Elizabeth Warren and realize I gotta
take one for the team this is the only
way I can help is you write a massively
unbelievably just embarrassingly stupid
piece without disclosing a conflict of
interest for us all right sure you know
what the mission is more important than
my egos all I can do so New York
Magazine just unionized and that's
pretty cool oh just this moment very
recent oh yeah yeah he was crying about
it when that happened I said hey you
know what guys you just unionized why
don't we bring back a little social
unionism a little social consciousness
to you
our union demands so in addition to you
know better wages better benefits
whatever whatever I think it would be to
the benefit of everyone in society if
you make firing Jonathan Chait one of
your demands in your contract so I would
see how that goes
