[Music]
folks master fan you know who's really
excited about the work he did on
inhibiting climate change Barack Obama
but apparently he's also super super
excited about the work he did that
didn't inhibit climate change here is
Barack Obama talking about the recent
boom in US oil production right after he
praises the Paris climate Accords he
then takes credit for I don't know the
the continuance of all the things that
the parrot climate Accords are supposed
to fighting call me both ways Barry
there we go here he is Barack Obama you
know here's the thing too I think what
happens to former presidents and you
know having watched now four or five of
them they think they still have the
political acumen that they had that got
them into the presidency they do not
realize that they have been living
cloistered lives and have no sense of
that so they have the same level of
cockiness and self-confidence that
they're gonna that things are gonna work
out for them but they forget to
calibrate what they're saying and they
end up saying things like this that are
more revealing than they probably want
them to be
I was extraordinarily proud of the Paris
Accords because look I know you know you
know I know we're in oil country and we
need American energy and and by the way
American energy production you wouldn't
always know it but you know it went up
every year I was president and you know
that whole suddenly America is like the
biggest oil producer and the biggest get
that was me people I just want you to so
so slow like you know sometimes you go
to Wall Street and folks will be
grumbling about anti-business I said
have you checked where your stocks were
when I came in office where they are now
what what are you talking what are you
complaining about just say thank you
please because because I want to raise
your taxes a couple percent I mean you
know here's the problem is that he's
working on his legacy in the creepiest
of ways and and what's problematic about
that is well there's there's two things
one is it's a good reminder for the
failures of the Obama administration to
it's a good reminder about how someone
who ostensibly thinks they're trying to
do good is so cowed by these forces
these big-money forces 3 it's
problematic insofar as like you know
what is the message he's sending to
Democrats to people who are Center
center left I care about climate change
and I'm proud of the fact that I made
America number one again in oil
production there's a single pilot like
Jerry Brown is more serious on this in
terms of any like executive in the
United States including Obama and he
drills and does natural gas because none
of them have any plan for supply-side
like they will do stuff on energy they
will cut it and those are important
things but not a single America and and
I just think as long as as long as you
have a fossil fuel company driven
political process you're never gonna
have now here's the thing sex it's it's
one thing for Obama to say this happened
on my watch and we don't have a system
and we are lat this is a lack this is a
it's the it's the problem to be so to
set the record straight but I got to
make sure that I contextualise it in the
a that still says the agenda is to end
climate change or to mitigate it in some
fashion and so he could have
communicated that same thing that same
factual information but said and look
it's a problem and we it's a problem and
if I and and and and that happened
despite the fact that I didn't want it
to or that I know that it's wrong or or
whatever you know then at least from a
messaging standpoint you know you're bad
want a message I don't cause global
warming white people cause global
warming how about that welcome yeah Cubs
stock market up not to mention what's
the message he's sending to people who
don't own any stocks and who think the
one-percent should have their taxes
raised by more than a few percentage
points and are very angry about that
exactly exactly I mean he's he's not
even he but it's even worse with a
message of people who don't have that
understanding right because he's giving
the okay to the entire Democratic Party
to continue along that trajectory and we
know if we continue along that
trajectory where we keep pulling fossil
fuels out of the ground that we are in
serious serious shitty shape not to
mention we also know if we continue to
give carte blanche to Wall Street we're
gonna end up with another economic
crisis and we're gonna be right back
where we were in 2008 and we're still in
a diminished capacity from them so this
is all very problematic more so for the
people who don't know that it's
problematic
all right stipulate that saw your house
if it goes underwater I think you're not
gonna sell your house oh do you know
what socialism is for white people want
to pretend they're not the devil what
are you talking what are you complaining
about just say thank you please Allah
Allah Akbar thank you please
