every day casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam Sita it
is Friday August 16th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
sitting here in my soft collared shirt
Michael's taking a break from adidas
indeed well it's casual Friday right so
I'm out of my gym attire your work your
work attire my yeah indeed on the
program today Ben Dixon from the
Benjamin Dixon show will be joining us
and Andy Kindler from the world jewish
comedy will be joining us also on the
program today israel bands two sitting
Congress people from the United States
to visit in an official capacity at
Donald Trump's behest or encouragement
and meanwhile Donald Trump wants to buy
Greenland can't also on the program
Corey Lewandowski subpoenaed by the
Judiciary Committee in the house over
the obstruction questions
and recession talks loom or I should say
recession talk lose appeals court orders
Trump to provide hygiene products to
migrant child prisoners contemplate that
that is a win
how sick our situation is to exact to
meanwhile dozens of soon-to-be suits a
filed suits rather will flame that
kidnapped migrant children were abused
in foster care the State Department
Inspector General claims that top state
Department officials were attacking its
own staff based on their staffs politics
lastly Trump appointed Pennsylvania US
Attorney on the attack against the
criminal justice reform er Phillies DA
Larry crasner all this and more on
today's program welcome ladies and
gentlemen thank you for joining us I am
broadcasting from a retreat headed north
towards the fair ser city of central or
the cities in central Massachusetts I
should probably say but thank you for
joining us another end of the week in
this era it is of course August
theoretically the slowest time of the
year in terms of news and it is proving
to be so to a certain extent Donald
Trump has started his campaign he's out
campaigning the Democratic campaign is
in full swing we will not have another
debate though for at least I think about
three and a half weeks now
in late September so we will be of
course covering all of that and just a
reminder for those of you who join us
only on Fridays
you can become a member of this program
and support the show by going to join
the majority report com we give you
extra content every day and on top of
obviously the show that we provide the
the the non fun half of the show that we
provide every day the austere half right
exactly and also remind you check out
the a.m. quickie we are gonna go on
vacation in about a week okay in a
couple of days and we have all new
content every day I think it is right
now we have we've done six interviews in
prep for this and but if you want the
news of the day subscribe go to iTunes
sign up for the majority report what
through whatever podcast audio podcast
service you have and check out the AM
quickie it is in that feed we're gonna
separate it and send it off to its own
feed in September but for now you got to
go to the majority report feed to to get
it so obviously the bigger story today
is the story revolving around what's
happening with to congresswoman receded
to live and Ilan Omar who have been
banned from Israel apparently this
morning or later earlier I should say
this morning in terms of us time the
Israeli government said that Lib could
go and visit her grandmother who is in
her 90s but in a very narrow
circumstances and in a way that is
disregards her status as a US
Congresswoman and I mean you I think
it's it's easy to get bogged down in the
the supposed you know Paul
politics going back and forth on this
but when you step back the implications
of this are pretty stunning it's
understandable I would think that some
countries would ban US lawmakers from
visiting we have some hostile
relationships with some countries it is
understandable I guess on some level you
know broadly speaking if a country did
not have good relations with us as to
why they would ban it I mean that seems
quite obvious we ban probably officials
from Iran or from North Korea but that
is not the relationship that we have
with Israel here is Bernie Sanders
saying what is both stunningly obvious
and because of the nature of our
politics in this country going to be
deemed as being somewhat controversial
but this is the most obvious response
that one could possibly give to this
situation please senator good to see you
what's your reaction to President Trump
asking the president of Israel Benjamin
Netanyahu to do this and Netanyahu
obliging well I wish I could tell you
Holly that I am shocked I am NOT we have
a president who tragically is a racist
is a xenophobe and who is a religious
bigot but the idea that a member of the
United States Congress cannot visit a
nation which by the way we support to
the tune of billions and billions of
dollars is clearly an outrage and if
Israel doesn't want members of the
United States Congress to visit their
country to get a first-hand look at
what's going on I've been there many
many times but if he doesn't want
members to visit baby he can
respectfully decline the billions of
dollars that we said we give to Israel
yeah but but honestly I mean think about
your percent right think about the
outrage there would be if
I don't know Egypt said we're going to
ban entry from a couple of Republican
lawmakers or how about more the point to
Jewish law makers right right I mean
that would be stunning and and and the
idea that I mean look is there
absolutely no strings attached to having
relations with you with it with it with
the United States to having diplomatic
relations is there absolutely no strings
attached to the billions of dollars that
we use to support Israel I mean this is
it's pretty outrageous and of course it
was encouraged by Donald Trump what
we'll talk more about this with Ben
Dixon but I just have this sorry I'm
sorry
um just real quick I I you know every
time I see this is another time again
where it just really needs to be
underlined that Bernie is by far the
clearest and the most brave on this
because the other sort of critiques I've
seen of you know Senator Warren so that
this undermines their their you know you
know image as a tolerant democracy
they're not I mean we just need to stop
having pretend conversations about
Israel it's it's there are too many
people whose lives have been lost
there's too much repression to keep
having a fantasy life about this place
and it's wrong and it's also quite wrong
by the way to the handful of people left
in Israel who are trying to to fight for
some semblance of open society as well
frankly right alright well we'll talk
more about that with Ben Dixon and we
should maybe go over like you know what
BDS is I mean yes like you know from an
official standpoint III have no doubt
there are people who are associated with
BDS who have their own opinions as to
what it is like people who are
associated with the Democratic Party
have a different notion of what it is or
anything but but it's true but it but
like you know there is an official state
of the organization of BDS and it it's
it's demonized I think by people who
don't know what it is I well we'll talk
more about with Ben Dixon on this
because I actually think this is going
to be helpful for that movement in many
respects but we will like I say we'll
talk to it to Ben Dixon about that in a
moment folks I know many of you are busy
I am one of those people who are also
busy and one of the ways that I deal
with my busyness is I try and get my
reading in on stuff that isn't
necessarily stuff that you wouldn't
necessarily need to like read all of the
sort of nuance right I'm not I'm not not
saying anything about anybody specific
books but a lot of nonfiction books you
know you want the key takeaways well if
you feel like you can't find the time to
read all the books on your list you're
not alone blink is an app that compiles
the key takeaways from thousands of
non-fiction books they're adding titles
we seem to be adding titles constantly
everything you you want to know about a
book nonfiction book it's condensed down
into 15 minutes that you can read and
now listen to as well blink is really
unique it works on your phone your
tablet your web browser whatever it is
you find everything from health to
self-help titles to how to the history
books now that they're starting to go
into they're going into business books
obviously all of it in blink is's
library for me I have to say like and I
think it was appropriate right but I
went through the 4-hour workweek now
that Tim Ferriss has a great look it's
something we all aspire to yes honestly
and
and then you know like the thing is is
that like I don't know and I don't if I
saw the seven Habits of Highly Effective
People I that's not a book that I would
pick up and read because I'm like I'm
just not going to make that kind of
commitment but try the summary of it but
I listened to a 15-minute sever you know
and I think I probably took away like
you know I probably said screw about six
of them but I'm T I'm taking one but but
the point is that I did was three
minutes of great material there there's
a lot of stuff that you look through the
ideas you know that what they offer on
these things like you know like I know
the the power of habit and other things
like that that I would be oh the other
one is the 80/20 80/20 principle that
one has been sort of a guiding light for
me and I first heard about it with via
Tim Ferriss and then I just checked it
out and plinkus would I read that book
in all honesty I would not but I
listened to a 15-minute a condensed
version of it because the bharta entries
solo with blankets you get unlimited
access to read or listen to a massive
library of condensed non-fiction books
all the book you want and all for one
low price right now blinka says a
special offer from majority report
listeners go to blink it's calm slash
majority you can start a seven day free
trial
blink is calm slash majority get a seven
day free trial check it out I think
you'll like it I think you will also
with more than seventy sizes including
their signature half cup sizes third
love designs bras with breast size and
shape and mind for a perfect fit and
premium feel all you got to do you go in
and you answer a couple of simple
questions third love has this fit finder
you know quiz they find your perfect fit
within sixty seconds and then third love
has a 100% fit guarantee you can wire
wash and put your bra to the test for
sixty days if you don't love it you can
return it after 60 days third love will
wash it and donate it to a woman in need
this is hands down I've been told the
most comfortable bra you alone straps
that won't slip tagless labels
lightweight super thin memory foam cups
our resident majority report bra tester
had this to say I like that they don't
have a zillion options so it's easy to
choose something quickly the fit is
great usually I have to return most bras
I order online even though there are my
size I ordered to both fit that almost
never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle and cute details so I don't feel
basic there you have it folks
third love knows there's a perfect bra
for everyone so right now
they're offering my listeners 15% off
your first order go to 3rd love.com
slash majority now to find your perfect
fitting bra and get 15% off your first
purchase that's third love.com slash
majority for 15% off today alright we're
gonna take a quick break when we come
back we'll be talking to Ben Dixon from
the Benjamin Dixon show
you
folks we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report we had a little bit of
who there of course to celebrate the
50th anniversary of Woodstock 50 years
nuts that it took place 50 years ago I
mean I wasn't there but I I was not at
Woodstock 99 either I was not at any of
them but I've listened to all the music
and it wasn't you know when I was a kid
it was just the big festival that
happened you know I don't know 10 12
years earlier or something but in the
meantime folks he is not at Woodstock he
is in the he's below the mason-dixon
line if I'm not mistaken and maybe no
relation or maybe there is ladies and
gentlemen Ben Dixon of the Benjamin
Dixon show then it's hard to me it's
that are you you know well funny how
that works out it's very possible I
could be related to Mason the the Dixon
part of the Mason Dixon but I wouldn't
know for reasons that we don't have to
discuss right now I understand well fair
enough thank you so much for joining
this no Brian jury night it never
occurred to me either I just honestly
the first time ever thought about it was
when you mentioned it just now really
yeah seriously wow that's pretty amazing
well alright well there it is maybe next
time you're on you'll have something to
report to us yeah I'll get some kind of
ancestry.com or something we'll figure
it out all right well so let's get into
this I mean obviously in some respects
the I mean I think the the story that
that implicates more people and maybe
we'll start with that as opposed to
what's going on with Taleban and Ilan
Omar I mean because I think that's a big
story but at the beginning of the week
the Trump administration announced
essentially that a a policy change
a rules change that will impact
I mean potentially at a minimum about
350,000 immigrants but potentially
millions I mean nobody's quite sure
because the the impact of this
regulation this new law essentially will
not just have direct bearing on people
but will have sort of subsidiary effects
because it's gonna scare a lot of people
right and this is people who are here
legally trying to get a more permanent
resident status and they need to
basically be at 250 percent of poverty
with of course assurances from family
and whatnot to to get there I mean this
is a direct assault on on people who are
living 150 percent above poverty poverty
level who have kids who have family who
have husbands wives I mean it's this is
the Republican Party basically
fulfilling the promise to their people
which is we're gonna have a whiter
America yeah yeah absolutely uh you know
Sam I actually honestly forgot that that
happened this week that's been that kind
of a new cycle week but it really stood
out the most to me with Ken Cuccinelli
and his approach to uh his his
interpretation on the on the poem on the
side of the UM the Emma Lazarus poem on
the side of the Statue of Liberty but
this is directly fulfilling the promise
for a wider America it's not as though
the the process to get into America was
easy to begin with but now they're
making the hurdles so much higher that
only the wealthy would be able to come
and then of course with everything else
it's the chilling effect right
everything else that Donald Trump is
doing it's very clear that the only
immigrants that they won't are but like
Ken Cuccinelli said he referenced the
the European descent when he was talking
about the imil Azeris point so
they're fulfilling the promises of of
the far right and this is this is what
they wanted and Donald Trump I actually
you know you got to give it to him he's
delivering exactly what they have wanted
for some time but haven't been bold
enough to actually go out there and do
it I'm it's it's it's a combination it's
a combination of all of the tactics that
he's doing that I agree with you 100%
it's going to have a more more of a
chilling effect on top of everything
else even if people even if immigrants
of color are capable of of meeting that
that threshold you know they really are
desensitized and coming to America
that's what they want and and and
they're they're making it harder for
people who are here I mean I mean when
you step back now look this is one of
those things where an incoming president
who's not Donald Trump can reverse this
on day one I mean can literally reverse
it on day one and you know at least in
terms of instructions there's still
you're you're you're creating a culture
in these agencies that is already bad to
begin with that already has yeah you
know ice contractors driving their
trucks into peaceful protesters right we
saw the other day I mean so this is the
nature of this agency and it's gonna
take you know years in many respects to
sort of like and I really that's why I
think they should really just take it
down take the agency out reconstruct
something that functions in a different
way with different personnel a different
management structure and whatnot but but
but at least theoretically on day one
this is something that a president could
change its gonna cause a tremendous
amount of suffering of angst amongst
wide swaths of people but your point
about Donald Trump delivering you know I
mean I'm old enough to remember three
years ago where there was this big
question as to what was going on with
Trump voters were they voting out of
economic anxiety oh yeah or something
else now
undoubtedly there are people who the
economic anxiety makes them more
susceptible to looking for a scapegoat
makes them more willing to scapegoat
people obviously that is obviously the
case and it may very well be the case
that there are small subsets of people
that you could win over from Trump with
a policy set that I happen to do and I
think you do to subscribe to you may
bring those voters over I don't know but
it's very likely you would but the
bottom line is Donald Trump knows what
it's gonna take to satisfy his voters oh
yeah and
and he's doing it he's not doing the
other part but he's doing this part
right right he's delivering on what
Adams or he's he's renowned for now at
this point the cruelty is the point this
is what they want this is what they
enjoy now yeah I agree with you there's
going to be a small subset of people who
were voting for Trump because of
economic anxiety but it's a very small
subset because we see now the you know
he has not reversed he has not addressed
it he has not provided anything to
address their their economic anxiety
economic angst and yet still he has
glowing support in the Republican Party
I mean they're still supporting him
here's here's what what I was concerned
about when you're saying the next
president can come in and reverse these
things Donald Trump is pulling serious
crowds and not just serious crowds but
motivated highly motivated crowds yes
they're not disillusioned whatsoever
they are motivated for this next
election every step of the way Donald
Trump is like the ultimate the pent
alternate cheerleader he knows how to
roll up a crowd and get the audience and
those people are going to go out there
enthusiastically voting not because of
the economic anxiety but because of the
type of vitriol Donald Trump feeds them
it's the red meat game Donald Trump
mastered that and that's why he was able
to take over the Republican Party yeah I
know I agree with you I don't think it's
a foregone conclusion by any stretch
that we're gonna have a different
president
I mean I I'm increasingly worried and
maybe we'll talk a little bit about the
race although there you know there was
not a lot happening this week but I'm
increasingly worried that you know Joe
Biden's gonna end up being the nominee
and is in absolutely no shape to to win
despite the fact that my thinking six
months ago that just about every
Democrat who was you know a major
candidate could win he scares me
in particular because he has I mean I
don't wanna get sidetracked but when you
talk about you know Donald Trump having
a highly motivated base and Joe Biden
selling himself as the antithesis to
Donald Trump he is particularly in that
regard exactly that's good he does not
have a highly motivated base at all yeah
he just has people who have some broad
sentiment and wishing that they could
return to a past that in many respects
never was bright but let's leave that
aside for the moment I mean so I am
encouraged on some level in that we you
know regardless of what happens although
I have yet to see it really in in you
know amongst the candidates or frankly
any part of the Democratic leadership a
cohesive response to immigration I mean
we need to have an immigration policy it
needs to deal with people in this
country who are here without
documentation we need to have an
overarching set of principles that need
to be articulated and the only upshot to
any of this is that the the polarization
that is cutting towards you know more
and more Republicans becoming
anti-immigrant on some level at least a
more fervent anti-immigrant stance is
that broadly speaking the American
public is becoming more Pro immigrant is
becoming more open to simply providing
citizenship right because
no one's walking around now and saying
like I feel much better about the
country now that the people on that
temporary protected status are out of
the way this is so much more elbow room
here right well here's my question for
you I'm curious though if if that if
Donald Trump didn't provide what they
needed to stay motivated and if there's
actually anything that the Democrats
could offer that would motivate us so I
mean obviously we're motivated to bring
Donald Trump's tyranny over immigration
to an end but I'm curious do you think
there's a policy that Democrats could
actually forward that would motivate
their base the way Donald Trump's hatred
motivates his base i I don't I don't
think so I mean I think that there is I
think there are policies that would
provide maybe I mean certainly in the
Hispanic and lat
I would imagine that a more
comprehensive set of policies would
would probably help motivate folks in
that community I think broadly speaking
you know there's so many issues it seems
to me within the Democratic umbrella of
people right the center left center you
know you know to you know I don't know
obviously the more to the left the more
so I think like politically invested you
are and you tend to have more issues
that will will drive enthusiasm but for
those people who are just like broadly
on this in the center in the center left
I think people are just looking for like
I want policies that just work and are
humane like don't make me feel like oh
my god we're kidnapping children and
send them to foster homes where they're
getting abused oh my god why do we have
to have a court say kids should have
soap and an toothpaste and the ability
to clean themselves if we're detaining
them and and why are we detained
them unless we can't find their parents
you know like I mean I think the vast
majority of Americans just simply want
that and I don't think that they're I
don't think that they're looking for a
specific policy that they could
articulate because I just don't think
they're that heavily invested or a issue
which is the point is that right exactly
which is immigrants broadly speaking
help this country and broadly speaking
are a net gain to the country and don't
implicate anybody's lives you know
except for their own and their families
just like everybody just like everybody
else you know what embrace that to me
seems to be you know and so I don't know
that there is a policy but but it's much
easier to respond to one and frankly we
just simply need to have one being
expressed by the Democrats so that there
could be some formula and even a
negotiation stance and even you know
some type of like watershed for people
to simply say like yeah I agree with
that like right now I could say I agree
with that but I wouldn't even know what
that is
yeah and and I think that's that's one
of the structural problems that we have
own when I say the left I mean broadly
right a really wide spectrum from the
Nancy Pelosi's of the world all the way
over to Marxist Leninist one of the
problems we have on the left is that we
don't have it particularly with
immigration we we don't we don't have
the ability to forward a policy that
fuels anger and one of the most potent
things that that motivating factors in
politics in general is always anger the
best that we have right now with regard
to immigration and it's just stuff you
know just kind of talking I could be I
could be dead wrong about this but I do
think it's a reaction to Donald Trump's
hatred that is going to be the most
motivating things because we are in some
obscene times like this is absurd the
fact that everything that you outlined
the the child abuse has taken place the
fact that a court had to say give these
children sanitary I
you know those types of things are is
what what motivates us but look at what
look at the Arsenal that the Donald
Trump has like he has a full arsenal of
policy issues that fuel anger is like
they're already winning right they're
winning elections but he's able to
maintain a steady supply of hatred and
anger over the last two or three years
all the way to the next election and
that's why he's able to get these crowds
out the way he's getting it and so we
really do have to figure out what our
policy positions are but at the same
time we really have to look structurally
like what is how are we gonna motivate
ourselves if we're not if our brains
aren't designed like conservatives to be
motivated by anger well you know we're
at a disadvantage and Donald Trump knows
that and I think that's one of the
reasons we have to be very leery about
this upcoming election we have to be
really keep our eyes on it because it's
not a foregone conclusion well yeah I
know I agree with you I mean I think
there are per our policies that that
motivate people on the left I mean you
know I think fixing health care is
something that is highly you know
motivates people on the Left I mean when
you think of even the objections within
the Democratic Party that are stated
towards something like a Medicare for
All Pro you know proposal it's it's all
basically for the most part that's too
ambitious we can't do that
or it's not we need if you know that's
don't let the perfect be the enemy of
the good right right as opposed to
that's that's a bad idea it's just like
we're not ready for it it's gonna be too
hard and then as you move to the right
you get things like well you know people
are gonna be upset about losing their
you know private health insurance they
won't no they won't because they're not
gonna be left with nothing they're gonna
be left with something that's better I
mean it's just you know the it's it's
just absurd I mean I there are I think
legitimate things to be concerned about
with that that you know need to be dealt
with
but broadly speaking that's not that's
not one of them but yeah that is I mean
that's that's a consistent problem
between the right and the left is that
the the left has a I mean the right has
a Masada complex and the left is not and
so but let's and we should also say I'm
just a touch base because I know folks
don't listen throughout the week and in
our current news environment we don't
hear stuff like this but the Endangered
Species Act is under assault by the
Trump administration the way the EPA is
is is is decided to pursue this oil and
drilling contracts are gonna supersede
species that are on the endangered list
of an extinction at least in this
country
the EPA has been I mean his relentless
attack on the administrative state is
the other thing that they promise that
they're also delivering I think oh yeah
many different ways but alright let's
talk about the what's going on with
Israel and we should say this is being
done with a backdrop of the State
Department inspector general released a
port report today or maybe it was
yesterday saying that State Department
officials are actively harassing people
within the State Department that they
feel are not loyal to President Trump I
I know it was I'm just hearing this for
the first time yeah I guess the report
was obtained in advance by Politico it
singles out the Assistant Secretary of
State the Department's Bureau of
international organization affairs as
failing to stop misbehavior despite
numerous complaints the Trump's
political appointees have retaliated
against career State Department
employees I mean this is just this is
just you know nuts but also indicative
of the day of the age so alright let's
talk about this
Rashidah Talib and Ilhan Omar to
congresswoman planning to go to Israel
they had planned the trip with I think a
one other person with a Stacey Plaskett
she's a non-voting congressional
representative of the US Virgin Islands
they were going on a four-day
fact-finding tour to examine the
condition of Palestinians under Israeli
occupation they're all Democrats they
wanted to focus on the effects of policy
moves by the Trump administration
including aid cuts to East Jerusalem
hospitals and Palestinian refugees and
the move of the u.s. embassy to
Jerusalem and then Netanyahu basically
said they're banned because of their
support for BDS ah
I I sort of feel like BDS has become
this boogie thing boogeyman and people
don't really know what it is but it's
basically boycotts divestment and
sanctions and let me just say up front
to the extent that I have any issues
with what they're doing I think some of
the academic institution stuff in terms
of the boycotts may be a little bit
harsh because you are I feel like
they're there's you're hurting an
opportunity to get but that's more of
like a tactical thing and but boycotting
support from you know sporting events
cultural events academic institutions
from Israeli and international companies
engaged in violations of Palestinian
human rights divestment campaigns asked
for banks local councils churches
pension funds universities to withdraw
investments from the State of Israel and
all Israeli and international companies
that sustain what they call the Israeli
Apartheid
that's certainly not terribly
controversial even amongst many Israeli
politicians as to the way that they
perceive
system their sanctions pressure
governments to fulfill their legal
obligations to end Israeli Apartheid and
not aid so there really are no sanctions
as far as I know against Israel at least
you know broadly international ones but
none of this stuff is terribly distinct
from what I remember or the divestiture
or divestment movement in the 80s
against South Africa I don't think that
you know I certainly don't think South
Africa you know banned any Congress
people from United States ago in there I
mean this is this seems to me to be the
reasonable sort of the so-called
reasonable response that people have
been calling for for the Palestinian
people that people saying all the time
like where's where are the Palestinians
Gandhi etc etc well if there was a
Palestinian Gandhi and there's been
there's been leaders they've been jailed
this is the type of thing that they
would promote it seems to me right
well that one of the one of the few
arguments that I've heard actually
articulated against BDS is the
motivation behind the originators of the
movement being one of wanting to see the
destruction of Israel that's that's is
the best the most articulate I can't say
the best but it's the most well
articulate argument that I've heard
anyone make outside of outside of that
which in a way could be a stretch
outside of that I literally don't
understand how we in America can you
know attempt to pass laws that make it
illegal to boycott another nation right
or boycott a particular issue and and
it's very difficult to talk about this
issue in particular for all of the the
minds that you would step on just in
this talking about Israel in the first
place because they've made the attempt
to boycott
divestment sanction Israel synonymous
with anti-semitism right so if you even
say you want a boycott divest and
sanction Israel then you're anti-semitic
is is the that's the kind of the
political jujitsu that's being played on
this issue but you know I think
Netanyahu did not consider the negative
PR that he would get with this tactic is
they probably overplayed their hand
because it forced everybody but Donald
Trump obviously to to say okay hold on
hold on you go in one step too far and
because it brings even more attention to
the BDS movement so it is an opportunity
to move the ball forward in that way
kind of as a reaction to their
overreaction but at the same time it's
still the the problem still remains with
the you know and this is you know it's
difficult to talk about because I'll get
some emails at the end of this into the
show or are next week when people listen
but it is it is that it is a testament
to the strength of particularly AIPAC in
the United States the ability to control
the entire narrative around the meaning
behind are the are trying to draw some
type of equality between BDS and
anti-semitism and you see that that
stranglehold that is that it has on the
discourse I will say hold on one second
I will say this that I think a PACs
influence has has diminished amongst
Democrats and is diminishing without a
doubt I mean this has been ongoing but
simultaneously over the past 10 15 10 15
20 years the Christian Zionist movement
or just broadly speaking evangelicals I
mean this is what we're starting to see
and there's also obviously from from
Bibi Netanyahu's perspective there's
obviously some domestic politics that
play on his end but in terms of American
politics this is we've been on a
trajectory here you can you could
probably track you know the there was a
period in this country following maybe
it was the Yom Kippur War or whatever I
think it was Yom Kippur
war but the 67 war where there was broad
support for Israel Israel was considered
to be subject to you know a lot of
hostility around them and I think there
was also like you know not the same
level of awareness that people had in
terms of like who got this displaced
when you know the the Balfour Balfour
happened but but I think the so we went
through a period where the support for
Israel was organic and widely shared and
then as we got into the 80s and
following Beirut and you know her own
and then through the I think a lot of
that support remained intact through the
Clinton administration and but when you
know Sharon went there and walked on the
Temple Mount and crashed the talks and
then we heard this story you know the
the false narrative about 98 percent of
the West Bank was going to be given up
and I've used the example before it's
like you do in a divorce and it's like
I'm gonna give you the entire mansion
except for the bathrooms in the kitchen
it doesn't matter that you have 98
percent of the square footage in the
house without the bathroom and the the
kitchen and that's basically the deal
that was on the table then I think a
pact was very very prominent but I think
the Christian Zionist movement and we
start to see that shaking out right I
mean Michael can jump in here that what
we've seen in Israel is also sort of
mirroring what we're seeing here in
terms of where support is coming from
Israel there's been we have past it
feels like some type of threshold where
Israel no longer has it feels like they
have to have bipartisan support or at
least you know we're seeing that from
from Netanyahu I would imagine maybe
that becomes a a talking point in the
future but it's quite clear you know
even like when Netanyahu showed up and
spoke in front of the Republican
without an invite essentially and we had
people like even Tim Kaine not attending
that talk that they're losing the
Democratic Party in this country they're
losing support in this country and so
you know when that happens it becomes
tighter and I would say they were they
were actually a forerunner that you
could look at the right in Israel as a
precursor to what you see in terms of
the United States or India for that
matter but I just want to say I think
it's important just to kind of note
maybe like three distinctions inside the
Palestinian politics because you
basically have the PLO and the West Bank
who are basically very ineffectual
they're essentially you know kind of
subcontractors of Israel's security
so-called security needs and they're you
know there's all sorts of internal
corruption questions but frankly they
are the only faction left that runs
anything that supports the peace process
which you know is all in air quotes and
hasn't been a real thing for decades
right and then you have Hamas which we
can object and do object obviously to
many things of Hamas is done but Hamas
is you know running Gaza and frankly has
you know their governance and what
they've done has changed radically since
they've been in power and I think that
that's just the you know reality of
governing anything even to the
eliminated extent they're able to govern
tonight and I do want to say like more
in what way well I mean they've
radically cut back on terrorist actions
frankly and also they've expressed a
willingness to support a two-state
solution and you know like as an example
of okay we don't technically recognize
Israel but will respect the two-state
arrangement for like a hundred years
type of thing right like a very
legalistic type of things I just want to
say though - in terms of the origins of
BDS and you're totally right Sam there's
people who 100% support BDS because they
want a genuine two-state bilateral
democracy with civil rights for all
inside Israel and an authentic
Palestinian state but those that you
know support like Omar burgoo D who's
sort of the founding father of it he yes
you know you could say he supports
dissolving Israel quote-unquote but it
is not in the sense of you know a
violent action to uproot Jewish pains or
harm people he is just a supporter of
the South Africa model he wants a
one-date that secular democratic and
respects everybody civil and cultural
rights and frankly I'll just say that's
where I'm at ideologically because I'm
not a big fan of ethno States of any
variety but we might be getting too if
you could have had a two-state solution
several years ago that was authentic and
real that would have been good well we
might be getting to a point where
logistically that's the only answer
because the settlements have just
expanded and expanded so how would you
actually reset this thing seems
logistical II kind of impossible well I
mean look we've seen in the past that
you know the Sinai was cleared of
settlements it probably was not nearly
as built outside nearly I mean the West
Bank has owned right hire Lee knew right
munities and I mean a lot more
complicated but here's one thing is that
you know I think was Frank Bruni wrote
some piece the other day in The Times
The effect of like BDS hasn't come up
with a solution they won't say if they
support a one state or a two-state
solution
I don't you know a broad coalition well
it's a broad coalition but beyond that
it's like even that expectation I I you
know was involved at least in the
context of my own college on divestment
of our endowment from from companies
doing business in South Africa and the
idea that we would have said like and
what we demand is a Truth and
Reconciliation Committee and specific
this is the way that we want the South
African government to be structured
would have been bizarre that's exactly
what absolutely bizarre but but the but
the bar is being raised here and it's
quite possible that there were people
who were interested in divestment who
were like there shouldn't be there
shouldn't be any white people involved
in you know Afrikaner should be taken
out you know there should be you know
it's funny because you know ever did
what Tabo and Becky said though about it
as he said you know he was critiquing
the ICC's conduct in Africa and he said
you know if the ICC came in and arrested
apartheid leaders like to clerk for
crimes against humanity we would have
protests that in a demand they'd been
released immediately because we needed
them to negotiate a deal right exactly
I mean it's just like the the it's it is
uh mijung going around and there's no
doubt in my mind like I said that there
are people who you know I would disagree
with that support BDS
but BDS is a thing and you know the idea
that it's a slippery slope is just yeah
I guess is what the argument is like if
you support divestiture the idea is that
divestment is supposed to pressure the
Israeli government and to to change and
you need an Israeli government to
pressure at that point but I agree with
you Ben I think this is probably the
best thing that could happen for you
know for this movement to pressure
Israel I think we're gonna see that in
the coming years yeah and I think I like
the way you frame that Sam because it is
it is moving the goalposts with regard
to what a boycott would the purpose of
the boycott the purpose of divestment
the purpose of sanctions right it's the
that's the strategy to get to the table
right that's never been like you never
put the onus on a person leading a
boycott to have and have all the
solutions but that's it's it's not only
the moving of the goalposts that's the
problem here but it's also just the
framing in general and I mean we didn't
really get the chance to go into it much
but the role like you mentioned the role
of Christian Zionist the role that it
plays in right-wing politics here in the
United States as well as the support
that's happening there in Israel their
ability to still keep and frame this in
a way where the mere thought of
boycotting Israel is synonymous with
semitism that has been kind of the
stranglehold that has been placed
present for a long time and and I will
agree with you right that ball has moved
significantly now we do see an
opportunity because of this move that
the BDS movement is going to get even
more support that they would not have
gotten had not they banned those to
congresswoman yep
though it is mask off I mean it's you
know there is a big element I'm sorry I
just have to say like as with Kashmir of
and it's been this way when a who dole
Merck went out of government and I'm not
justifying a lot of things he did but he
was the last Israeli prime minister that
had an eye on he would make comments
like American Jews don't like apartheid
states we need to think of how people
perceive us in X and Netanyahu from the
beginning was like I'm a little bit more
interested in talking with people like
Victor Obon then you know Liberal
Democrats frankly yeah I mean I think
where this is I think we're seeing this
all across the and we should say this is
you know I have no doubt that this this
move by Netanyahu was a function of the
elections that are coming up in like
three or four weeks where he's running
against Brock and I I think it's got to
be a similar dynamic like he's just
motivating his base who are definitively
you know a right-wing and are motivated
about such things but I think like all
of this that we're seeing whether it's
you know in Brazil whether it's in
Kashmir whether it's I mean China Hong
Kong that dynamic I think it's been
ongoing I'm not sure how it plays out
there but but certainly Turkey and
obviously brexit Turkey and Israel of
the forerunners I would say arguably
yeah but where but but the there's also
a feedback loop here that you know each
the the expectations of what a hard-line
country and regime is
what is expected of them to maintain
that status the bar keeps getting raised
because the United States is no longer a
force for sort of moderation of the
worst elements and you know we saw that
with Israel you know Israel may have
been the this is where I would say that
the the the assessment that Israel came
first it was when the Bush
administration basically encouraged
things like unilateral pull out of Gaza
and invading Beirut excuse me
Lebanon when the Bush administration did
this they stopped being that
countervailing force and without the
United States as sort of like you know
you know when you were a kid you didn't
really want to go to that birthday party
is like my my mom won't let me go
because of because I can't go out today
that's what the United States used to be
for for politicians in Israel it was we
started to amp them up come on guys we
did the opposite we did the opposite
where we used to be the force that a
right-wing politician could say I can't
push it this far because we're coming
were butting up against the Americans
now the Americans were like push it
further and I I think that you know it
like in so many instances some of that
starts with us but I know been anything
else that oh no great conversation guys
well always a pleasure
folks check out the Benjamin Dixon show
where no where can people watch and
watch it and listen to it yeah I mean
they could go to the YouTube channel and
subscribe to the YouTube channel and get
everything they need there and if they
want to listen to the podcast they can
go anywhere a podcast exists I'm there
Benjamin Dixon show Ben always a
pleasure thanks so much take care of us
thank you all right we're gonna take a
break and when we come back
this is pretty exciting I want to just I
want to just quote Andy Kindler last
night at 624 p.m. Pacific time this is
going to be fantastic he we have some
apparently Dennis Miller was on the
bench pyroshow bop-bop-bop like Batman
Begins yes we we are there for just like
that we have our worlds have basically
something has collided we're gonna take
a quick break when we come back Andy
Kindler
you
we are back see ya later on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen on the phone
it is always a pleasure to hear from
this next guest and but today even more
so play it
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
yes it's an yeah I feel good that's just
good even though just in the chat
someone called me a problematic boomer
really yeah but they don't like my
politics in the chat person lame and
they that said you are a problematic
boomer 100% well I'm not disagreeing I'm
just saying make it so I can understand
it without the five-dollar words boomers
were too problematic for me yeah well
you know boomers are problematic you're
problematic I mean it would not be the
first time you've ever been called
problematic uh I've been quite hey I've
been called worse
am i right you with me all right
everybody you know and that's because
you hate when that guy heckled me
remember years ago in the in the last
factory said your this is problematic he
yelled at me problematic it's because
you keep calling Chris Cuomo Fredo I'll
tell you that's Chris Cuomo a thing
Oh doesn't feel bad I felt bad for all
of us Oh
do we ever play that no it's so good oh
we should we actually never did this
perfect always saved it is so good it is
so good all right let's go do we have
that Matt Matt's getting it hey Fredo
good job on the show now we should just
set the scene here
now I think I think something's going up
because I just read something where Don
Lemon is getting sued for getting into a
fight with somebody like in the Hamptons
or so I have a feeling waited up CNN I
have a feeling that there could also be
a you know sort of a concerted effort
for people to go and get into
altercations with CNN people it sounds
like please fellas reasonable here is a
clip of Chris Cuomo apparently he's at
what function was he at I thought I you
probably a party now your party it's
again it's in a tent you can see that
because the way that this is shot
somebody went up to him and there might
have been I don't know one or two guys
actually involved in this but they get
into it with a Chris Cuomo and and here
it is Chris Cuomo you know channels his
his is inner tough guy and they use the
F word they used the F word oh yeah
all right well let's just try and talk
over that so that we don't love Chris
well but he's like does he think that
these people don't really know who he is
at they're just calling him randomly
they're calling him Fredo well didn't
the guy the guy did calm Fredo probably
right well no the guy did call him Fredo
but Cuomo I was explaining to him like
well who Fredo is like what do you think
that it's like there's a little bit he's
out okay like I don't know if you're
calling me frayed up because you think
it's a good nickname but it's not the
right thing I think he thinks the guy
thinks it's a pasta sauce like a pasta
brand maybe that is really funny to
patiently explain one of the most iconic
characters in movie history
well the reference I guys use Leto was
the dumb brother which I probably don't
mean that if you calling me that an
insult that way
I think that this club is gonna get
[Music]
[Applause]
there you go I mean why do I have a
feeling that Cuomo has his glasses on
his oh he does have a shirt yeah I love
that
hey Fredo nice coverage of the debates
hey nice readers nice readers are ya
ready kid we're on Twitter hey Fredo
you're bad at hosting hey Fredo
hey let's let's get after it Fredo
that's my favorite almost like it
somebody like we're good after well no I
or something now I'm trying to think of
like what oh my god that's a bit right
there Sam and some silly function you're
like a put night
you you keep Philip Roth carries I will
I will I will guide you down these
stairs yeah poor especially neurotic and
he went to therapy and that's a very
insulting comment on the Jewish people I
will wreck you you want or you want me
to take it for the this famous and
shove you up the and I'll do it
did you call me Tevye excuse me you know
now name's not Tevye yeah so there it is
Chris Cuomo and you know I got it I got
to think that like for for a guy like
that that he sort of probably likes that
occasionally people get a view of him
that way right because right he feels
like he's on you know he's on the he's
on the TV
and he comes off as a soft guy and he
wants to be known but he's not he's not
he threw me down the stairs four times
at a party just for saying hi Chris
Cuomo but didn't you you asked him to
though right hey Cole please probably
down the stairs
one more time one more time please one
more time crazy please one more time
just like Oh what are you gonna call me
Portnoy like a schmuck call me five ish
thankful go ahead call me five ish
sprinkle to my face if you think if you
think that I'm some type of masturbator
say it say it just own it just own it
oh because I'm a Jew I'm a chronic
masturbator calls my mother that's a
very insulting stereotype sir do you
think like what this is the part that I
don't understand about that and then
we'll move on do you think move on to
Dennis Miller time that's right but wait
a second but Fredo is not a don't forget
guard
but CVC hurry no I'm not afraid oh you
but but Fredo is not a doesn't seem to
me to be a like an ethnic slur it's more
of a personal slur right like yeah
people like we call you know like one of
the Bush brothers at various times Fredo
right like didn't we say like oh it
turns out a jab is frayed edge was
frayed out yeah and you know obviously
they're not Italian it was really more
about the dynamic of the brothers do you
think that he's purposely conflating you
know like a I guess Guido would be the
term with Fredo or no because he thinks
I think he thinks that uh I think he was
first of all I think he was as the kids
say loaded for bear that night yeah I'm
saying you could have said he was ready
to go he was ready to go it's go time
yeah call me a good fella did you say
I'm a good fella
what do you fail with it imagine Jeb
Bush Jeb Bush like very uh uh that's
that's a slur against the Italian people
that's like that's like their n-word
that's not okay yeah can I speak any
anytime that you're in an argument
you're saying that's our version of the
n-word you're already in trouble right
bring making up your own n-word all
right well let's move on to some real
work
so it seems when was this from Brendan
April April April Wow we were I'm not
Brendan all right no I mean I want to
Brendan to let us know I feel like we
really dropped the ball here Dennis
Miller back when he was on his tour and
I think we did some other stuff from his
big tour at that time is you know Dennis
Miller 3.0 tour where he had sort of
shifted at 2.7 he was no longer
political and then he went back to
political when he realized like nobody
cares about me if I'm not political at
all and so he's here is Riley
years yeah this is the post Riley years
he's in Lee he's in the he he said he's
really wandering in the desert and in
many respects and he found himself at
sitting down with Ben Shapiro let's take
this first clip I don't know we're just
gonna run you guys have the clip so
let's just run these this is on AOC you
shouldn't see it that way so I'm about
where I should be at 65 I don't want to
turn this into sort of a nostalgia
player you grousing about the young but
hey I look at AOC in the same way that I
look at some of the comedians the that I
see working today your Z as a motor
skill do you do you get that impression
also to the dip sorry
hey I look at ABC in the same way that I
look at some of the comedians the that I
see working today and that is enthusiasm
over skill do you get that impression
also did that there's a real draw toward
the enthusiastic and the authentic as
opposed to the craft like actually
working through things well I think is
oh listen there's some guys are
beautiful technicians
wait pause it pause it for a second so
he's trying to make this argument about
AOC and Miller of course picks it up in
terms of comedy what would be the craft
that AOC lacks when she has just
unseated one of the most powerful
Democrats in the house at this point in
April and continues to have she is now
like the number three fundraiser I think
in the Democratic caucus like what craft
do you think that ben shapiro thinks
that AOC does well well was she and what
and she's doing this while being funnier
than dennis miller just in those little
videos that she makes right she's more
she has truly funny and he's jealous of
her because of our humor all right let's
see her dennis Miller's response well
know the craft I think is oh listen
there's some guys are beautiful
technicians and they do syllable counts
and peel it back but something and Kay's
right you gotta use Kay a lot right you
do so some guys first of all everything
he says in this whole thing cuz I
listened to the whole hour Nate meant
everything is a lie including that there
are guys who count syllables not one
comic count syllables they maybe they'll
do last per minute or something like oh
I already can't leave a toe once what do
I do next what's it good what is gonna
rhyme Fredo
Joe Frank Joe okay so that's two I want
to do madness in a land with like forty
seven syllables go Fanta as opposed to
you the craft like actually working
through things
well the craft I think is oh listen
there's some guys are beautiful
technicians and they literally would do
syllable counts and peel it back but
something the main directive obviously
the company's always been getting laughs
now you can go out and do it in a myriad
of ways their physical comedians their
you know intellectual community some
guys anything wow that's so smart but
for the most part it's all about the
prime directive of getting laughs I've
noticed the change is more tectonic in
that it's turned everybody's comedy act
almost into an impersonator act like
Impressionists used to do that they go
what if Jack Nicholson was working at
the Burger King and I was always Bridal
I had that I lacked that gene where I
could go with that where I'd say time
out he's one of the highest-paid actor
why is he working but they do it and
then at the end people applauded and
that's sort of what humor is now like
people will make a bold statement and
get applause instead of big laughs
that's weird to me it's sort of a
short-circuited the primal thing that
it's an involuntary gesture where
somebody says something funny and you
don't have to intellectualize it you
just find yourself and that's the cool
part wait a second wait a second posit
what other thing is that you are really
this next segment where we're ben
shapiro on comedies maybe the greatest
thing I've ever heard before in the
world to this let me get this straight
Dennis Miller who built his entire
career on what people perceive to be
cleverness right like they're you know
guy
visceral laughter of like you know yeah
this guy had had more lint on him then
then a a battleship that had just come
back from picking up some tribbles or
something like his whole his whole
career was based on cleverness not gut
laugh syllables right right going right
it's an involuntary gesture where
somebody says something funny and you
don't have to intellectualize it you
just find yourself and that's the cool
part of it now it's people going hmm
they're not heard used about this is
clapper that people are not actually
laughing anymore they're just they're
clapping and this is the Hannah Gatsby
version of comedy where you have think
pieces now about why for thousands of
years we've actually been getting the
entire concept of comedy wrong it's not
that we're supposed to laugh at things
it's supposed to if we laugh at things
that's actually bad we're supposed to
think about things and then the thinking
is the humor it seems to me that we are
reshift entire nature of humanity around
what a bunch of very politically driven
people want it to be because I mean I'm
old enough to remember when Jay Leno was
on television and trying to be funny and
now you've got people on TV in late
night I don't even know if they're
trying to be funny anymore
I mean legitimately I think the family I
know is even making an occasional
attempt to be funny I don't know what
your opinion is of the great entertainer
and I think that you have to understand
if you want to it's awesome wait a
second so I just yeah I'm yeah this is I
mean Andy I want you to go but he's
complaining about people doing political
comedy which is all that Dennis Miller
has been doing for 16 17 years now and
any sites
the one thing he cites to try and argue
that people used to be funny is Jay Leno
well that's the thing
bang Shapiro he goes I'm old enough to
remember when Jay Leno was on television
and trying to be funny yeah I do too
when he took the show away from
Letterman and he wasn't funny for the
rest of his life
I mean he's using Leno as
example but the other things he says
it's very quickly though this is the
Hannah Gatsby version of comedy where we
get think pieces we're not supposed to
laughing it's just a complete one she
does a show where she talks about how
she had this she came to this part in
her life where she didn't want to do the
stuff that she was doing before and he's
making it like there's a Hannah Gatsby
school of comedy where all you do is
think pieces I mean it is literally is
amazing how out of touch both of them
are great critique of Hannah Gatsby in
The New Yorker though I will say that I
have to just put I haven't read that yet
but I know I did see that that was it
was very good it was a very unfree dopey
sandy don't start harassing the person
or what you call my work a review would
you call me hey Portnoy
keep going great Undertaker and I like
that about him I I think that you have
to understand if you want to at some
point you would lose those jobs if you
look look how good Jimmy is at it Jimmy
Fallon I I've been on Jimmy we can't
really move to the next clip actually he
argues that Fallon got in trouble for
doing pro-trump material like the the
fluffing of his hair I mean it's like
it's in it's just incredible he thinks
that was that that that Jimmy would do
pro Trump material but he's afraid to
this is about Trump's proletarian chops
wow that's fantastic
dad who's this you know the boiler maker
who never got anywhere near that I
always think wow in an odd way the most
patrician of these generations say
Patricia but the billionaire guy comes
in and he has a stranglehold on what the
hoi polloi mean I'm fascinated by that I
think it was all those years of him in a
hard hat walking through construction
sites oh my oh my the power tie on but
he also has to cohabitate with all these
cats were throwing the building out for
he has nothing something gave him these
proletariat chops which I admire about
him you know whatever they say just this
morning dear I should let you ask
questions about grant here haha
again this morning that I mean you know
that that though look up the word
patrician welcome to the orbit region he
refers to dramas an aristocrat and they
take sit back well maybe I shouldn't say
he's a patrician right we do have some
Hitler talk coming up to here but I was
saw again this morning that a couple of
Democratic candidates Castro I forget
his name as a Julian Castro Julian
Castro and somebody gets that Trump
reminds them of the Third Reich
yeah bait oh yeah bait on I always look
at this stuff and I think for God's
sakes do you not see that you're not
being clever about how you're playing
this guy if you do hate them if you do
hate what he wants if you want him if
you do the throw down the Hitler thing
and then here's even the back-up plan on
that they if you say well listen when
you say he's Hitler like obviously my
flash card in my head is the systematic
liquidation of six million of his fellow
human beings I haven't seen anything
like that from chop and they'll say oh
of course I didn't mean that and you'll
say well what other Hitler peccadillo
you know the mustache yeah the bad house
painter reviews on Angie's List of
course when you say so and again this
morning even today you've got a bait or
works positing himself as a young
hipster a young hipster does not come in
and say the man in the Oval Office right
now to me it's such an overwrought word
clumsy over place is like Islam 800
cases what is this available come on
back guys this is unbelievable this guy
is this is of course before the El Paso
shooting and this is he's talking about
nobody's nobody in camps this guy is
literally a who doesn't even know
what Trump is doing he has no idea
what's happening it's like it's
embarrassing
first of all he also doesn't know how
many people died in the Holocaust he's
only talking about the Jews there was a
there was another three million who were
exterminated but and he wants to wait
till they're all except you know come me
after they've killed six million people
that's like seems to be what he's saying
but this is this is a broad
you know and for the for Dennis Miller
who I think at one point in its career
tried to sell himself as the thinking
man's comedian this is the problem with
our just our understanding of what
fascism is right like it's that he was
for cystic and that he had to go through
certain sort of thresholds to bring
about that kind of stuff and right and
you know who else are you going to point
to right like he you know jobs like
Franco nobody's gonna know you're
talking about yeah yeah yeah because
he's actually more like must he actually
looked similar to Mussolini he's never
actually look at Trump but the point of
him saying the point the fact is that
Dennis Miller literally does not want he
knows now this is his audience so he'll
lie he'll say anything to pretend that
this guy is good it's really sickening
he spends the whole hour basically
saying how great Trump is because I
think he's anything the other comics are
afraid they're afraid to go against
Trump he's afraid to go he's afraid to
do anything because he's trapped
in this horrible unfunny character do
you all just basically like I need I
need one more priming of the pump of my
career and so that's what this tour was
about let's just keep rolling
we're gonna skip ahead here to where
Miller talking about a great Monday
Night Football joke he did I wasn't for
that one because I was trying to
shoehorn what I do which is weird
Arcania like what would remind you that
earlier he was bemoaning the fact that
comedy is no longer about sort of
visceral laugh primal and primal and
he's talking about doing weird Arcania
yeah which is not exactly the huge
guffaw jokes but go ahead I remember a
cable can you say that being said
everyone yeah
I'll tell you a great story we're doing
a game one night and this receiver hurts
his ankle yes something funny police
bandage and on the air I try to make now
laughs and the weird Arcania is what
makes him laugh because I was a genius
but if you throw him off his feet he
can't gather it and he's like a tipsy
air traffic controller it gets a little
weird so I spend all my time trying to
get into laughs so they show wrapping
the ankle and I go you know how I
haven't seen that much fabric used since
the environment artist Christo wrapped
the Pont Neuf bridge in Paris and I
remember how it's just these buttons oh
yeah Al Michaels is autonomous as we all
know Al Michaels is an absolute genius I
mean this guy is like anything's gay he
thinks got the crystal reference
they're all celebrating in the boot yeah
but but also this keeps cutting against
exactly everything he said the first
half of the interview which is gonna go
people without just looking for a clap
like the crystal references goes the
crystal reference oh my god you can see
everybody just go fine no it's like oh
he's clever he knew about that the bad
art you know that a art installation did
you ever see him once a Monday Night
Football he was the absolute worst he
was though it made me hate words and
commentary for years and I think that's
actually where the term conversation
ender was quiet go what do we got next
more of that uh is that is that more of
this there's more of this little clip on
you ah because I was a genius but if you
throw him off his feet he can't gather
it and he's like a tipsy air traffic
controller it gets a little weird so I
spend all my time trying to get into
lamps so they show wrapping the angle
you know now I haven't seen that much
fabric used since the environment
artists Christo wrapped the Pont Neuf
bridge in Paris and I remember al hits
these button which cuts the voice' to
the home button this piece needs fire
our priest is not in the truck and he
fancies himself an art aficionado I
actually are him say no al Christa
environmental artists good call
good call and I remember simultaneously
delighting in that but yeah I'm not long
you can't you know they're watching
football I would have whacked me too
there's like I heard Madden left LA I
called to comics today the comics they
don't if you laugh every time you open
up your mouth you are the biggest hack
in the history of the world
he literally laughs every sentence he
can't stop cracking himself up himself
like the environmental artist Christo
gets it he gets it
that's that story sounds an awful lot
like a story about producers like coming
to their wit's end and like yeah I mean
he kind of has some self-awareness about
that but I feel like if you were in the
room he'd be like yeah everyone's sick
of Dennis Miller's crab six minutes
later you'd have to say the specifics
later he says I'm reading Atlas Shrugged
again as we speak and let's also let's
also like the the the wrapping of the
point apart nerve and I think this
happened in the sometime in the 80s
because I think I was in college at this
time oh my god but but i but that would
have been I think contemporaneous with
his work but it couldn't have been more
than five or six years earlier I mean
it's not it wasn't like that's a really
arcane reference it was just a really
inappropriate reference it was it wasn't
like you guys taking deep like wow you
really know your art history you're
aware of that massive outdoor
installation which got a lot of coverage
it's like a you know the yeah I don't
know no I'm just gonna say that this
this idea like you said the idea that
people get the reference in there
therefore that's the joke and that there
it's like it's like people go oh you
didn't get my dust and I guess I've
heard comics do something like if they
go dust I have ski or you didn't get my
dust I have ski reference anyway what
are you doing a world are we living in
where you want people to be proud of you
because you can you could reference a
Russian author
I think you're tall store reference
Portnoy Oh one up one of my opening
jokes back in the day when I had a
little more facial hair was to do the
old hey folks I know you're looking at
me and you're saying what the hell is
Andre Prasad doing up there who is that
make him wonder horshack marry someone
who doesn't look like horshack I mean it
was completely it was just I was just
mocking people who would do that now
it's all I was doing like all of my
comedy was about my Community College
tweeting 10 but it was subtweeting other
comedians know all of my comedy was
actually just subtweeting the audience
like how dare you ha good evening I hate
you and the other performance exactly
for the next 20 minutes I will tell you
how much I hate that the word hate will
never cross my lips the heroes on the
Iran deal and Obama Oh God this is the
best let's stick the installation art
all right guys do as I got older it just
didn't make sense to me anymore some of
that stuff and as I get older yet it
still doesn't make sense to me any
listen they always say Oh could be
Trump's insane and I guess Obama's held
up is the avatar of you know wisdom in
that an elastic insanity who loads 1.8
billion onto a palette direct I mean I'm
kind of that people say that's so naive
oh yeah I can hear John Kerry's Lee and
I yeah well you overthink it I just know
they live to kill the Jews I dig the
Jews I'm not gonna shoot but I dig the
Jews just because they live in the
craziest called the sack in the world
and anytime you pre-packaged 1.8 just
the fact that they would ask for it in
cash I'd say why don't I just give you a
check and fill in the memo section I
killed Jews you know what I mean it's
Bobby
anytime you send that unmarked cash to a
red some of its gonna end up bombing us
a barrel pizza parlor that stuff doesn't
make sense to me I can't fake like it
does I have to stop them each other let
me get
make sense is that what first off can I
just say in terms of of style the the
idea that you would in in 92 2019 say
without irony I dig the Jews and then I
know I know crazy
someone's got to put that as ambience
they live in the craziest cul-de-sac on
earth man it's crazy over there this we
got port and I over here living in the
crazy cul-de-sac that guy's just trying
to jerk off and work out his mom issues
and the Iranians are trying to blow him
up
so I dig him I dig the Jews look I dig
them I dig the Jews this cats this is a
Palestinian cat saying this is the other
one I say unless and here he is on Obama
spend that is funny though John Kerry
let's fill out the memo line go at the
Jews all right deal side I would say he
ignores that there's an Iran deal he
hasn't even mentioned it as a nuclear
deal come off the cat what was cash also
that we owed them frankly yeah he has
turned out to be very concerned I mean
he's led I would say on most big issues
you're more conservative than me I'm I'm
pretty conservative but you know he's
done pretty well as far as checking
contributing taxes hasn't he well
certainly with regard to tax cuts with
cutting regulation with appointing
conservative judges moving the obscene
he's done a lot of great stuff I mean
though the one area where I think the
Republican Party continues to be a giant
fail is of course on spending in
entitlements and they will be a fail for
as long as anything else failed on that
this is the reason stuff that I think
you can talk about where they should
talk about it with him yeah we're
spending our ass off I don't think we're
spending at the same speed that we did
under Obama but certainly enough of a
somewhere you go he's not back on that I
think that we are I can't oh my are
we're spending more unbelievable the
doesn't have a fact in again he
literally is a stupid I'm sorry I'm
sorry is he's
profound ly stupid man true and let me
just make this clear the deficit may
have increased although I don't think
that's even the case anymore but the
deficit when it increased was a function
of tax revenues going down and then the
tax cuts that came in the form of the
stimulus package the spending was only
half of that and we were spending far
more now we just added ten years worth
of Pentagon spending at seven hundred
billion dollars yeah and good how can
you I mean it is sad to me and if I said
he's just such a that he literally
he doesn't care enough he's too
self-absorbed to care about what the
actual facts are of anything he's sort
of like a non Italian Fredo posing as a
Portnoy he's like he's like a friend as
like a Fredo without a brother
he's like an only child Fredo
worst of all world do we have anymore
you can't even say that to your brother
you're sitting alone in your room going
I'm smart I think that's about like
everybody says no I think he does say at
the end though he says he goes a loofah
scrub he uses a little for scrub on his
brain he also claims that old ben
shapiro claims the only jokes you can do
her sex jokes now it's all a bunch of
garbage one sorry it claims the only
jobs or sex jokes or just left this
commentary you can watch our motto like
he thinks Maddow is a comic and then
someone says it's Jenny McCarthyism oh
yeah
hi this is this is Rachel Maddow what do
you call a Vladimir Putin orchestrated
them alright I think I found I think I
found that math operation here we go
around three I could exercise hearing
that story around three o'clock tomorrow
afternoon I'm gonna be doing some yard
work and if there's anybody else in the
crowd who wants to drive by and
people were like it was like the
beginning of the mask or something where
the eyes are covered and that's now
looking back at that that's the hardest
I've ever left I've everything this is I
was with a comedian named Jeff Caesarea
now I look back on that I don't have any
choice in that I look back on it is it
like great moments in comedy no it's not
exactly deft but it was just so wrong
and the the equilibrium sounds very
smart business but it just made me laugh
my ass off and I often think now all
that's dead Sam would be out of the
business today so would Rickles I mean
yeah he's pointing at Sam Kinison lines
and claiming that nobody could do that
line today and then he also says
pepperidge farm Milano's as a reference
to Alyssa Milano I mean he's on the
cutting edge the cutting it but but you
know here's the thing that is is if
Rickles or Sam Kinison were alive today
their comedy would be different like the
idea that that did they they're there
their comedic brains had no sense of
what was going on around them at the
time I mean I think like you know you
look back on Don Rickles in the era he
was doing it it was a very different
social scene he also was a fun he was
amazing I'm kind of biased towards him
because he actually was hilarious he
actually was hilarious
and he wasn't real but he was older I
mean his stuff if he was all starting
now he would not be have the outdated
moulded ideas like he was someone's like
Archie Bunker in a way but it was
completely you know not trying to be
mean about it but he would change yeah
no I mean there was there was in that
era there were taboos about language
that don't exist today in right like
today
concepts exist the taboos that are there
are a function of how they implicate
other people they're not a pretense
right like the taboos on language during
that era right what Lenny Bruce spent a
lot of time you know dealing with
had to do with trying to convince people
that certain things to Gaslight people
right like you know Lenny Bruce did that
famous n-word yeah a bit and that was
because he was railing against he wasn't
doing that because he wanted to say that
word he was trying to do that because
he's saying like look this sentiment
exists out there and yeah and and this
is the reality we can you know by not
saying this word on stage we're trying
to pretend that there's no racism or
that this word isn't used but that there
was using the word but-but-but rickles I
think in many respects was doing the
same thing
he was also Kenneth E also I'm sorry
interpret Tennyson for example case I
mean I never saw a chance in life but
when Kennison was doing things like you
know why are these people in the desert
you know the problem with the people in
the desert they should move to the food
I mean that was social he was doing
social commentary and he absolutely
would be able to do that material today
and just like Bill Hicks his image of
who he thinks Kennison is or image of
all these people are so distorted
because he's dead he doesn't remember
when he was maybe edgy for a day and a
half when she was at some point and it
was also a function of the time I mean
frankly you know my sense is and I you
know if the older I get the more I think
this is the case is that good comedy
does not stand the test of time very
well in a way that that drama does
because so much of it is a specific
critique of the moment and of you know
there's some comedy that deals with you
know sort of like more about you know
sort of relationship you know relational
dynamics but that are you know about
emotions that exist through time but but
so much of good comedy in the moment is
that it's capturing the moment and it's
capturing what people you know believe
like a lot of the industry reports that
you have done
fifteen years ago you know unless you
live through that era right you wouldn't
the replicator you're not gonna mean
anything and you know I've been I see it
even with my you know with my own you
know the time capsules of comedy that in
the in the moment you know stuff that we
thought 20 or 30 years ago was gonna be
timeless just it's not it turns out well
for example I still every night say who
died made Jim Belushi a big star I say
that I said every night I don't think
people know Jim they'll know who Jim
Belushi or John Belushi is exactly I
feel enjoy because of this show exactly
exactly
I think we got a little bit more on the
segment if we want to go for it let's
just do it
brickles I mean yeah I think Rickles
might get through because he was a softy
he had a good heart but Sam was just
playing Sam at a good guard but he's
more malevolent I don't think either
those guys could work now and that's a
weird place to be in that starts gonna
ask you next is it that awesome
standards ed which means they couldn't
work now but God could work now and
that's a weird place to be in that
starts gonna ask you next is about the
modern student voice I can't believe is
this bunch of you know really a darling
of the right
I can't imagine somebody who has left to
say even just to even provocatively say
something to insult me at least and what
do you think it is no comics today and
that's all good right Andy Kindler is a
real freight out the modern standards
you know it seems to me that we've
actually returned to a sort of
Puritanism about comedy where if the
only jokes that you're allowed to make
are basically sex jokes all the other
jokes are out the window because they're
relies on the stereotypes or they rely
on observations about reality that could
be offensive to somebody sex is
inherently funny so you can make a sex
joke and get away with it
oh yeah hey I'm not folding it in half
for anybody six inches I'm not only
getting half for anybody I hear all of
these big jokes I got a dick I got a
dick oh that's all I'm saying get wet I
mean sex is inherently funny oh I forgot
bench Bureau has the sexual awareness of
a junior high student that's my wife is
a doctor so as you can imagine it's even
more funny that way so every time you
have sex it's really a form playing
doctor I mean the judges write
themselves gonna ask you next is about
the modern standards you know it seems
to me that we've actually returned to a
sort of Puritanism about comedy where if
the only jokes that you're allowed to
make are basically sex jokes all the
other jokes are out the window because
they're relies on stereotypes or they
rely on observations about reality that
could be offensive to somebody sex is
inherently funny so you can make a sex
joke and get away with it or you can
just shock somebody by cursing or saying
something incredibly lewd or vulgar but
it seems like that's it's either that or
or you know probing social commentary
meaning just left of social commentary
you could watch on Maddow
so is there a future for comedy in this
in this world Maddow is mad house left
the social commentary that's the only
thing you can do what do you wanna do
sex jokes what do you call a Russian
penis enlargement surgery you know
something's going to happen in this
country that's gonna uncap this pressure
hey what was the guy's name ray Donovan
where do I go to get my reputation back
or I think there was a guy named Walsh
who one time said have you no shame you
know it Hollywood's running the tightest
Torquemada type thing now it's a it's
not McCarthyism and then it's like Jenny
McCarthyism yeah you can be you can be
kicked out in a second for saying
something wrong supposedly by the cool
kids that that makes me
I never thought I never thought I'd see
that coming and now I can't say how I
see it going but I do think there'll be
some moment where something is uh
overplayed somebody has a rank it might
almost happen with Monica Lewinsky but
she saved that dress I mean when you
look back on that people always relax
that I think what he's got a lie-down
what is he like that it's just like
almost like everything that he had
planned yet - he's just trying to dump
it into the last couple of minutes of
the interview maybe and blue drowsy and
he says they says Ben Shapiro is
brilliant that's my favorite part we
don't need to watch that trouble yet
yeah well that was good nice and I say
to my wife is it time for another
physical I mean you could just see the
jokes just it's almost unfair you know I
mean I feel like we say this every time
but Dennis Miller just seems so tired
that it's almost like he's not providing
the energy that we need to mock him in
some ways and I find that a little bit
upsetting Benjy that is a little bit up
saying because if you watch this whole
our innate personal the greatest thing
I've ever seen in my life is ben shapiro
right in the middle of an interview he
goes do you have problems going to the
post office well then you can go to
Stan's calm and since I come is the
place to go now Dennis what do you think
how did you get you start I mean it's
literally he turned it is really is
great it's fantastic
hey do you have to hire people
zip recruit or hire people ship Rico not
Dennis well how did you first get us a
tonight lives we do a bench Bureau does
not seem to have like any sense of where
it's appropriate to do ads didn't he do
something didn't he do a stir March for
Life little Martha March they literally
did like there's a genocide of babies
and now that's why I want to talk with
you about a new nutraceutical of the
brain nutrients remember when when the
right-wing guys were always like
advertise handy we like go back to my
PC you know like if all this genius
stuff that the right-wing people are
saying they don't want to lose it so we
have a special memory stick oh my god it
was a quick that it was for calm how
close the same is for comma sleep
meditation like the second leading cause
of death after the genocide of babies is
stress Oh fascism making a little jumpy
if they're jumpy because you're a
fascist and maybe you need to combat at
night with some herbal tea
yeah so it's so caught it come was the
the ad read and then he did a zip
recruiter one two and then quip actually
pulled their sponsorship because he read
the other ones during it so oh my god
good for the whip good for them good
good for one day Andy what's what I love
you you what's next what's next me you
want to know what's next for me thoughts
people are talking ten to twenty to
thirty maybe forty people are talking
about my podcast with J Elvis Weinstein
and thought spiral its sweep it's
sweeping the nation is sweeping the
nation means the 30 people total
throughout the nation but it's really
good have you done listen I don't want
to make this about my own personal
pettiness have you done any Bob's
Burgers lately I the only thing he I've
done a couple of eight I hate to get
technical ad ours
ad ours we exactly what that means
there's no dialogue resort so it's
usually when they have another line for
me or my new hope is that they want to
redo the lines that I've done so now I'm
going to if I do get more my tank them
you know what can go back to do that I
do do that occasionally like I'll do
like I'm gonna bumble this one and see
if I can get called back but is there
movie are we getting to being a movie
Sam I have heard no word about that
movies why I was afraid to ask but I'm
glad to hear you have not heard or
anything I have not heard anything so
there's still a chance
what's the l word you frightened guys
hoping they're gonna get a voiceover yes
what a Jewish version of calling
somebody Fredo
port 9 I'll explain when we get back
Andy Phillip Hallford about I hope
everybody's listening to thought spiral
and are gonna go check out your show
when's your next show some time and uh
oh no I've got a full sketch you saying
that I don't have a full schedule
because I really do and I'm gonna be in
Toronto in in September all right
reading Atlas Shrugged from this thing I
want people to go and say hi to Andy
solving Geordie report listeners up in
Toronto we got a big Toronto crew up
there yeah and yeah always a pleasure
love you guys thank you Andy have a good
weekend I'm back all right folks let's
take a quick break and then we'll head
into the fun half I do have a post roll
yes oh here it is
don't forget you can support this
program by going to join the majority
report com join the majority report com
wherein you can oops you can support
this program and and by saying thank you
we also give you or in the in our
attempt to say thank you we give you a
extra content every single day this
episode is brought to you oh we're gonna
do this afterwards how we gonna do this
let's do it now okay this episode is
brought to you by blinking
the blink a snap takes the key takeaways
from thousands of best-selling
non-fiction books and condenses them
down to just 15 minutes for you to read
or listen to 10 million people are using
blinka stright now has a massive and
growing library from self-help and
business to health and history books
with just the key takeaways right now
you can get 25% off your first year at
blink it's calm slash majority that's
blink it's calm slash majority 25% off
your first year don't forget join the
majority of port dot-com just coffee
co-op fair trade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
check out our
quicky Michael T MBS this week t MBS on
Tuesday Shaheed Butare who's challenging
Nancy Pelosi and Ana Kasparian also was
that last Tuesday excuse me I'm plugging
this coming Tuesday last two it was
Briana Joy gray Bernie Sanders press
secretary T MBS crew and also Elaine you
of the AFP on the Hong Kong uprisings
patreon.com slash T MBS Michael Brooks
show on YouTube and today we will cross
her first 69 thousand subscribers grab
your tickets to see us in Chicago next
Saturday to I spoke to a shaky but
Butare on you said you were very
impressed on Ring of Fire yeah he's uh
extremely sharp guy I'm excited for that
in a very sharp guy great politics do
Matt well quick plug for Jamie she's
gonna be on with Hassan at 3:30
today at TYT calm whoa for literary
hangover we're gonna we problematize or
well in the next edition of our or well
really read in serious talk about how he
sort of centers the white man in his
anti colonial writings we talk we're
doing the SI shooting an elephant which
is besides the racist attitudes good
essay total Portnoy alright quick break
fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
bought I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you you nervous a
little bit upset you riled up yeah maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's a
win-win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven thirty
eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion Wow he's
the ultimate math nerd don't you see why
don't you got a real job instead of
spewing vitriolic hatred you left one
will involve everybody's taking their
dumb juice come on dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seafood I'm hoping to add more moves to
my repertoire all I have is the dip in
the swirl fine we can double dip yes
this is a perfect moment no wait what
you make under a million dollars you're
scum you're not they accuse me
 you you little eat I think
you belong all right gonna take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there pick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to Rosie's people Shitler was such
a No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly I'm having a little trouble
seeing callers on the on the on the site
right now can you get in there Brenda
can you see caller son can you load that
up
yeah only see one right yeah but I'm on
hold and I can't get in will you just
reach out to Kyle there's some there's
some problem here with the with the
callers I'll fire up the IMS in that
instance let's go to some of the the
clips we have the do Bernie and Carter
be first yeah let's do that
this clip is pretty great and you know
it's gonna be interesting to see I I
mean I mean of course you know just
beyond that obviously you know stepping
back from just sort of the the broader
implications of of this campaign etc etc
but it's going to be really interesting
to see what the implications are of a
candidate who is going all in with a
a specific cohort in the Democratic
Party and specifically I'm talking about
you know like younger people that Bernie
is pursuing and I don't know I guess
we'll we'll see but here is Bernie with
car D beaten is this like a show that
she has no this is just a specific this
is just a specific event okay all right
good deductibles co-payments and what
are we gonna do about wages good in
America like for example like me as a
New Yorker not now
but you know when I was not famous I
just felt like no matter how how many
jobs I get I wasn't able to get to make
any needs like I was able to pay my rent
get transportation and eat that is an
excellent and important question because
right now we have tens of millions of
people
what earning what I consider to be
starvation wages can you imagine
somebody today earning $9 an hour it
don't make no sense no it doesn't how do
you pay your rent how do you pay for
food how do you pay for transportation
right you can't and if you have a child
yes and my thing is that you know
certain people like to brag that there
is more jobs now in America but is like
yeah there's an increase of jobs Gary
but what are they paying in these jobs
they practically claim nothing you got
it that is exactly the issue so you can
get a job but maybe gonna have to work a
two or three jobs exactly legislation
that I've introduced which was passed in
the house recently US House would raise
that minimum wage to $15 an hour and
what we also have to do is make it
easier for workers to join unions so
they could sit down and engage in
collective bargaining and earn a decent
living there you go they're both so
great I mean I don't know
Michael's just Mao they are both so
great it's gonna just be interesting to
see to what extent you know I'm not
saying that bernie is ignoring other
cohorts within the Democratic Party but
this is very much a test of like the
idea that he can reach people who don't
normally vote young people broadly
speaking don't vote at the same rates as
anyone else in the and if this is if
this is gonna work particularly the you
know the tough part is is that you know
to what extent I don't know maybe you
know is this gonna help in a place like
Iowa or New Hampshire and but you know
Bernie's in it for the long haul so
those states are not quite as important
as they are to maybe some other
candidates but it's going to be
fascinating to see just you know in that
respect let's do this one this Praeger
one oh god yeah we should have more
leather chairs in our set up and a
fireplace honestly the fireplace in the
studio I would be down this is the set
up like the fireplace the bookshelf the
leather chair Benjamin I used to make
videos 25 years ago that would mock this
it's like a parody of itself it was
basically how you back in the day you
would establish that you were an expert
on something right was to pretend like
I'm doing this from my library good well
I read many things for all intents and
purposes the United States is going
through a golden age right now we're
barely at war I mean I mean obviously we
have troops in Afghanistan or risking
and sometimes it's dying risking their
lives and sometimes dying but basically
we're at peace posit we're literally
bombing like what half a dozen countries
seven yeah over us and we have
almost 800 bases around the globe but
yes we're not involved in a world war
and we're not involved in a full-scale
invasion or occupation of a country so I
guess that's what he's talking about to
adapt to phrase little war is our peace
right and so is it is he gonna thank
Obama for this but I got the economy is
is remarkably robust uniquely so
essentially in the world the University
of Pennsylvania just published a study
that there's less racial tension today
than there was under Barack Obama
because if he can real life is virtually
no racial tension in the life of the
average American is there tension when
people of different ethnicities meet
their white meets a Hispanic Hispanic
meets a black a black meets an Asian
nobody cares that's the amazing thing
the vast majority of American Americans
don't care if it weren't for the left
screaming and hysterical and angry and
and cursing that the country would have
very little tension well there you go
he's giddy oh that little touch just
looks like he just had one of those date
nights with his wife I'm trying to look
that up right now course there's less
racial tension it's it's like it's the
same thing as the side's argument that
we always reference right yeah this is
like express prejudice I don't know how
much stock you can put into this study I
would say like hate crime incidents
would be the first metric I would look
for before this study but it could it
could be that there is broadly less
racial tension and more racial attacks
so that the increasingly isolated
members of the Republican Party are
becoming more violent in some respects
that's hilarious well we'll look into
that
but he seems very excited about it but
the economy the lack of wars these were
all trajectories that were set by Obama
and Trump has yet to derail them
although you know there's an uptick
obviously in what we did in Yemen and in
terms of you know our engagements in
terms of drone work we've and we have
pretty high tensions with Iran way
higher and just to add just China I mean
not anytime soon but historically
speaking during like these transitions
to want from one power arrangement to a
next it's not like these economic
conflicts don't sometimes lead to real
conflicts
yeah and I'm looking at the study now it
says they question whether the President
may have normalized uses essentially
author authorizing white Americans to
more openly express prejudice they found
the opposite but I mean it could be the
case that though certain Americans are
less willing to express prejudice to
like the way they studied this because
they see Trump's example yet people are
getting more racist and having it or
there's more racist attacks for instance
that's not like expressing an opinion
that's carrying out an act I don't know
hate crimes have also increased for the
third consecutive year so I don't know I
guess it depends on how you measure it
but why people feel fine with themselves
and that's really the point yeah they
might have just felt like more annoyed
because the black guy wasn't office now
and now they're willing to like you know
right so folks August means that it's
the c-team at Fox & Friends and this
they bring the C team out and they
apparently want to show just how much
they don't understand what
medicare-for-all is here is Rachel
Campos Duffy and what is it Sean Duffy
is that his name yep the Duffy the
reality couple there they guy and wasn't
he also a got like a Connor
person yeah oh my god from Wisconsin
right here they are she is a she is a
Fox contributor and this is pretty
bizarre stuff as you know most people
who even casually follow this stuff
they're my people who are paid to be
commentators on television know that
Bernie's plan for Medicare for all as
well as Camilla jeyapaul's provide for
no copay you mental health services but
apparently the message has not been
received at Fox mental illness because
they have to know they're gonna get
caught their cameras everywhere someone
saw something you can't just walk in
with this big thing and put two of them
down and not get caught but you
mentioned mental illness and the
president talked about that last night
and he said you know we have a problem
he said I have the quote because I
thought it was great he said it's not
the gun that pulls the trigger it's the
person holding the gun he did say he
wants to focus on mental illness and get
close she's saying that like that's some
type of profundity right yeah no egg has
ever said anything like that but guns
don't kill people people kill people I
get oh and you really think about it
it's not the personhood it's not the gun
it's the person yeah it's not me who
stabbed you it was painless steel never
thought of this before
that Eagle focus on mental illness and
get treatment but he also wants to
uphold the Second Amendment what was I
think he's absolutely right and if you
look at we're from Wausau Wisconsin and
if you look at the mill mental health
options that people have there's not
enough mental health providers they
don't get reimbursed enough not enough
people are going into mental health it's
a huge problem that we have in the
country and if we could get people the
treatment they need earlier I think we'd
see less of these horrible incidents and
I would just say Medicare for all is
going to make that worse by the way
you're gonna have less reimbursements
for people in the mentleman in the
mental health profession and we already
have a shortage of that so if you're
worried about mental health which we
should be and
light of all these events that we're
seeing then we really should consider
what what will medicare-for-all do to
our mental health services in the United
States yeah
that is the truth is exactly the
opposite if you're living in a place
like that in Wisconsin
you're going to have actually probably
more mental health choices because
you're gonna have legit insurance that
is actually going to provide for it and
people aren't going to walk away from it
because they're not going to have
massive co-pays or they have no coverage
whatsoever for mental health or they
have massive deductibles whatever it is
you will actually I would imagine and
that is where it's probably even most
explicit then you're going to get you're
gonna have more mental health options
particularly in areas that are not high
density areas I mean that she got it
exactly wrong which is pretty impressive
flip the script totally from Ray totally
robbed that I don't know damn Bungie
know is in the Kilmeade spot and I
haven't corroborated this but I heard
there's a report that in kill Meade's
contract it demands that any fill and be
dumber than he is and you know everyone
else can take a walk I don't want
anybody in that seat who want to hire
their shoes I want Pacino he's an idiot
even I see that all right let's just go
or do we have a where is that thing we
gotta play that thing with Trump and
another thing mental health no the other
one the heckler oh the yeah okay one
second all right let me take some I am
sorry in college if there's anybody on
hold for call I can't see you
so we we have a problem of their call
system so a shame please no calls today
apologies well we can't I can't see you
so I don't know if there's anybody on or
what right now but if you are on hang up
because we're not gonna get
to you Josh from Connecticut this week
in Stanford Connecticut a Public Works
employee threatened to conduct a mass
shooting on the job if he was
continually assigned jobs outside the
municipal garage his co-workers called
the police and thanks to Connecticut's
red flag laws they were also able to
confiscate more than 18 rifles shotguns
including ammo from his home Wow Jenny
McCarthyism Dennis Miller is my mom's
all-time favorite sports commentator she
really liked it what he used to say drop
it drop it drop it really fast I haven't
seen anything like the chemistry between
Shapiro and Miller since Billy Baldwin
and Cindy Crawford got on that train in
fair game ba da ba ba ba ba BB teach
tell Miller it's not it's Arcana not
Arcania
I'm surprised and intellectual like him
didn't know that illegal senior the dude
who trolled Chris Cuomo has a YouTube
channel based solely on him approaching
people on the street with a microphone
and a maggot hat oh come get some is
that what it is
Oh team Chris Cuomo as always team Chris
Ric Ric from Florida hey Sam I came
across your debate from last year with
the grifter behind the walk away
movement Brandon Straka I thought it
would be really entertaining but ended
up being a frustrated listening because
he never responded directly to anything
you said and reverted to talking points
his grifting playbook is exactly the
same as Candice Owens the grifter behind
blex it good evening Patriots
psychedelic Quaker Doug Doug Doug maybe
Doug is like Beetlejuice I miss laughing
at Doug Kentucky Fried comrad I feel
like Matt Walsh had a point that was
misunderstood and your ranted employment
insofar as I'm an employee of all places
I don't work or get paid for does that
mean my MRT MBS and auntie fada
subscriptions make all of you my
employees
I mean honestly more so that than his
point yep Gregory from Oklahoma let's
not confuse the listeners guys the Hoos
my generation is inferior to limp
biscuits my generation also Woodstock 99
while awful had amazing performances
from I'm not even going to forget come
on give Greg some time Greg's a great
young emerging talent
uh while awful had amazing performances
from limp Biskit Rage Against the
Machine and corn how do you get that are
to go backwards like that oh wow well
you'd be grateful moving on I am yeah
Wow that's what occasion cuz Greg's an
art that's a true corn fan there yeah
horn head here is Donald Trump last
night he was in New Hampshire for a
mugger ally and I honestly think this is
that this is part of his appeal to
people you know like I keep going back
to the interview we did about Mesmer and
this was when did we do this interview
was this last year right yeah for doing
with the Emily Asda nothing that long
Emily Ogden yeah we did her during a
dark week I believe yeah and and and you
should look this up Emily Ogden it was
the history of mesmerize mesmerize ation
I guess in in this country and Mesmer
was actually a guy who is a snake oil
salesman who went around and there is a
long tradition in this country for
people to become supportive of people
they know are liars and whatnot but but
they feel that they're lying on their
behalf and they like that because they
know there's a lot of Liars out there
who are lying not on their behalf and
Donald Trump has captured that because
he is a Salesman right I mean this is
the same guy who's Hawking bad steaks
and crummy ties and whatnot and so he
knows what he's doing with this and this
is this is a good example of that
that guy's got a serious weight problem
go home start exercising positive and
should you say we just say that like get
there was a protester right was it a
protester yeah okay and gun has got a
serious weight problem go home
start exercising get him out of here
please
got a bigger problem than I do got a
bigger problem than all of us now he
goes home and his mom says what the hell
have you just done
we are continuing our incredible
movement but but here's the thing is
that he concedes that he's also a
disgusting you know that he is a
disgusting physical side right I mean he
is I've also disgusting I'm I'm also
unattractive food assistance suicide the
fattest president we've ever had and you
know and then you know he's been looking
around at his at his audience say we all
have a problem on some level like he was
trying to say I think like take the
pressure off of him but that his
acknowledgment his acknowledgement at
least as narrow as it was I think is
like he understands how far he can go
with his audience he can't he was aware
that people out there probably saying
like well you're a little fat to
President Trump and he acknowledges that
and I think that yeah it's like we
always make the joke towards like sort
of controlling a room for a stand-up
comedian but they're doing that it's
just the same thing it's just
controlling a large crowd of people but
I mean yes it's a great but he I think I
said on Hayes like in in the campaign
he's like a road comic he is a road
comic oh I guess the I guess the gut
someone's just telling me that that guy
was actually a Trump fan I'm not sure
exactly the context but what if egg
Craig Winnipeg Craig Sam
why won't Bob's Burgers have me back
also Sam sometimes I purposely botch my
lines the first time so they have to pay
me more well they don't know that mr fan
I apologize Mike it's a consequence of
typing and I am upside down I admit it
guys I'm ashamed to call myself an
American Bernie for president not sure
what that's from legend of Shawn were
you blacklisted from Bob's Burgers Hugo
was noticeably scant last season rather
hypocritical for the most
class-conscious person not being out of
class-conscious show yeah
no kidding you should write to them
water boat from Kashmir thank you mr for
all you do we live in an insane world
you help me make this world a little bit
more sane seriously thank you thank you
I appreciate your contributions ah
contagious chameleon do you think Bernie
has support from voters that won't show
up in polls I mean I don't know I mean I
think you know I think it's very
possible it depends on what kind of
polls there are so much of polling has
to do with likely voter turnout and over
the past couple years there hasn't been
a great assessment of who the voter
turnout will be at least this far out
and so I think it's conceivable but
people need to get registered a lot of
these people need to get registered if
they're not I don't know I like to think
so but I just don't know the Marianne
Williamson School of dog da ming dave
hey Sam I just came across your date
profile and I just want to give you some
tips because you're a looking dusty my
dude first that thirst trap you posted
of you lot well okay what do you know
what a thirst trap is no it's a picture
you post looking for sort of I guess
thirsty or likes okay you posted of you
lying on your bed on the phone while
reading crosstabs with the caption
nothing much just chilling talking to my
friend from San Antonio has got to go
second take your patreon link out of
your bio last year lastly your quote
about monogamy being a zero-sum game is
creepy take a pic with your bro Ronald
Reagan during sun's out guns out you're
welcome
JB sex is inherently funny this guy's
who's heard a lot of laughter after this
is a guy who's heard a lot of laughter
after undressing train boy Alon Omar is
braver than every American troop
combined calling from Nebraska Sam
people are waiting for your book blaming
the electric but I'm waiting for the key
weighs on plinkus chapter 1 my feelings
about you the voter I hate you chapter 2
Congressional a baseball fan first it's
my birthday tomorrow I know I can count
on em our first shofar oh you want to
hit that Michael I got a move to hit
that one second also want to give a big
shout out to Jack Allison for doing the
vital work of exposing Twitter all-star
hoarse whispers totally publicly
available information on his publicly
available LinkedIn profile respectfully
yours De Smet
oh you know okay we will you pull up my
tweet you have a recent one or the
original yeah the one about no the one
about the horse whisperer did you guys
talk about this yeah so you didn't talk
about it no we briefly will have to fry
I think we might have a right yeah let
me let me talk about this briefly okay
because so we did a video yesterday
or I guess Wednesday where Brian
Williams and I think most of the stuff I
said on the thing but Brian Williams
[Music]
Brian Williams quoted a tweet from this
guy on Twitter who goes under the name
horse whisperer and I was vaguely
familiar would that guy not not
particularly but vaguely familiar with
that guy and see if I can pull up the
tweet here too this was what just yeah
here it is okay so I was vaguely
familiar with that guy and he gets
quoted as being representative of some
Democrats which frankly I had no idea I
mean apparently the guys anonymous he
has named horse whisperer but I mean
there's a lot of people who use monikers
on Twitter and they're not anonymous
like the coffee guide that I mean all
the names are out there I just don't
know them
but he went on to write okay since this
is trending here's my Bernie story the
year was 2016 and Bernie was already
long eliminated from contention an
actual Democrat would have stopped
torpedoing the nominee and worked to
defeat Trump but Bernie had books to
sell the end now so I think it was the
case that Bernie was not going to win
there but he clearly wanted to go in to
the convention with support in order to
do some horse trading with Clinton and
he was able to do that there was some
Reformation about the way that delegates
were picked
there was other stuff I imagine that
we're not even aware of in terms of
negotiations to get him to go out and
campaign like he did and he was one of
the most energetic campaigners and
obviously particularly now he clearly
was not doing this to sell his books he
was clearly doing this to build a
movement and to create political power
for himself which gets channeled into
things like the War Powers Act vote on
Yemen which was a major achievement
Congress had not stood up to a
president's war-making for ages
introduction and I mean look at the
debate that's happening in the
Democratic Party about medicare-for-all
now right I mean like the intention was
there is to say you can say that you
don't think you should have stayed in
the race that's an opinion fine but to
say that he stayed in to sell his book
is absurd I mean it really is genuinely
an absurd statement and to have this
guy's tweet used as a pivot on a
national cable news station is a weird
thing to do I mean that's a purely
journalistic enterprise and one would
imagine that there would be some
sourcing of this like why are you
offloading this sent
to someone who is supposedly anonymous
now I guess he was anonymous I don't
know frankly I don't know who this guy
is now because there's this other
Twitter guy who is I guess the co-host
of some show I don't know ah Jack
Allison and he goes okay central is a
trendy oh is he from struggle session oh
okay
oh there it is yeah right okay sorry so
okay since this is trending Horse
Whisperer is a marketing guy who's
worked with Exxon Aetna Citibank and he
says that Brian Williams probably
shouldn't show this tweet on TV like
he's a disinterested party and
apparently I don't know who found this
but and at the time like I didn't know
that it wasn't even public or not or
people knew but there's a whole list of
it's completely without his name it's
completely you couldn't identify this in
a million years I wouldn't even know how
you would go about looking this up on
LinkedIn but it gave a screenshot of his
LinkedIn profile which shows him to be
literally a paid spokesperson and PR
representative for a whole host of big
corporate interests including fossil
fuel industry and pharmaceuticals which
of course Bernie Sanders maybe you
disagree with him maybe you don't has
been a massive critic of he has called
the pharmaceutical industry folks
basically criminal and so i retweeted
this and added i'm sure getting paid by
Exxon Aetna ATT at all wouldn't taint
your perspective on Democrats who want
to take power from corporations which
was of course my facetious way of saying
one should take with a grain of salt
this assessment that birdy sander stayed
in the race because he wanted a book
deal or want to sell books from a guy
who is literally paid to represent the
interests of people that Bernie Sanders
where do you agree with him or not
regularly takes on as a fundamental
pillar of his campaign which none of
which I thought was terribly
controversial and then folks like Neera
Tandon like Tom Watson not the golfer
apparently there's another one out there
I don't even know home basically I
didn't know who he was either but I
Brendan helpfully explained that he's
essentially a Hillary Twitter person
which really is like the best way to
understand some okay well and they just
immediately accused me of daxing this
guy but I got I they accuse me of daxing
him now there is no definition of the
word daxing that includes putting a
completely generic clip saying that this
guy is a consultant to leading agencies
and clients including American Express
and Gillette and this and that I suppose
there's a way to track it down who it is
certainly there was another way to track
it down because obviously this somebody
else found it but there's not a single
this thread doesn't lead anywhere
there's nothing clickable there's no way
to determine from what I did who this
guy is in any reasonable way now of
course his LinkedIn profile is public
but the idea that I was daxing it was
fascinating to watch people attempt to
silence my critique of this critique
which I do every day on Twitter and
people claiming this was an odd hominem
attack look if you - it is completely
one of the greatest tenants of
journalism is that you only use
anonymous quotes okay if there is
absolutely no other way to source this
information and it would be a danger to
people to have these quote you can find
plenty of people who can get up and say
Bernie Sanders stayed in the race longer
than he should have or whatever and you
don't need to find an anonymous quote it
would be dangerous to this account
anonymous account quasi anonymous
accounts lying about Bernie to disclose
that he works as a corporate consultant
to all of the industries that Bernie
actually wants to Rae it rain in on
behalf of the American people but know
who this individual is know that he has
certain interests in the game or that
he's dispositional e coming from this
perspective I mean what isn't in yet out
there and I'm and and the idea that
there's no journalistic value in saying
hey this opinion which is was the pivot
point of a national news story on a
national news station has actually a
point of view one that is enhanced by
his professional perspective I mean it's
absurd it's just an absurd accusation
and yes I said also tell pieces they
want you they want us completely
disingenuous it's what I will say that
nonsense it's also an incredible waste
of their time because there is
absolutely no way that anyone on Twitter
can intimidate me in this way I do not
care I have been through the greatest
testing I'm ever going to have on
Twitter and it was literally one of the
funnest times I've had in annex in years
and so I will tell you there's no one in
the office I went down to human
resources at majority report HQ I sat
down with the head of a human resources
and here's what about this whose life
now Sam it's also just it's funny cuz I
don't but I don't it's that's hilarious
and I just want to add like I don't
spend that much time in a lot of
different especially you know pre the
election cycle I was actually hoping
that maybe people would like develop a
modicum of maturity like before this
primary now all engage in it more
because it matters and people are lying
about my candidate at all the time but
this guy this horse whisperer thing was
somebody who I mean certainly he didn't
want it to be known these direct you
know biases he would obviously have
because of his professional work but I
remember people telling me when he first
came on the scene like oh that's
somebody who I think it was I don't
remember but I'm saying it was known
that there was client interests and I
believe that it was because he as sort
of trying to build up this anonymous
account like to sort of drop chestnuts
in about you know professional
credibility so there's just endless just
ingenuity and hypocrisy
no idea who this individual I don't know
their name I don't know his name I don't
know where he lives far as I know he
doesn't even live the United States or
he could I don't know no one should know
his name or where he lived combed
through one's you know the I have come
through even the replies on my thread
and there is no indication there's no
way to link to him there's nothing right
and I suppose you could google who's a
consultant to Exxon Aetna all these
different things and find it perhaps but
there's ways of finding people obviously
in the first place cuz somebody found it
right so and it's a good that this
information is known so anytime horse
whisperer comes up refer to it and I
want to invite if anybody if near tanda
wants to call me or contact me about
this and have a debate about this on air
I'm willing to give them a platform Tom
Watson wants to come on I'll have a
debate give him a platform anybody who
wants to tom wise I'm perfectly willing
to talk about this more so all right
we're gonna read for more AIIMS and get
out of here
fisherman's fiend Michaels Maddow comedy
bit is funnier than anything Dennis
Miller has said or done in the last 15
years parroting anything pure jiff am
I've got a Quaker these oats am i right
that was about as inherently funny as
Donald finding his way into evangelicals
graces with his membership in the
Familia keratitis with Ivanka like he's
abraham ortelius it's about sex pop up
Chris from Taiwan I remember watching
Dennis Miller on HBO as a teenager and
he always struck me as an ant as an
authoritarian who leaned left what
happened to him angel Sam your hair
looks awesome today oh thank you Bowl
Prague sure sex jokes are inherently
great but have you ever tried
registering people to vote all right and
pick one more I am the last I am of the
week really cool anybody see New York
Times new documentary series the weekly
episode this week is about right-wing
algorithms on YouTube radicalizing
voters in Brazil Michael oh dope
painfully analogous to our situation
here they make it vivid no mention of
Glenn Greenwald nor Michael Brooks only
passing reference to Dilma and Lula but
it's chilling highly recommend people
check it out
Hulu and FX channel alright folks see
you on Monday
[Music]
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
