[Music]
a little bit a little bit poor timing
when did Debbie wasserman-schultz and
Donna shillelagh put this out now look I
want to just I feel like you know we
need one of these disclaimers before and
we ever talk about Venezuela I am NOT I
have watched the videos purporting to
show that there's no problems whatsoever
in Venezuela I have dug into the claims
of how many you know hundreds of
thousands if not millions of people who
have left because of things there I've
read on both sides of of this issue I
don't claim to know the reality the
lived reality of 25% of Venezuelans or
51% of Venezuelans or 75% of Venezuelans
or Venezuelans who live above a certain
income level or below a certain income
level none of that is relevant in terms
of the question as to whether we should
be intervening certainly not militarily
but in any fashion beyond the most I
think you know soft diplomacy so when
we're doing things like embargoes and
shutting off ability to get funds
we're just punishing the Venezuelan
people to the extent that there's any
efficacy it is doing stuff like that is
predicated on the suffering of the
people there so that they did depose
their there their leadership now with
that said we do know the reality of the
story that we were told from US
officials from the Vice President on
down about the humanitarian aid that was
brought to Venezuela on a bridge but
before we get to that reality let's go
to this reality with debbie Wasserman
Schultz and Donna shillelagh
who find themselves I guess on one end
of that bridge is this the same bridge
trying to make an argument well let's
listen the humanitarian aid is just a
little ways away
Maduro could let it in and save his
people but of course he will not the
container that he put on this bridge to
block it says peace there is no peace
here there are only on the other side of
this bridge hungry people starving
children children who are dying
we have medicines the community the
Latin American community Colombia 50
different countries have contributed to
make sure we can save the Venezuelan
people
Maduro must go we came here today to
support the people of Venezuela and to
thank the people of Colombia and
together we say Viva Venezuela Viva
Venezuela yeah I'm glad folks are so
concerned about Venezuela in in the US
Congress it's nice I remember them being
a long time concerned about Venezuela
here is how that aid got destroyed now
we know it was not a function of Maduro
as people putting the aid you know
burning the the aid it was it turns out
according to a New York Times source
video a protester who was protesting
alongside the aid trucks throwing
Molotov cocktails at the at the the
Maduro police forces and accidentally
lighting one of the trucks on fire here
show it again you can see there's the
Molotov cocktail throwing it and the
second one the rag leaves the Molotov
cocktail lands on the on the truck I
mean I'm just shocked to hear that there
was Molotov cocktails my understanding
is it like you know Molotov cocktails I
remember when those Palestinians had the
kites the
they would let up that the that were on
fire I mean how it's horrific that was
and called for snipers to be shooting at
the kite kite flyers I also just love
that they specifically mentioned the
role of Columbia which like of course
they play a role but like the Colombian
government very much will give the
Venezuelan government a run for its
money and exceed it in many ways in
terms of what they do in areas where
there's an insurgency and this
government came into power cancelling a
peace deal with the FARC under the
umbrella of a former President Alvaro
Uribe where there's at least some
WikiLeaks cables indicated that he had
like relationships with Pablo Escobar
going back to the 80s
so that's who like this democratic
school glaucous well he has a small
businessman who who built an enterprise
committed to the types of values that
Howard Schultz is trying to put across I
mean it's just the hypocrisy is
astounding but and you know people want
to go down there and say that you should
let in humanitarian aid that's all well
and good but the United States has a
horrible record of intervening like
there's it's it is very difficult to
come up with an example of when this
worked out well well they're politicize
I mean they're there this I this last
week but I want to keep hitting the CIA
program in Pakistan would fake vaccines
where they used to collect DNA for the
bin Laden operation this and and
somebody pointed out to me not only was
that an important point to make but that
I talked about consequences you know
theoretical consequences there were real
ones doctors were killed oh yeah people
stop taking backs and people stop
thinking go has brought to Nigeria yeah
so what you're doing with this is you're
not you're you're you're actually
handing if you oppose the Maduro
government you're handing them a correct
political talking point and you're
undermining every single organization
that might legitimately be trying to get
you know ease the situation right oh and
here's the secret is that it did work
out well for some people right for the
oil companies and the ruling class of
those
countries and the US government in its
attempts to impose a certain economic
program on the world I would say a
narrow a narrow slice of the US
government in many respects but but yes
of course there there's definitely there
were even winners in Iraq it's just not
the Iraqi people one of the think ken
Silverstein pointed out in his report
that from there which is interesting
that it doesn't seem one of the kind of
funny dynamics of this for like the coup
mongers the United States and then also
the Maduro government is like the oil
flow and the relationship is is working
so the oil companies aren't necessarily
that excited one way or another about
this because they're getting their
revenue in that trade is happening
regardless either way yeah um sure they
don't you know it's not like they care
or oppose it but they're not like
gunning for it because it doesn't really
implicate their revenue right now
