[Music]
so speaking of the UK yesterday Teresa
may faced another reversal her latest
proposal for brexit and I believe can
you look up man I believe brexit is
supposed to kick in in a matter of weeks
her the 28th of March let's play this
brief clip from the real news network of
Parliament on the day yesterday where
Mays latest brags proposal has been
rejected eyes to the right 242 the nose
to the left 391 so the nose of it
the noes have it British lawmakers
crushingly rejected Prime Minister
Theresa May steel to quit the European
Union on Tuesday March 12th I continue
to believe that by far the best outcome
is the United Kingdom leaves the
European Union in an orderly fashion
with a deal and that the deal we've
negotiated is the best and indeed the
only deal available thrusting Briggs it
into turmoil just 17 days before the
planned departure date following the
defeat opposition Labour leader Jeremy
Corbyn called on the government to rule
out a no deal brexit government has been
defeated again by an enormous majority
and they must now accept their deal
their proposal the one the Prime
Minister's put is clearly dead and does
not have the support of this house and
quite clearly no deal must be taken off
the table we've said that before and
we'll say that again it's suggested that
maybe the time was right for a general
election as the clock has been run out
on the prime minister he said it will
put forward our proposals again which
are about a negotiated customs union
access the market and protection of
rights those the ones will put forward
we believe there may well be there may
well be a majority for them but there
will also be the potential of
negotiating them the Prime Minister's
run down the clock and the clock has
been run out on her
maybe it's time instead we had a general
election and the people could choose who
that government should be of course he's
absolutely right and again I think it's
very important to keep reentering this
conversation brexit was an incredibly
stupid thing and it's dangerous and it's
just catastrophic ly stupid own-goal
I think there are great incredible left
cases for breadth that I've read but
they don't have a relationship to any
actual political configuration in
reality in the UK even now with left
leadership in the labour party but that
being said the UK has been in crisis for
years because of austerity poverty is
skyrocketing inequality is massively
expanding the domination of City and
global capital has already you know from
Thatcher through the new labor and
certainly through the Tories back again
has turned the UK into a major site of
global oligarchy plutocracy and
corruption so there needs to be an
election there needs to be a social
democratic government they need to put
forward real reforms and I think at this
point look I think objectively Corbyn
could have had a stronger position on
this but now they're saying first there
needs to be an election which is the
most important thing you can't leave the
u EU without a deal so it needs to be
delayed and then there needs to be an
actual election election where
everything is on a table not just this
ridiculous process generated by the
Tories indulging xenophobes then you can
potentially relitigate it but the thing
that I always caution is that there is
an assumption in media that if there is
another referendum it will automatically
correct the first referendum and there
is no empirical data that suggests that
so and for some reason again a total
sign of the pathology of our modern
world Tony Blair's on every TV network
imaginal imaginable in the UK and
Internet
while Lula de Silva as a political
prisoner I will make that note but you
know if you're listening to NPR watching
Bloomberg whatever you're seeing Tony
Blair who is still a historically
unpopular in the loathed politician
talking about a new brexit a vote you
have this new UK independence formation
which literally represents the only
policy that they seem to have is no
brexit they have nothing to say about
austerity and of course I'm sure they
will indulge in anti-immigrant
xenophobia as Blair does so but missing
and all of that is that the actual
numbers and public appetites have not
shifted that's part of the reason why
Teresa may in her totally failed
leadership is in this untenable position
is that most of that shift is in the
base of her party and in any even more
fascist parties that are around the
perimeters of her party actually whose
votes share they ate up by embracing
brexit so what happens if you first of
all delay the democratic process delay
the possibility of a new government that
actually will put people first and then
you just put throw all of your energy
into a new referendum or by the way the
same dynamics exist as the last one they
actually have not changed you might and
the best case scenario pick off a
handful of people who realized Jesus
Christ this is a disaster I was giving
the system and a few before maybe I
should vote more thoughtfully this time
but overall in place you'll still have a
bunch of people they're both really bad
and absolutely correct reasons who want
to get out of the EU and then people
like Tony Blair who everybody hates
lecturing them as to why they need to
make a certain decision so a nice nap
does the UK needs to go to elections and
democracy needs to be reactivated and No
Deal I mean it this is also I just think
like you can call a bluff here like
Theresa May is a very bad politician and
totally incompetent but she's not a
crazy lunatic or a you know or a full
unbound cynic of the Boris Johnson
variety she's not gonna let
I would be shocked if Teresa made just
as like in 17 days like okay let's just
go and we can blow Ireland up and we can
you know potentially not import fruit
and we can you know like she's not gonna
do that so delay the process have an
election
