[Music]
something happened that was kind of
surprising not expect to see this Dave
Rubin is known for say a docile
interview style obsequious obsequious C
quiesce and of course he's extremely
far-right and no matter what his latest
spin on what his politics are he you
know he just follows the herd basically
the classical liberal term that game is
pretty much over yeah I think the game
is over and he's a follow the herd guy
in the herd he's hanging out with our
extreme far-right people I haven't even
gotten to the I think it's bridge-ep
Gabrielle interview which supposedly was
a absolute train wreck
with Dave Rubin so I was really
surprised to see this and I don't want
to over promise any fireworks here but
Tucker Carlson was on with Dave Rubin
and you're gonna see a little bit of a
pushback from Dave or is it a pushback
is it a push back or a really really
funny mistake that we're gonna integrate
into our long-standing tradition of
mocking dave rubin for being a
profoundly stupid man yeah so what is
Trump then you've interviewed the guy a
bunch of time well yeah what actually in
the scheme of what your book is about
and sort of where America's at at the
moment is he just the Great wrecker that
we sort of needed so that this ship of
fools wasn't gonna sink and take
everybody he's certainly a wrecker look
here's what Trump is not Trump is not
the guy who comes to Washington and
transforms the system because he's not
capable of that he's not interested in
that Washington is a very specific town
okay so like the legislative process is
highly complex he doesn't understand it
doesn't seek to he's not gonna be the
guy who runs on these nine policies and
then affects them once elected gets them
to the Congress gets them to the
agencies he can't
that's not his role it's very
frustrating actually if you're from DC
like me to watch it you're like wow you
know what a second get the Energy
Department under control I'm not gonna
have it it's 3 million executive branch
employees versus Trump
Trump's role is that right that's that
right there kid there's three billion
million three million exactly I think
there's really an executive branch in
place right but I'm just saying all
right look we're being super petty but
he did actually say it was a question
mark like he pushed back like no it
can't possibly be true and you're right
it literally could not possibly be true
that there are 3 billion employees of
the United States federal government
that would be a literal impossibility I
guess unless they started subcontracting
people I can China China so much money
yeah let's we're hiring them it's back
back paid off our Chinese federal
employees we're hiring Chinese people to
the EPA by the hundred thousand I want
to open up a new Department of Energy
plant at Genoa India this is why I think
Tucker's like this guy ultimately will
never be able to be on my level cuz
right right this is just too dumb Tucker
key yeah Tucker's like he's my new
friend man all right let's play this
again and then we'll explain why we're
being so petty about it it's 3 million
executive branch employees versus Trump
okay Trump's role is that right that's
that right okay there's a three billion
million three million executive I think
it's fun being uncharitable to
libertarian yeah and you shouldn't ever
be charitable libertarians but it's like
okay so Dave Rubin is of course the guy
said that Jesus would be nice to Muslims
and is the what did this post office
ever do for you guy it's just a you know
he's just a dim-witted cynic and I
remember Republicans years ago they
tried to make a huge amount of hay
because Barack Obama misspoke one time
when he was campaigning and I think he
said that he had been campaigning across
like all 54 states and I don't know
maybe he was being woke and he was
trying to actually inject like Guam and
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands in
Washington DC she get statehood status
or maybe he was just exhausted from
campaigning and he misspoke and this
goes back actually I think
2008 and and the Republicans are always
like this is ridiculous like Sarah Palin
gets ding for everything and everybody
ignores that Barack Obama doesn't even
know how many states there are in the
country and the and it was like well the
reason it didn't take off is because
he's a smart guy obviously who misspoke
once whereas Sarah Palin is saying
literal just just nonsense every day
because she's an idiot
and so we should be more charitable in
general including I think with way
bigger things than miss speaking I think
we need to figure out a way to have a
much more empathetic and compassionate
society and I mean that sincerely and
sometimes I even question my own role in
not pointing to those qualities more now
that being said they've rubens a dunsky
and somebody else might have gotten away
with a misspeak but he really is dumb
enough and cynical enough to actually
probably not be entirely sure that
that's a wrong stat look we're just
playing our role in the marketplace of
ideas we have to keep the other side
honest right this is this is how this
works so checker crawls a 3 billion man
hey guys we're supposed to be smart
it's just it's true you're absolutely
right though cuz they've got this little
buddy thing going on but there's just
those moments where it's like I mean I
really wonder like I don't I don't know
if he's had on like Steve Pinker who I
don't
I do I do not over value Steve Pinker's
intellect there's plenty of problems
major problems in his secular theology
which is really what his work is but
there are people who you just have to
like acknowledge some just sort of like
basic firing power they have the idea of
sitting down them sitting down with Dave
Rubin
okay so what was those receipts things
just in case you're interested yes whose
day night Racine happened upon Dave
Rubin impression where you make him sort
of like a South Park kind of a South
Park out and there it really does work
well okay so good good
opposed to you know what split racism
but you're interested in ideas and it
totally works
he could be bowing like some type of
like like like the sock like there's
some sort of like inanimate object or
just pops it to say sort of like bigoted
nonsense coated in stupidity
