[Music]
so folks August means that it's the
c-team at Fox & Friends and this they
bring the c-team out and they apparently
want to show just how much they don't
understand what medicare-for-all is here
is Rachel Campos Duffy and what is it
Sean Duffy Saturday yep
the Duffy the reality couple there they
guy and what's in he also a got like a
congressperson yeah oh my god from
Wisconsin right here they are she is a
she is a Fox contributor and this is
pretty bizarre stuff as you know most
people who even casually follow this
stuff they're my people who are paid to
be commentators and television know that
Bernie's planned for medicare-for-all as
well as Camila jeyapaul's provide for no
copay you mental health services but
apparently the message has not been
received at Fox mental illness because
they have to know they're gonna get
caught their cameras everywhere someone
saw something you can't just walk in
with this big thing and put two of them
down and not get caught but you
mentioned mental illness and the
president talked about that last night
and he said you know we have a problem
he said I have the quote because I
thought it was great he says it's not
the gun that pulls the trigger
it's the person holding the gun he did
say he wants to focus on mental illness
and get chosen she's saying that like
that's some type of profundity right
yeah no egg has ever said anything like
that but guns don't kill people people
kill people you know and you really
think about it it's not the personhood
it's not the gun it's the person yeah
it's not me who stabbed you it was
painless steel never thought of this
before that evil effects on mental
illness and get treatment but he also
wants to uphold the Second Amendment
yeah what was I think he's absolutely
right and if you look at we're from
Wausau Wisconsin and if you look at the
mill mental health options that people
have there's not enough mental health
providers they don't get reimbursed
enough not enough people are going into
mental health it's a huge problem that
we have in the country and if we could
get people the treatment they need
earlier I think we'd see less of these
horrible incidents and I would just say
Medicare for all is going to make that
worse by the way you're gonna have less
reimbursements for people in the
mentleman in the mental health
profession and we already have a
shortage of that so if you're worried
about mental health which we should be
and in light of all these events that
we're seeing then we really should
consider what will what will Medicare
for all do to our mental health services
in the United States yeah that is the
truth is exactly the opposite if you're
living in a place like that in Wisconsin
you're going to have actually probably
more mental health choices because
you're gonna have legit insurance that
is actually going to provide for it and
people aren't going to walk away from it
because they're not going to have
massive co-pays or there have no
coverage whatsoever for mental health or
they have massive deductibles whatever
it is you will actually I would imagine
and that is where it's probably even
most explicit that you're going to get
you're gonna have more mental health
options particularly in areas that are
not high density areas I mean that she
got it exactly wrong it's just pretty
impressive flip the script totally from
Radley about that and I'll note Dan bond
Geno is in the kilmeade spot and I
haven't corroborated this but I hear
there's a report that in kill me its
contract it demands that any fill and be
dumber than he is so I think that's it
and vonti know everyone else can take a
walk I don't want anybody in that seat
who want to tie their shoes I want
Pacino he's an idiot even I see that all
right let's just go or do we have
