I want to talk about this
reporting from Ken clippin stain over at
the TYT investigates they have gotten
hold of a document this is an internal
document that is these are internal
agency documents that show that at least
three it appears deaths that took place
amongst ice detainees were preventable
this is according to an internal
document one ice official apparently
told TYT the problem is systemic this is
a letter written to this guy matthew
Albin's who is matthew albans he was the
acting deputy director of ice let's look
at a clip of Albans shall we
this is where he likened these detention
centers to summer camp with regard to
the FRC's I think the best way to
describe them is to be more like a
summer camp these individuals have
access to 24/7 food and water they have
educational opportunities they have
recreational opportunities both
structured as well as unstructured wow
that sounds like camp do they also make
macrame according to this internal
document Isis Health Service Corp is
severely dysfunctional and unfortunately
preventable harm and death to detainees
has occurred this is a letter sent to
Matthew Albin's
the memo bears the subject line urgent
matter was written by a supervisor at
Isis health services Corp looks like
there's a number of attachments I wonder
if those are images it's possible
details over a dozen because a lot of
this is redacted it details over a dozen
cases in which ice allegedly failed to
provide its detainees with proper
medical care including three which
resulted in fatalities one of these
cases involves alleged ice quote
negligence in handling a medical
incident resulting in a detainees death
at Isis Eloy detention center in Arizona
according to the document ice did not
heed warnings from an official about an
apparent case of neuroleptic malignant
syndrome the memo plainly says of
another ice a detainee quote suicide
victim mr. e frame della Rossa
could have been saved the document goes
on to state that ice quote received a
total of 12 suddenly significant event
notification reports prior to his death
12 depicting suicidal ideation and
psychosis
moreover della Rossa was not being
treated with psycho psycho tropic
medication instead he was remanded to
segregation isolation in other words
which psychiatrists considered to be
torture mr. della Rossa suicide closely
mirrors the previous suicide of mr.
Joseph a Yemen as at Stewart Detention
Center this is referencing the third
fatality that was allegedly preventable
in yet another case rights clippin Stein
the detainee was removed from
respiratory isolation despite having
tuberculosis which as you know is highly
contagious documents note that ice is
having identified a trend of detainees
not treated for alcohol
drug withdrawal the memo goes on to
state many detainees have encountered
preventable harm and death IH SC
leadership is not focused on preventing
horrible reoccurrences this is an agency
that is systemic ly corrupt and
dysfunctional it's time to get rid of it
it's time to get rid of it and for real
not like rename it slightly reshuffle it
the whole operation of chop military
forest the terrorize immigrant
communities needs to be destroyed root
and branch and the whole process needs
to be deal demilitarized here's the Elan
Omar
making the same point this afternoon I
guess just our you're just about half an
hour ago Isis and organizations become
increasingly militarized brutal and
unaccountable it must be abolished I
don't know if it's become more so it
probably has according to folks like
Ronald Reagan but certainly we're more
aware of it so either way Donald Trump
could get up there and say Barack
Obama's ice is horrible I'm disbanding
it and I'll be happy I don't care what
why didn't you deal with this problem
when it was less visible
