yesterday I don't know if you were
listening to the fun half of the program
many of you were not
I had an extended conversation with Mike
from Pennsylvania about Kamala Harris
and he was saying that he thinks that
Kamala Harris is called from Medicare
for all was disingenuous and I said that
may be the case but it's a very hard
argument to make at this point based
upon the way there that she phrased
things however an hour after we said
that this story came out and it's
interesting she she drew apparently
record ratings for CNN and I want to
make that clear that's why we're talking
more about Kamala Harris right now then
we are let's say beta or Gillibrand I
mean not as many people have announced
even sherrod Brown is not officially
announced now Elizabeth Warren has we
spent some time on with Warren and now
we're talking about Harris and she is
the right now
the most prominent candidate who's
declared in terms of the Democrats and
in terms of attention she's getting and
I think you know understandably she
received a two million viewers on CNN's
town hall which was 75 percent above
CNN's four-week average in the ten
o'clock hour so there's some real
excitement and curiosity around Kamala
Harris and you know we played yesterday
some clips that from that town hall but
also about that shed some light on her
not just the fact that she was a
prosecutor I know there are some people
who think that all prosecutors are
inherently just it's disqualifying I've
said in the past that you know if Eliot
Spitzer turned out not to have a
pathology I think he would have been a
great candidate this is a guy who went
after bankers and financial criminals
with a a a you know an in a pretty big
intensity and so you know only a
prosecutor is gonna be able to do that
it's not so much that for me that she
was a prosecutor I you know the one the
one election I cared about in the
primary last year more than any was I
wanted to effort each out to be the
chief prosecutor of New York State the
issue is not that she was a prosecutor
but you can see numerous instances of
her disdain for any type of criminal
justice reform and you can see her
bragging about policies that are
incredibly punitive to to people living
in poverty to people who have been
marginalized people of color and it's
gonna be interesting to see we said at
the time yesterday if we're gonna see
any pushback from like black lives
matters folks or you know folks who have
been working in the space of criminal
justice reform and there's some
indication that we are seeing some with
that do we have a we have heard her
tweet we have that tweet I put it in
sound polls
um it's kianga Taylor who is we've had
her on once or twice you've probably had
her on two on TV for a while and it's
gonna be interesting to see if this
becomes more of an issue for Kamala
Harris
she writes kianga yamada taylor says
using the stick a threat of imprisonment
to get poor black people to fall in line
if you excuse this way by claiming this
is what she had to do to be electable
you're telling yourself not all of us
see black people as expendable the eggs
you break to make an omelet so this is
Kamala Harris comments of using the
stick to make poor poor families behave
yeah that's the video that
we had played yesterday or two days ago
when she was talking about using the
stick to get people to make sure that
their kids were not playing hooky and
that a stick of course being you know
and and you know this problematic stuff
that I don't think the majority of
Democrats necessarily care about
however if more people like yamada
taylor start speaking up who are engaged
in this as an issue and begin to say
like hey this is very problematic
because this is what her background is
she doesn't have another decade of being
a state lawmaker or a federal law maker
this has been her career and if her if
if the fundamental perspective she had
on this was that there was a moral
problem with some of these people who
needed to be disciplined in some fashion
the this could grow into a problem and
you know the argument that mike from PA
was making yesterday was that she she
has no you know real depth in terms of
her relationship to medicare for all and
my argument was well she signed on to
Bernie's proposal almost immediately as
a co-sponsor and it is true that she's
also co-sponsored two or three other
Medicare for all light proposals yes
she's hedging her bets well I mean are
definitely arguably she was co-sponsor
on a bill called Medicare X from Michael
Bennett and Tim Kaine which would just
add the public option on the Affordable
Care Act exchanges which of course again
it would be helpful but we're talking
about that would impact at the me at n
million person pool of people it
wouldn't help anybody outside of the
exchanges with all the issues that we
have with our health insurance including
cost including the pain they asked and
insurances brian schatz would create a
public option broadly for everybody
outside of the to do a buy-in to
Medicaid but again I mean I know some
people on Medicaid depends on where you
live as we heard yesterday or two days
ago but that's not the same as having a
medicare-for-all one that is not a
function of the states but rather you
know one that the federal government
would administer so but she said very
forcefully two nights ago on a CNN Town
Hall I am for Medicare for all I am for
and Bernie's plan calls for the slow
phase-out of the private insurance he
basically said let I think it was like
let's move beyond all that write it with
specifically with regards to these
private and ensures that was her strong
as the answer of the night yes and and
understand that this would phase out in
and you would still I think even under
Bernie's plan you wouldn't necessarily
have all of these there would just be no
private insurance companies that
themselves are in the insurance business
as opposed to maybe administering some
of the government plans like we have
that relationship with some Medicare
providers right they pay through but
nevertheless today there's a story out
that she is distancing yourself or not
distancing yourself but she's put out a
statement that one of her you know press
people have that you know she's open to
keeping private insurers now now look I
don't I actually think that it here's
the thing I
know what this tells us about what she
would do but it definitely tells us
about how deeply she is committed to a
vision or a policy here if she had said
the other night
look I'm open to getting rid of private
insurers but I think there's some
important reasons why you might want to
keep it or I mean if there was anything
that implied she's done some thought
about this and has a relationship to the
policy because I think there could be
arguments like I say for keeping some
private insurance as supplemental I mean
certainly done others I mean I think
there's arguments I don't know if I
agree with them or not but there's
definitely legitimate arguments well
well let's make it clear though Bernie's
plan doesn't make private insurers it
legal he just doesn't want to go through
them to administer a Medicare for All
system which is not the same thing well
right and there's no reason you go
through them unless you want to I know
but that's not my argument my argument
is that when assessing whether she feels
she has really focused on this question
as opposed to ticking off a box these
are things that you should have pretty
much worked out so that you don't have
to 24 hours later walk it back that to
me is suspicious this is very
reminiscent in my mind of Barack Obama
claiming that on day one he's going to
renegotiate NAFTA and then two days
after that we hear reports of Austin
goolby going up to his one of his chief
economic advisors up in Canada being out
of the country this is the way you do it
leaking that you know meeting with the
Canadians assuring them that we're not
going to renegotiate NAFTA which was a
backdoor way of letting corporations
know letting the interest of the Chamber
of Commerce know we're not going to
renegotiate right so they're actually
the differences actually the Obama
Goolsbee move was way more sleazy
because it was secret
right this just looks more I mean secret
in quotes I understand but like yeah but
it's more adept that's pretty much well
that was the second thing I was gonna
say yeah sleazy and way more effective
for to back-channel something like that
but I think like yeah I I've held the
position of particularly on things like
Medicare for all where she doesn't have
a long track record one way or another
and she signed on to the Bernie bill and
she gave a great answer I was following
the CNN Town Hall and tweeting about it
and talking with people in the discord
about it a little bit and I was like and
that was one was it about that's
excellent
that's a very very strong answer but I
mean such a quick reversal it's a good
time to also you know reira view her
donor lists and I think her just sort of
basic inclinations as well and I
wouldn't have said that yesterday
because I think I was all wrong I know
you were possible to make but I
personally not a bad bet to be wary of
her commitments on policies like that
yeah on the donor tip I mean what this
says to me is that when the second she
gets any pushback from the business
sector she blinks and that doesn't bode
well for the future and you do need to
look at who's giving her money isn't the
key to the whole problem of people like
their supposedly like their private
insurance too just to make whatever the
government offers really generous well
it's not that people like their private
insurance people like their doctors like
their doctors and they don't want to
have to change but I mean like us listen
just like them the arguments about the
private insurance or not it's this is a
that's distinct from this this is really
more about assessing how deeply she has
considered this like I say had she come
out and said at the CNN thing exactly
what her press release said the next day
when she was backing off of what she had
said the night before I would be a lot
less critical of that because maybe I
would disagree with the policy but it's
clear that there's been some sitting
down and wrestling with the issue and
that's actually what I had thought had
happened but in the reverse I thought it
was
like she's clearly basically running a
centrist campaign and it's 1992
middle-class tax cuts and you know and
then Medicare for all is the bridge to
the left yeah that's because that answer
was so clear and so unequivocal it was
like oh this is gonna be the one and
maybe also just potentially the new
mainstream of the Democratic Party like
you're gonna be a real outlier if you're
not supporting this so I was also I mean
yeah that's I think the way we're
narrowing it I mean obviously it's
troubling in and of itself because it's
the right policy and the policy we need
but it's also um it's a mishap for a
campaign that's actually had like a
really smooth rollout so that's also
troubling she did throw in the word
access though which should always make
you suspicious when anyone says that in
reference to health care it is a total
dog whistle yeah that's true too we the
the I think it was we got into like a
Twitter fight with Andy slab it about
that and there was polling that
suggested people liked that word and
that's that that's what I think he
responded to right but that it that's
why you hear that word and it's a it's a
it's a meaningless word but you know
this is this is why when we get to the
debates or we get to a sort of a
narrower race or where things become a
little bit more pointed these type of
things are going to come to the fore and
you know again it's only worth so so
much if you'll recall in 2008 it was
Barack Obama was championing the the the
public option but saying the mandate
wasn't necessary and it was Hillary
Clinton saying that the mandate was
necessary that was their big issue the
the over the mandate but I don't know so
just a revisit on the Kamala Harris
thing I imagine there'll be more coming
in in the future
