and this is this is an important we
should cover this more there's an
important ballot initiative in
California to create a public bank every
state needs a public bank and of course
all the Wall Street banks should have
been nationalized after the crisis
should be nationalized today but I vote
YES on B for a public bank this is an LA
rally and James Adomian the
impressionists took his Bernie
impression out to support the initiative
and is pretty funny sing with me if you
know the words when we find ourselves in
economic crisis
Franklin Roosevelt comes to me
urging public banking measure B when
Wall Street institutions favor the top
1% of 1% of 10% of 1% measure B measure
P public banking option measure B
everybody now measure B measure B
measure P measure P public banking
option measure P boom boom boom thank
you thank you very much if anybody's got
bus fare I'm going into the in tracks
[Laughter]
