yeah I mean we have this clip where that
she apparently in a closed-door meeting
said don't tweet your complaints but if
you can take them to a PAC apparantly
it's fine yeah don't don't tweet
anything but I will gladly endorse the
most grotesque you know incitement
against you at a you know right-wing
ethno state political gathering that you
can do well let's hear about that that
clip this is Joe Scarborough and Casey
hunt talking about Nancy Pelosi telling
progressive members not to tweet their
complaints he has said some demeaning
things to these four members and the
four members have said some demeaning
things to Pelosi the question is when do
they sit down in a realm and say this is
a big place we can all help each other
let's start working together so Joe
Alexandra Ocasio Chris has made a really
interesting comment to The New Yorker in
an interview last week she said a lot of
this is premise on the idea that I have
a relationship with Nancy Pelosi at all
she said she hadn't talked to her at any
length basically since the wintertime
and I think that tells you a lot about
how this relationship has played out and
I think that there are some risks here
for Pelosi so far it has been this
uneasy date aunt where you know the
squad quote/unquote has watched Nancy
Pelosi win a couple messaging victories
they've seen her take on Donald Trump
they've seen her you know stride out of
the White House put on those sunglasses
and have her be a hero for the same you
know liberal base that sent them to
Washington but these comments are
getting very dismissive and you know
Pelosi simply looks at the world in a
completely different way and I think my
question about this going forward is the
same one that you had just then about
Newt Gingrich which is you know we're
living in a different type of media
environment and world and you know
Pelosi told Maureen Dowd oh you know
they've got their their public whatever
the question is can you really dismiss
that public whatever in the age of Trump
in a way that you used to be able to
mean Nancy
is a hard power person inside the house
she's counting votes she's not wrong
these are only four votes that is not
enough to change the calculus and she
knows what it takes to actually get
things done in the house but the reality
is you know politics has changed around
us Justin you know the few short years
that this president has been in office
and the confidence that these people
frankly don't have in the basic
functioning of the House of
Representatives means that you know
she's taking some real risks in pushing
them away so aggressively hmm well yeah
I mean the the people coming up talking
to me know I think with me now Adam
greens interrupts yes so now Adam grant
greens address Adam stop sabotaging the
the the point is is that it's not even a
question of it being the age of Trump
and this notion of like the tweeting and
the you know it's it's shocking and
first of all you mentioned when Allah
you know Nancy Pelosi went off to Al on
Omar we were talking about this earlier
that's when they stepped on HR ones they
stepped on HR ones roll out in some way
right to crap on Allah know Mars right
it's completely a mess wait now I've got
another hold up wait Jesus we have
another interloper yeah we get another I
get yes
