Andrew ghulam is leading in the polls
against odd racist Ron de Santos there's
actually something in this clip here I
don't want to bring up this whole class
race debate I actually find a lot of it
really very useless and as I said I
think the synthesis that we need to have
is actually operationally pretty clear
and I would recommend that everybody
read and listen to interviews that I've
done with Bill Fletcher jr. who I will
be talking to you again soon
I think he is actually probably this he
has the best view of this sort of
overall in terms of integrating
perspectives but this is a good example
of how of course in a context like this
race where there are robo calls being
run that are you know overt racist
appeals where Ron de santis has a in
addition to obviously support of Donald
Trump has his own extensive background
with racist and xenophobic groups
Andrew Gilliam would make history as the
first black governor of Florida and
there's also a huge amount of civil
rights issues including of course voting
rights which hang in the balance in this
election and there's also just a
principle of politics here that go on
the offense make yourself look good and
your opponent look bad and in this
exchange in addition to the rightness
and the beauty of how well Gilliam own
DeSantis here think to yourself outside
are that core of Republican voters who
are white identity politics driven what
normal person including people who they
might not be is whoa cos you whatever
this is where I get annoyed with the
identity side they might they might not
be on board with everything they might
not use the right terms whatever but
they're not they are very you can appeal
to them on justice and rightness and
also just who's a more appealing human
being what normal person outside of that
white identity politics base is going to
watch this exchange
and not come away backing Andrew Gilliam
let's watch this from last night it was
incredibly impressive a live TV in
August on the first day of the general
election campaign you said of Andrew
gillum's run for governor quote the last
thing we need to do is to monkey this up
by embracing this socialist agenda Fox
News quickly disavowed your words saying
quote they do not condone the language
now you called some of this response
absurd you've made appearances at four
of David Horace's Freedom Center events
again four separate times for speeches
among some of mr. Horowitz's statements
quoting here this country's only serious
race war is against whites no I'll ask
the questions it's not a McCarthy game
and I'm giving it wait for the question
I said okay he also said if blacks are
oppressed in America why isn't there a
black exodus now in 2015 in your speech
before the Freedom Center you said of
mr. Horowitz David has done such a great
great work and I've been into my er er
I've been to these conferences in the
past and I've been a big admirer of an
organization that shoots straight tells
the American people the truth and
standing up for the right thing those
are his words here's Mike there's my
question he hadn't even made those
statements then yes he had sir the first
statement was made a my supposed to know
everything my statement somebody makes
yeah look at the way the way Gilliam
looks at him when he squeaks like that
yes and this by the way this is all this
is all Jordan Peterson dominance
hierarchy stuff and he's right about
some of this so look at the body
language look at who looks better on TV
look who's whiney and defensive look
who's calm collected and clear and made
those statements then yes he had sir the
first statement was made am I supposed
to know every single statement somebody
makes
here's the deal let me just say this let
me just say this right straight up you
know I've lived my life whether it's
athletics whether it's military whether
it's serving as a prosecutor you know
when I was down yeah
serving as a Florida prosecutor would be
a great indicator for the sensitivity to
racial justice issues I like that
going to the Kavanagh like I played
varsity sports with blacks Yeah right
actually if you read Christian piccoli
nice book we have on the show he talks
about one of the first and it one of the
first disconnects he had between being a
skinhead and as in high school was
playing football with black players and
he was able to put aside his literal
skinhead membership to win some games
Generac we work together as a team
regardless of race we had the American
flag on our arm we wore the same uniform
and we fought for the country when I was
a prosecutor I stood up for victims of
every race color and Creed that's the
only way to do it in our country it's
something I believe in and as governor I
will represent all the people everyone
will get a fair shake but I am NOT going
to bow down to the altar of political
correctness I'm going to not let the
media smear me like they like to do with
so many other people are certainly not
going to take anything from Andrew
Gilliam who's endorsed the dream
defenders which says Israel is an
apartheid state and which says the
prisons have no place in justice this is
for the cause
and I mr. DeSantis on point I wish you
would wait for the question because I
had a question it's not what you think
it is mr. Gill won't give you a chance
to respond let me first say my
grandmother used to say a hit dog will
holler through this room mr. DeSantis
has spoken hey first of all he's got
neo-nazis helping him out in the state
he has spoken at racist conferences he's
accepted a contribution and would not
return it from someone who referred to
the former President of the United
States as a Muslim in IgG ER when asked
to return that money he said no he's
using that money to now fund negative
ads now I'm not calling mr. DeSantis a
racist I'm simply saying the racists
believe he's a racist
that's mr. DeSantis boom if I would ask
the audience to please let mr. DeSantis
now respond the conference I attended
was keynoted by a Medal of Honor
recipient and of course it's perfect
because he goes actually to the most
pathetic form of identity politics there
there's one person playing identity
politics the way people use the term
pejoratively in that clip and that's him
the pejorative critique of identity
politics is that everything else is
suborning and purely to your identity
your positions don't matter your
arguments no matter your identity is the
only thing that matters and to the
extent that that's ever true that of
course is either an incomplete picture
or just wrong and the only person that's
doing that is him I was played sports I
was in the military I prosecuted there
was a vet there was a vet there Andrew
Gilliam is appealing to a broad set of
people who even if they aren't they
might like to think that they might want
to actually get to a place that's from
ethical and correct with regard to
opposing racism and that's gonna be part
it certainly anybody who's susceptible
to voting for a Democrat in that race is
going to have that perspective so he
framed it as you know you're the one
who's out of the mainstream normal
people don't run around with neo-nazis
normal people don't go to freakish
far-right divisive conferences it's
same way that the residents of
Charlottesville came out and they
confronted that little scumbag Jason
Kessler like don't come with your
terrorism your racism in your toxicity
and ruin our town that is how it needs
to be framed and that was perfectly done
and absolutely right and also it took it
out of the morality game which these
guys love to do okay I don't know what
is in run DeSantis is heart I don't know
what the particulars of his you know how
he self justifies his support for Donald
Trump his associations with disgusting
people his advocacy of bigoted
xenophobic policies I don't care the
racists think you're a racist boom
that's it and no person who has any
pretension of leadership to a position
like governor the state of Florida in
the country that we have to create not
the country that it is now and certainly
not the country that it's been
historically should that ever be
acceptable
Andrew Gilliam nailed that and that's
how you do it it's perfect we're gonna
take
