you're calling from a 6-1 to area code
who are you where you're calling from hi
Michael this is Brenda hi Brenda's good
to hear from you how you doing I'm doing
great
but I'm a little bit concerned oh okay
The Times recently had an article on the
Trump administration possibly changing
the definition of sex as to eliminate
trans people yeah and this would have
far-reaching consequences yep
and so I'm calling basically to request
that you get somebody or somebody
address this on what the consequences
would be how they would affect people
because I mean this is this is a time
when it's something that could seriously
affect me
the most immediate effect that I've read
about is it would affect the the
bathroom debates debates in among trans
in the military and and in schools and
that doesn't affect me but it could
affect me in other ways because I get
assistance and things like that you know
I I'm older I get medical care I don't
know how this would affect me if you and
I don't care if the person you talk to
is is transfer just that they're
informed but I would really really
appreciate some expert coming or just
even just you or say I'm talking about
it it definitely could find out what
this would be I really worried I yeah I
hear you I mean of course yeah I mean
we're um yeah I saw that today I was out
of the loop yesterday out of over the
weekend and I think you know and there
were there's a cut there's been a couple
of stories in the times where they've
leaked some truly grotesque horrifying
policies this policy yeah and also one
on
I think deporting or something with
legal immigrants that had accessed
government services I think it was from
recalling correctly yeah it hasn't
actually been
loyd yet so but no I mean we're that's
that's on the docket definitely to get a
guest and also to not only talk about
you know more in depth lis than I did
today I I didn't it out I basically just
wanted to read up on it more but that's
something that we're gonna yeah I mean
but that's something that's just going
to be part of regular coverage I think
part of it I do think and this is both
really disgusting and maybe I don't know
what the right word is but I some of
those stories I see like it it reads to
me who potentially less like policy and
more like midterm based turnout but
obviously I went turn put anything past
these people and we're all over it
well yeah and of course it should go
without saying that it won't stop with
the trans community right of course not
yeah yeah of course not absolutely
absolutely I mean the role that
conservative notions of gender roles
play in the conservative movement
there's been lots of material on that
and I'm sure we could get someone to do
it I mean it's all about enforcing these
rigid hierarchies and we've seen several
fascist movements that were extremely
conservative about gender because
they're interested in defining women by
their biology and then using them they
see us as you know reproductive labor
where baby machines for the Reich right
and when you stop seeing people as human
beings you stop respecting their gender
categories among other things so it's
it's really scary I went to a talk at
the socialism conference on the history
of capitalism and the gender binary that
I thought was super interesting but like
that doesn't cover everything here right
because there are certain formations of
capitalism that's perfectly fine with
having trans people be full citizens
so it's well this is a great example of
what I was talking about before where we
need in my view the something that is
not just multicultural verse white
supremacy capitalism but this is a great
example of serious lives it like human
life at stake that hinges on that choice
and why the false equivalencies and the
stupid flattening of you know too
profoundly not okay things but one is
yeah you know infinitely I don't think
not only is it more destructive than the
other it's gonna it is much more
committed to in building and locking out
what could arise to replace it that's
like um a chill and bimbe when he writes
about necro politics you know the when
when you when liberal humanism collapses
for all of its flaws and you start
getting to a post humanism to this like
death politics then you're you're
locking out structurally those
opportunities that we are going to need
to exploit if we are going to change
things but anyways being that as it may
Brenda I hear you and we are going to
cover it extensity I'm sorry worried
about it I appreciate some I'm sorry my
my heart goes out to you seriously and
if cisgender women think this doesn't
affect them they're wrong as a friend of
mine noted the same rubric that they
will use to define transgender people
out of existence is the same rubric they
will use to justify dominating women's
bodies but dot dominating biological
women's bodies I should say because
that's some handmade still
yes Brenda thank you are really worried
about gay men I can't take place my
finger on it yeah I gotta say actually
can I you know what you know what Brenda
would you like to hear something that's
a bit light that relates the way I just
said okay if humor would help I will
share this with you in preparation for
some of the stuff I had to do with the
Petersons conference I won't lie and say
I read all of it but I did actually deal
with some of maps of meaning which is
Petersons like you know late 90s
academic book and the the story I will
share that is very funny as he explains
why he went from Freud where he was
drawn to Jung instead of Freud and it
was because he was having dreams of
nuclear and I know I mispronounce that
word deal with it people he was having
dreams of nuclear annihilation and when
he went to Freud Freud said that all
these dreams were about sex and that was
ridiculous because it was about
Armageddon so he read young and Young's
theories were more satisfactory and then
he reveals what his dream was and his
dream was is he's sitting in a living
room next to his cousin which I think he
describes his something and I'm not
being precise Jordan please relax but a
cousin of his who was one of the most
beautiful girls he's ever seen in his
life maybe the most beautiful girl and
he's sitting with her and he's looking
at her and he's receiving her beauty and
then an atom bomb detonates and yet took
definitely nothing sexual about that
[Music]
Game of Thrones fan trick yes there's I
could see that that there's there's
definitely that element that there's
that element but I just thought I just
it was good I was good I liked the
element though of him like Freud just
didn't get it I'm just looking at my
totally hot cousin and then a bomb went
off it's about Armageddon exactly Brenda
thank you okay we're gonna cover that
aggressively we're with you thank
solidarity of course thank you
