as we're talking about Democrats this
was this come up and of course now
there's a lot of stuff coming up about
Tulsi Gabbard now that she has declared
they're gonna fall this mayor I'm gonna
smear her by playing this interview that
she gave on NDTV what is the NDTV Indian
Indian TV yeah and this is in 24 John I
don't give a about by the way India
now she's she's not gone full well
actually yeah now let me just say this
before there are people who are really
upset about us playing this video and
criticizing her position the first thing
you've got to think about is how many
times you have called or written into
the show or I am the show to complain
about what I have said about Sam
Harris's defense of torture because the
defense of torture the tulsi gabbard
offers here is identical to the one that
Sam Harris offered in 2004 identical in
fact it's almost the identical example
that she uses as to why it should be
justified also the popular television
program 24 also yes but here she is on
Indian TV in 2014
let me ask you in the end as a soldier
how do you respond to the much-discussed
report on the cia's use of torture and
what what some Americans have called a
blot on American values do you share
that opinion or as a soldier you have a
very different perspective on the use of
torture very bluntly I'm conflicted I'm
conflicted on this report there are I
think the jury is still out on the
report itself
there have been comments that there are
things missing or it was incomplete and
there there are differing opinions on
the report itself but I as I think about
it myself
positive incidentally there were really
no differing opinions on the report in
terms of did it go to
are in talking about rectal feeding or
did it go too far in terms of how much
people were waterboarded or forced to
stand on limbs or you know had dogs
sicked on them or or whatnot there was
there was the the the report to the
extent that there was criticism of the
report is that we weren't allowed to see
all of what happened
about it myself clearly we would not
like to see any human any person around
the world being treated inhumanely on
the other side I can also understand
that any of us if we're in a situation
where our family or our community our
state or our country is is in a place
where let's say in an hour a nuclear
bomb or an attack will go off unless
this information is found I believe that
if I were the president of the United
States that I would do everything in my
power to keep the American people safe I
posit for now here's the thing the
scenario she's talking about in the CIA
report they don't talk about that
scenario because there was never that
scenario so you can make up a scenario
that has never happened that cannot
happen because we can never know that
we're an hour away from a nuclear bomb
going off right unless the the the guy
from Spectre has broadcast it because he
likes to brag to James Bond but we can
never know that and that was certainly
not the issue in in our torture of
people at Iraq in Iraq and here's the
other thing is that the president could
torture somebody if you want to torture
somebody as president you can torture
them but that doesn't mean that it
should be legal it should mean that if
you think you're saving the world from
nuclear catastrophe you make the
decision I am going to subject myself to
prosecution after this
or hope that when everybody realized
I've just saved half the world from
nuclear annihilation that it was worth
it then I'll be fine then you make that
decision I'll go out on a limb and I
will say that if that was actually
proven to me totally would pardon yes
you probably I would I would publicly
advocate for that but if you make it
legal based upon a hypothetical scenario
which could exist at every time right
every single person you bring in what if
they know that the world's gonna get
blown up in an hour we won't know until
we torture them I have mixed minds about
this Specter is working on a lot of
programs as we know it's Adelie again
this is the exact same argument that I
had with Sam Harris's literally I think
it was entitled an apology for torch in
defense of torch or in defense of
towards an enemy torture program and if
you said it was Pro torture then you're
taking him out of concept right of
course naturally I was President of the
United States that I would do everything
in my power to keep the American people
safe so this is this is an area that I
have conflicting feelings although of
course there are questions about whether
torture actually leads to the correct
Intel right that debate carries on that
debate carries on there are those who
are in the position of conducting these
interrogations some who have said it
does well it does and others who have
said it doesn't yeah it doesn't carry on
gotta hear both sides I think you must
hear both sides it carries on yeah I
mean that is
she's the only Democratic candidate that
I'm aware of and it's not I mean look
obviously Clinton and Obama
we're totally insufficient in terms of
holding Bush accountable by and that's
probably why we even have this
conversation still but I think she's the
only Democrat that's talking about
running for president that doesn't just
have a priori legal and moral you I
opposed for Joe Joe Biden came out and
said this meltdown can you imagine total
no can you imagine that there would be
anybody who would defend I know to be
fair yes I could imagine a certain type
that would defend him but those would be
the same
types that you know some people that are
standing for her would say would be like
the pinnacle of you know sellout
corporate and they're right they are
and so you one should I mean I would say
that you know torture would be one that
we that should be a pretty basic if you
have any type of remote claim to you
main politics this is gonna have to be
one that you you did there's no gray
area what's funny to me about all the
Tulsa backers is how like they never
never missed an opportunity to dunk on
Obama because of foreign policy things
like especially drones but they never
mention it with regards to like that
Tulsi has basically the same drone
position as Obama does you never anomaly
I mean yeah they never mentioned that
she has the same drone position and then
that her only sort of real objection to
Obama was that he wasn't like heating up
the rhetoric in terms of much you
wouldn't say Muslim terror Islamic
terror said right we she had a problem
with that all right folks
