[Music]
Wow since we're in in Britain without
this yeah the reason for that
arguably right right you know you see a
British kid beating up a a Syrian
refugee and you wonder where does it
where do they get that where you know I
understand the idea of teen angst and
and difficulty and social problems and
the snap but how do they get the notion
that that's the outlet to go find a kid
who's gone through a god knows what kind
of hell who represents no threat to you
and just beat them up as a way of
getting your your frustration out where
do they get that idea
well here's here's a suggestion you know
I can only imagine what it's like to
live in a country with a total
bigoted a-hole as one of your top public
officials but here is Boris Johnson
before meeting up with the economy
Minister the Foreign Secretary has to do
a quick bit of filming for his official
Twitter feed hi folks
Boris Johnson foreign secretary I'm here
in Lisbon in Portugal to celebrate what
is the oldest Alliance and friendship in
diplomatic history going back to 1386
going forward through the Napoleonic
Wars through to the second world war
well of course this was a place that
with the neutral this old what are we
doing these rules positive rise like you
say I mean this I mean it's funny but
it's also one and a halt but all right
continue hi folks my Boris Johnson I'm
the foreign secretary I'm here in Lisbon
Portugal is our fourth biggest trading
partner training part of where we are
Portugal's fourth largest Portugal is
not our fault
Thank You Kiki hi folks Boris Johnson
I'm here in Lisbon James Bond himself
was said to have been born in Estoril
and today came the idea for James Bond
was born the idea for the icon here boy
boy I'll tell you something he is James
one incidentally was a book character
yeah that's what mi6 wants yeah exactly
it's brilliant it's a great friendship
it's a great partnership it's built on
shared values I'm gonna take it
all right good bike off the tyranny of
the Twitter feed is relentless enemy of
the massive is relentless how
did the BBC get this video it's you know
they were shooting it they were doing a
documentary about him and they probably
have the politicians in in Britain are
probably just not as handled and they
don't they're they don't set certain
terms I bet they will in the future well
that's true but I mean also in general I
mean actually when we look at like
really direct analogs to Trump I'm in
Berlusconi's an obvious one but Boris
Johnson's another guy that was treated
like a joke and was great at doing TV
hits and great at playing this like
right I'm a buffoonish aristocrat oh boy
what did I get myself into and he also
was given this like essentially like you
know tabloid pass and the British press
and helped build this brand where he you
know Mayor of London foreign secretary
advocate a very far-right policy
