I found your piece about the most
important question facing whoever wins
the Democratic primary to be really one
that's that's really on point of course
this assumes that the the Democrats are
able regardless of who the primary
winner is to beat Donald Trump and
presumably at least hold the house and
and this is and you know anything can
happen I think we learned that in 2016
we also learned it in 2018 frankly which
was a 100 year high turnout for midterm
election with the Democrats winning in a
record-breaking way in midterms
elections but of course the Senate is
just structurally problematic for the
Democrats to take and who knows with
with Donald Trump but you start with
that assumption which i think is a fair
assumption but then you say really we
have some major problems to deal with
and then you get into sort of two
different options of how to deal with
that but let's just walk through what
will still remain even if Donald Trump
is assured out of office even frankly if
they put handcuffs on them as it walks
out but regardless of his fate what of
the fate of our government and our
country right so I mean let's start with
like the most optimistic scenario for
Democrats
so like Republicans are destroyed in the
2020 election the Democratic president
Democratic house and let's even give
Democrats the Senate which give in
malapportionment given the fact that
Wyoming gets the same number of senators
as California is very very hard to do
but let's say Democrats even managed to
take the Senate you're still going to
have Mitch McConnell in there
filibustering everything he can and the
possibility that
Macross are going to have 60 seats in
the Senate is close to 0% you're still
going to have the Supreme Court
sabotaging you and alleged your virtual
en e major legislation that on that the
Congress passes you're still going to
have a Supreme Court that's going to
strip away arm voting rights so that
states can enact laws that make it even
harder for Democrats to win future
elections and then one other thing that
I didn't mention in my piece is that
you're going to have a Supreme Court
that's going to strip away the executive
branch's power so the president isn't
going to be able to use existing
statutes in order to govern now let's
just go I want to just go through a
couple of those that just and we should
also say the assumption here is that
either Clarence Thomas is still around
or even a worst-case scenario in many
respects Clarence Thomas resigns you
know sometime in the next I don't know
six months or you know 18 months and is
replaced with someone who is like
Clarence Thomas but 20 or 30 years
younger essentially and and so that's
gonna be plenty of like young Thomas's
that Trump could pick at this point and
when you say inhibit executive branch
power you're talking about the
likelihood that the Supreme Court as
it's made up now could overturn things
like the Chevron doctrine is that right
that's right yes Chevron is a wall is
like it's like a 30 year old Supreme
Court case which says more or less that
when agencies regulate when they use the
existing power that's been given to them
by existing federal laws on court should
be very deferential to those agencies
and should be reluctant to strike down
what the agencies do on the ground that
the agency has exceeded its power arm
and so you've already seen some signs
that this Supreme Court is it going to
you know isn't going to let Democrats
use those patent use those powers in a
robust way um you know one of Scalia
his last acts while he was alive was to
block President Obama's clean power plan
and there wasn't really a good legal
argument supporting that there were just
five Republican justices who didn't like
the clean power plan right ok so I just
wanted to get that clear so okay so
that's the reality that we are looking
at regardless of what happens with the
Senate and and then the question becomes
alright how do you address this and that
we should also say you know this is not
even addressing sort of like the
politics on the ground right I mean
presumably Donald Trump is gone but all
the people who voted for Donald Trump
are still around and so there's all
these other facts but you're talking
specifically about the structural
limitations that a Democratic president
and even a Democratic Senate and House
will have to actually not just you know
fix what what happened during the Trump
years but to stop what I guess a a
right-wing court system could do in the
future and so okay so what are the what
are the two options that we have right
so I mean the and these are broad like
philosophical options so one playbook
that Democrats could run off of and if
you've been watching you know speaker
Pelosi closely you know it's it's likely
that she is following something very
close to this playbook is there's a
really important book that came out
shortly after the 2016 election called
how democracies die by these two Harvard
professors and basically what they
warned of is a kind of death spiral
where what happens is an illiberal party
no a party that doesn't believe in
liberal democracy gets into power and so
it starts violating a lot of the
unwritten norms you know you know things
like when President Obama nominates
Merrick garland you can't just not give
him a hearing things like the Attorney
General's supposed to represent the
United States and not behave like the
president's personal lawyer you know
norms like those so an illiberal party
gets into power starts to fiying those
norms and eventually the opposition
party sees this and they go
holy crap like if if they're going to
behave this way they're going to try to
rig the system so we can't get into
power again so we need to escalate you
know we can't let ourselves be held back
by norms and then once that happens the
first party uses that an excuse to
continue escalating and then that's the
death spiral and it doesn't end until
you have authoritarian one-party rule
and so one playbook you can run is do
not escalate just you know cling to the
norms that you have and hope that
somehow the Republican Party fever
breaks at some point in the future and
then we can go back to being a normal
democracy and if you believe and you
know there are some people including Joe
Biden who have said that they believe
this that you know eventually the
Republican Party is good fever is going
to break then you know that's the
PlayBook that makes sense
okay don't believe that yeah go ahead
well I I just want to stay on this
before we get to the break and then when
we come back from the break we'll talk
about the sort of the the second option
but we should say that you know Pelosi
seems to be functioning in this way
Schumer seems to be functioning in this
way we we know that President Obama um
said with the the fever breaks Joe Biden
has more or less said the same thing but
literally Donald I'm a president Trump I
mean excuse me President Obama said this
I think it was in the run-up to the to
the 2012 election that the fever is
going to break once they lose and I get
reelected and then they're gonna return
back to some type of baseline and so
this all is predicated on the notion
that if we uphold the norms the
Republicans will - and by we I mean the
democratic party from their perspective
so that's option one let's take a break
here
when we come back you'll tell us option
two and then we will I have I may have
some some critique of option one but we
will we'll wait until we get here what
option two is on the other side I'm
talking to Ian Milhiser
we're talking about the most important
question facing whomever wins the
Democratic primary
I'm Sam cedar this is wearing a fire
radio
