so professor you and I have discussed
the the question of stock buybacks I
mean I think at first we talked about it
was several years ago and this comes out
of research you did about what what the
implications of stock buybacks have
meant to corporate America but before we
get to that just give us a little I mean
I don't think that most people frankly
know that thirty years ago and I guess
maybe it was closer to 40 years ago
stock buybacks were was it was criminal
to do that well it could be criminal
yeah so I'll just give you some
background on that and the readers I let
them know where this thing came from so
basically first of all I think what
everybody has to understand is that any
company if it's going to be produced
competitive products get high
productivity pay its workers well it has
to make profits and reinvest those
profits that's the foundation of
corporate finance and if it starts
paying out too much money out of a
company you're going to pay for it in
terms of the competitive position and
workers are going to pay for it and
actually taxpayers are going to pay for
it too if the companies say in order to
compete they need lower taxes which I
always do because we we support those
companies through government investment
in infrastructure or knowledge and all
kinds of subsidies okay so when
companies make profits you want them to
be able to keep their workers employed
to pay them the productivity those
workers help generate and to reinvest in
both keeping those products competitive
and the next round of competitive
products because what generates products
profits today doesn't necessarily get a
great profits in the future and in a
corporation that has that's publicly
listed traditionally what happens is
that when companies have done that and
have some money left over they pay
dividends to people who hold chairs and
people with chairs are really not active
in the company
there are people who just buy and sell
shares on the market their households
really just trying to save their money
and the dividends given them an income
that's the way things were coming into
the 1980s and at that time the debate in
business schools and boardrooms is often
are companies paying too much dividends
given that you need to reinvest in the
company but at that point you had a
change and it really was totally the
result of Ronald Reagan get it getting
elected on a deregulation platform you
had a change in the view of how
corporations should be governed which
later it didn't really happen right at
that point coming in the 80s but by the
mid eighties it was kind of errant and
that is the company should be run for
shareholders a maximizing shareholder
value so that's something that really
became the creative of corporate
governance is still is in the 80s and
Beyond and just to be clear just to be
clear this this notion of shareholder
value in judging the success I guess of
a company what what was it what was the
what was the measure of success prior to
that like how what how would consent
what was that well I think the measure
of success was generally not your stock
price I mean people might have looked at
the stock price but people looked at the
company keep employees a good place to
work that they pay higher wages that
they Darkrai helped drive up wages in
the economy did under affirmative action
for example in the late 80s and 90s were
more minorities and women employed in
those companies or there was a notion of
a company not necessarily as you know
social philanthropy but at least as an
entity that was central to the economy
where people went and worked hard and
the gains were shared in a way that we
could have a prosperous middle class and
that started to disappear in the 1980s
and shareholder value was really the
ideology and helped make it disappear
and helped to say no we don't
need to worry about the people we employ
we don't need to worry about the
government the fact the government isn't
funding infrastructure and knowledge and
giving this subsidies let's just give
what they called returns and to
shareholders now these words are
ideologically loaded because when you
say return something to someone is that
they gave you something well actually
shareholders don't generally give
companies money they buy a standing
shares and when a company goes public
for example the venture capitalists call
it an exit strategy
they've now can sell their shares and
cash in and but come this is the
ideology that came basically out of
economics not necessarily challenged by
liberal economists but particularly out
of Chicago economics at first and then
became dumb that the only people who
took risk in a company were the
shareholders and therefore they should
get all the the cash that was available
in the company and they had a right to
it and so what happened was that in 1982
the security Exchange Commission under a
Wall Street banker named John shad who
thought that the more money you had
going out into the financial markets the
more capital formation you have you is
actually a big fan of derivatives coming
from Wall Street we know where that
lettuce and he basically pushed through
a rule it was very obscure frankly until
I started writing about it several years
ago and called rule 10 B 18 which
basically says that companies can do
massive amounts of stock repurchases and
not have any fear of being charged with
manipulating the markets and that's
where the issue of legality and legality
comes in buybacks were never really
illegal but it always was possible
before November of 1982 and adoption
rule can be 18 that if you did too much
in the way of buybacks
the SEC might say hey you're
manipulating your stock price and what
I'm talking about is open market
purchases just telling your broker and
go buy stock on the market and that's
actually what it is it is a manipulation
of the market the the rule that came in
not only saying that you can do
large-scale stock repurchases the actual
amount that you're allowed to do under a
safe harbor is 25% on any single day of
your average daily trading volume over
the previous four weeks okay now what
that means if you take a company like
Apple within the safe harbor that 25% of
the average daily trading volume over
the previous four weeks they can do
about 1.4 billion a day Microsoft can do
about 750 million a day many companies
can do 250 million 100 million depends
on their trading volume and the price
their stock
okay so Bill let me just so so the long
and short of it is when these companies
do these stock buybacks it pushes up the
price of the stock there they are
incentivized to do this not just for the
shareholders who buy the stock in the
open market
but because mmm the c-suite the board of
directors they are all paid in in in in
stocks essentially either in options or
in specific stocks that's been issued to
them they do that because of the capital
gains tax structure that we have that
also was implemented in the 80s at least
in a in a in a more I guess extreme way
and so there's a misaligned incentives
by the leadership of the company now so
let me ask you this and we've got to
take a break in just a moment but before
we do so assuming that this ideology was
manifested itself the shareholder value
ideology manifested itself in the the
idea of capital gains taxes being
reduced but also in in the relaxing of
circumstances where you could do stock
buybacks and there's been some
Stachel reporting that the SEC doesn't
even uphold the the minor restrictions
on it what why is why our stock buybacks
necessarily any worse than let's say
paying dividends yeah so dividends first
of all you have to pay dividends to
everybody all the chairs and dividends
give you a yield for for holding stock
now that haven't been said we know that
stock holding is very highly
concentrated in the United States
according to research by Ann wolf
but eighty-four percent of the stocks
are held by about ten percent of
households but at least all those those
consoles are getting a dividend and
those dividends can be too high but what
has happened since the mid-1980s when
basically the SEC legalized is what I
call the looting LC business corporation
that states a buybacks have been on top
of dividends and buybacks the way you
make money from buybacks is by getting a
price boost and timing the buying and
selling of shares and in the case of
executives that is through exercising
their stock options and then selling the
shares getting their stock rewards and
and selling the shares and that's how
they make their gains but it by the way
is actually not related to capital gains
tax because the ordinary tax came down
of course in the 1980s and most of these
gains are taxed at the ordinary tax rate
almost all of them so it's mainly about
just their executive pay but if you take
the pay of top executives in large
companies sixty to eighty five percent
of it is stock base so this of the
majorities even either the gains from
stock awards or stock options and
they're incentivized to get the stock
price up and stock buybacks are a great
way of doing it you can also hurt his
espera share target yep I built we got
to take a break but we come back I want
to talk about that and I want to talk
about a potential solution that's been
introduced by Bernie Sanders and Chuck
Schumer together of all people
