okay so talk about run us through the
political prosecution of Lula and Sergio
Moro and the u.s. roll and and I guess
and I just and I always want to anchor I
will be always saying this now I know
I'm champion this is the most prominent
political prisoner in the world and it's
also a guy who
well you'll complicate this in a minute
because he did resist Western he did
resist Anglo capital in some ways but
was a conciliatory social get a Democrat
who made massive social strides for his
country I mean is my understanding is
you know I mean certainly one of the if
not the most important and successful
Brazilian politician while cutting deals
with capital and they ruthlessly set out
to destroy him his party but also the
aspirations that he represents in the
poor and in labor and in democracy in
Brazil that's basically you summed it up
pretty well they're trying to wipe all
memory of him and his party off the map
you know Boston our son just announced
he just introduced a bill today that
outlaw communism in Brazil and they're
gonna try and include the PT party's
communist in that the outlaw party which
is ridiculous because they were never
that there's some pretty radical people
inside the party there's internal
currents every one called socialism or
barbarianism just you know hard
socialist but essentially they're social
democratic party they were ideologically
aligned probably with someone like
Bernie Sanders yep anyway so Sergio Moro
has been working with the US government
since at least 2009 we know this from
leaked WikiLeaks cables and essentially
he decided along probably with the
Department of Justice people who are in
constant communication with him the
whole time as Kenneth Blanc who admitted
in a speech in the Atlantic Council last
year which he can watch online and who's
Kenneth black who is he whose can
sistent Attorney General of the United
States okay you know he gave a speech in
the Atlantic Council talking about the
constant informal communication between
the DOJ and and Sergio Mora
what is Sergio morals official position
in Brazil that allowed him to launch
this investigation to target and destroy
Lula and Pt he's a local
what we call a district judge okay and
so even his arrests of Lula's totally
illegal because it's not even in his
district
there was Lula committed no crimes in
his district his district is critic diba
and so originally they pressed charges
against Lula that he'd been involved in
Petrobras corruption and bribes
involving one Petrobras office in
Curitiba just so that more could justify
getting Lula into his jurisdiction but
he himself threw out his own charges of
that you know because this is the other
thing they never changed the law in
Brazil when the Inquisition ended and
the prosecutor can still a judge can
still rule on his own prosecution
judgments also work as prosecutors and
investigators and they can judge their
own prosecutions with no jury and so
that's what Mauro did Tallulah after
years of leaking all kinds of phony
information into the media what much of
which was reproduced unquestionably in
the Guardian in New York Times in the
Washington Post they gave a press
conference saying that Lula was the head
of a massive international money
laundering and criminal organization and
that he had 15 million dollars in cash
in a bet in his bank accounts of when
they finally seized his assets the total
amount of cash that Lula had in his bank
accounts was two hundred and thirty
thousand dollars which at the time was
half of what Obama was charging for one
speaking engagements right okay and
lulu's still living in the apartment
he's been living in since the 1980s in
basically the Trenton New Jersey of salt
Paulo some Bernardo this compost was
like a factory suburb toxic waste owned
you know so he's not someone who there's
no evidence that he ever made any money
whatsoever through any kind of
corruption they arrested him they they
convicted him of charges related to this
apartment this this penthouse apartment
on the beach who they leaked to the
media that its value was like something
like six hundred thousand US dollars
basically this apartment and that he'd
received all of these illegal reforms
including the building of an elevator
inside of it's because it's a two floor
apartment or three four apartment or
whatever and but they refused to let the
press visit the building they refused to
let the press visit that the part the
apartment there refused to allow Lula's
team to show any photos of the apartment
and it's an apartment that basically it
seems like Lula's wife was thinking of
buying an apartment in that building and
the construction company offered her a
slightly better apartment for the same
price because they thought it would be
positive publicity to sell more units
and this is after Lula left office you
know even if he had received the
apartment there's no quid pro quo
because he wasn't in any position of
power was a civilian at the time but
they never took the offer because
basically since 2005 when they tried to
stage a coup against Lula for corruption
in an insulin scan but which was also
fabricated by the media and Luis
political enemies basically he was
always very careful about this kind of
stuff right you know cuz he he knew he
was constantly being a you know followed
around in the text so no they refused
Department there's no evidence that that
he ever accepted it there's no evidence
that he owns it it's in the the deed to
the apartments in the name of the
construction company that built it okay
the he's never been they've never been
in there it's an empty apartment and
after Lula was arrested US
squatter's movements called the mt st
they they invaded the building with
video cameras and took photos and video
of the entire apartment and showed
Brazil it wasn't worth anywhere near six
hundred thousand dollars that there'd
been no reforms done on it whatsoever
there was no elevator in there and so
the only evidence that Sergio Mora had
to convict mula was one plea bargain
testimony by a corrupt businessman who
changed his testimony three times to
better fit what Moro was looking for in
exchange for 70 percent sentence
reduction and transfer to house arrest
and partial retention of his assets is
illicit assets and that's the old that's
the only evidence and so in order to
convict Lula Mora had to argue in court
that Lula was guilty because he believed
he was guilty
I have conviction that Lula's guilty hmm
and and then sentenced to nine years
noble sonars taking office Lula might
very well die in prison now over this
you know cuz they're not gonna let him
go unless unless they can get them out
before bowls narrow takes power and so
and then during the whole campaign the
Supreme Court obviously ignored
international law the UN determines if
and you know if this is it to be clear I
mean international law is I mean in my
view I mean international law is
obviously always subordinate to power
relations but unlike in the United
States where we pretty overtly say we
don't follow international protocols
Brazil actually has been party to these
two to two you know UN directives and
has actually sort of made a show of
saying that they'll take these things
seriously and incorporate it into law
the UN and responsible body said that
Lula absolutely had a right to run for
president and needed to be allowed to
run for president he was blocked from
running for president and then on top of
it blocked from having access to any
press even as the whole time as you said
in the beginning he led by double digits
in the polls and you know it just is
amazing that these people who you know
including plenty of people here in this
sort of Washington Post knew your time
circles who smeared Lula and didn't
study what happened in Brazil what was
happening in Brazil at all
Lula is sort of conciliatory moderate
but also I mean I guess but also
genuinely Social Democratic and Labour
based so maybe that's even too left for
them but he he would have governed as a
great National conciliate like he would
have been let's reconcile Brazil and get
out of economic stagnation and get
things going again I mean it's like it's
funny like Petey's slogan what I think
was like let Brazil be happy again
and this and this was not good enough
for the for you know the establishment
essentially and maybe this is where you
could we're gonna get some video in a
second but maybe just also explain that
as part of Lula is reconciling so many
impulses he he appeased maybe Brazilian
business while he brought tens of
millions out of poverty but he didn't
appease US interests and that's why even
though he was getting praised and feted
around the world maybe this is why there
was support for Sergio Moro and going
after Lula and also abroad a reversal of
the Latin American pink tide you know he
partially appeased us inflow interests
right that seemed good enough for a time
until they discovered massive offshore
oil deposits in Brazil and at that point
it's like no we have to have total
control over this country I think that's
I think that's what if they hadn't
discovered all of that oil maybe things
would have been very different today in
Brazil because you just look at the big
oil nations this offshore oil discovery
propelled Brazil like into the top five
or six oil-producing nations in the
world and you look at the other ones and
see how many have been invaded or had
their governments overthrown by the US
you know it's not a good position to be
in to have that much oil these days you
know but Lula Lula for example
there's a woman named Hinata molta who's
a professor at Free University of Berlin
who's Brazilian who wrote a book about
Lula's relationship with GMOs you know
and in you know he freed up GMOs which
was historically the PT was the biggest
enemy of GMO technology not because it's
unhealthy or something but because in
the way that GMOs are used to
restructure agriculture right favorite
agribusiness against family farmers
right right but then her what she says
basically Lula sacrificed every historic
objective of the PT Party and its
followers
except for eliminating hunger and
poverty reduction right ok so he just he
he in his mind he was like the only way
I'm gonna get this done is by basically
selling out all of our other ideals but
but he lifted 40 million people out of
poverty and ended practically ended
hunger right and you know hunger was a
really big issue in Brazil in the 1990s
there are whole regions of the the
country where the average person had
growth stunted
from malnutrition you know people were
starving to death so you know but so he
threw some bones to the Americans you
know he he made Monsanto and Dow these
companies happy when he freed up GMOs he
privatized a little bit of the offshore
oil reserves Dillman privatize a little
bit more you know trying to make this
keep his balance going we're like giving
that giving the u.s. enough given
International enough the international
capital enough that they wouldn't turn
on Brazil but I guess they you know at
some point it just got to the point
where the international capital is in
the US state and everything we're just
like no we want at all we don't want any
compromises from you guys we're taking
it all and that's what they did and
they've got it all now yeah we want
another round of pure primitive
accumulation we're in a few minutes
we're gonna get to what we might do in
terms of a broader solidarity project
with Brazil but I do want to play this
clip and this is gonna annoy some people
and some people are gonna have a tantrum
about it because this is somebody that
people are big fans of but I do want to
play this because I want to actually
give an opportunity for you know I would
love to see if jimmy dore used his
platform to interview somebody like you
and explain the crisis in Brazil US
influence the how what anything if it's
even possible to do to free Lula from
prison to protect LGBTQ and all the rest
of it but this is just another example
of how even people an independent
self-proclaimed left media fall so
easily into this delusional
anti-corruption narrative this is from
2017 this is a year after the coup
against Dilma and this is a clip that
you wanted to speak about of the Jimmy
Dore show just totally uncritically
playing this lava jato Sergio moral
propaganda and only of course a year
later he would be accepting a role in
the fascist regime of balsan ro so this
is about two minutes and then Brian will
go to you sensing the legal procedures
but the success of change in the mindset
is already happening we live in a window
of opportunity for changes and we are
committed to use any chance any
possibility to make things better in
Brazil and doing so is a matter that is
up to everybody
Wow that's kind of a I don't know that
kind of that's amazing yeah no that's
amazing I want to get a lava jato
t-shirt yeah me yeah I really want so
lava jato is that's carwash I guess in
Bruce whatever they speak Spanish but I
think they speaks Portuguese Portuguese
in Brazil so yeah lava jato so there we
met those guys by the way I got to meet
those guys I interviewed them I mean
that's incredible I mean I couldn't even
see anything like that happening in the
I mean usually in the United States
where a senator would go to jail please
let me just say I actually could see it
happening if Bernie Sanders is elected
president but I'll Brian your thoughts
yeah well first of all I just have to
say that they it sounds like they used
erection medication background music
right first coming at the time that that
video came out to give you an idea of
what a scumbag
Sergio Mora is he'd already invited the
media to accompany the police to arrest
Dilma's Finance Minister Guido Mantega
during one of his wife's chemotherapy
sessions in a hospital right he'd done
that before that video came out okay and
this is the type of sadism that the
Department of Justice uses when it goes
after white-collar criminals like it did
with some of the people connected to
Enron and when they shut down Arthur
Andersen and thirty thousand people lost
their jobs over something that turned
out to be a mistake they go after people
and they they scare them
they're sadistic and of course Guido
Mantega it turned out he had done
nothing wrong but he was on the news as
a criminal being pulled out of his
wife's chemotherapy session because of
Sergio Moro you know so I just don't I
know that Brazil is a very complicated
country to understand Tom so Vince
Brazil's not for beginners it took me
about 10 years living down here before I
actually started talking about or
writing much about Brazil except for
personal stories you know fictionalized
stuff because it's just it's a very
complicated country to get around then
then there's this massive propaganda
machine and they're all of these
entrants and people who work for
corporations and get corporate funding
to infiltrate the left and to spread
these kinds of leaked these kinds of
narratives into the left so I can
understand how someone who doesn't know
a lot about Brazil is would be confused
by the erection medication music
background music maybe and get it and
wanna buy the t-shirt but if you are on
the Left you have to be you have to have
some responsibility to just speak about
things that you know about and if you
don't know enough like you don't know
what language they speak in Brasilia
probably shouldn't be playing up this
Department of Justice Lackey with this
stupid video if you don't even know what
language they speak there yeah well that
was one of the first conversations that
you and I had Brian I said I'd like to
talk about Lula because I admire him I
want to have a grounding and what's
happening in Brazil now and Portuguese
or Spanish
