pyjama boy hey Sam so New Jersey just
passed the $15 minimum wage which is
great I have to admit I'm not the best
economist but I keep hearing people
saying oh this will put small businesses
out of business or this will bring
automation on quicker or your fast food
prices are going to skyrocket what's the
best way to combat this line of thinking
you just Google Seattle $15 minimum wage
and just the the proof is in the pudding
it hasn't it
none of the the the dire consequences
that we're supposedly going to happen in
Seattle happened now there could be
other factors that that implicate this
the overall economy broadly speaking but
there's a lot of reason to believe that
all these small businesses are gonna do
slightly better because their clientele
are gonna have more money and when you
give $15 when you give a raise to
someone who is making minimum wage I can
tell you with almost a hundred percent
assuredness what they're gonna do with
that race they're gonna spend it and
they're gonna spend it locally because
you're still not making enough to say
like oh I'm gonna put away 25 percent of
my income ten percent of my income and
put it into the stock market or I'm
going to you know buy that second house
and I'm gonna pour my money into you
know Western New Jersey or whatever it
is are hot take more of people at
minimum wage that says Gordon Gekko clip
you remember this what is this from a
while ago but they basically asked him
about Bernie I think it was maybe in
2006 who's this this is the guy that
Gordon Gekko was based on and asking
about Bernie's policies here we're
asking everybody essentially who you
think the best candidate for the economy
would be Bernie Sanders without a doubt
why is that what no questions well I
think it's quite simple again
if you look at something called velocity
of money you guys know what that is I
presume that means how much gets spent
and turns around when you have the top
1% getting money they spend 5 10% of
what they earn when you have the lower
end of the economy getting money they
spend a hundred or 110 percent of what
they are and as you've had a transfer of
wealth to the top at a transfer of
income to the top you have a shrinking
consumer base basically and you have a
shrinking velocity of money bernie is
the only person out there who I think is
talking at all about both fiscal
stimulation and banking rules that will
get the banks to begin to generate
lending again as opposed to speculation
Wow and then all of them pretended that
conversation never ever happened that's
what happened Jeremy Michael Douglas's
yeah honestly that is like after that
that that that moment is over they all
walked to the commissary they all take
out a knife they cut their hands right
thick this and they do a blood oath to
never talk about that again we're gonna
pretend that never happened
are you all in because we all got to do
this because if one of us breaks we're
all going down that's what happens after
nobody saw that right exactly I mean
that's you know they there's a lot of
different ways of talking about it that
was probably the most succinct and
concise version I've heard we had Nick
Hanauer on the program years ago who
said you know even a rich man eats one
loaf of bread at a time you know the
bottom line is you give money to people
on the low end of the income spectrum
and they will spend it it will generate
more economic activity than if you give
it to a billionaire because they don't
even know how to spend their money I
thought living in excess was the
American dream they go to high base okay
they're trying to go to Mars but the
thing is they're not they're just
talking about we will go to Mars one day
you know they want to
their money makes more money for them
that's what they use it for it makes
them feel good shut up maybe build like
a bunker for when the revolution comes
that's what I've been doing that is
actually with her they've already done
that but there's only so many bunkers
you can build you know it'd be real sad
if the majority reports to do if I don't
know
does the word Gawker mean anything I was
gonna say with you gross I will show you
that the the odds of this program ending
because of that type of thing as opposed
to just like me me passing away or
they're just like retiring no that can
also be arranged maybe there's a little
accident while you're checking your
stupid Twitter there we go
