[Music]
majority report on the phone it's a
pleasure to welcome to the program
professor of history at UNC Chapel Hill
W Fitz Brundage author of the Pulitzer
nominated book civilizing torture an
American tradition fits welcome to the
program glad to be here so this your
book is both a history of of torture as
practiced in in this country and I guess
even before it was in fact the country
and the mechanism in which we have told
ourselves that it hasn't happened in
many respects but let's start with the
with the earliest examples of of the use
of torture in colonial times I guess
what what stands out as one that is
archetype Oh for you well I think for me
what's our title is incident I talked
about an episode that happened actually
in in what we would now call French
Canada because it's an interesting
moment when we see a European settler in
this case a Jesuit priest involved in a
dialogue with a Huron Indian about the
appropriateness of torture and the
reason I think it's such a rich moment
in the history of the subject is because
the Jesuit priest was trying to
discourage the Huron Indians from
torturing an Iroquois Indian who they
had captured as was a practice in Indian
warfare and there was the North American
Indians had an elaborate kind of code if
you will a kind of etiquette about how
to apply torture and how
Don when it was done what was expected
to be the behavior of the victim of
their torture that's part of warfare
well the John's response to the Jesuits
as well you torture right and the Jesuit
says oh yes we do torture but we only
torture in these circumstances and you
can see in the brief dialogue that we
have it's not even a dialogue the
account that we have back and forth
between Indian trying to figure out okay
why is our torture bad but your torture
is okay and simultaneously the Jesuit
trying to work out in his mind an
argument for why Indian torture is
barbaric
whereas European torture is not barbaric
so the reason I bring this up is because
it's a moment when we see the Europeans
being confronted with a different
culture of torture and trying to figure
out how they can that is how Europeans
can persuade themselves let alone
Indians that they are in fact a superior
more civilized people and it's the
working out of that how it is that
Europeans or euro American settlers
invaders convince themselves that their
culture of torture is somehow not
antithetical to civilization that I
think is a very interesting moment in
the history of the evolution of ideas
about torture and and the and the Huron
and you right and or that indigenous
people here anyways they're torture was
a mechanism to essentially in some ways
sort of almost to reset a captive so
they could live amongst them sometimes
although sometimes it was torture to
death and and I guess here's the the
simplest way I would describe the
difference of course I'm talking about
the eye if you will the idealized notion
of torture in these societies right we
can be sure that there were instances
these events didn't follow the idealized
norms at all but in European society
torture ever since the ancient Romans
had been assumed as a means by which you
could extract the truth from a human
being you could use it to force them to
tell you what they would say what would
be the honest truth because the mind
could not prevent the body from telling
truth so in the European mind there is a
relationship between bodily pain and
truth where as for North American
Indians torture was a way in which one
society of Indians ones Indian nation
could convey its disdain for its enemy
and simultaneously the victim of the
torture was supposed to through his
extreme ability to absorb torture was
supposed to reflect back his disdain for
his torturers so there was a very
different purpose if you will to the
action of torture now you would say from
an outsider what's happening in both
instances is a human body is being
subjected to horrific forms of bodily
torture and so superficially torture is
happening to both bodies but for very
different purposes and Europeans often
found the Indian if you will dialogue
between the torturers causing pain and
the torturer victim trying to mock the
torment that he was suffering they found
that to be barbaric
whereas Indians found the idea of what
Europeans were doing is to be
incomprehensible and what was it I mean
I I don't want to jump too far ahead or
I want to be able to go through a couple
of these sort of the the developments in
terms of
the the the legal strategies and the I
guess the the rhetorical strategies in
which to sort of allow this
justification for torture but but what
was it that ultimately about that
European or was there more of a sense
with the the European introduction of
torture and what ultimately became sort
of the American Way of rationalizing it
was there more a sense that there needed
to be a rationalization as in terms of
like we need to we we need to be able to
justify this are you you know a unique
justification for our torture as opposed
to from indigenous people who saw this
as part of a you know a part of the
relationship that they had with their
enemies yes and I think you're spot on
that and it's it's the European
rationalization of torture was tied to
many different concerns one concern of
the Europeans was of course that they
were working out in their own minds to
their own satisfaction the
justifications for the kind of
expropriation invasion decimation of
American Indian societies so part of it
you could say is a rationalization but
it was also I mean there was a and I'm
not trying to to mitigate at all this by
saying that there was simultaneously an
effort so to speak to elevate this to
something more than just simply a crude
land grab which of course it was but the
rationalization of course was that they
were going to Christianize these peoples
if they could be Christianized and of
course they would also be civilized and
that was the the notion somehow that the
Europeans were going to be the bringers
if you will they were going to
disseminate civilization was a usually
powerful idea because it made the
colonization and the invasion something
more than just simply a military
act but tied to that the same time is
that not in the case of France Canada is
talking about before but for many of the
Protestant Europeans who are coming to
to what is now the United States they
also had this powerful association of
torture with the Catholic
counter-reformation with the Inquisition
all of the stories about the dark dark
violence of the Spanish Inquisition
throughout Western Europe and so their
association with torture as well was as
a kind of tyrannical despotic act so
there was the torture that they knew in
the old world that they associated with
the crushing out of true faith and as a
kind of backward reactionary form of
violence in their minds and then there
was the barbaric torture of Indians on
the frontier and so they were trying to
carve out if you will a space where
torture they were not going to be
engaged in the torture of the barbaric
Indians as they saw them nor were they
going to replicate the torture they
associated with for example the Spanish
Inquisition where does well let's let I
mean let's go into let's move a little
further on the timeline because I I'm
curious as to one of the things I that I
thing I find fascinating about the book
and just about the this sort of the
tracking of of how torture has been
rationalized over the past 250 years at
least in in in this country is it it
seems to be a subset of other
rationalizations right that and I wonder
you know as we talk about the sort of
the the the the the imperial project I
guess of early settlers and taking
indigenous peoples lands and then
slavery made all of this there's there
seems to be sort of a similar muscle
that's being worked in terms of of
justifying it in
establishing an other and and whatnot
and I wonder like we which comes first
the the sort of the sort of the I guess
the manifest destiny and therefore when
we do these things or is it sort of has
to be created in retrospect that's boy
that's that is the 64 million dollar
question and I wish I could tell you
that I had a really coaching answer for
that but instead what I'll do is the
what I honestly think but I have to work
this out with you in conversation and
that is that I think it's not so much
one came first as much as they that is a
kind of rational rationale for engaging
in for example torture or extreme forms
of violent coercion one hand in hand and
evolved conditional taneous with an
impulse to to take advantage of
circumstances and what I mean by that is
sometimes the action is driven by people
who honestly are not concerned with
these high questions of the morality of
X or Y or the justice of labeling
Indians barbaric or not so for example
in the case of the so-called Paxton boys
who were a group of central Pennsylvania
euro-americans who massacred Conestoga
Indians shortly before the American
Revolution I think that was I mean I
can't get into the minds of those men
but I think their their rationale was
fairly overt simple outright racism
against the Conestoga Indians and in a
desire to remove them from the colony as
retribution for other Indian actions
elsewhere what is important about the
response to them is then how people
who are not present at the massacre
weren't responsible for the massacre
it's been made sense of it so I guess
that's part of what I would emphasize
here that there are actions on the
ground that may be motivated by all of
the crass and or complicated motivations
that any human may have but then when
the larger society discusses the their
actions and put comes up with a
rationale for it I think the ways in
which that rationale are laid out is a
very important part of the story so
there's almost like Cohen centric
circles of and in the the the the need
for rationale maybe increases as you get
a little further away from the actual
action itself from actually perpetrating
the action because it becomes a
reflection on your society at large yeah
I think that I think that's very well
put and it especially becomes important
for those people who are in positions of
authority or positions of influence who
are trying to articulate whatever the
mission of this society is whether it's
in the case of someone like Benjamin
Franklin he's trying to elevate he was a
critic of Savage I mean or as I said use
that word a very stern critic of the
Paxton boys very eloquent in his case
he's somehow trying to speak to other
Americans by which I mean other colonial
euro-americans as well as back to
England and to Europe to reassure people
that yes we can create a civilization
here we are not going to be savages and
then as you get into the 1800s you have
I guess differing context is for which
torture and this type of you know
physical and mental punishment is is is
justified in the context of of prisons
it's perceived as rehabilitate and and I
think one of the important points about
that notion of
somehow physical can physical coercion
can be part of rehabilitation is that it
sets up a logic which is an incredibly
powerful logic which persists in the
imagination the American imagination to
the present day and that is sometimes we
need to physically coerce people to do
what's in their best interest even if
that means we have to do things that may
appear to some of us as equivalent to
torture and they were perceived to be
equivalent to torture in that era
whether it was 24/7 isolation which they
tried in at the turn of the 19th century
and they discovered very quickly it had
very severe mental health consequences
but nevertheless they rationalized that
well that was what was involved what was
necessary in order to produce
appropriate introspection on the part of
prisoners so that they came to recognize
their wrong ways and corrected their
behavior in other instances there was
the idea that well nothing will get
through the mind of a hardened criminal
other than physical violence and so you
have to use violence to compel a
prisoner to act the way society wants
him to act because he otherwise will act
that way so in either case you can come
up with a justification for physical
coercion and the interesting issue is
that those who advocated direct violence
to the body from flogging and through
something that was called the water
shower which is sort of like a 19th
century version of watering
waterboarding those folks justified that
by saying that only physical pain would
compel proper behavior others who came
up with forms of what we might call
mental torture that didn't involve
physical pain per se claimed that
physical pain was barbaric and that
their methods such as isolation 24/7
from any contact with people
more humane so in that case you can see
whichever tactic you chose you could
make the argument it was preferable how
did that contrast with the perspective
of physical and-and-and punishment and I
guess mental to a certain extent of of
slaves I mean it was there even that
level of rationale or was it just simply
its my property I can do what I want
well yes you're certainly right about
that per first off that's the the idea
that slaves are my property was a not
only was it a legal position a legal
penat but it was also a little kind of
practical widespread belief that slaves
were really beyond the conscience so to
speak of other humans we didn't have
that is we who were not enslaved had no
obligation per se to be concerned about
the plight of slaves and of course that
began that idea began to break down in
the in the late 18th century as a result
of the American Revolution and other
influences but it was still a very
powerful idea and a legal principle
through until the time of the Civil War
and so I think one of the really
enormous challenges were for opponents
of slavery abolitionists was to somehow
convince Americans that in fact it was
possible to torture a slave and it it
seems self-evident perhaps to us today
that that would be the case the enslaved
were human beings but if you start from
the premise that in fact the enslaved
are a baser form of humanity whether you
believe that on the basis of racist
racism or you believe that on the basis
of some idea that somehow Africans are a
more primitive form of human beings all
the rationales that white Americans came
up with you could then justify the idea
that was somehow
the enslaved don't feel pain the way we
do or the enslaved are so primitive that
we have to use these methods or they are
enslaved so they have no rights that we
are obligated to recognize which is
pretty close to what the Supreme Court
ruled in the Dred Scott decision in 1858
so for the challenge for especially
african-american abolitionists I think
was to establish at a very fundamental
level that they were human beings and
suffered pain and had a conscience that
could be tormented the same way white
Americans suffered pain and I mean and I
my sense is is that the following the
war in the story of Andersonville
because what's interesting about this
story to me is it seems that prior to
this time at least in terms of
broad-based
American psyche right that people who
are tortured are either not people as
you've talked about with the slaves or
are a special class of people who have
you know broken the law and are outside
of like sort of normal societal bounds
or something like this but in the
context of Andersonville it seems like
that that desire to I guess you know not
have to confront what lives within our
societies somehow really that muscle
started to really flex yes I think
you're you're you're right and that I
think one of the extraordinary acts of
poet erasure of historical erasure or
amnesia is about American Civil War
prison camps and we could argue
endlessly as many people have those who
are interested in this topic and there
haven't been that many actually we could
argue endless
about whether Confederate prisoner of
war camps were worse than Union prisoner
of war camps or whether union officers
or union administrators wanted to treat
Confederate prisoners cruelly or
vice-versa we can argue that all we want
but what we what we lose sight of or
have lost the sort of collective memory
of is that there was enormous suffering
during the American Civil War and
prisoner of war camps and both white
northerners and black northerners and I
should say white northerners black
northerners and white Southerners
believed that there was rampant
intentional cruelty in these camps and
if there wasn't into where there was
intentional cruelty on some occasions
but even apologist would acknowledge
that there was horrific conditions in
these camps and the curious thing is we
don't recognize that this was a moment
in time when the if you will the kind of
veil was pull back and a merit white
Americans in particular could have seen
that we that is we white Americans are
capable of doing extraordinarily or
allowing extraordinary hardship and
cruelty what do other whites and that's
that was a moment in time that Americans
could have in essence looked at
themselves in a mirror I mean there
there were other times when they could
have as well but they could not have
escaped that it was white Americans who
allowed this to happen or did this to
other white Americans the I mean what's
interesting too about Andersonville like
on one hand one would think like okay
well the reason why we don't hear
stories of how Confederate soldiers were
were essentially subjected to what a
what amounted was tantamount to torture
is because the Union Army won and they
get to write the history but but
Andersonville is is the AH is is is the
opposite where Union
soldiers were were were were treated to
what amounted to to torture and on one
hand I can understand like okay I can
see the you know the President Lincoln
or Union Army officials saying we're not
going to make a big deal of this because
we need to heal the country at this
point but it also is it is remarkable
there is a there is at the very least
even if that's the reason why it's being
done it this I I feel like on some level
we're haunted by this notion of turn the
page right because yeah literally you
know a hundred and fifty years later
that's what President Obama is saying
about our torture program in Iraq yes
yes and the people who are responsible
for turning the page are sometimes
exactly as you said the people you would
expect to be responsible I mean in I'm
again not to mitigate what turning the
page meant but one can understand that
after a civil war of the magnitude and
of the bloodshed of the American Civil
War and you're trying to figure out okay
how are we going to stitch this nation
together you have to make some decisions
on the fly of what you're going to talk
about what you're gonna focus attention
on and one can understand why some
people would decide that well in the
interest of national reconciliation
there's certain things we're just not
going to dwell on like for example the
treatment of Union prisoners by Southern
by Confederates but there are others who
participated and I won't get in the
weeds long here but just to say that for
example one wouldn't have you probably
didn't immediately think to yourself
that well professional historians played
a role in this em use about prison camps
but they did in the early 20th century
into the mid 20th century professional
historians played a large role in
discounting any evidence of the full
horror of the prison camps and offering
excuses for them and that was driven by
impulse
partially internal to the historical
profession but it was also driven by
that broader interest of white northern
historians and white southern historians
finding some sort of common ground where
they could agree on terms about the
Civil War and in the process they
decided if you will much like the
national leaders that well let's just
let's just not make a big issue out of
the civil war prison camps
