[Music]
now this is really really stunning and
there was a Monmouth poll that came out
maybe last week that showed Biden Warren
and Sanders sensibly effectively tied at
around nineteen twenty percent
I think Mon mouth itself backed off this
poll said it was an outlier and in by
all by all accounts it appears to be an
outlier i I still stand by my prediction
that within two months Joe Biden will be
third in the polls we'll see I'm getting
I'll be honest with you I'm getting a
little nervous about that one but I'm
getting more nervous about the idea that
this guy could enter into the general
election with a party that sees him as
weakened before even gets there that
there is no fired up Joe Biden
constituency and that he will be unable
to gain any momentum and this isn't just
about gas folks I mean what this is is
not a gaffe I don't even know what to
call it
was it was it a gaffe when he basically
borrowed Neil kennix story life story
and plagiarized it I don't know but I
don't even know how to characterize
those again in his response a little
gaffe okay here it is
here is he's speaking in New Hampshire
and this is a pretty dramatic talk
speech he's giving but here it is do we
have the whole thing on uncut wait don't
we have the clip uncut or is it no just
this oh it's just in this news pack all
right well let's let's just watch it
this is a news clip from NBC reporting
this it's a moving war story that Joe
Biden his told
for this guy climbed down a ravine
carried this guy up on his back under
fire that he was in Afghanistan as vice
president when he was asked to pin a
Silver Star on a heroic Navy captain I
said sir I don't want to damn thing do
not turn it on me sir please sir do not
do that he died he died but according to
the Washington Post almost every detail
of that story he told Friday appears to
be incorrect that he was conflating
elements from multiple actual events
including when he pinned a bronze star
on this army staff sergeant Chad workman
ultimately the Post reports Biden got
the time period the location the heroic
act the type of metal the military
branch and the rank of the recipient
wrong as well as his own role in the
ceremony Haj Agha but what was left I'm
a compulsive liar heard of losing my
faculties that a guy rejected the men a
meadow apparently right look into you
that's truth my word as a Biden
my word is despise Biden - yeah let's go
back a little bit because I sort of
think that when you say the the God's
truth and you are I mean I don't know
what the answer is here is he is he like
he's so can he's so confused he's
complaining these three different
stories or he's in he's decided to sort
of like you know take some fiction with
it or I don't know what at the time
period the location the heroic act the
type of metal the military branch and
the rank of the recipient wrong as well
as his own role in the ceremony the
God's truth my word as a Biden asked
tonight if he conflated multiple stories
Biden told a South Carolina newspaper no
I don't think so the central point is it
was absolutely accurate what I said he
refused the medal um and I guess he
addressed this more you know after the
fact he doesn't think that this is it's
important I mean here hear it well bill
assists here is his explanation in point
about a generation
that has nothing to do with the
judgement of what not you sent troops to
war the judgment of whether you bring
someone home the judgment of whether or
not you decided in a health care policy
judgment but details could you do
something I've heard from some voters
maybe not at your events but in detail
but the details are irrelevant in terms
of decision making if in fact I forget
that it was Rodriguez of all the times
I've been in and out of Afghanistan and
Iraq and Bosnia Kosovo as much as
anybody except maybe my deceased friend
John McCain and maybe Lindsey Graham all
right so there is details not irrelevant
when it comes to judgment making these
important decisions look here's the the
problem if you are someone who believes
like I am that Donald Trump must be
defeated to the extent that you know if
it's Joe Biden and Donald Trump I'm
gonna vote for Joe Biden of course I'm
even gonna think about it in fact I'm
probably gonna try not to think about it
but the problem is is that in a general
election stories that say he got the
time wrong the place wrong the rank
wrong the military service wrong his
role in the ceremony wrong he got it all
wrong stories that say that are going to
be a liability regardless of what your
perspective is and what it's gonna do is
it's going to it's it's going to depress
turnout the only thing this guy
remembers clearly is all the Republicans
he's friends with yeah well he
definitely wanted to push that and you
know there's a lot of evidence that that
whole notion him appealing to the John
McCain is just simply not gonna work it
didn't work last time
and there's no reason to believe that
someone's gonna take Joe Biden's word
for it as to whether Donald Trump is a
good guy or a bad guy
but this is his a combination of when
he's he's told the story in this way for
over three years apparently before start
to pin a silver medal on a young captain
I have been asked in a Forward Operating
Base in the middle of a godforsaken
nowhere in the upper corner Valley and
Afghanistan to pin a Silver Star on a
young coincidentally Navy captain and
what they call a fob a Forward Operating
Base I pinned medals on silver stars on
soldiers up in the upper cone our Valley
in the middle of a firestorm the poor
guys have gone through young Navy
captain Navy Navy up in the mountains in
the cone our valley Afghanistan who had
pulled a badly wounded gunner to safety
returning fire to repel the enemy and
then and then keeping his a buddy alive
until medevac arrived who had pulled
someone out of a burning Humvee risking
his life one of his buddies got shot
fell down a ravine about 60 feet high he
just got him down be now revealing
things back under fire he had gone down
a ravine to rescue one of his men who
had been shot brought him back under a
hail of gunfire was wounded but the
young man died I know it sounds a little
corny but I don't think there was a dry
eye in the house and the general we
don't need to let me look over the over
the years the stories involved it's just
sort of like I mean tell Bob's Burgers
story yeah I mean the problem is less
you know like I the the the problem is
just simply that there is just a
tremendous amount of risk when it comes
to Joe Biden and in many respects put
away all the other issues that people
had with Hillary Clinton put away all
the the arguments that people make about
about her strategy about
james comey about i mean all of it put
that aside for a moment one of the
things that made that put pressure on
Clinton to not make any other mistakes
or to not have any other things impact
her campaign was the fact that there was
a certain amount of baggage that she
came in with that was not a function of
anything other than a 30-year campaign
by Republicans to you know basically
have a cottage industry against her and
Joe Biden's gonna come in with a similar
set of baggage that I think is highly
problematic so I don't know it's a
little bit scary
I actually think and maybe this is we
won't dismiss this but I think there's
an I think false memory is a really
powerful thing that we don't really
understand and I think he's genuinely
like conflating all these things
together in his mind there's no doubt I
I think that's true I do think that's
true the problem is is that when you
have a candidate who is running on
pablum okay this is not a situation
where like you know Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren they're not getting up
there and telling homespun stories about
themselves and their candidacy is not a
function of that Joe Biden is not
running on policy right Joe Biden is
running on character Joe by then this is
the same I mean this is exactly the same
 we were saying about Hillary
Clinton that he wants to run on his CV
in this instance it's an even a narrower
CV insofar as it's about his character
and his morals and you can trust me and
the problem with that is is that you
become susceptible to stuff like this
Elizabeth Warren is not running on that
Bernie Sanders is not running on that
they're running on proposals they're
running on prescriptions for the country
of course they're running against Donald
Trump but when you rely on just sort of
this for the you know
this more ethereal stuff this character
stuff when you do stuff like this it
inhibits your sales pitch and it you
know and if there is anything if there
is any fight that Donald Trump can
compete in its on this territory he
cannot compete on questions of policy
Trump party said he's losing us fastball
yeah I mean that's basically it mm-hmm
and and that's what's so dangerous about
about if it's too grouchy old men losing
it
Trump is gonna be pretty annoyed at that
game it's not even a question of him
being data joy it's the idea of like and
this is what this was expressed to me
about what was going on in Wisconsin
when they saw what was happening there
it was just a race to see who could do
worse right well yeah and it's in the
sense that he will motivate his people
no matter what talking his nonsense Joe
Biden is not necessarily gonna do that
well I have to remember in 2018 the
Republicans also had I think a
record-breaking turnout it just so
happens that the Democrats had an even
greater record-breaking turnout
