we were talking in the first hour about
Donald Trump's erratic behavior that was
a function of well we have different
theories as to what it's a function of
but certainly it comes in the wake of
what is an increasingly large Democratic
wave in terms of taking the house and
contesting some state houses and your
theory is and I think there's the
clearly some some decent evidence around
this that Donald Trump's narcissism has
been wounded in some way and more
importantly that his not just his
self-esteem but he feels that he his
image of everything turning to gold may
be tarnished in some way with his
supporters now I have to say I'm a
little skeptical of that I think that
his concerns are perhaps maybe a little
bit more material I mean he was
definitely testy the day after the
election and that looks like you know I
think I think to me that was wounded
pride like I you know like I think he
still has the ability and frankly he may
think that his followers won't follow
him but I don't think that they they
care I mean let's just go back to the
notion of the caravan two weeks ago this
country was on wartime footing because
of a caravan of Honduran mothers and
fathers and children walking ostensibly
to the US border and we sent down 5,200
troops with another 7500 on the ready at
a cost of 200 million dollars and if you
watched Fox News we were about to go to
war and now nothing not a word about
this like you need to find news on the
caravan so I mean that was a failure of
the media and obviously a lie by the
president but my point being that if any
of these people were rational and we're
applying rational tests to Donald Trump
they'd all be going like hey wait a
second what happened I thought we were I
thought this was like our you know this
is your Churchillian moment and you know
we had nothing to fear but fear itself
and you know we were all going to you
know send a send our kids to the country
so that when the the caravan came they'd
be safe you know like whoa in no button
it's it's gone it's not it's not a news
item there's not this huge revolt of
people saying what happened it's just
like on to the next thing
well I think that sort of is is one
reason why I kind of think the fact that
he has to present himself as a big
winner is important to at least some of
his followers I mean some of them
they're just you know I mean hey you
know Richard Nixon had 30 percent or
something when you when he left so
there's always going to be some rather
large number of Americans who are going
to stick with Donald Trump I have no
doubt of that
but if you know so if it turns out that
all I think there are is at least some
small group of people who follow him who
he recognizes are enamored of him
because he's a winner
because no matter what happens he's able
to pull it out you know it's this high
wire rack you know Bill Clinton had a
little of this to always kind of walk in
the tightrope but somehow coming out you
know landing on the other side and
there's a certain number of people who
are kind of attracted to that you know
this ability to kind of always win
always kind of you know land on your
feet and I think that the Trump has a
sense of that so the fact that he's able
to you know that that we leap from one
thing to the next for us and for many of
his people that's just fine that's just
you they're just following the news
cycle and it doesn't matter what you
know what happened 24 hours ago we're
you know riveted to what's happening
right now
but I do think that there's something
maybe you know maybe it's among those
kind of you know the richer white guys
who really care about their portfolios
and all that that seeing him kind of you
know being in a
to pull it off may make them shake a
little bit now I don't know if any of
his followers will do that I think you
may be right maybe they won't but I
think he might think that I think you
know he's the one who's up that I'm a
winner I'm going to be winning so much
that you'll beg me to stop winning win
win win that's his mantra right I'm the
I'm the big winner and to have it sort
of openly exposed that he isn't that he
isn't omnipotent in this way I think me
I think maybe at the source of some of
what's bothering him but of course he
also has robert muller breathing down
his neck he's got Jerry Nadler breathing
down his neck he's got the Southern
District of New York breathing down his
neck with Michael Cohen in their pocket
David pecker in their pocket and that
didn't sound right sorry and and worse
than that Alan Weissenberg who is his
chief financial officer the Trump
Organization was we all three of those
guys were revealed in that Wall Street
Journal report which we had sort of
known before but it gave a lot more
detail had cooperated with the Southern
District of New York in in ravit in
revealing and I think they've got
documentary evidence and audio files and
everything else that showed that Donald
Trump basically committed felonies with
campaign finance write violations and
that's there that's out there and the
only reason he isn't indicted today
exactly that's that's what basically
every expert said was were not for the
fact that he was the president he would
be indicted but there is just you need
to climb a steeper Hill in that instance
well I also have I mean I think like all
of these things are acting upon him he
fired Jeff Sessions you know right after
the next day that was clearly in the
works but let's take a break when we
come back in just a moment I want to
talk more about about Matt Whittaker
this is the guy who is the chief of
staff of Jeff Sessions he and I'm quite
convinced that he was not a Jeff
Sessions pick I'm quite convinced that
this is a Mike Pence pick
in fact is my understanding that Mike
Pence has staffed much of the White
House and and there's talk right now of
Mike Pence's chief of staff becoming
Donald Trump's chief of staff and
because Matt Whittaker is one of those
guys who was caught on tape
saying I don't think judges should be
anything but Christian and he sounds
like a Mike Pence guy he was brought in
a movement conservative also a big
fundamentalist Christian who had
publicly advocated for different plays
in which ways in which to slow down the
Muller investigation and I think that
attracted Donald Trump there are reports
that he was going over there basically
two-timing the Department of Justice
telling Donald Trump what was going on
over there and Donald Trump appointed
him acting Attorney General in the wake
of Trump well not necessarily firing but
firing Jeff Sessions and we will talk
more about that in a minute
I'm Sam cedar this will bring a fire
radio ad igby will join me on the other
side and we will pick up on that on
what's happening at the DOJ
