is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any of Asia they are unanimous in hate
for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday September 18th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we're broadcasting live steps from the
industrious Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today it's a little bit later
very psyched of singer-songwriter
activist Billy Bragg on his new pamphlet
series or I should say in his
specifically his pamphlet three
dimensions of freedom also on the
program today Nancy Pelosi mad that
there's been any progress whatsoever on
impeachment as Corey Lewandowski
highlights Donald Trump's obstruction of
justice
it's meanwhile Trump to revoke
California's authority to set stricter
auto emissions even the car companies
don't want this which is why they're
getting that antitrust an investigation
at the moment meanwhile GM workers
continue to strike GM strikes backs and
stop paying for their health insurance I
thought it was impossible for private
health insurance to to go away there's a
food on your Cadillac plan
[Applause]
fed last night and bailed out the
overnight lending market not sure if
that's good I mean I should say I'm not
sure what it means but I know it's not
good you other white me now with less
inspectors this is Ed's Trump relaxes
pork inspections for meat safety mm-hmm
enjoy my University grossed out right
now yep
well the beef is next you University of
California divest its thirteen billion
dollar endowment and seventy billion
dollar pension of all fossil fuel
related stocks big deal Ernie and Biden
now tied in California warns and third
Garba Pompeo in Saudi Arabia presumably
with an empty duffel bag to talk about
our response to Iran I hope it throws us
backup the Director of National
Intelligence of the United States is now
illegally withholding a credible
whistleblower report about we don't know
New Mexico does the impossible unveils
plans to make its public colleges and
universities completely tuition free for
each and every and all state residents
who want it lastly Israel a deadlocked
after their election one can only hope
this brings Bibi Netanyahu one step
closer to jail all this might be it's
actually yes that was that is not
hyperbole if this guy if Bibi doesn't
pull something out here he may be facing
an onslaught of prosecutions the
so-called progressives
actually regressed that's my son showed
me this video on one hand Dave might be
the most dumb Jew that has ever walked
the earth on the other hand this was an
interesting point and by the way a great
point we will we will get to all that
stuff all right let's just jump right in
we have there's a couple of major
stories the to my mind one and the the
hearing with Corey Lewandowski
highlights a dynamic that's going on in
the Democratic caucus at this point a
big fight over impeachment and the other
day what we'll get to this in a moment
let's just first talk about we've got
Mike Pompeo is in Saudi Arabia now and
despite the fact that I suggested that
he was going with an empty duffel bag
looking for more cash so that for I
don't know for some investment that
Donald Trump has maybe for him to go
buried in the back of his a golf course
and queens or wherever it is that it
definitely looks like or I should say it
looks like Donald Trump realizes because
you remember he cares about nothing
which is in this instance gonna work to
probably the world's favor he is not
interested in getting into a war in Iran
apparently the Saudis ran out of money
when it came to Donald Trump and but who
knows maybe he's looking for for a
better offer by sending Pompeo there
however there was a Admiral Brett
Stevens went on to MSNBC yesterday Bret
Stevens you recall was the one who
pretended being called a bedbug was akin
to what what the Nazis did to the Jews
because despite the fact that he is
probably I
no the top one of the top 50 probably
paid colonists in the country I mean
certain probably top 20 that makes me so
mad he doesn't bother to look at the
sources that he cites in his articles
and builds an entire opinion piece
around the idea that a professor calling
him a bedbug somehow was akin to
fascists attacking the Jews in the
Warsaw Ghetto oh and incidentally he
also called that professor's boss to
complain about a tweet he sent an email
to the bus which he cc'd the professor
right right - yeah he also just wanted
to say he did lichen and granted this is
what he was at the Wall Street Journal
so anything does literally go there he
likened the Palestinians to mosquitoes
right I love the fact that what these
people can't just be actually Nicolas it
oversensitive it's actually like Oh put
it there's actually a direct analogy
here put a pin in that because part of
Billy brags you know it's a small book
it's like a pamphlet essentially talks
about that dynamic actually by the IDW
freedom of expression for for me not so
much for thee but here's Bret Stevens
basically desperately trying to revive
any type or enhance any War tensions
basically arguing that you know there's
we can definitely strike them in the
fashion that will just be fine I mean
I'm Raven sure what the point of this
supposed to be but good make pressure
and by the way we should not rule out
targeted military responses against Iran
if they are proportionate and if it's
clear that it's in it's an effort to
change to change or any Iranian behavior
it's happened before in the past in 1987
we sank the Iranian Navy without any
consequences for the for the United
States we could do it again we can
signal to the Iranians that we do I want
you to just contemplate for one moment
1984
what's difference between now and 1984
in 1984 we did not have thousands of
troops in the Shia controlled parts of
Iraq so and and this is amazing because
Admiral Stevens here would know this
because of all his War College training
that he probably had is that close
proximity of your military assets will
enhance the opportunity for your
opponent to strike you and so the idea
that this is analogous oh we did it in
in in the 80s because and we got away
with there was no response
well there's gonna be other responses we
have troops and shia-dominated Barack
did pull Reagan pulled all troops out of
Lebanon 83 which he should have but but
tragically I mean Hezbollah blew up an
army riots there so actually even in
this timeline were being a little
generous though bedbugs known for being
very hawkish right but all right so
buddy here we go back so even though
that we don't have evidence we shouldn't
take off the table we shouldn't take off
the table like a military we can just
take out the Navy it'll be whatever it
won't
let's not worry about escalation and in
exactly like exactly what is supposed to
change here what what what is the
dynamic that's supposed to change with
like we just show them that we're
willing to take out their Navy then what
but going for it's a change to change
Iranian Iranian behavior it's happened
before in the past in 1987 we sank the
Iranian Navy without any consequences
for the for the United States we could
do it again we can signal to the
Iranians that we do mean business but we
are we were tried to do so in a
proportionate way that ultimately leads
to a new and better negotiated outcome
okay
the idea being here that if we sink
their navy then we're gonna get a better
deal from them or something or they
guess we got a deal
dum-dum
oh and you know what I got my boss's
number two for you that we can put up on
the way I can send him my boss's number
it's mine it's my number but how can he
say that in such a calm voice it's crazy
you have to that's actually that's
literally exactly what you have to do
you have to say it to come because I'm
not crazy I'm just suggesting that we
perhaps dilly-dally around the edges of
a massive massive extended another war I
mean we're wrapping up our our existing
ones
you know things we got to get something
by the way the consequences Iran
recognizes that they better build a
weapons capacity with their nuclear
program right it's the only thing that
will assure their security I also really
like Sam pulling out the you want to
speak to the manager right exactly
I swear I could see you doing a stint at
Kinkos years ago just so you could say
that to an unhappy customer um I
actually like acting career I worked at
a Chinese restaurant where I was the day
manager only because I was the only
person who spoke English and no one
would sighs did you call that line out
every time I'm gonna go back and check
with the day manager oh the day manager
said you can get an extra chicken wing
today did you ever do a turnaround but
did you ever like like turn to walk and
then just immediately turn or like let
me go get the man when oh when when I
got the letter from those patent trolls
I was going to do a whole thing they
wanted to do a video conference call
with with me
about it because I guess they wanted to
like see me I died when they talked
about the patent troll and I do you
remember this I was talking about that
like I wanted to do like a whole thing
where it's like oh yeah hold on one
second I'm gonna go check with with our
account and financial division to see
about well you know how much we can
afford to pay you and I was just gonna
duck under the desk and put on one of
those accountant hats
folks in this golden age of television
and podcasts we all know the value of a
truly compelling narrative cue
hunter-killer it's the murder mystery
box that immerses you in an ongoing
experience with every delivery or
episode you dive deeper into what it's
like to be in the detective you're
sifting through piles documents you got
evidence you Case Files until you crack
the case in my instance we actually are
doing the bulletin board got to do it
instead of staring in the screen you can
build an investigation board with
friends or an online community helping
each other through every challenge plus
the proceeds of every box goes to the
cold-case foundation to help fund cold
case investigations I'm doing this with
my daughter
and it's really one of the few times
will she will actually even engage with
me whatsoever
it's exciting to wait for the box it's
exciting to wait for a package but it's
also it's great fun it's like a very
it's a it's a much more sophisticated
version of those like games used to play
you know trying to figure out whodunit
and she a part of it I mean she was
super super intellect law-and-order and
she was like binging online or things
and I was like well let's do this super
popular and I think it it's fun and it's
not on a computer but if you do want to
go online you can do it with other
people that way or you can just do it
with the friends um I don't know how you
would do it if they weren't if they were
remote but it's interesting and lots of
fun and right now for our listeners you
can go to Hunter Killer comm slash
majority for 20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry take advantage of this offer
that's hunt a killer dot-com slash
majority for 20% off your first box
Hunter Killer comm slash majority
alright let's go to these hearings that
took place yesterday there is a report
out today
we're gonna get to Billy Bragg at about
45 minutes he's he's gonna call in the
other day we reported that the well
we'll get to that
this is reported by a Politico in a
closed-door meeting last week Nancy
Pelosi stunned lawmakers and aides with
a swipe at the Democratic staff on the
House Judiciary Committee Pelosi
criticized the panel's handling of
impeachment in harsh terms complaining
the committee aides have advanced the
push for asking Donald Trump far beyond
where the house Democratic caucus stands
now I I think this isn't it I don't know
if this I think this is a disingenuous
but she just she does not this is not a
question of wait for all the Democrats
because we do have a majority of
Democrats now who are supportive of
impeachment that that happened after the
Mullen testimony I think the the latest
tallies I saw were close to 140 so the
well over fifty percent closer to sixty
percent maybe more and this is without
any effort by the Democrats to make a
cogent compelling case on how you
impeach Donald Trump and what took place
the other day was the Judiciary
Committee basically took a vote that was
about the procedure and how they were
going to handle this and this is really
important because the Lewandowski
hearing yesterday was basically a train
wreck as the members of the Judiciary
Committee questioned if they get five
minutes each it's completely disjointed
they don't seem to be on any type of
page I mean you know and everybody's
probably got their own ego so the idea
of like sitting everybody down and
saying like hey Betty you'll ask this
question bill you'll follow up by asking
that question I mean it's just these
they for whatever
they can't do that but in this the
resolution that they passed the other
day when they talked about procedures in
investigation and how they would handle
the investigation one of the things that
they voted as a rule of the committee is
to allow staff lawyers to question and I
think they're gonna get a little more
savvy about this when they start to pull
when these things start to become public
because they didn't allow the staff
lawyer to question until the end of all
the other questions by the Democratic
Congress people and I guess presumably
Republicans to the extent that there
were any there and this was the most
compelling testimony because you've got
a professional lawyer who is Miss
instance and defense attorney guys name
is Burke and this was a very effective I
mean there was a couple other points
where you know people made some broad
points but the the question here is that
is about obstruction and it's about
Corey lewandowski's receiving from
President Trump instructions to tell
jeff sessions to give a speech saying
that Donald Trump is completely innocent
of everything that that is a idea the
truth in other words that's a because
that he was going to retake control of
the Muller probe you'll remember Jeff
Sessions had recused himself because of
conflicts he was going to take control
the Muller probe he was gonna limit
Muller only to investigating meddling
for future elections gotta piss clean
slate clean so like
20:16 let's not go backwards let's go
forward go forwards forwards so in other
words he was going to pre investigate
anybody any type of problems that would
happen in the 2020 election well Corey
Lewandowski was not Corey Lewandowski at
this time was not an employee of the
White House Corey Lewandowski was a
former campaign manager looking to be
brought into the White House so the
president asked him to do this and much
of this is in the Muller investigation
but it is there without any conclusions
as to whether it was obstruction the
fact pattern is there the conclusions
are not because Robert Muller for
whatever reason thought that Congress
would be picking this this ball up and
that's what they're doing now and so the
nature of the questions are asked he's
asking Lewandowski our why didn't you
follow through if you thought that what
the president was asking you was
perfectly legal why didn't you follow
through because what they're trying to
establish is that Corey Lewandowski knew
that if he did this that he would get
wrapped up in obstruction of justice
and so here's Lewandowski basically
trying to sort of dodge and weave but it
gets he's uh it's almost impossible he's
going to try and say like I'm not gonna
tell you about any conversations I had
and so what the lawyer is now doing is
like going sort of sideways around it
you don't have to tell me about any
conversations you had but I see shadows
of those conversations now you can
comment on the shadows good questions
are not from me let me ask you this
prior to the Muller report being
published in redacted form
did you ever misrepresent what you did
on behalf of the President
I can't think of an instance where that
would have occurred posit okay so now so
the question is the president asked you
to do this and we're gonna find out that
Lewandowski actually you know
contemplated taking the message tried to
find other people to take the message
and so the lawyers asking like did you
ever misrepresent what you did prior to
your sit-down with
Muller people for the president I can't
think of an instance where that would
have occurred let me show you an
interview that you did on May 14th 2019
excuse me a Buddha showed you from
February 22nd 2019 let me show it to you
2019 thank you I don't ever remember the
president ever asking me to get involved
with Jeff Sessions or the Department of
Justice in any way shape so you did you
hear that sir that was you saying on
MSNBC you don't ever remember the
president ever asking you to get
involved with Jeff Sessions or the
Department of Justice in any way shape
or form that wasn't true was it sir I
heard that and that was not true was it
I have no obligation to be honest to the
media just because there's just as as
honest as anybody else now understand
what just took place here not only did
he say well yeah I lied on that TV show
because I'm not obligated to tell the
truth that's true but it also means that
he lied
20 seconds earlier where he says nah I
don't I die certainly did not
misrepresent what I did so he's just
lied in the committee and he's saying
that I lie on television but then the
question is we're going to move forward
to why did he lie like if it's no
problem like why why would you lie and
it's not like Corey Lewandowski is a
humble guy and I don't want to seem like
I'm important to the president
I have no obligation to be honest to the
media just because there's just as a
song as as anybody else see so you're
admitting sir you were not being
truthful in that clip correct my
interview with Arie Melbourne yes can be
interpreted any way you'd like
let me would you like me to play it
again you're welcome to please play one
more time I don't ever remember the
president ever asking me to get involved
with Jeff Sessions or the Department of
Justice in any way she so you and Sir it
is true in may twenty nineteen you
absolutely remembered when the president
asked you to deliver a message to the
Attorney General of a speech for him to
give related to the Special Counsel
investigation isn't that correct I'd
have to think about it
are you claiming sir that and you had
been interviewed by the special counsel
about those very events in which he
discussed and you said was accurately
reported at the report a year earlier
are you saying sir you may have
forgotten it
by the time you were interviewed just
before the report was publicly released
I'm saying my memory was clearly much
fresher when I actually gave the
interview with the special counsels
report sir is it your testimony before
this committee that when you said you
did not remember the president ever
asking you to get involved with Jeff
Sessions or the Department of Justice
you were saying you were being truthful
and so I don't believe there's any
reason to consult with your counsel the
question is are you a truth teller in
that interview I'm a truth teller every
time I stand before Congress or a
committee of jurisdiction and raised my
hand and swear to God under oath my
question sir is when you said the
president never asked you to get
involved with mr. session I have no
obligation to have a candid conversation
with the media whatsoever just like they
have no obligation to cover me honestly
and they do it in accurately all the
time you're admitting that on national
television you were lying there what I'm
saying is they have been inaccurate on
many occasions and perhaps I was
inaccurate at that time boom all right
now it's not it's not a big deal - it's
not a big deal to get Corey Lewandowski
to admit that he's a liar on television
I mean I would be more of a problem if
we were at CNN and we
hired him to go on television for us and
I wouldn't worry about it but it is a
problem because it begs the question why
were you lying what I mean if what you
what the president asked you to do and
then you refused to do but you didn't
actually refuse he just basically said
hey you know I didn't get to it yet why
would you do that
unless you knew that what the president
was asking you to do was elicit maybe
it's just messing with them here is here
is I love dumb slick guys yes and this
is the the the sec this is about when
Lewandowski basically said like there's
a bit of a hot potato
the president wants me to do this I
don't feel comfortable doing it or I
just don't have the time remember now
he's trying to get a job at the way he
doesn't have time to do this so maybe I
get somebody else to do it reference me
the page number so I can review it so
did the president ask you do you
remember testifying earlier that you
said the president said if mr. sessions
will not meet with you for you to
deliver that message you should tell him
he's fired correct again if there's a
reference to the report I'd like to
refresh my memory it's been a long day
how about you appreciate that how about
if I referred you to your testimony do
you recall testifying to that earlier
today again it's been a long day I
believe it to the best of my knowledge
that that's what I said but if there's a
reference to the malla report ask you to
point it to me so let me ask you sir if
it wasn't a priority for you to deliver
the message why did you enlist mr.
Dearborne to deliver the message for the
president again I can't speak to private
conversations that would have had with
mr. Dearborne at the advice of counsel
not asking private conversations you're
the fact that you did it is already
disclosed to the report I'm asking you
why did you do it why what's going on i
knew mr. dear boy did you do it can I
answer now please
okay I've known mr. Dearborne since his
tenure as the chief of staff to Senator
sessions he was my primary point of
contact for Jeff sessions during the
Trump campaign and I also knew that mr.
dear
Warren had continued like I did have a
long-standing relationship with Jeff and
if I wasn't going to be seeing Jeff I
figured Rick would be able to deliver
that message well sir did you try to see
mr. sessions again and did you call him
after the president told you to do it
and see if he would meet with you this
time
did you call to the please answer the
question not to the best of my
recollection and sir is the reason you
personally didn't call him someone who
you said you were friendly with was
because he knew what the president asked
you to do was wrong and you sir didn't
want to get in trouble that's why you
didn't do it you know mr. Burke I've
asked and answered that question I'm not
a lawyer but I didn't think that he was
asking me to do something that was
unlawful at the time and I don't think
that was the case now he goes on to talk
about not being a lawyer quite a bit in
the context of of trying to you know I'm
not a lawyer like you say lying to
Congress is this you say it's another
like I'm not a little victim for this
group defense yeah but his claiming that
he didn't think it was wrong then he
doesn't think it's wrong now I mean this
is where you get to see sort of the the
squishiness of the entire process of the
Muller investigation the fact patterns
are there the question is was it
obstruction of justice did people have
an awareness of what was going on was
wrong and Corey Lewandowski would have
you believe that despite the fact that
the president asked him to do it despite
the fact that Corey Lewandowski asked
somebody else to do it after realizing
after a month that he wasn't going to do
it that they would he had no reason not
to do it other than it just wasn't a big
deal and so I think what there's two
things are gonna come out of this and we
should say that Rick Dearborn and Rob
Porter that's the guy who I think had a
domestic abuse issue I was working in
the White House which I know is a
confusing thing to say because
apparently there was multiple people
with that
issue but the White House said that
Dearborn and Porter have absolute
constitutional immunity from testifying
which of course is also BS and at one
point the committee has got to start to
exercise some some actual punitive
actions when people don't show up
Lewandowski couldn't pull it off because
he didn't work for the president so the
idea of executive immunity is absurd but
the executive immunity is absurd in the
first place across the board so the
other big thing I hope that that comes
from this is that Nadler realizes I put
the lawyer first
I put the lawyer first so that the staff
for all the Congress people can find out
where the the Nugget is the lawyer
uncovers it makes it clear rattles the
witness and then the Congress people can
go and and kick the carcass as it were
hopefully this will happen hopefully
they can they can swallow some of their
ego and allow this to be done in the
most effective way because if this half
hour had been at the beginning I guess
maybe the only argument you could have
is maybe after all that time he he was a
little bit more he wasn't quite as sharp
but maybe you do it twice but I think
we're gonna be seeing more of this I
think we're gonna be literally doing
what we just did today more and more
often going forward that's my hope
anyways but Nancy Pelosi on seems to be
unhappy with that because from what it
appears it's not just a
no we don't want impeachment to fail we
don't know if it can pass it's just like
the idea that there would be
investigations into this stuff is
somehow problematic in terms of the
election and that's just absurd
it's just absurd it is still believing
that somehow I don't know there's some
contingency of of people out there who
are inclined to vote against Donald
Trump but if they are made more aware of
all of his wrongdoing they're gonna be
less inclined to vote against him no but
then Trump might be able to act like
he's being persecuted unfairly right
just something he never does don't give
me that opportunity I'd never do it
unless there was a reason we mentioned
this there's an ongoing strike GM I mean
there's not much else to say that you
48,000 workers the GM has decided to
stop paying their health benefits now of
course they don't pay people during a
strike the a UAW gives I think about 250
bucks a week to each workers from the
union strike fund you can donate to the
strike fund right
III I would assume so I would assume
there's got to be a way to I'm not put
away because now that strike fund is
also going to be cost they're gonna be
paying Cobra health insurance I mean
when you see this dynamic right and the
union's gonna have to pick up the tab
which can be anywhere from 1700 to
$2,000 on Cobra Cobra is a disaster
oh yeah I tried to use it once and I
just laughed when I saw how much it was
gonna cost me I had to I had a gap
between air America and Bob's Burgers
and the the Cobra you know looked like I
wasn't gonna get coverage for
I think it was you know possible for
baby coming and the Cobra was disaster
that mean two thousand dollars a month
it's just absurd it's just absurd
and this is America this is America and
you know the one thing you also realize
is in the backdrop of all of this is
that there's also a certain amount of
power that is given to labor if the
government is providing for its health
insurance and you know I will reference
it again go redirect and and and you
will see the level of sensitivity these
major corporations have to labor power
regardless I mean I mean ultimately it
may be about cost but it's it's it runs
parallel to cost they don't also they
don't they want the flexibility of
control and this is one of the
mechanisms of control you could see it
right here they're exercising their
control by stopping to pay for their
health insurance now this is not a
situation where these people have walked
off and quit the job fifty thousand
people have walked away from the job but
this is the way that they're going to
smoke them out
speaking of autos we mentioned this this
has been coming for a while it really is
stunning Andrew wheeler the head of the
EPA trying to reconcile the notion of a
Conservatives belief in states rights
and the US government saying that
California does not have the ability to
set its own emission standards wheeler
Andrew wheeler said we embrace
federalism in the role of states but
federalism does not mean that one state
can dictate standards for the nation
that dictation is obviously just a
function
of their market share which of course
the market folks right the market is
speaking but it's a problem for them so
that's just another and I'll just hit
this one before we go back to some more
clips so the USDA in addition to sort of
like being completely destroyed in terms
of the you know the scientists who were
working there and then taking them away
from Washington DC the Food Safety and
Inspection Service is currently
responsible for over Scylla and
overseeing what is known as the kill
line it makes sure that tainted meat
does not enter the food supply under
this new program by the Trump
administration they would basically
privatize the federal oversight of pork
facilities cutting the number of federal
inspectors by about 40 percent and
replacing them with plant employees
right so oh no we're doing a great job
no worries no worries and and they've
done this apparently they did this with
the the chicken kill lines the agency
announced it would let some chicken
slaughterhouses speed up their kill
lines from 140 birds per minute 275
birds per minute so this is a classic
case of we're going to increase the
profitability of these meat processors
and we're going to do it at the expense
of the health of the consumer because
undoubtedly as you increase this it's
like any other there's this dynamic
exists in everything as you take away
inspectors as you increase the speed in
which this stuff goes through and you
limit the amount of time that they're
inspected and you limit the amount of
time that people have
to do these jobs in a in a hygienic way
you're gonna have some person some kid
some elderly person probably die because
something has gotten through at one
point they'll fix it
battery kicking in competition kicks in
and let me kill my kid so what the other
one the family and society will pay they
will pick up the tab for the extra
profit that these companies can make
that's basically it that's the dynamic
that's the dynamic that we see across
the board this is why you see it in the
rollback of all sorts of environmental
protections it's either a because
corporations are going to profit or be
as in the case of what we're seeing in
California when the car companies
themselves don't even want to lower
their cafe standards because they
realize in a couple of years somebody's
gonna come in and say there's gonna be a
new president who's not gonna be a nut
job and he's gonna say you're gonna have
to raise these again and they just want
consistency and they know who that
they're they're consumers are already
saying like we want less emissions we
are worried about the planet and so
there are two instances when the Trump
administration and Republicans broadly
will do this one is because they want
corporations to make more money and the
other is is because they want to further
the principle that there should be no
inhibition on the making of profits by
corporations even if in that one
instance it's not about corporate
profits it's just about basically saying
this is the way it is and we are
disciplining you to understand that this
is the way it is we're gonna have no
precedence of you can protect consumers
or citizens at the cost of corporate
profits we're not going to have any
instances of that whatsoever and that's
what this in
what the car thing is about don't you
wish this were a Greek drama and one of
those tainted chickens is gonna find its
way into Trump's McNuggets that would be
awesome I mean you know as a drum act as
a story that's a that's an awesome Greek
drama awesome Greek drama
speaking of a-holes
here's Boris Johnson attempting to
salvage the disaster that is his I mean
I don't even know what what I can't
quite figure out what's going on in
Britain but uh
does he have you know he doesn't have a
prime ministership anymore does he know
he is Prime Minister he doesn't have a
majority in parliament so we're just in
stasis there is an election scheduled
and he sound like a lame duck I guess
but he's like an active lame duck and
here he is trying to shore up his image
by going and visiting sick kids and a
dad basically calls him out on it
here he is
destroyed and now you come here for a
press all to see why I shouldn't arrest
you
good I mean that is just fantastic and I
also enjoy watching the sort of the
hospital official concerned be like oh
this is going sideways the NHS have been
under assault for for quite a while in
Britain and it's therefore starting to
feel it I'm not cutting you keep cutting
and it's gonna start to make a
difference well this is what's what's
interesting here and it's great he's
being called out because the cuts began
and accelerated under Cameron and Clegg
and then under May and what Boris is
doing is see Boris has a political
adviser who's whose eccentric and smart
and basically there's a video of him
Dominique Cummings who led the brexit
campaign he said just like here in
Britain but there's actually video of
him saying this year to ago saying look
the center of this country is to the
left economically and to the right on
things like the death penalty and
constantly just like here they always
assert that the center is to the right
on economics and socially liberal which
it isn't and so in any way rate what
Boris is doing is he's superficially
pretending to jack up funding for things
like the NHS so it's not just that he's
going and getting backlash he's kind of
running a scam campaign on basically you
know he's bragging he's gonna have the
biggest investment in public services
since the Blair government of 2002 dad's
folks right that's not going so no so it
needs to be but it's also I mean it's
all the more reason that you do need a
left flank on him because they are a
clever
here's Roe Kohana
we were talking about this UAW strike
here is Rokon explaining why
medicare-for-all is how it empowers
workers and and and ultimately you know
look again like that wrecked interview
they destroyed their own business model
they weren't aware of it that they were
doing that but they destroyed their own
business model to disempower unions to
disempower labor and so much so that
their competitors did the opposite and
so ultimately while medicare-for-all
will enhance labor it's also bound to
enhance business in some fashion because
they're not going to have to deal with
this you're not gonna have to be running
a separate company that is with our
entire skill set that has nothing to do
with what you're doing I want to talk to
you about this auto worker strike in
Detroit in the context of health care in
the context of your candidate Bernie
Sanders because he says that under
Medicare for all companies that
negotiate health care with union workers
would have the pass on any savings to
those workers that they might receive
after all Americans shift over to the
Medicare for all coverage because these
workers would be shifting largely from
Cadillac private plans to Medicare for
all but I wonder looking at these Auto
Workers we know that discussions are
very tense today they don't have a whole
lot of faith that their employer is
going to do things their way or is going
to stand by them as they should do you
think that do you see how maybe they
personally might be skeptical that their
employer is not going to do this in any
way other than kicking and screaming I
do but here's the sad thing Brianna
these auto workers shouldn't be having
to fight for basic health care what they
should be fighting for is increased
wages and the reality is unions have had
to scrape just to get health care
coverage what senator Sanders is saying
is we're gonna make sure everyone has
health care coverage so unions can work
on getting better
and better working conditions and we're
going to force the employers to honor
the agreement with the unions and
compensate them for the extra health
care benefits that they may have
negotiated in the past I mean it's it's
a fairly easy dynamic to understand if
we had scarcity for let's say like milk
and cheese and eggs in this country and
it wasn't inaccessible to people for
whatever reason you'd see employers who
have the ability to secure that stuff
say like oh well so much for wages but
you're gonna get milk and cheese plan I
just want to reiterate that and there
are plenty of things that it does not
cover right I mean it's even once you
have that it's incredibly expensive like
I'm still getting bills and phone calls
from the NYU Langone Center from this
cancer scare that I had last year my
kids go through that too and it is I I
keep getting bills for like $13 that
then end up like metastasizing because
you got to pay each one it's just the
it's like a second business it's not the
while it's a racket here is uh Sarah
Nelson who is the flight attendants
Union chief we interviewed her at
Netroots nation this past year also you
can go back and hear an interview I did
with her and Ring of Fire
it was the flight attendants who
basically dropped the hammer during the
government shutdown and told Mitch
McConnell you better start up the better
you better start up the government again
because otherwise you're gonna find it
impossible to fly around the country and
she tweets out a note to anyone who
wants to use union members as a wedge to
oppose Medicare for all because remember
this like unions they negotiate for
health care or they provide health care
through the unions different depends on
which sector you're in or what industry
and there's some talk of you
trying to to tell union members like
you're gonna lose your your Cadillac
plan but she makes the point UAW has one
of the best plans in the country but
management can still use it to hold
workers hostage medicare-for-all puts
power back in our hands so she as a
labor leader understands the genuine
dynamic that's going on yeah it's it's
not rocket science like one more
analogous example when you give people
who can't afford food money to spend on
food there's been studies about this
they buy more school supplies for their
kids just things of that nature frees
you up to work on other stuff know
what's going on with that I'm trying to
pick up calls but I don't think we're
gonna be able to to do that before we
get to the Billy Bragg in Israel Bibi
Netanyahu I you look it's pretty
complicated
the electoral situation in Israel but
basically parliamentary system two of
the major parties one of which is Bibi
Netanyahu is essentially tied I don't
know how else to articulate that you
know a 22-4 ganses party 31 for
Netanyahu was Laocoon last I saw and
that means that other smaller parties
are put into sort of a leveraged
position because they have the ability
to join those parties offic door
Lieberman who is I don't know maybe he's
been surpassed by other figures in
Israel but that efficiency votes I mean
he I mean I'm talking terms about being
for cystic he's secular fascistic yes
that's what it is I mean there's a big
division there and so
he his party one how many was it that he
got nine seats
Shas got nine seats which is the
ultra-orthodox party and they are and
basically Netanyahu was in a bind
because he has to go either way on that
and they won't work with each other
right and then the third I think it's
Yamina which is like the fascistic
settler party they got seven which is a
big underperformance for them so
Lieberman won't work with the
ultra-orthodox and they both need to be
there if they're gonna win on the other
side of that Lieberman may not work with
the party that is represented largely by
Arab civil rights activists so there's a
bit of a stalemate right now that's the
joint list and that's probably a pot I
just want to say that's a positive light
they got 13 they're actually the third
highest vote getter it goes 32 31 to 39
you got labor and then the DEM Union
thing which is F Jeffrey Epstein
collaborator a hoot Brock's centrist
effort I believe and then actually
there's this at 8 is huge 8 utj which I
don't even know what that one is they
the Israelis really every Israeli
election is like a confirmation of all
the most hacky Jewish argue like jokes
about Jewish arguments like this very
small country lots of activity ok no
they're ultra-orthodox as well but the
at the end of the day United Torah
Judaism at the end of the day a sales
party they may end up doing another
election but unlikely nobody wants to do
that and there may and and Bibi
Netanyahu of course has a real
reluctance to not be in power because
there is an ongoing investigation of him
and apparently all right let's pick up
this call he might be gone and me and
just want to say really briefly in
addition to that maybe even though the
policy sets are not there at all yet
maybe if he's finally
remove the bigger conversation about
ending the Israeli Apartheid system can
actually happen will say about that but
a joint list it would be through the
joint list think we have someone on the
line call from an 8 100 area code who's
this guy's it's uh it's mark monkey
calling from the informer industrial
Nexus of the country Flint Michigan just
calling about some strike news I know
you guys have a any of you coming up
with Billy bag brag so I'll try to make
it quick please
all right yeah let us know yeah tell us
what's going on there ok so some of the
news from some of my friends that are on
the strike right now we our local news
has been reporting a lot of
misinformation including that they're
not getting paid $250 a week but they're
getting $250 a day we've had to do a lot
of damage control you know everyone in
Flint obviously to help our our you know
union workers do we support there's been
reports released about strikers being in
the middle of the streets blocking
traffic that of course is not true
damage control there all this again
reported by our local news and of course
the fact that they cut the insurance off
from all the workers while they're on
strike is definitely a beautiful thing
that they're doing right now
and and do you have a sense of like your
friends on the picket line I mean what
how what's just the the general attitude
I mean do people feel like they've got
to be there for or they the anticipating
this is going to be a long strike and
how do people feel about that if that if
they are I haven't really heard anything
about how long they believe the strike
is going on
I know tempers are high right now
especially with the local media working
in that way but the fact that they are
tying the the temporary workers
to the negotiations might might offer it
being a little bit more difficult to
negotiate because the GN you know
General Motors loves having these
temporary workers that they can have for
a couple years to pay them at $14 an
hour which is way less than what a
full-time employee gets paid work them
to death and then fire them right well I
guess we'll see if you get more
information please call back in
appreciate it
of course and if you want to follow me
on Twitch mark monkey dot PT or twitch
TV slash ma RC and UNK why I will be
trying to report more tonight around
probably 5:30 Eastern Standard Time
all right great guys there you go thanks
I appreciate mark all right folks
we're going to take a break and when we
come back we're going to be talking to
Billy Bragg I guess we'll do a freebie
freebie Wednesday today
just a reminder to your support that
that allows us to do this program you
can become a member I joined the
majority report comm you get the extra
content every day you get a commercial
free but we will continue on yes I'll do
the post roll after the the interview
right yeah you should do it offer the
whole show
yeah okay all right so we'll be back in
just a minute with Billy Bragg
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a real
pleasure to welcome singer-songwriter an
activist
Billy Bragg to the program Billy welcome
to the program hi Sam has things things
are great I got to tell you there's a
huge honor for me I first saw you over
maybe close to 35 years ago you
performed at my college and it is I was
it was a back in the 80s and uh you were
a big important force in my my musical
development and my political
consciousness so I really appreciate
this opportunity to talk to you thanks
for sharing that Sam I appreciate - so
you've written a a pamphlet entitled the
three dimensions of freedom this is part
of a series is that right it is yes the
my publishers Faber they're called fiber
social they part of fiber and fiber and
I specialize in books about music or
books written by musicians they
published my skiffle book in 2017 the
roots radicals and rockers and last year
they said they're going to start this
this program of putting out these they
kind of like polemical essays - about
17,000 words it's about a 90 minute read
and they were asking me if I had
anything I'd like to write about and the
three dimensions of freedom focuses on
the necessary - that equality and
accountability must be present in order
to have for us really to be free that
Liberty alone free speech alone is not
enough - to guarantee everybody's
freedom and it's something I've been
thinking about for a long time I've
written songs about it I've spoken about
it at events and this gave me an
opportunity to draw all of my thoughts
together particularly in the light of
the election Donald Trump and the brexit
in the UK yeah and I should say I mean
the you managed in that this brief essay
to move from mount powerin to gamergate
- Joe Rogan gets a mention all the way
to practice
yeah this you know I mean I'm trying to
work on a number of levels you know the
basic premise that freedom demands both
Liberty the right to express your
opinion equality your responsibility to
respect other people's opinions and then
accountability that's that they have
absolute key one I'm trying to bring
that to bear not just on the the
politics of the day how we deal with the
rise of authoritarianism in democratic
societies but I'm also trying to give
people some parameters with which to
monitor their social media discourse to
be able to to try and work out if the
person they're dealing with online is
acting in good faith whether they are
willing to give equal space to your
opinion that you're expressing and more
importantly whether they're are willing
to be accountable for what they've said
and what their actions are and I think
this is a lack of accountability the
lack of respect for quality online
undermine so much of our the
deliberation that goes on online and
that's why I'm trying to I'm trying to
offer some parameters for that as well
as talking about the major politics that
are going on in the world yeah and I I
thought you did a great job of that
frankly and that's you know a beat that
we spend a lot of time on but let me
let's just start I want to just start to
just talk a little bit about the the
concept of Liberty because I mean I I
couldn't help but be reminded in the in
this you know just sort of I guess in
may I imagine this was was you did this
consciously the three dimensions of
freedom sort of in some respects echoing
FDR's Four Freedoms speech yeah he was
you know read him but not not redefining
but I guess more specifically defining
what this concept means and essentially
taking it away from the right and
allowing people to get a better
perspective on it and and like you say
the accountability runs the need for
accountability run
through all three of these sectors but
let's just talk a little bit more about
this notion about about economic liberty
like so-called economic Liberty because
that is ostensibly what the the right
would have us believe this is about but
in fact their their notion of economic
Liberty really clouds the actual notion
of Liberty itself I think it does
because their idea of liberties or at
least the right to exploit it and I mean
that's a obviously that's a key aspect
of capitalism but when you get to a
situation where that is not regulated in
any way that's when it becomes dangerous
capitalism ultimately I believe is like
fire you know if you tend it if you if
you keep folk you know keep looking on
it it will give you heat and it will
give you light if you leave it
unattended it will destroy everything in
its path and I'm afraid for the last 40
years since Reagan and Thatcher we've
lived in a time where capitalism
neoliberal capitalism has been
deregulated constantly and politicians
have argued that the market has the
answer to all of our problems now when a
politician says that they are shirking
the accountability that goes along with
democracy you know people think that
democracy and accountability are
synonymous but I'm afraid they're not
always synonymous their relationship is
more like a Venn diagram and there's
some times when when this consensus in a
society that that Venn diagram is
overlaps you know most of it overlaps
but at the moment under Donald Trump
from with bricks it in my country I'm
afraid up accountability and democracy
of going in different directions you
know you live in a country where the
person who gets the most votes in the
election doesn't win I'll in a country
where a tiny majority vote for a huge
constitutional change and we're not
allowed to question it or challenge it
so these are these are difficult times
for those of us who who believe that you
know democracy is absolutely crucial but
unfortunately it's it's become
untethered from its its ability to hold
those in power to account whether
they're politicians or more difficult
whether within buried deep within
corporate
well what do you think about the notion
and maybe this is just on my mind we we
interviewed Bosch Carson car yesterday
who's the editor of the Jacobin and on
his socialist manifesto and what do you
think I mean to extend that metaphor
about fire what do you think about the
notion that I mean the the argument that
I think that he was making on this
program was that the you can control the
fire and you can make sure that it's
being used for its proper purposes and
and if you don't obviously it'll consume
everything but his argument I think
would be that the existence of that much
flame is inherently problematic and will
always get out of control and you know
you'll have periods of time where you
can control it but at other times you
won't and you get what we've had over
the past 40 years and and Counting and
that from his perspective the idea is
that maybe we need to snuff out much of
that fire you know maybe some members
are okay but you got to keep away
everything that is dry from it um you
know people have been talking about that
for a long time and I've been involved
in movements that have been focused on
that but before we snap it out we're
going to make sure we're not snuff any
hour into darkness we need to see what
the light will be once we've snuffed out
the fire and and until we've got we're
able to show people what the light will
be when we snuff out the fire of
capitalism they're going to be
understandably rather sort of doubtful
about the validity of that so we have a
little bit of a way to go I'd like to
think of it more in the sense that the
accountability is over the other way
around maybe socialism is another name
for accountability and if what I mean by
that is what the UIW are currently doing
you know they're organizing they're
going on strike for Greater agency in
the workplace to have some say over
there their wages and their conditions
in the workplace you know when when
ordinary working people have organized
it's always been for a greater
accountability in the workplace and in
my country the the Labour Party grew out
of the union movement so I think that's
it's really accountability that we bring
to bear on capitalist
that then actually ensures that it works
for the benefit the people and stops
that exploitative edge that the
Socialists we're always trying to combat
I've never been a revolutionary I've
always been someone who's who's try to
you know reconcile the contradictions
within the within this the system and
within human nature and what I'm trying
to do with this book is identify
accountability and equality but
specifically accountability as the key
component that we need for individual
agency because I think both the election
of Donald Trump and brexit are
manifestations of the of ordinary
working people feeling and no longer
have agency over their lives and and and
I have to say too that that end I mean I
really appreciated the this part too
when you talk about equality and you're
specifically in in some respects talking
about the freedom in in addressing the
the rights sort of ongoing project of
essentially saying that if you criticize
us you are stifling our our free speech
while at the same time you know you know
in attacking what they call political
correctness at one point you talk about
Eric Weinstein who is the guy who coined
the phrase IDW is someone I've actually
spoken to briefly at least and in you
right in his refusal to recognize the
reciprocal nature of freedom that you
must respect and others the rights that
you claim for yourself Weinstein revile
reveals that the intellectual dark web
to be a party to the strain of irate
exceptionalism that runs through the new
generation of free speech warriors what
do you mean by that the strain of a rate
exceptionalism well they believe that
they should be able to say whatever they
want to say whenever they want to say it
to whomever they want to say with no
comeback and that's not that's not free
speech that they're they're trying to
get their there that's free reign that
they want you know and when people do
come back home they complain terribly in
they they say something outrageous and
then they say oh I'm not allowed to say
this you've already said it mate this is
ridiculous
stop clutching your pearls you you're
already there and they do have the right
to say that I respect Erik's right to
say whatever he wants to say but equally
I he has to respect my account to my
right to hold him to account for what he
says because free speech without
equality is nothing more than privilege
if you don't respect the right of others
to criticize what you've got what you're
saying and then and this is important
respect their view when you go back to
them and when you speak to them you know
in the in the in the book I take a quote
by Eric where he talks about how open to
debate they are and then immediately
says except people who believe this
we're not going to talk to them at all
because they don't you know they don't
work on the same level as we do you Kai
that's not how free speech works you
know he's trying to to narrow that down
and and that's what concerns me about
the new generation of free speech
warriors it's not free speech they want
its free reign that they want and I'm
afraid that's not how freedom works and
I mean it's I I guess I appreciate your
addressing this because I think this is
something that particularly young people
and who who come online I think you know
specifically when you talk about folks
like Jordan Peterson and this crew and
Joe Rogan we were talking about young
men largely and older boys and they
there is very there are very few voices
out there who are making the point you
are making to those people who come and
and and you know you sit down there you
watch these guys are all sitting there
they're all nodding their heads to each
other and you presume well they must be
right because they're all in agreement
and it's important to have this I guess
intervention well meaning that we're all
capable of doing that Sam even on the
left like a little bit doing that to get
out of our bubble well I'm trying to
give young people is whether left or
right are our parameters in which to be
able to have a discourse that that you
learn something from those
official that doesn't descend to you
know a unit 100% universal agreement or
anger or bullying abuse you know that
you have the right to offend but you
don't have the right to abuse and I'm
afraid the modern concept of free speech
doesn't really take the the idea that
they are parameters on board let's take
for example some actually quote this in
the book it's something that George
Orwell said and it is that if Liberty
means anything at all it means the right
to tell people what they don't want to
hear now the problem with that is that
by saying that or at least saying
actually it's okay to say 2+2 equals 5
which is the examples it gives in 1984
about how the system is so bad you know
because if everybody is allowed to say
anything they want to say you know if
you've only got a liberty and equality
but anyone can say wherever they like
then you still aren't able to focus in
on the fundamental truth over any
particular matter that's why you need to
counter Billy that's why accountability
is the is the line we have to draw in
the sand whatever our politics and say
this is where we're going to make our
stand we're going to hold you to account
if you are lying to us we're going to
hold you to account for your lies and
we've got to keep focused on on that
idea of accountability whether we're
talking to the president United States
the European Commission or some toe rag
who's having a go at you on Twitter I
mean this that lack of accountability
feels to me to be the sort of the in and
and and I and I think you expressed this
in in in your essay in the in the years
running up to to Donald Trump I mean and
and you know these are obviously
problems that have that that well
pre-existed Donald Trump but in the in
the years running up there was a greater
awareness it seems to me I mean I have
hosted many people over the past 10
years prior to Trump talking about to
tears of justice talking about the
failure to hold
the banks accountable for what happened
in 2008 the idea that you know I mean
just Jeffrey Epstein I mean just that
you can find examples across you know
frankly Donald Trump Steve minuchin half
the people in the administration they
are they exist because there has been a
failure of for society in in a myriad of
ways to hold people accountable there's
been two or multiple systems of of
Justice that have not been applied
equally I mean this is what I'm trying
to get with the book you know this is
this is the thing that over a long
period of me looking at the situation I
have identified as the hole in the donut
if you will the lack of accountability
because the big the great struggle it
seems to me in in in a in a modern
democratic society and and this is what
underpins what you Americans referred to
as the culture wars and that is the
struggle that that answers the question
of one who gets to write the rules and
to this most important of all who gets
to break them and get away of it and
that that clash right there underpins
the whole narrative of political
correctness when Donald Trump identified
in the Democratic nomination process and
one of the debates the greatest problem
that America faced is political
correctness
I mean political correctness you know it
doesn't even exist it's no such thing as
political correctness it is a trope that
is used by reactionaries to police the
limits of social change to stop things
happening that they don't feel
comfortable with this no you know
there's no set of intellectuals writing
theses on the the ideology of political
correctness there's no people marching
in the streets demanding more of it
there's no party trying to get elected
on a platform of political correctness
it is a complete shimmery doesn't exist
whatsoever and yet Trump is able to say
it's the greatest challenge that America
faces today I mean this is how
ridiculous we've gotten in the discourse
and of course the the the idea that he's
doing that and it was in a
in answer to a question where he's asked
about his behavior towards women so he
was literally using that trope to avoid
accountability and that's where the
problem lies I think wherever you hear
that that phrase being used political
correctness virtue signaling any of
these probes you have to ask what the
person using them is trying to deflect
you a white phone right I mean this is
simply a reaction to the idea that a
certain person or a certain group is
essentially saying like hey wait a
second I'm drawing boundaries here and
these are boundaries that the people who
are complaining about political
correctness have never had to observe in
the past yeah I mean look older like all
the the dynamic campaigns have arisen
over the past five years me too
black lives matter the what we coin
England extinction rebellion the the
protests against the climate change I
mean these are all accountability
movements these are all movements that
are seeking to hold people to account
for their sexism for their misogyny for
their racism for their disrespect for
the environment accountability is the is
the the cutting edge these days of of
our politics and unfortunately the way
that your politics is set up with such a
polarized Congress and Senate it's
impossible for for those accountability
to to work because there's that
rejection of any kind of being you know
being held to account within the within
the system itself that's where the
problem is well it to the extent that I
mean there is some addressing of that
accountability you see movements like
like you say a black lives matter or me
two movements or you know at one point
like the Occupy movement I think was
with a similar moment of accountability
what are there is it what else what else
can we create as vehicles for
accountability beyond that or is that
simply just we need to reinvent those
same
movements you know continually well we
you know it works on a lot of different
levels Sam it's not it's not a
one-size-fits-all simple answer and I'm
not offering answers in my book I'm
offering parameters with which to judge
the person that you're encountering the
politics to your can in the 20th century
we had ideology to do this whatever your
ideology was left or right you could use
that ideology to look at a debate and
work out whether you're in favor of it
or against it because you could get your
bearings if you like on the debate we've
kind of lost that with the decline of
ideology and what I'm trying to offer
with the book is a little reasonable and
create a space where the two sides can
talk to each other where we can overcome
polarization with deliberation with
respect for one another because I think
that's the one of the things that really
is lacking in the debate any respect
that the person who is argument with you
might be coming from a position which is
justified but just happens to be
different to yours so what I'm looking
at in the book is a recognition of
accountability and equality as being
these these two key principles that we
bring to our personal discourse with one
another but also to the way that that we
see the world and so that we recognize
that that the debate we're going to have
is going to happen within this space
because you know you there's a lot of
talk with free speech worries about the
idea of safe spaces now safe space is
set up to ensure that there is a debate
not to close down the debate but to
ensure that there is a debate it's just
that if you come into that safe space
you have to respect the person you're
arguing with you have to listen to them
you have to let them speak and you have
to accept if they're holding you to
account for something that you're saying
is outrageous and unfortunately your
average free speech warrior doesn't want
that they want to go in there and they
want to offend as many people as
possible so the limits of I would argue
abusive behavior and then they you know
they want a reaction they get one and
then they you know they make themselves
into the victim and it's all
most always I hate to say this it's
almost always white men who do this
because they're desperate for a bit of
victimhood because they you know they
realize that they're privileged position
in society as left them at the moment in
a situation where they happen to respond
rightly so to black lives matter to me -
to the you know the driving gas guzzlers
with the climate school strikers so this
is a you know the the respect that you
need to come into a safe space is I
prefer that much more - Weinstein's idea
of debate in which he's not going to
talk to the people who doesn't agree
with I mean how does that help bring
anything for what else helped Eric widen
the scope of his ideas even never mind
me arguing with him but in his innocence
it's no good for him if he only talks to
people he agrees with if if in fact he
is interested in widening those ideas
which I think that if you've got I mean
you know I'm I meant I've written a book
because I want a platform to talk about
these things with people like yourself
and I'll be happy to go and despite this
with Eric I'd be happy to go and talk
about this on Joe Rogan because I'd be
you know that's a terrible thing to say
Sam but I might learn something right
they might they might have a perspective
on free speech that I haven't picked up
because of where I'm coming from and
they may say something that allows me
then to go away and sharpen my idea
that's how you that's it that's what
this course is about mate right that's
how you learn stuff you don't learn it
by sticking your fingers in you in
saying lalalalala when someone is trying
to give you a different perspective of
your position nowadays this you know
these guys want the licence to say
whatever they like they're not
interested in the Liberty that allows us
that that fabulous
you know riot that people have struggled
through the years just to express your
opinion and then to put it into the
marketplace of opinions they're not
interested in the marketplace of
opinions like the neoliberal if they are
they they want to dominate the
marketplace and they don't want any
competition for for capitalists they're
very very bad example to say yes well
indeed although I guess like you write
in the book those guys at Bob pal
would have been proud
so ability are there argue they're gonna
be more pamphlets to find this and
people obviously the this this is out
there now and also I should just tell
people just as a as a public service
that you're gonna be your your to on
tour right now I know you're in in
Virginia and soon you're gonna be up
here in New York next weekend
Berea and then up in Cambridge Mass I
I'm doing some I'm actually people who
interest I am doing some book related
events I'll be at the Brooklyn Public
Library in in New York City talking
about the book next week and I'll also
be in in the Cambridge Public Library if
you get in touch with them the Cambridge
event is on the 1st of October and the
Free Library of Philadelphia on the 23rd
so that's next Monday and then I mean in
New York City at the book in public
arrival and the 25th of October talking
about this and that's again as I say the
25th year the 25th of September at the
at the Brooklyn Public Library Amy
Goodman from Democracy Now is going to
be talk to me about about the book and
it's interesting because in the Q&A
afterwards I pick up because obviously I
you know I'm sure you're you know that
it's a different perspective on free
speech in the US as there is in in
Europe right we have slightly different
perspectives on hate speech and other
and other issues so it's always
interesting to come as a European and
talk to this about talk to Americans
about this to get that get that other
perspective that allows me then to to
see if I can then articulate what I'm
trying to say in a way that makes sense
with the American definition of free
speech different noise well I will be
there I'm gonna be there if that's
Wednesday night at the Brooklyn library
I will be there and I'm looking forward
to it Billy thank you so much it's real
I can't tell you a real honor and a
pleasure for me to have this opportunity
to talk to you
well thank you I really appreciate you
give me the opportunity to speak to your
listeners and your viewers I hope it
made sense to them I'm
I I would hope so all right I appreciate
it thanks again well the best time
bye-bye bye-bye
[Music]
that was fun it is weird to have a
conversation with the guy that you saw
and admired for the first time 35 years
ago yeah and there to talk about
Eric Weinstein and then dead be like
yeah spend that much time talking about
Eric Wiseman
yeah I had one of his tapes it's that I
would listen to in my car in my teenage
years just over and over again when I
was getting somewhat political don't
agree with him about capitalism
obviously but it's still cool to hear
from him there you go
that was out that's all he wanted that
opportunity for for you to hear his
words and he should get on Rogen yeah I
I'm I I would be surprised if Rogan
didn't have I don't I don't know but
that's exciting I'm gonna go see him at
Wednesday night they're definitely gonna
go do that
all right folks well I guess I'm just
gonna continue on with the show it's
it's whenever we break format it gets
it's disorienting for me all right let
me call into the the phone system
what is this clip of Java I mean again
am I gonna get annoyed by this
well it's him it's him saying that he's
gonna free up 720 million women for the
workforce with some program
it's Wow let's his Joe Biden he's a bold
goal that's this is pretty good try to
do the math here wait a second yeah
that's a lot of women all right well
here's Joe Biden very happy number III
can tell you that like the it is we're
not seeing it completely reflected in
the polls apparently you know in the
latest
NBC poll which is a highly it's
considered a high quality poll Biden
went up Warren went up Bernie basically
would stay the same dropped a little bit
this is the national poll California on
the other hand you have Biden and Bernie
tied which is a reflects you know both
by dropping and Bernie popping up I mean
we'll see what happens in Iowa and
seeing some polls out of there it's a
little bit tricky to tell who knows you
may get like a Pete Buddha judge you
know surprise in in in Iowa that doesn't
seem impossible from looking at some of
these polls at this moment I mean I just
don't get it at all
I mean I think you know there is it is
very easy for us sitting around with
each other to forget that there are
people out there who you know have
vastly different perspectives on things
as us I mean this is chapter one in my
book blame the electorate that that I'm
formulating but I mean we'll see I think
the the you know I think the the
likelihood that we're gonna see some
type of brokered convention increases
you know every day because there does
not seem to be a any movement you know a
breakaway now of course it's very early
what happens in Iowa and New Hampshire
and South Carolina are gonna make a big
difference but if California is much
earlier than it has been the past and
the implications of of Bernie winning
let's say California are or really any
of the top three candidates winning
California is huge really huge this this
time around because it happens early
enough that it's gonna
act the other states but I can tell you
this that you know I have conversations
with people who are journalists and it's
sort of like you know senator and
sometimes politicians occasionally and
you know just not not interviews just
not even necessarily you know on
background and just you know
generalities just get to take people's
temperatures and to a person I have yet
to find even when they are ideologically
comfortable with the Joe Biden I have
yet to find a person who has confidence
that this guy can win now this is a real
problem because there are clearly a
cohort of people out there who are
convinced you can win we can see it
reflected in the polls that's where a
lot of his support is from it's not even
it's not even that they like his
proposals or lack of proposals or
whatnot it's just they they have bought
into the idea that he can win and this
is a very scary situation because and
someone like I used this analogy yes it
is leaking oil someone had said that to
me and the the thing that's dangerous
about leaking oil as opposed to let's
say he's got a blown head gasket is that
you got a blown head gasket you can't
even make it onto the highway
you could run on ephod a Wyeth well no
the point being that you blow a head
gasket you pull over on the side and
you're done the car you got to just call
for a tow truck it's done but if you
have a you're leaking oil you're driving
down the highway and you don't realize
it you can get a certain distance and
then all of a sudden the engine seizes
up the guessing game yes and that's what
scared a big Jesse game here is here is
Joe Biden leaking some oil you get a tax
break for a racehorse why in god's name
couldn't we provide a $8,000 tax credit
for everybody who has childcare cost it
would put they would put seven hundred
and twenty million back million women
back in the workforce it would increase
the GDP to sound like a walk here by
about eight tenths of one percent it
would grow the economy yeah
walks also are aware that it's very
difficult to put seven hundred and
twenty million back into women back into
the workforce when we have a population
of less than three hundred and fifty
million is my understanding in the
country is this somewhere about 350 and
that makes it very very difficult to put
seven hundred the twenty million back
into the workforce as a walk yeah this
reminds me of another Wang as you work
another one classic here as a book is
three million executive branch employees
versus Trump okay Trump's role is that
right that's that right okay there's
three billion million three million
executive I think they're three million
executive branch should play that that
may include the military but they're
yeah
three three tech here it's bad but
that's a lot of people oh my god I'm
totally against this government's gotta
get way too big wait a second there's
like five billion people in America
three billion people working the
government but obviously he's just miss
peaking there aside from the fact that
like you know the the the the tax credit
I mean I guess it's it's one way to do
it the other way to do it might be to
actually just provide universal pre-k
and pre pre K do commodifies well I mean
right D commodify it's also it just does
show though that even taking everything
else aside that Joe Biden not just by
instinct but by his whole career is a
walking embodiment of all of the bad
turns of the of the well not even the
modern democratic party but the
democratic party through the 70s 80s and
90s and arts from a right-wing turn on
foreign policy and a variety of other
issues and just the fact that and this
was if you read like Third Way pay
people should go back and check out like
you know
the Third Way archives from the 90s it's
like it's all that stuff there's a major
problem
it affects some of our constituencies
obviously we're not gonna censor it
obviously we're not gonna solve it
fundamentally tax credit I mean
everything is just a tax credit scheme
or or a public-private partnership which
always makes things less efficient yeah
I also hate the idea that the only
reason we should get any help from the
government whatsoever with taking care
of our families is so that we can go off
and work ourselves to death well but
it's seven hundred and twenty million
women who are gonna go into the
workforce
there's a lot of women wellhere's and
then while they're working that someone
could come in and tell them how to raise
their kids if they're black well this is
aware of you got the record player on
that's another 40 billion I mean we
could probably just take 300 million of
them and retrofit all the pipes in
America that's right right Jamie this is
thing you're not picking up 720 million
women come into the workforce we're all
gonna have like one day a week work
weeks we can all have a woman that works
for us welcome to your orientation this
is how you do a right-wing Mandela
impression 20 women working here who
would be doing all of our jihad Jennifer
thank you for coming the social security
briefing book and right around 11:45 I
get extremely cranky in the prep you
will all tell everybody be quiet in the
office please
ideally if you could fit it in between a
random anecdote from Hollywood in the
late 90s how are you it laughs again I
will totally transcend women to do my
job awesome that way they don't kind of
go to the majority report every day it's
a different team every day now I'm a
walk here it's not like a walk do it
yeah exactly
don't worry mission accomplished I I
don't know this for a fact and I imagine
we could try and look this up but I
I don't know if we could find this
information but and maybe this we can
actually task people with this here is
that guy Tom Tom Holman is the former
ice director who was going around saying
all sorts of horrible crap about I can't
even remember now what it was but he's
on laura ingraham show i think he's
taking a quick break from maligning
brown people and basically speaking out
against california wanting to ban
private prisons and or in private ice
detention centers so he's still
maligning brown people right of course
he's not doing it explicitly because I
this is what I want to ask people with
find out which board of directors he
sits on of which private prison company
I mean I think it's like there's or who
he's lobbying for but whatever it is
there's the idea that this guy's not
making any money from a private prison
complex very possible
highly unlikely and I would include in
that also like food services or whatever
it is that he's you know like we sell a
tasers to private prisons or whatever it
is well is in the PR wing of the private
prison industry for Fox News as a Fox
News contributor
indeed but here he is basically
spreading and this is there's so much
data on the inefficiency of private
prisons that it's it's stunning I mean
it's really one of the most and like all
this work was done five or six years ago
but here he is there's some news
remember he's part of the United States
California's in the United States
there's a SIL Tom really well he's
supposed to be in luck he always spent
less time in El Salvador trying to talk
more people to come this country
illegally and take care of the homeless
problem he has in California and we many
times been in California how many how
many homeless veterans on the streets of
California yeah
running down el salvador to try to get
more illegally on his come anyone saw
down ice facilities but US citizens out
of work he says he's to do it for the
immigrant community begin let me be
frank on this this will damage the
immigrant community they don't want to
leave the state they don't wanna leave
their families they certainly don't want
to go to college in Louisiana or Texas
our facilities are great a highest
attention standards in industry anybody
can go to I stocked up website look at
the detention standards heissen industry
lost deaths in custody of any state or
federal so whether they're for-profit or
not-for-profit or they're run by the
government high standards high standards
and no just take one second and
contemplate who are in ice detention
facilities versus who are in federal and
state prisons and then ask yourself is
that really a big achievement lowest
number of deaths we have you're putting
people who have not broken the law in
any way certainly not violent offenders
into it mean families into these
detention centers and you're bragging
that we have fewer deaths then in places
where we have like people who are there
for murder
or for assault or nice of him to
recognize the southern prisons being
especially bad that's pretty woke yep
but continue but or not for profit or
they're run by the government high
standards high standards and highs in
the industry and plus the private sector
does things better than the government
the most expensive balance has the most
expensive best ice has are the ones we
own we don't do it very well the
government the contractors they do this
for a living their credit yeah we're
gonna shut down the profit making and
we're gonna stop profiting off of
kidnapping children and imprisoning
people in a money-making capacity haha
the way that August 18th 2016 the
Justice Department and
that they plan to end the use of private
prisons because officials concluded the
facilities are both less safe and less
effective at providing correctional
services than those run by the
government the idea that you can have a
business that sets aside a certain
amount of its resources for profit and
it be less expensive begs the question
is to like what's going on at those
prisons that you're able to both set
aside money for profit and make them
more cost-effective well from their
point of view it's a win-win-win because
they don't view prisoners as people and
if they get to believe them dry for the
commissary or whatever and make profit
off it that's a added bonus there you go
no no me Klein is a there's a big you
know this University of California
divested and from it has something like
14 billion dollar endowment and a
seventy billion dollar pension I mean
the University of California system it's
pretty big obviously but you're talking
about a total of like I don't what
eighty three billion dollars somewhere
around there maybe eighty eighty four
billion dollars and they are divesting
their holdings of anything involving
fossil fuels both because it's becoming
a risky proposition to invest in fossil
fuels because everyone knows the future
is coming and fossil fuels cannot be
part of it but it's also because they
want to make sure that the future comes
and and and that in divesting her this
is a big deal because the argument that
you're putting at risk a pension by not
owning oil stocks or you're putting at
risk and endowment by not own
coal stocks fracking stocks or whatever
it is is hard to make when you've got an
80 billion dollar fund that is willing
to to divest in that way that's a big
deal and Bill McKibben at three
fifty.org I think he's still there has
been working on this for four or five
years there were people at the end of
the Obama administration were getting
arrested for this type of divestment it
is in some ways this divestiture
movements brought about the changes in
South Africa at least to the extent that
America played a role in it it was
largely because companies were finding
that doing business in South Africa was
beginning to hurt their stock values and
so they basically went to South African
said like this is not sustainable and I
guess I'm getting a little sentimental
of a divestiture talking to Billy Bragg
today but also Naomi Klein has a new
book out she was on Democracy Now
talking about the what is happening with
the climate movement and particularly in
this segment some of the dangers that
are represented as we saw with the El
Paso shooter referencing a diminishing
amount of resources and therefore that
justifies us throwing some people
overboard I write about the Christchurch
killer in part because that horrific
attack which stole the lives of more
than 50 people in New Zealand at two
mosques happened on March 15 and that
day is significant for for many reasons
one of them is that that was the day of
the first global youth climate strike
that is the day that 1.6 million young
people around the world walked out of
class and and - and took this stand for
international solidarity with children
all around the world
it really a movement that is in no way
nationalist right that is calling for
justice at the center of our response to
the climate crisis in an in in
Christchurch the student strike the
rally after the student strike was
disrupted and the students were told to
disperse because there was a live
shooting just a few blocks away at the
mosque and that was the killing that I
referred to earlier and one of the
things that was really different about
that attack and he did take inspiration
from all of these different mass
murderers was that he this killer
identified as an eco fascist that he
said that in his manifesto wrote that in
his manifesto talked about how
immigrants were destroying Europe
destroying you know the Christian world
and so on and you know I think there's
been a lot of focus in recent years but
how do we change the minds of the
climate deniers right I think the only
thing scarier than a far-right racist
movement that denies the reality of
climate change is a far-right racist
movement that doesn't deny the reality
of climate change I mean there you have
it it's I mean Minh
the idea that this is being cited across
you know from you know the lunatics
fascists on the right just give you rise
to the the reality of this of its
existence and the idea that we still
have the only major significant maybe
the only but certainly the only
significant political party in the world
which is organized around the principle
that and I'm not exactly sure where they
are at this point that either climate
change is a hoax or just simply not
there's nothing we can do about just get
it God will take care of it well or as
some in in Silicon Valley they're
actually planning for those scenarios
and buying eco bunkers and building
scenarios
well at least there we're acknowledging
that happen that's true but I think
that's the correlation of the of the
point I just want to make that that of
course it's important to to acknowledge
or accept or whatever we're gonna use
the science of it but that's not the you
know a sticking point it's a political
question and ultimately as the
right-wing quote-unquote accepts the
science if the politics is still
maximalist and apartheid no it's that's
how it's gonna turn into it's gonna turn
into mass deaths and this is what a
chill of bimbe again i always cite that
piece the age of humanism is ending
which he wrote before 2016 and all of
the dynamics are here and that's exactly
the point and that's an honor also
correlates with the viciousness and
racism towards refugees because a lot of
refugees are eco refugees and also
internally in countries as well so you
need to deal with the politics where the
science is a second-order question yeah
and this is not new by the way there is
a long history of people on the
far-right taking an interest
however disingenuously in the
environment I don't think it's
disingenuous some well look at where
their money is invested and it's in
fossil fuel companies so like I I was
into a really good episode of trill
Billy Workers Party with my friend
Brendan O'Connor where they talked a lot
about all of the this this web of
connections this element of the right
that takes an interest in the
environment and it's it's always been
that way some of the early you genis
eugenics people were into
environmentalism but i think it's going
to catch on more and more as like you
guys said people more people on the
right accept the realities of climate
change and as we see waves of migration
that we know are going to be caused by
climate change and the left needs to be
ready with a real response to that we
need to be making the case now for the
free movement of people and we need to
be making the case to the wider working
class how this in fact benefits everyone
and doesn't hurt us to let people in who
want to come here yeah it's sort of a
scary thought
oh just reminder somebody just told me I
did not say the name of the Billy Bragg
book at the end of the interview the
three dimensions of freedom will put
I put a link to a via Slee in the
podcast ripshit I think Republicans
started unrolling their climate policy
when Trump started saying built the wall
right and in Europe I guess the point I
was making there are some in Europe who
do and even historically like you know
Heidegger right I mean it was a very
important philosopher who also was a
supporter of the Nazis and also a
incredibly important eco philosopher so
there is some depth to that tradition
yeah and like all the Malthusian
concerns about population control and
stuff like right and that's why Bill
Gates is very bad for you not good why
are you obsessed with the population
rates of Malawi when you talk about
climate change
I wonder huge yeah right I wonder Bill
Gates
not good but he's done so much for
education I said I think I'm Bill Gates
recently where he was like economist sex
you don't know what they're talking
about it's like how about do you know
what you're talking about with regards
to schooling in America or by population
where she does he's a billionaire let's
go to the phones and we're taking AIIMS
I've got it open you can you can I am us
through the app at majority opcom call
from a 406 area code who's this where
you calling from a wind tunnel hello
hello help hi hi so that I finally got
through to you this is Pete Pete from
Indiana Pete from Indiana welcome to the
program
hi my so I've been longtime fan of you
first-time caller
I was a talking I have a new boss at my
work and heard him the other day
listening to a Rush Limbaugh immensely
yeah and since then I've talked to him a
little bit you know working around each
other and and I asked him about you know
I mentioned your guys at his name the
show the majority report and he actually
said that he'd he'd heard of you guys
and lost a couple of years idios yeah
how'd that go yeah he was she was uh he
was not impressed to say the least
really uh he said that you know he just
started telling me stuff that you know
you look like a foot with glasses you
know yeah and like what weird weird
stuff like he just said when you played
your videos he could instantly smell the
clam chowder and Old Spice through the
screen that's true I actually we
actually count down the the the camera
it's a partnership with YouTube yeah
the new scratch-and-sniff videos we're
doing he said you basically look like
the human embodiment of Applebee's
well they do advertise that everything
the heartland of America I think we're
we're doing well yeah yeah I don't know
like I just kind of go away he said you
know like I said I'm a huge fan right
thank you Joe I can tell of course yeah
he said your content was dry as a
Popeye's I don't know what happy Popeye
it's very very popular very popular
successful fast food that's a good
Popeyes yeah that sounds like this guy
exactly where we want him oh yeah yeah
well you know one of the things that
really got me he said is that you you
know he thought you had a nice voice but
you kind of look like a hobbit that was
born prematurely right well I mean it's
radio so that's the important thing is
the voice
[Laughter]
[Music]
those are fun that is fun I like that
actually it's honestly significantly
more tame than what my son says to me
every day every day I wake up my son
wakes up and the first thing he says
like oh you're here
honestly devastating he says like I like
mom much better and I'm like I
understand because is it is it your
night or mom's night if it's my night is
like darn it and yeah no he's just it's
okay
it's relent like I don't want to turn
into like a Sopranos bit but that's your
son it's the ultimate insult comment how
my get me a juice box
right yeah it's not even mom night you
say and it goes hold my book back could
you hold my book bag I wanna run I want
to run to school yeah hold my backpack
wonder where he learned that from I'm
trying to cut down her at the rack
I'm calling from its 646 area code who's
this where you calling from
hello who is it hello remember yeah
you're from Brooklyn and what's your
what's your name again
hello Balu leukemia from Brooklyn okay
yeah you breaking up just a little bit
but go ahead go ahead what's on your
mind okay well yesterday you guys were
talking about the WFP endorsement yep I
thought I was disappointed but I was
really surprised about it but I just
thought like I thought that Bernie's
campaign could like tighten up on a few
things like based on that endorsement on
because I think they're not really doing
a good job differentiating Warren from
burning right now and I think like one
of the main differentiation you'll see
was like maybe the filibuster and I
don't think that's really good luck for
burning but optically like I usually see
Warren like endorsing other candidates
like she like the day that WFP voting
started like she endorsed the WFP
candidate right and she's also endorsed
a just system at this point
so like
I think by camp that campaign wise if I
doing very good with like the ground
stuff but like certain things like this
make Warren look more like she's like
working on expanding the party more than
southern burning so I think like this is
like a few concerns like I thought like
his voters like more than would be
coming more from like expanding the
electorate and I don't really see like
an emphasis from the campaign on
registering new voters I see probably
from like volunteers and stuff but I
would think like was insane deadlines
coming up like they would be focusing
more on like getting people registered
and like like when he was he was blowing
up the Joe Grogan interview and things
like that like they Robin see like
really I'm capitalizing on an
advertising opportunity so I just think
like I feel like they should work on
like a digital strategist more like in
terms of like registering voters and I'm
just hoping like because I don't think
of Biden collapses like inevitable or
some person to come and I don't see
Warren commencing dying down because
like years I got her cards pulled yet
and I don't know if it's going to happen
because based on common Laplace
performance like I don't think it's like
she's not really I'm trying to win
anymore I'm not sure so I'm hoping like
she'll work more on whether you like
black voters over 50 like that's one
area he's really really weakened right
so I think he needs worth more on that
well I think you know I I mean I think I
think to the extent that Sanders is
doing is working on behalf of of
candidates
I think that's happening I think it's
also happening in the terms of like you
know organizing people on the ground in
a way that may not get the same amount
of attention now that may be that may be
not the best strategy I I have heard
that in terms of like you know working
the WFP that they didn't that that you
know the Warren people were were were
more aggressive in that respect I think
there's other dynamics going on with a
WFP you know we don't know 11 release
the
they still have been transparent about
the actual vote here that we're going to
and I don't yeah and I'm hearing a lot
of interesting anecdotes about that type
of thing which is an all set yeah but
but nevertheless I mean look the the
bottom line in the name of the game
obviously was work work the you know
work those officials who had a more
weighted vote in this instance that
didn't happen I mean I I but I I tend to
agree with the idea that the the
campaign could be doing more to to be
more expansive but you know we'll see
it's hard to know you know to make this
assessment until you start to actually
get on the ground I mean the California
polling that could be the most important
thing that really comes out of this week
I mean would have been nice to get the
WFP nomination for Bernie and then in a
you know I'm not sure that the WFP could
do as much for Bernie as as they could
do for Warren but if Bernie wins
California that is going to be you know
hugely significant and you know every
campaign has to make a determination of
where they're going to deploy limited
resources and so it's one thing to win
the WFP endorsement but if that you've
done that because instead of having
somebody in New York where you feel
fairly confident where you're gonna do
okay and you've put that person in
California and you win California then
you know after the fact it looks like it
makes more sense I mean that's the thing
with these things it is very easy to
critique in the moment but you really
don't know until the end of the campaign
unless it's something that's hugely
glaring I mean I remember in the fall of
2016 hearing about the amazing ground
campaign that Hillary Clinton had and
vast won avarice amo it turns out what
was was just people saying that was the
case like III I think I need just play
this right I think that you you can over
interpret the failure of the WFP to
endorse Bernie and you know that's
that's the only thing I mean I don't
think the WFP think I don't think it's
going to move the dial much I don't
think it's really a big deal I'm just
talking about like other little points
of concerns because these are like
little things so I thought he would be
on top of or I don't think like he's my
concerns I'm not sure like how big of a
deal they are but it's just like some
media is never going to give him a fair
representation so I saw his digital
strategy would be more involved in terms
of registering people and getting people
like interests rid and like like active
what I'm saying is that you're looking
at that from a New York perspective they
may have made the assessment that the
return on investment is better in a
place like South Carolina or is better
in a place like New Hampshire or
California than New York and they might
be doing voter registration down there I
mean are we sure that they're not well
that's why I've just said because I
agree that it's a highly important to
expand the electorate because people who
favor Elizabeth Warren over Bernie
Sanders Bernie might not be their second
choice these are completely different
constituencies you know Warren is
supported by largely the professional
class the people who support Bernie are
poorer younger and less white and I
don't know if those if the professional
class folks are ever gonna form a
coalition or throw their weight behind
Bernie if he's not the nominee if if
Warren is not the nominee they might be
more likely to go for like Harris or
Buddha judge or something but I just
want to add that um that is one of the
main areas of focus that DSA for Bernie
is doing right now in New York City
we're registering people to vote largely
on the campuses of public colleges and
universities where there are a lot of
young people and people of color who'd
be more likely to vote for Bernie
appreciate the call I mean I agree this
Coalition is better
I just want to say like I just wish
booth to the Joe Rogan interview because
it was so big like 10 million people
like I feel like in terms of
capitalizing on it like I'm not sure how
many people like actually write out
of it yeah I don't know in terms of
debate I don't I don't know how I feel
like I don't know how you would reach
the Joe Rogan people who you know I mean
I thought I saw I think that was the
type of operation and I did see a lot of
people I mean just even in the comments
on that video I saw a lot of people
saying hey if you're in Florida wherever
that type of thing but yeah I'm not I
think that I mean yeah I have nothing
else to add I wonder if in New York
it seems tiny that probably all of us
could do a better job on letting people
know about the October deadline but I
think they're doing most of what you're
saying I do appreciate the go
yeah I'm sure monster wise they're doing
really well but I'm not sure about like
terms of the digital strategy yeah I
don't know I appreciate it okay just put
that Chiron back up on the screen
there's is that for a digital strategy
come from a 509 area code who's this
where you come from I to me yes it is
Ohio my name's Sean I'm from
southeastern Washington Sean from
southeastern Washington what is on your
mind my mom is a nurse who works at the
local one of the local hospitals it's a
Catholic Regional Medical Center they're
owned by Providence Sacred Hearts I know
they just met last night because I think
they're gonna go on strike um they're in
negotiations with Catholic right now
they're trying to take away their PTO
accrual rate and the cap do it
effectively like a pay cut form
there's also safety concerns and nurses
have been attacked it cost I don't think
they're the only Hospital in the state
has happened that and I don't know for
sure if they're gonna go on strike the
wsn a org the Union website is saying
they are preparing for it but I was
talking about it she wasn't sure if they
were going to like talk about if they
were
in their decision or talking about the
details so not a hundred percent on that
at this point well if they do let us
know we'll keep an eye out I mean I I've
had I know some people who have been
working as as nurses in facilities that
have been bought out and a lot of big
hedge funds are buying these hospitals
and they just come in and they basically
just overworked particularly with the
nurses and it's brutal really brutal
yeah keep us updated on that yeah I
already heard really weird stuff like
I'm with the the safety thing they want
to like they want the nurses to take
like an equal responsibility and
handling the like the violent patients
if it happens and like that just seems
really like outside of the purview their
their job description I would imagine
you had in other words stuff I guess
like one more thing I I do I had um a
libertarian thing I guess not maybe was
like kind of like the prior caller I
have a guy I went to high school with
have you guys ever heard of the Free
State Project at all it's uh something
started by Jason Soren but not familiar
if I don't know if you guys heard they
were trying to move up they were trying
to take over it yeah I think I went on
Free State domain radio or something
like that a couple years ago so it's
something like yeah buddy
boom I just kind of a buddy I went to
high school with him he's a libertarian
he's moved out there for it and I get
into it sometimes on Facebook with them
and they're free in their free state
that they live in are they connected to
Facebook how do they do that
I'm not sure I just know I only knew of
it from talking to him and like targa he
wants to see it happen just because I
think it'd be funny but they're know
like I've never met a bad person from
New Hampshire so I don't wish bad things
on them right no answers full of good
people all right well listen I
appreciate the appreciate the call yeah
thanks for taking I love you guys what
you do thanks thanks keep us updated on
the strike water boat from Kashmir
on the I am Dave 45 cashmere so other
than arrests and disappearances there
are interment intermittent temporary
detentions which are essentially torture
sessions of young men and teenagers
people have to report to army camps
every few weeks where they are beaten in
one instance a person reported four
beatings three times in five weeks if
you pass out from the shock of extreme
pain you don't want to regain
consciousness before the pain is gone it
is the most awful feeling that is
precisely what Indian forces are doing
through electric shocks the people that
pass out during beatings there have been
multiple reports of men and teenagers
being beaten and given electric shocks
right in the streets outside their homes
with their family members can hear their
screams for hours last week's headlines
and HuffPost india beatings electric
shocks threats to take away women did I
mention rape threats finally there have
been two separate documented cases of
soldiers breaking into homes demanding
the handover their sons for pelting
stones except the families had only
daughters there terrorizing the
population by making examples of some
people in every community all I have
mentioned here is from the Indian press
or International Press don't stop
talking about Kashmir it's the only hope
we have it's the only way to ensure a
non-violent response and also a real
props last night talked about jan
Schakowsky who was a congressman from
illinois speaking very powerfully on
Kashmir one of the very few it's amazing
how little it is in the American totally
and it's and again from a you know Imran
Khan just gave an interview for Al
Jazeera's the Pakistani Prime Minister
and and I'm you know there's a similar
dynamic where now you get accused of
being like you know spouting pakistani
propaganda and I can assure you I'm not
Pro Pakistani yeah well I mean look
there's always there's always a there's
always a possibility of I mean I don't
know him Ron Khan's got a lot of ideas
sorry your board isn't up up right wait
go for it I'm not going to know which
you got your finger on the button
go so Imran Khan who I don't support
necessarily and the Pakistani government
who I think doesn't make its case as
well as they could in the Western media
but they have a strong case to make now
he said I love it
hi this is Imran Khan the Pakistani
government is now a three thousand
dollar-a-month patron or tpms and I'm
hoping that this could be integrated
into communications but he said we could
have a armed conflict with India and he
said it in this interview it's like very
important to clarify he literally said
by accident he didn't say I'm
threatening it this is what I want he
said this is already such a tight
situation right that this could
absolutely lead it's also sort of a
threat it's it's like you got a lot of
nice days around this could fall right
over here it's it's a threat and it's
also true logistical II like yeah I mean
they're right they they already do have
skirmishes Kashmir already was the most
militarized place on the planet even
before this well hopefully Donald Trump
will send Jared over there to to work on
this and well this is you know that
would happen a couple weeks before this
happened was the press conference with
Imran Khan where Trump saying these are
both great countries Kashmir is a big
deal I'd be happy to help
Imran Khan was like okay and Modi was
like I absolutely did not ask you to
help on this and there's a domestic the
implication because the Indian Supreme
Court has said that normality needs to
return and nothing so far has changed so
that also has implications for this
broader erosion of Indian democracy next
time they should come out come from
normalcy and not so much normalcy so
nice actor Meyer was on The Daily Show
last night she lamented the fact that
most people have never read a Supreme
Court decision and in the very next
breath recommended to her position
against video-recording in their
courtroom the federal legal community is
a bog of oligarchic jerk-offs I mean
it's it's all of them it's
believable we don't want anybody
preening but we just were gonna require
everybody to me give me a break
hashtag abolish to the Supreme Court Ben
Shapiro puberty blockers you went to
college 35 years ago I knew you were
almost too old to be Gen X but yeah now
I get where everyone calls you a boomer
I'm not I'm not I'm a Janek it's taken
hold why are you so proud of being part
of Gen X Gen X is terrible I I'm it's
not a question of pride I think with the
boomer generation worse though because
higher up side lower down so the the Gen
X sucks but because of the boomers oh
well that's the most Gen X line ever
yeah minutes all you guys did is blame
the Boomers sorry that we're accurate we
had to kick in and be lame she's magic
elixir do you suffer from persistent
sore throat surrounded by diseased
immigrant hordes doing preposterous
voices on radio every day hi this is dr.
Sebastian Gorka for Ricola the original
oakum ah Lisa Jo from knockoff like fish
oil to Ricola that's like upgrading Oh
total catch briefs age Republicans are
worried about state standards setting
standards for the whole country well I'm
sure they're outraged the Texas Board of
Education leverages its market share to
ensure every American child can only
read conservative friendly textbooks yes
that's a real problem actually skinny
Pete what are your opinions on open
versus closed primaries to the crew
however helps Bernie yeah I'm gonna go
with whatever helps Bernie I I don't
think there should be open primaries but
I do think that you should be able to
have same-day registration I mean that's
I think I make it look easy to vote but
I think you also want to make sure that
there's a disincentive for people who
don't really care about the outcome you
know aren't genuinely invested in who
the nominee is you know in a in a
sincere way at least I would I would say
you need to register same-day
registration Rick from Florida and
obviously registration before that Rick
from Florida hey Sam speaking of free
speech warriors I notice you guys don't
really pay attention to Tim Poole
I think your public attempts to
discredit Ruben have largely worked
temple operates in the same Lane as
Ruben being a disaffected liberal at the
front lines of the culture award his
videos get far more views at this point
than Reubens do terms of people
injecting toxicity he's up there with
anybody I think warrants some coverage
you know Tim reached out to me a while
back to do a show and I said I would do
a show and then I would hear back from
like a week later and he'd say what
about Saturday at 8:30 out in New Jersey
I'm like no I can't do that I have I
can't and then he would just then it was
it was hard it's hard to organize is
this another person I need to know about
from the internet maybe marginal Joe
from the West Hartford after hours of
research I finally figured out a
definition for libertarianism we can all
agree on a real libertarian is someone
who justify slavery within five minutes
talking to Sam producer Lauren actually
really that's a solid that worth Liberty
producer Lauren I looked up Billy Bragg
on Wikipedia and seems he's not only a
remain supporter but he still supports
the Labor Party not the greens or the
respect party and you failed to call him
out on that or he thinks various
components of the UK like Northern
Ireland should break away after
breakfast does liusia know of course
he's a labor supporter I come from yeah
wait if Billy Brad started supporting
respect the respect party Gallup map uh
I Got News for you oh man if no I could
no actually I confused that's Galloway's
party so there's making a hard left
point I thought they were making a
really ridiculous point but it's still
wrong well what is he supposed to
support the brexit like that's not a
left-wing position i if I was in Britain
I would I would I would imagine I would
be a remain supporter korbinite Romania
Corbin dole Inc Republican Tantrums and
hearing yesterday were clearly
premeditated and scripted the best part
was after staff effective questioning
assistant chair representative Collins
the most obnoxious and aggressive spoke
up to say he was a staff question for
the other side Nadler slapped him down
you're elected not staff
you got five minutes Jonathan Armstead
hey guys watch your debate coverage
twice if you catch all the questions
asked in every debate what would it be
if you could have a catch-all Oh a
catch-all question and every debate I
have to I think every candidate should
be asked what they would they'll do once
they leave office I want to know what
their big plan is and also I want to
know I want every moderator to ask what
donor asked for a one-on-one meeting
with the candidate and what promise they
asked for curious to see how mayor Pete
would wiggle out of both you know I'd
like that question about what you would
do after being president I mean I think
one of the most revealing things about
Obama now I can imagine the the Obama's
feel like they went through a
nightmarish eight years and they're
going to live out their their best lives
and they're gonna do that by you know
Netflix and I don't know going to you
know taking a trip to Mars on you know
Virgin Airlines you know rocket ship or
whatever you know whatever it is they're
doing they're not just watching Netflix
they're making things they're producing
things that's exactly yeah that's a I'm
gonna go work on Netflix and you know
join Hollywood and and I don't know that
they would have had a different answer
beforehand I mean obviously they would
but it would be interesting to see sort
of like just to get a help people tell
stories exactly
attorney Andrew all there is to say is
she needs a movement to uh I don't know
what that means Ryan from my heart now
that musician guests are back on the
table what are the odds of getting
another Peach's interview that's pretty
funny
secret identity politics not to pick on
you in the crew but how much of an anti
PC culture is just down to most
comedians being miserable dumb guys who
specialize in a cynical art form and
what after part of it
do we give comedians too much credit is
a barometer of where our culture is is
this all Twitter's fault I see people
having arguments over Joe Rogan and
don't know what to make of it still know
know what call out culture is the sounds
like a really funny I Emma no I mean I
think
how much of anti PC culture is just
comedians being dumb you know miserable
dumb guys who specialize innocent I mean
I think III think there is a genuine
ii-i'll tell you what anti PC culture is
it's the conservative movement frankly I
mean it is the president United States
has called out PC culture as a rallying
cry for his people
I think paper tiger I think there's
really legit critiques of you know like
mark Fisher's vampire castle which is a
great essay if people should read and
learn from but I would say this mind
about that I think it's the worst thing
you ever wrote it's really it's a great
piece it's really important and it
describes a lot of toxic dynamics better
than anybody else ever done but I will
say that if somebody starts their point
of critique with the phrase PC culture
that's a tip that they're not making the
enlightened left critique to make the
left less toxic and immature but more
that they're they're going in the
reactionary like Trump direction so PC
culture is definitely a tell I think if
you look at the way Netflix is marketing
some of these stand-ups that they're
this I think it's corporate like like
subsidize well that's every but that's
just different channel like there's you
know there's there's the Netflix for the
woke people there's the Netflix for the
people who are gonna like think you know
be opposed to PC culture whatever that I
mean yes at the end of the day it's all
marketing algorithms for sure it's also
a lot of rich dudes complaining about
how they get treated by the larger
culture like rich famous people with
nothing else to be pissed off about so I
think you're gonna get a little bit of a
bias there I mean I I think much of it
is just you know to a large extent would
Billy Bragg said it was on some level
which is people who have been used to
being able to have their perspective
dominate and not have any pushback to
the crap they're dishing out
I mean you know this isn't you can go
and do whatever you want in comedy clubs
you can set up your own comedy club room
people do this all the time you go to a
restaurant Monday nights I'm gonna bring
25 people in here and you get the door
you know you get the drink tickets and I
get the door or whatever it is then you
can go up and say whatever you want it's
just that people complain like wait a
second I can't say what I want I can't
be daring and make a lot of money that's
that's the second part of this you can
say whatever you want
it's just that other people might might
say like I don't want you to have the
ability to monetize that sentiment and
I'm going to prevent you from doing it
by organizing the the consumers to say
like we don't want that I mean this is
it's like I'm not being silenced because
who's the caboose doesn't play regularly
on ABC television yes you are I'm very
angry about that you're being deep
platform no I think at some point we're
gonna need to materialize that analysis
a little bit more but not at 2:27 I mean
what I like it what kind of 2:27 look
anytime efficient here we're all I would
never deny that there are some people on
the Left who maybe take things a bit far
take themselves a little too seriously
and annoy me but if that is your main
thing that you complain about I don't
trust you oh just talking to like people
who aren't like always in a leftist
space like I think plenty of people have
different tolerances for say the blog
economy of how woke is this most recent
stand-up special and I think that
stuff's all trash yeah exactly I think I
think that does like a lot of a lot of
people don't care about that stuff and
think it's pointless but I also don't
think that changes their politics no I
know that's not my critique at all but I
also just in general like you know when
you're talking about people you're
talking about people you can't well
whatever will talk alright with that one
more quick phone call come from a 2 for
8 area code if you're not
from a 248 area code you should hang up
because we're not gonna get to I
apologize
who's this hurry contra who's this uh
this is Zack confer Michigan Zack from
Michigan what's on your mind
hello hello oh hey I'm poking Harry yes
I can
Zachary I just won this yes what's up
here what's on your mind Zack I just
wanted to bring about awareness for the
back 40 mine it's a proposed mine it's
already got all the permits approved but
it was in spite of all the regulator's
saying that none of their proposals are
going to keep the Menomonee River safe
the Menomonee River is pretty important
to Lake Michigan and they didn't they
didn't involve anyone in Wisconsin I
just wanted to bring that up to
awareness and just I really like the
program and really appreciate you guys
taking on those losers like dave rubin
and jordan peterson who have absolutely
no idea what they're talking about and
it definitely does work because i've had
lots of friends that have repeated a lot
of that stuff and sometimes i don't even
know how to respond so i appreciate you
guys and that that's about it thanks for
the call okay thank you
great to hear that michigan's really
concerned about their water it's not
like they've had any problems with that
in the past all right Reid four or five
email I am and then we're out of here
Gary my sister and I don't get along she
had me committed against my will I was
stripped of my rights and became a ward
of the state I was away she went through
all my things including throwing out my
bed my mother just passed away June 30 I
was trying to safeguard valuables she
bringing people in the house sell things
said any advice she was a she said I was
a danger to myself is there anything I
can do to protect myself and the advice
would be greatly appreciated gosh I have
no idea what kind of how do would it
advise that I would maybe try and talk
to an attorney
I really don't know in that situation
and you know but a good luck with that
I'm sorry to hear that
Republican wrestling coach the biggest
lie award from last week's debate goes
to Beto about an hour into the debate he
said he went to a gun show in Arkansas
and said the vendors customers there
agreed with them they don't need their
guns would have no problem handing them
to the government to be cut into pieces
if anyone could prove that conversation
was anything but a hundred percent made
up I would personally pay for Beto to
move into Jaime's apartment I don't know
how anybody would be able to prove that
and certainly not here he's staying in
the basement by the way Kevin in did you
watch the roast with the basement was
there a roast
what roasts ryan chat this is a message
for Michael I don't want to get defense
if we take this wrong way but I think
the way you keep attacking Warren is
very toxic there are a lot of people who
like both her and Sanders I am one of
them Sanders is my number one Warren is
number two I like Sanders but some of
his supporters just can't handle people
liking other candidates or any critique
of him on a daily basis there are a
number of progressive talk show hosts to
go out other way to make sure they
criticize her for even the smallest
thing what I fear is a good portion of
people will not support Warren under any
circumstance Ben Dixon has done two
episodes in this very issue
it's zero-sum game you got to be
specific about the things we've said
people do that but otherwise it seems
like you're the one who can't accept the
criticism before and this is not being
bagged I will and I just have to say
that I in in a way that I don't do for
any other candidate I mentioned on both
platforms and I'm regularly on I give
her credit in a way that's actually
awkward and I don't do for anybody else
precisely because of the touchiness that
is expressed in the I am but at the end
of the day I'm gonna talk about what's
what sorry
go wrong I I think we've all been
extremely fair to Elizabeth meeting Lee
so Aisha I'd like to remind people
including Sam that Iran had nothing to
do with the drone strike on Saudi oil
facilities it was the Hootie's in Yemen
somehow all of the mainstream media
seems to have forgotten that fine point
it's also very bigoted to assume that
all she is are loyal to Iran it's
dangerous rhetoric to get she is in KSA
executed well first off let me say this
I've never suggested that it's been
proved that or even that it's likely
that Iran had anything to do with the
drone strike secondly if the Houthis in
Yemen sent even if it was an Iranian
drone
the fact is their war with Saudi Arabia
and Saudi Arabia is not using Saudi
built weaponry they got their weaponry
from us secondly the idea in saying that
all she is are loyal to Iran I did not
say that but to the extent that she is
are there are Shias who are like I mean
to say that Iran does not have influence
in Iraq I think it's also silly and to
the extent that it has any influence in
Iraq and was going to operate within
Iraq it was going to be in a Shia area
and the close proximity of US military
which I don't think should be there in
the first place gives Iran through
proxies an opportunity to strike back
that's the only thing I'm saying there
so I don't think that's a controversial
statement I think you would find people
who are or experts and that would would
say that because that's certainly where
I heard it from but I appreciate your
point well two more Rubens missing balls
hey just sweetie you guys a screenshot
of a notification I received that Dave
Rubin liked a tweet pushing the Ilhan
Omar married a brother garbage I'm not
surprised he's tweeted stuff I know he's
tweeted about that and final I am of the
day
[Music]
you a loser you misspelled that this
whistleblower will uncover Trump's abuse
of executive power me a genius the
Clinton's deep state is stopping Trump
from revealing near a tendon killed
Epstein by request see you tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
hey folks hunter-killer is the murder
mystery box that immerses you in an
ongoing experience with every delivery
or episode he'll dive deeper into what
it's like to be a detective sifting
through piles of documents evidence and
Case Files until you crack the case
right now just for our listeners you can
go to hunt a killer dot-com / majority
for 20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hard to take advantage of this offer
let's hunt a killer calm / majority for
20% off your first box hunt a killer
dot-com / majority
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
