folks the 2020 presidential campaign has
started at least well I mean pretty much
in earnest and we have pictures that a
listener sent in from two nights ago I
guess it was was the two or three nights
ago when Elizabeth Warren was in Iowa
and apparently these are from a listener
Erma in Des Moines people were excited
to see Elizabeth Warren I don't know if
you can see that but that is a like at
least two blocks worth of well now make
that three four blocks of people lined
up in Iowa to see Elizabeth Warren and
[Music]
you know there's a lot of excitement on
the the ground for Elizabeth Warren
these narratives get built there was you
know people forget but in 2014 maybe it
was 2012 Elizabeth Warren was brought in
to I think it was 2012 to brought in to
campaign for people like Claire
McCaskill and others she was an asset
around the country to a lot of people
and she's obviously creating a certain
amount of consternation amongst folks in
the center right and ostensibly in the I
guess the right side of the and by right
I mean in terms of their politics of the
Democratic Party here is Steven Rattner
on Morning Joe Steven Rattner you may
recall was in charge of the I think the
GM a bailout and of course also was
charged by the SEC would they pay to
play scheme involving the New York state
pension fund
back in his days as a private equity guy
and you know who amongst us has not had
to settle with the SEC to pay a 6.2
million dollar fine for overstepping you
know some of the fudging around the
edges of things
what is a kickback really really
honestly but here is here's Steven
Rattner on Morning Joe talking about
some of the hesitation they may have you
know I think sometimes you show your
hands
a little bit too early like you're
supposed to hold your cards a little bit
closer to your vest but I think some
people are so so deep into the bubble
that they really really don't even
realize what they're exposing about
themselves so Steve Rattner I know that
we don't usually meek and I don't
usually go to political fundraisers
oposite for one second
I just need to I just need to laughs I
knew that was a well warranted and
certain positive coming right yeah there
we go it's alright I'm sorry I don't
usually go to political fundraisers for
Allied front reasons but I'm just
curious when you hold your razor for
Elizabeth one Steve we just sort of
really would love to be there and just
see the wives race of Elizabeth's the
the respected senator's populism well
you won't be a fly on the wall because
if i hold a fundraiser for elizabeth
warren and I go to my friends to ask
them to attend it will be a very sparse
crowd and so there'll be room for you to
sit right up at the head of the table
next to her
enjoy the fall no look in all
seriousness I think I think everything
that that you've talked about in Karen
wrote about Elizabeth Warren and her
appeal and her passion and her populism
is all true and I think it will resonate
to some degree in the Democratic Party I
would note she doesn't poll as well as
some other Bernie Sanders in particular
candidates who are espoused the same
point of view and she's trying to fix
certain image issues and we go through
all that but the real question is when
you get to the general election will a
candidate who is so in fact
anti-capitalism anti-business anti-wall
street anti anti rich anti a lot of
things will that prevail even against
Donald Trump and that it a little on a
little bit more I'm curious will that
prevail even against Donald Trump in a
general election and I think there are
those of us in the Democratic Party and
this is not personal about Elizabeth who
I think has a lot of a lot of great
personal qualities and it's certainly a
very devoted public servant but is that
really the type of candidate we want to
put into a general election even up
against Donald Trump yeah I mean of
course it is the proposals that she
espouses are wildly popular you want to
put up a candidate who says we need to
protect Wall Street we need to protect
the big banks we need to protect the
very wealthy in this country because
they're not getting their share good
luck to you I mean what's amazing about
this is that he is so divorced from
reality so unaware of of what the
average American feels towards what's
happened in our society that he doesn't
even realize that what he should be
saying is that I'm not sure that
Elizabeth Warren has the charisma or
that he's got it completely backwards
he's already showing his cards in a way
that I think is just a fascinating
revelation about how
how completely divorced from reality
guys like this are they don't even have
this savvy to hide the fact that they're
sitting there and shilling for
essentially I mean not enough people to
even fill out a neighborhood in New York
City oh maybe maybe in Manhattan maybe
just the island half of Manhattan a few
towers but how does it say but not even
really because the Upper East Side is
actually bigger than people it's
absolutely stunning I mean there are you
know the the I just don't understand how
someone can go on and I'm not saying any
candidate is above critique but I don't
know understand how anyone can go on
television and say those things and
think that they're actually making an
argument that helps themselves I mean
because all of the people who watch
Morning Joe
or not all but a significant amount they
may already feel those things but they
should be hiding the ball that's what
the Republican Party did for decades no
serious point and frivolous point
serious point is I do think there is
something specific about morning Joe in
that it's like a feedback loop elite to
elite conversation so there's something
maybe about just policing the boundaries
of what's acceptable inside that
specific conversation that happens on
that show maybe but that's the thing
it's like I understand no I get it more
wink wink I understand I get it
I agree but I'm but I do think sometimes
you watch that show it the only part of
that show that has any kind of public
value is it's probably the closest to
being in like Steve Ratner's town house
talking right all right and it's less
this is how they think this is what the
mentality is frivolous point that was a
much more boring version of the Anna
Navarro get my love juices flowing clip
from the other day
can we get can we get a can we play that
drop can we get a candidate that myself
and bill kristol well premier bill
kristol don't like Evert racism and we
liked your war and so maybe if the
Democrats go do that
with a certain degree of class do
Kristin like will be excited I do think
he certainly he was ridiculous in the
end but I do think he had a serious
point towards the beginning which is
that she does have similar politics to
Bernie Sanders but is not as compelling
a candidate for general election I mean
that's possible I mean we got you know
we Bernie Sanders is you know if you had
talked about Bernie Sanders six months
before he ever ran for office he would
be polling nowhere on on publicly he of
course he was a senator and people were
aware of him but I think we will get a
better sense of Elizabeth Warren's
national appeal when she's on a national
stage and it's not because Mitch
McConnell saying hey you can't say you
can't read Coretta Scott King zhh words
on the Senate floor when she gets out
and she has the ability to control the
narrative that's I think when you judge
Bernie Sanders you know what he pulled
before he entered the race six months
before he entered the race was zero I
mean maybe it was three I don't know but
the beauty with a certain degree of
class is what I am begging Democrats to
please give me somebody that I can vote
for worried that she's gonna get all of
the bad parts of being like Bernie and
none of the good parts you know like
these folks like this guy are always
gonna say she's an anti-capitalist no
matter how many times she says I really
have no doubt in my mind that Steve
Rattner will vote against Elizabeth
Warren but I suspect that if you were to
take a poll of women particularly the
women who drove this last midterm
election that it's quite possible
Elizabeth Warren would be at the very
least competitive with Bernice and if we
Ratner if Sanders are warned and
potentially sherrod Brown is the nominee
Steve Rattner will
in erskine bowles there you go
