[Music]
let's start with with Megan McCain I
wasn't gonna play this but apparently
Megan McCain's husband Ben Domenech was
very upset about we won't get to him for
a moment I just want to say and I think
it was his idea to get upset about it
but it's unclear we should run that
through Google to see if he didn't
plagiarize that sentiment but we will
check on that in a moment I just want to
say it's it's odd because my read is
that we'll get to him later that uh she
doesn't love him
that's just my editorial so it's just
odd if you have my view of the world
it's very strange that he would do that
so here in suckish Megan McCain on Seth
Meyers program and she's not used to two
people well I guess she is on her show
you know she speaks to a wide variety of
people but here here she is on Seth
Meyers and Seth Meyers is asking her
about her comments about Ilan Omar Megan
McCain still apparently cannot read
because keeps getting these tweets wrong
of Olano Mars I don't know why that is
maybe they're so upsetting to her that
she can't even read them straight yeah
he's also not very bright to be fair to
her well alright that's fair like a
submission she's obviously now stated
she needs to be more careful with their
language don't you think other people
who talk about her need to be a little
bit more thoughtful as well or do you
stand by those comments of tying her to
this her rhetoric to the synagogue
shooting I don't think I tied her to it
in particular I think that I'm calling
out what I see as anti-semitic language
and when you're talking about but even
after she apologized for it I do want to
establish the timeline I don't I think
that Democrats are are hedging on this
and I think it's very dangerous and I
think Chuck Schumer and I are in
alignment about Israel's stance and in
geopolitical politics I posit for one
second well you know what super weird
about this is that he doesn't bring it
up in terms of politics right like but
she makes it immediately partisan and
then she says but I am aligned with the
Democrat like it's it's don't use me as
your token Jew even I thought that
tastehh the democrats are hedging but
i'm aligned with with the leader of the
Democrats it's not about politics
however Chuck Schumer agrees I don't I
think that Democrats are are hedging on
this and I think it's very dangerous and
I think Chuck Schumer and I are in
alignment about Israel's stance and in
geopolitical politics I think it's of
the utmost importance and I think she is
bringing her party to the extreme
extremism on this and I think we have to
look to Europe and what's happening over
there and that they're you know in in
the British politics anti-semitism is
very common and I see it happening over
there and I worry about it happening
over here I stand by every single thing
I said and if that makes me unpopular in
this room or in front of you so be it
[Applause]
trying to be popular here I am trying to
you know find the common ground on this
because I do think one of the I think we
could both agree by her language about
9/11 I thought it was taken out of
context and I think if you watched that
whole President Trump the same same
leverage it's not the same thing well I
would say that Donald Trump is certainly
in no position to criticize her language
on 9/11 based on the things that he said
about 9/11 right but would you give I
just think you have to give people the
same credence and I think now let's just
examine this theory that you need to
give people the same credence there's no
difference between people or context so
in other words just all the criticism of
Donald Trump is just simply out of
context so if I was Seth Meyer I said
well I mean does that mean that like
when Donald Trump says like your dad he
doesn't think your dad was a war hero
like that's the same like you just like
if you've ever forgiven anyone for any
comment it's the same thing I mean
obviously that's the silliest thing I've
ever heard well I don't know maybe you
have a different view of geopolitical
politics what would you give I just
think you have to give people the same
credence and I think well I would like
to make the clarification between Donald
Trump and ohan Omar is one of them has
apologized and said they're gonna try to
do better and they're gonna be educated
by people who know about this that's
what she said and I think she you know
it's interesting thing when we have two
Muslim women for the first time they do
have a different perspective on things
and I think when we talk about the idea
of like let's all try to meet in the
middle on things we have to listen to
other people's perspective and oh I
agree I work on the view with joy behar
every day I the perspectives is there a
way for people cause I'm actually
talking to a woman of Italian descent
every day on television every single day
there's a co-host who's Italian she's
actually really annoying my dad would
hate her he did hate her it's totally
unfair I actually have to talk to her
you know my father John McCain he was in
the military his name was John McCain
and I think a lot for this country I
have to talk to her and race every day
she says that poor people should be
vaccinated with some taxes for my mom's
ninth house so I listen to that and I
think if you want to give that credence
you have to do that even if we have
different geopolitical politics agree I
work on the view with Joy Behar every
day I listen to other perspectives is
there a way for people to talk about
differences in Israeli policy without
getting framed as anti-semitic language
yeah I just think you can't talk about
Jews hypnotizing the world posit for one
second guess who did not talk about Jews
hypnotizing the world Alon Omar she
talked about Israel the nation
hypnotizing people in terms of being
above critique and we're literally
seeing what she meant by I think we see
one of the hypnotized people but Israel
but speaking as a Jew who is a supporter
of Israel in the very generic sense
having been to Israel on multiple
occasions Israel and Jews are not
synonymous and not the same and that is
in and of itself anti-semitic to say
that they are well but you don't
understand the geopolitical a different
geopolitical politics but if you're
gonna give Sam credence I think you have
to give them the same leverage friends
of Joseph lieberman's
daughters of friends of joseph Lieberman
are also Jews yep is there a way for
people to talk about differences in
Israeli policy without getting framed as
anti-semitic language yeah I just think
you can't talk about Jews hypnotizing
the world talking about all about the
Benjamins he's bringing up the two
tweets that she's apologized for and I
think that's a little unfair to her
especially because we
what are you were a press person no I'm
just someone who cares about the fact
that there's someone out there who is in
a minority who has had death threats
against her and I think that we should
all use the same language that you're
asking her to be careful about her
language and I would ask everybody else
to be careful about theirs okay what
would make you happy coming out of my
mouth right now I'm genuinely curious
I'm not I'm perfectly happy with
everything's coming in mouth and I like
that we spent this time okay I mean I
think um you know my opinions are very
strong and I think sometimes because
that is coming across I do want you to
know that guard and teacher and she
still can't handle it it is that our
entitlement levels are like I mean she
is a the walking case for the estate tax
now the thing I enjoyed about that is
Seth Meyer was doing it all with a smile
and I think came off as not being too
emotionally invested in it I get the
sense that things were a little bit
different at the Megan McCain home
because when she got home or got off the
set there may have been something else
expressed that I feel bad for her car
driver and this is how apparently the
Megan McCain household her husband Ben
Dominik now listen before we cut to this
don't cut to what he's written here I
just want to say supposedly this was
written by Ben Dominick we have not
checked to see if someone else wrote
this and he has just reprinted it
without permission so we're just going
to assume that he actually authored this
quote he says on Twitter I see that Seth
Meyers
the untalented piece of who only
has his job because he regularly gargled
Lorne Michaels balls went after my wife
tonight with his idiotic anti-semitic
 you know now apparently
I I suspect Seth Meyers might be Jewish
so Ben Dominic is saying that he
attacked Megan McCain with anti-semitism
the Jew who used that special brand of
anti-semitism on the non Jew and I
really I it's sort of hard to much what
does he say after this is that the only
tweet so you have like another one after
that that's connected to it is gargling
Lorne Michaels balls have to do with
inside still on Omar I Got News for you
I don't get it Lorne Michaels also
Jewish and here's a guy who's going and
gargling Lorne Michaels ball still
called anti-semitic tears I Got News for
You Ben I don't think your wife loves
you Wow
well apparently domenech sort of
apologized but then doubled down at the
same time he wrote in a statement to
media media that Seth Meyers is trash I
believe this steadfastly and have for
years he only has his job because of
sucking up to the right people he is an
untalented hack and he apologized for
rage tweeting but then he fired one more
final shot and said I don't like him I
think he's a hack wait wait you in the
process of trying to like white knight
for Megan McCain somehow used like any
conversation about somebody not having a
job in the entertainment industry on
merit is definitely not the thing to
talk I will say this okay the process of
defending Jacob McCain I've been told
that Seth Meyers is not Jewish his
paternal grandfather it doesn't matter
like he answered Seth Meyers question
very well I think when he was like oh
can we have a conversation about this
without throwing around crazy
accusations of anti-semitism no we can't
we cannot you're unlike Megan McCain you
don't have a legitimate reason for me
not to since since Dominic brought up
how people get their jobs and you know
place in society look at who his father
is Douglas William Dominic who was
deputy chief of staff the United States
Department of Interior senior adviser to
secretary and George W Bush
administration appointee also YZ
recently in controversy here in on April
23 2009 teen The Washington Post
reported that Dominic was one of six
officials being investigated for ethics
violations in the Interior Department's
inspector general so imagine that might
be a lot of stress going on job does
little Ben have a plagiarist for
different conservative outlets and and
Face the Nation recurring guest guy gets
more seats of course and of course he's
facing me that guy gets on Face the
Nation oh yeah baby Jesus Christ what's
it take and Megan McCain can't even
handle like three minutes of a of a nice
late-night comic like politely asking
her to try to not get Ellen Oh Morris a
publicist buddy your publicist
all right oh yeah I should stop lying
about her my dad was John McCain
