okay this is the acting commissioner of
US Customs and Border Protection they
have a now a more expansive notion of
what the border is now I think most of
this is illegal but so every town every
city every state is a border town a
border city and a border state with
every mile the wall that's being built
we are all safer because of it
Thank You mr. president and just real
quickly I'd like to say that that the
officer of the year agent Morales and
all the other nominees I think that they
embody the law enforcement spirit they
represent who we are as a profession and
what we stand for that we get up every
single day doing something greater than
ourselves and thank you too i ACP and
your leadership for everything that you
do and thank you to you the leaders of
law enforcement for supporting you doing
what you do best supporting the men and
women who get up every single day put
the badge on their chest and safeguard
this country thank you for what you do
we will round up mothers we will round
up children we will round up fathers who
own pizza restaurants or moms who are
working at a dry cleaners or owning a
dry cleaning facility we will round them
up and send them home and separate them
from their families if possible well
left just take note every state is the
site of struggle on an issue and you
know what you know why he was saying
that about about the reason why I was
saying in border town and then in the
wall it's because he's still covering
for Donald Trump getting out there and
saying there was a wall in Colorado
really like two or three days ago a
trumpet said we're building a wall in
Colorado and it was basically somebody
will backfill this I get the acting
commissioner of of Customs and Border
Patrol's backfill that statement he's
fighting for something bigger than
himself
last
