[Music]
we got it I got to address this I
haven't talked about lula da silva on
the show for a little while but i will
continue to cover it on this show and of
course we covered a lot on t MBS let me
just reset a little bit why this matters
so much and obviously some of its
personal to me I think that this is an
incredibly admirable and important
leader in the 21st century and the
treatment of him is abysmal and
terrifying an immoral scar on the world
but broadening out from that let's look
at a couple of variables in play because
there's the it goes to several dynamics
that we need to understand then I'll
give you the new news in a second one is
the ongoing interference of the United
States in Latin America which we're
seeing come to a head in this
intervention and pressure in Venezuela
going back of course we all know the
history we know going about the
Eisenhower backing crews in Guatemala we
know that Nixon backed the coup that got
rid of I in day in Chile we've known
that at least 48 if not more coos have
been backed by the United States in
Latin America as well as supporting in
the Condor years in the 70s and 80s
coordinated death squads across the
region backed by the United States and
the CIA involvement in the hunters and
mass murders in Central America under
Reagan in the 80s through Panama with
Bush and then in the 90s into the arts
which is what the pink wave came out of
was a paradox we're certainly under
Clinton and and Bush the second well
there was definitely attempted coos with
Bush the second and there certainly was
a massive strong arming of Latin
American and Caribbean economies the
Clinton administration's policies on
cotton as an example did an enormous
damage to Haiti and you also had a
sort of a slight stasis where at least
center-left governments could come into
power and if they played by what was
then consensus on market rules they
could use some of the excess of a
commodities boom to invest in their
people and then there was another
contingent as exemplified by Chavez who
took a more aggressive posture and then
people like Rafael Correa and Ecuador
who were in the middle but they all
backed each other and they all had a
shared commitment to autonomy and
independence for Latin America and one
that was not adversarial in the United
States or Europe it wasn't adversarial
to anybody president Lula was equally at
home and praised by George W Bush Tony
Blair and Barack Obama as he was by you
know leaders in the Middle East and
Africa as well as being widely admired
across Latin America so and this leads
to the second two parts here one again
this presidency is unparalleled in terms
of the 21st century the historian Perry
may spare Anderson said he probably is
the most successful president of this
century that's important it's important
on a progressive show and if you want to
be in a progressive movement when any
leader lifts between 30 and 40 million
people out of abject poverty when
anybody eliminates hunger in a country
the UN had said there was a serious
hunger problem Brazil after Lula as
president because of serious investment
there is no longer hunger in Brazil and
then you look at um as even as an
example his attempts to forge a deal
with Iran on their nuclear weapons or
excuse me not their weapons their
nuclear program was a forerunner to what
ended up being negotiated so this is an
incredibly successful president this is
also a guy who grew up homeless and was
a labor union leader who helped liberate
Brazil from a military dictatorship in
the 1980s so he also just by his very
identity in fact represented a rebuke of
Brazil's elite and ended up leaving
office with a mid-80s approval rating
and this is where the backlash and the
component of u.s. foreign policy comes
in which is starting with the Clinton
State Department the Obama
administration
okaying a coup against Manuel Zelaya and
Honduras in 2009 Manuel Zelaya was on
the Lula
end of the pink tide a moderate
centre-left leader in Honduras who
started working with the social
movements and started understanding the
need for social investment in fact when
he was run out by the military
Lula hosted him provided him they
provided in refuge in the Brazilian
Embassy at the time
and while you know the dynamic with
Venezuela was different and there was a
hugely aggressive approach towards
Venezuela from Bush and Obama and the
Venezuelan government committed achieved
many great things under Chavez but they
also had problems as well as any
government dis Lula played by these
rules and managed to create autonomy and
lift people out of poverty but
ultimately it came to a head with an
unwillingness to privatize key strategic
Brazilian industries like their oil
reserves which plays a huge role in the
shifting u.s. posture towards him and
the Workers Party in the Dilma
administration that came after him and
then uhm the backlash from the Brazilian
elites and so by this time starting in
let's say 2012 and so you have like
along with these broad sprawling
corruption investigations that only
focus on center left to left leaders
backed by the United States which what
they call law fair in Brazil the process
that targeted Lula you also have the new
version of old CIA propaganda which is
things like the Atlas Network which is
funded by the Koch brothers operating in
Brazil and other enfant as well and
elsewhere to disseminate libertarian
propaganda and support far-right
reactionary forces in Latin America in
2016 there was a judicial process that
removed Dilma Rousseff from power it was
a coup
and it's broadly acknowledged as such
now and then of course last summer we
saw Lula in spite of all of this leading
by double digits in the polls he was put
in prison uh literally for indeterminate
acts that was the phrase they used
Sergio Moro the special prosecutor who
was backed by the Justice Department
here
ittan essentially acknowledged that he
had no material evidence to jail Lula
but just knew he felt it in his gut that
something was wrong so out of this
multibillion-dollar corruption
investigation that implicated all major
parties in Brazil because there's
structural corruption in Brazil which
would get to some other time which
implicates the whole political system
certainly not just the Workers Party one
seaside condo which Lula didn't even own
and they couldn't even prove that he
literally even physically spent time in
he was put in jail for 12 years barred
for running from it for president in a
contradiction of all international law
and not allowed to do public interviews
totally silenced bolsa narrow has been
in power now for a couple of months he
was backed by Wall Street backed by
Trump backed by Trudeau and so on uh and
there are now actual corruption
investigations emerging around bolson
arrow-like connections between his
family and a power military gang that
assassinated Mariela Franco besides all
of which all the overt corruption taking
place like the destruction of the Amazon
and they have just taken this
opportunity to slap Lula with another 12
year sentence for I kid you not kitchen
renovations on a friend's house again no
proof that he even owned the thing and
also all of this took place post
presidency so again you want to take a
global phenomenon maybe Barack Obama
shouldn't go on a vacation with Richard
Branson after he's president but he's
not gonna go to jail for it and nor
should he
this is shocking this is also by the way
a couple weeks ago they did an exorcism
around Lula's office these are crazy
demented dangerous people who've
criminalized
most important president in Brazil and
by extension Latin America's history and
now we're attempting to erase him from
the public record in entirety judge
Sergio Moro the judge that hounded and
persecuted Lula is now of course Justice
Minister in this fascistic corrupt
Brazilian government and I will just say
as an example in this new ludicrous
ruling I'll quote briefly now from Bryan
Miran Brazil wire basically again there
was no evidence that Lula owned the the
home the judge who sentenced him was not
even in the jurisdiction where the
supposed client crime took place as in
the case this is quoting now briefly as
in the case of the Guara Yuja beachfront
apartment used to arrest Lula at the
outset of 2018 an election season when
he was leading the polls investigators
were unable to prove that Lula owns the
property in question in this case the
property is legally registered to the
named Fernando Betar Betar is a
businessman and son of one of Lula's
oldest friends Jaco Betar who's a former
union leader and ank's mayor of Campinas
Campinas which is a population of 1
million is the 11th richest city in
Brazil goes on to explain that again the
this was in a different judicial system
and the other thing that's just kind of
funny in this case is that the judge in
their ruling she made a lot of technical
mistakes including listing employees and
co-defendants in the case as two
different people when they actually
referred to one different entity like
literally a company name was listed as
two different people in the case so look
we can get it you know dig into more of
the details if you want to I would
suggest reading everything in Brazil
wire but that is the big picture context
we're in and in an even bigger picture
all of these fascist governments whether
it's drain the swamp
whether it's bar the most popular
politician and important politician in
the country
running for president so you can
facilitate fascism whether it's the
Mafia investigations that lead to
Berlusconi in Italy it's all a shallow
demagogic anti-corruption politics that
leads to the far-right so people are
gonna need to get much smarter about how
we talk about corruption what that
actually means and specifically what
we're actually targeting because right
now generic anti-corruption discourse is
the handmaiden of global fascism and I
will continue to say I mean they're
trying to make it so this man he cannot
even go see his families in solitary
confinement they want him to die in
prison and there there are many other
examples which I don't have time to give
into him ways in which they're even just
ignoring Brazilian legal precedent to do
this it's it's inhumane it's disgusting
and all of us certainly than any
platform or any access to anything needs
to speak on it and more people Bernie
spoke about it in the spring and Barbara
Leandro Khanna and other than keith
Ellison and other good Congress people
signed a letter but there needs to be a
hell of a lot more done in this and
please do not ever send me some trash
New York Times article telling me that
you know oh there was another corruption
investigation if you believe these cases
you're you know you're essentially
believing um you know if if we'd occur
and Jeff Sessions had unlimited power to
prosecute Barack Obama and he was in
jail while Trump was president but also
he could run for a third term but was
barred for running that's essentially
what you're doing okay
