[Music]
speaking of immigrants to this country
and the alt-right and right-wing bigots
and those who deny their right-wing
bigots I give you gavin McGinnis who has
decided now this is complicated okay he
did 30 minute video on this and we've
watched it forensic ly and we still
can't understand exactly what his point
is but he is claiming that he is
stepping down from the leadership of the
group he founded proud boys but then
he's also saying I'm not actually
stepping down because I've never been a
leader of this group I just founded it
it's been a leaderless group but I am
stepping down as its non leader stepping
away because supposedly this is going to
have legal implications for some of the
members of this group who were arrested
for being violent by the New York Police
Department there's known bastion of
liberal apologists who always round up
people who who don't commit violence
because they are so they're such sjw's
on the New York Police Department so
this gets a little bit convoluted he
also argues this is not any type of
organization for real it's just like it
was just a joke but of course somehow
they always seemed to move in unison in
some and there's 10,000 of them in on
this joke according to him too it's a
little bit convoluted but here's the way
he opened up his video as he announced
that he was stepping away from the group
because he's lost all his friends and
his wife is pressuring no wait a second
that's not what he said publicly I'm
sorry
as of today November 21st 2018 I'm
officially disassociating myself from
the proud boys in all capacities forever
I quit I was told to use the term step
down but I refused because that makes no
sense I was never the leader only the
founder although the media will likely
say Gavin McInnes steps down as leader
of extremists hate group proud boys
because that's how they roll I do all of
this reluctantly because I see I still
see it as the greatest fraternal
organization in the world but rumors and
lies and terrible journalism has made
its way to the court system and the NYC
nine the proud boys arrested after I did
a talk here in New York on October 12th
are facing serious charges I'm told by
my legal team in law enforcement that
this gesture could help alleviate their
sentencing fine at the very least this
will show jurors they're not dealing
with a gang and there's no head of
operations we are not an extremist group
and we do not have ties with white
nationalists that's a sentence that was
pulled out of a Vancouver police report
that and no one not one reporter talking
about this ever spoke to the FBI not one
reporter it's in a police report in
Vancouver it's an FBI dictum we disavow
all forms of alt-right white supremacy
white nationalism etc etc we are a
multiracial Club with blacks Jews gays
Asians etc and one thing I want to get
into later is this one second you know
gays they're one of those other races
that are multiracial yeah ben shapiro
was talking about that last week oh
right that's right I forgot the gays
they're one of the races they're more
primacy white nationalism etc etc we are
a multiracial Club with blacks Jews gays
Asians etc and one thing I want to get
into later is this whole idea of white
nationalists and white supremacy is a
crock why are we talking about it so
much
such people don't exist I you know I
don't want to be glib about this Heather
hire is dead because a white supremacist
ran her over with his car in the wake of
her counter protesting what was going on
Charlie
I mean I I don't know try and think like
what does he what is he actually but he
doesn't believe that white nationalism
or white supremacy exists I mean what
this is a little bit of a giveaway isn't
it right obviously if it doesn't exist
we can't be one we couldn't possibly be
a white nationalist group because it
doesn't exist in no white nationalist no
like there was did we in the history of
the world you've never heard about
oppressed people sometimes being part of
the oppressors that never happens
racists like Jesse Helms for instance
right Strom Thurmond or Jesse um but
both they never had any relations with
let's say black women or sired a black
child let's say right a racist would
never do that
no never happened I mean this is absurd
these defenses are absurd it is the year
2018 this is just it's it's absurd you
had slave owners who had house slaves
that they considered friends family I
can't possibly be racist
I have lain with a black woman how could
I be racist I mean this is I mean this
is an absurd absurd defense but it was
embarrassing if it wasn't so funny now
look in this clip coming up later in his
opus gap McGinnis admits that he started
this group he had you know a healthy
amount of racism in him but he figured a
way I need to monetize it I need to
become extreme as a way of making money
I believe this enough to lose my friends
my wife is upset about it she won't
really do anything about it
ultimately but we have become socially
completely isolated we live in a ritzy
part of of New York and Westchester
County but unfortunately it's not the
white supremacist part and so our
neighbors are uncomfortable with someone
who's associated with that so I've
really got to quit this group because
I'm on a watch list now and oh wait no
I'm sorry that's not what he says that
that I don't know where I got that idea
from what he does go on to say is
something that is completely incoherent
about white supremacists can't exist
because you'd never meet him at a dinner
party sorry this is so long but I gotta
get off my chest
I'm not no I'm not a white nationalist
and probably not white nationalist
obviously but I would go farther than
that white nationalism is not a thing
they are not emboldened by Trump and
coming out of the shadows stop it with
these idiotic tropes we do not have a
white supremacist in the White House
that belief system is remarkably
esoteric it's unlikely any of us will
ever meet a white supremacist posit the
the delusion that is here is maybe a
function of of what alcohol can do to a
brain over time or it could just be
complete ignorance you know who meets a
lot of white supremacist non-white
people it doesn't come up amongst white
to whites all the time particularly if
you are you know in Larchmont although
maybe it does I don't know maybe he's
just lying - maybe he's unaware that I
have just coincidentally a story about
the right-wing violence on a rise in
u.s. the number of hate groups on a rise
in the US
reports of hate crimes in a rise in the
US maybe it's just all imaginary all
hope there's a tyranny or maybe it's
just all ironic just a lot of people who
just started a joke lot of people
because he's minorities to catch up to
these jokes but but here he here is his
daddy
here's his data point in addition to
speaking to a right a lot of people who
want to believe there are no white
nationalists theoretically here is his
data point as to how we know there are
virtually no white supremacist white
nationalists and he's not using the more
nuanced term of white supremacy I can
tell you he's using the term you know
that it's like more like I guess
Charlottesville people or or or just
that guy who was sitting on this super
the the the supervisors board that we
talked about the other day and where was
it in Kansas who said like you know I'm
not a member of the master race you've
got a gap in your tooth he says to the
consultant to the city the black woman
who was just giving a report on what was
it urban development in the city or you
know where the street signs should go
well there's no white supremacist in
development urban devoting about it
white supremacists yet the death threats
keep coming you got any of those they're
often from women just keep scrolling I
don't condone violence that we'll be
looking at if someone breaks my nose
that's nice what if I'm with my kids
oh $500 to hit me upside the head with a
baseball bat that could be fatal what
else do we got here
white supremacy the gun is a liberal
with a gun okay shoot me
we'll put eight grams of lead in McInnis
and you wouldn't shed a tear based on a
mess yeah it's I think is that a
listener well here's an example I like
to use and it it bear with me for a
second here you're at a dinner party
everyone is new to each other at this
dinner party okay and we're talking
about ourselves we're getting to know
each other they can be pretty unusual
and everyone goes yeah that's kind of a
thing I could see first guy hi I'm gay
oh I'm but I'm married to two men
and you go Paul okay is that even legal
I never heard of that before
that person's fine next person I'm a raw
foodist and I think the fact that you
guys are eating cooked food is gonna
kill you
Jen come on you can't really be that
there's show me the science there the
next person says oh hi I'm a flat
earther and I think there's no evidence
that the earth is spherical and you go
oh gee I've heard about you guys I
didn't know you actually existed we what
about the moon it looks pretty round and
then the fourth guy I don't know what
number right now goes I am a white
nationalist I hate Jews and I want all
blacks to go back to Africa everyone at
the table would poop their pants and the
cutlery would drop Zeta either all leave
or he'd have to leave I don't think they
could continue the dinner that kind of
belief system is not matron by the way I
know someone's gonna just take that one
little clip and then put it out there as
proof that's what always happens to me
all right
now I know a lot of you are feeling like
this is incomprehensible what I'm saying
here dinner party this guy is now maybe
some of you are saying like dinner party
cutlery what is he talking about really
do you really think that at the I mean
the dinner party in parts of this
country where a man could say I'm gay
and I'm married to men would just people
would just Slough it off on some level
but putting all that aside the idea that
there aren't dinner parties where people
don't make I mean yes people don't
introduce themselves as white
nationalists white nationalists tend to
believe that like they didn't even exist
they the idea that they wouldn't say
something that was prejudiced is beyond
belief everyone has heard other people I
I am pretty well known as a fairly
liberal person and I hear comments I've
actually been on trains with people
saying I've had people who have said to
me
alright guy who I was talking to about
building a shed at one point he said
you're a Jew
you've got a lot of money not even
thinking that it was like offensive I've
had I've been on a train with people who
didn't know I was Jewish who just said
like that's where all the Jews are this
is just not even at a dinner party this
is just like oh we have a passing I
wasn't even any cutlery to put down a
hawk I remember a woman at school who
literally thought I had horns because I
was the first Jew she had met now I
guess it's conceivable that now granted
I have the Ze'ev eyes back always all
the way before I want to hear more she
was she was from West Virginia it was
the 1980s so it was a long time ago but
the idea like I don't know if he
actually believes this stuff or he just
lives in such rarefied circles or what
but I think it's a combination of that
and then that he's obviously but I mean
it's ingenuously cutting such an
incredibly narrow lane that by the
definition he's providing nothing's
gonna fall into yeah so that kind of
basically white nationalists don't exist
if they don't immediately try to recruit
upon meeting a whole bunch of new mixed
company at a dinner party notice that's
I noticed you're bad you don't not
wearing a name tag that says white we do
a thought experiment we're like maybe so
like you you're a you're a white
nationalist you see another guy like
sort of defend Trump a little bit you
pull them later to the side and then you
start talking about the whole white
nationalist you have to do a thought
experiment they say this themselves you
read any profile of how these groups
operate also I mean he does he does that
he does have his foot in both worlds
because he's associated with white
nationalism and so on but then he's also
does the old-school Republican like you
know here's my black friend that likes
Trump right of course and that's another
thing which is like if you have a black
friend you can't be you can't harbor
prejudiced attitudes so you're just
cutting the most narrow lane on earth
black people are genetically immune to
racism right I mean it's just you know
we know what he's doing it's not that
 forever that's my common quote I
say it's you forever we're done
there you go
so I know son mom dad ass well that's
good i interesting with Gavin is if if
anybody pays any attention to him he's
obviously gonna try and lay low now to
hopefully get get back some of his his
mojo in the hipster set I think it's
unlikely that's going to happen but
without him being an extremist he really
doesn't have much to offer because it's
not like the guy is hugely funny now
look I happen to know some of Gavin's
friends and one of the things former
friends I should say and one of the
things they said he desperately wants to
be a comedian he's always wanted to be a
comedian he hung out with a bunch of
comedians that's how I met him a group
of comedians but he's just not funny and
after a while if it doesn't work what do
you do you develop a stick that sells
and here's what's problematic about it
it doesn't matter what Gavin McGinnis
believes in his heart what he's able to
articulate from his now you know drug or
alcohol riddled the brain it doesn't
matter what matters is what he does what
he puts out in public and part of the
problem is is that people give him a
pass in certain circles that I think are
are a problem do we get into the his
Rogen's comments on aunt Eva as well in
this we should can we let it play all
right well let's play that different
time then we'll do that tomorrow I now
summon della step down from the ANC
which
is ridiculous it wasn't even her
organization to begin with it was a
contest at Watterson Zulu Oliver Tambo
and I had to see who could go the
longest without jerking off into the
bush it is really a fraternal
organization about not jerking off and
drinking South African beer but the
laughed and other politically correct
the agents have totally twisted what
we're doing and it wasn't just black it
wasn't just black Ronnie Kasrils is a
Jew no one gives him any credit for that
but he's a self-hating Jew how can we
approach oast
apartheid when it doesn't exist it's a
figment of your imagination
everybody says apartheid well right if
you said I practice apartheid at a
dinner party everyone would put down the
qatari I'm just doing this to help those
in prison
those I have been told by my attorneys
that the Robben Islanders can get a
reduced sentence I would do anything for
those guys including blower guy at a
truck stop
