but I think one of the things that I
would do if I if I ever achieved a a
dictatorial power in this country it
would be to suggest that if you have any
type of television program you you
really aren't allowed to have political
guests on and allow them to say things
about politics unless you're going to be
critically you're gonna critically think
about them right it's one thing to say
like oh we're gonna have you know we're
gonna have Newt Gingrich on to find out
what makes this guy tick I don't know
that I would watch that I already know
the answer it is he's running a grift
but that's much better than allowing him
to actually run the grift Stephen
Colbert had on last night Nebraska
senator Ben Sasse who is you know a bit
of a poser I think is the way to put it
right and we need sir
and look if you want to have Ben Sasse
on and ask them you know I don't
particularly like it when when people
are you know politicians are humanized
that much but I understand okay fine you
know some people I say should not be
humanized like Dick Cheney you should
not humanize him in any way I don't even
care if it's like a depiction of him as
a bad human I think you just you should
should not humanize him but when Ben
Sasse gets on and starts espousing
political ideology and you leave it
unquestioned and it I mean it's it's
annoying and it's it's it's detrimental
long-term here's Ben Sasse on Stephen
Colbert show find out how would we find
out if she did that we should know all
that we can no closet for one second
this is Ben Sasse giving a very specific
answer on Ivanka Trump's emails now do I
think Ivanka Trump's emails are a big
deal
no we obviously have a problem with like
the way that we organize this stuff and
you know clearly it was big enough for
essentially the entire establishment
media to make a narrative of it and for
the Republicans to do like literally
like six investigations about Hillary
Clinton but leaving that aside here's
Ben Sasse who refuses to take a position
on it but seemingly reasonable find out
how would we find out if she did that we
should know all that we can know okay
seriously really well I don't know the
particulars of this story and now find
out the particulars of the story perhaps
with a so it turns out the branch
government they're supposed to check and
balance one another so I think you can
go in the last two years to check in the
balance thing over there cuz it sounds
like a lot of check I think we lost the
balance somewhere along the line the
Congress doesn't work well here's the
thing that's something cuz that's
something that we could agree the
Congress doesn't seem to be working well
how long have you actually been in the
Senate no almost four years four years
what do you do the problem is why
doesn't the Congress function the way
that I think the founders intended yeah
pause it for one second this is a very
easy question for people to answer why
has Congress not function the way that
it's supposed to in terms and they're
talking check and balance we're talking
about oversight of the executive branch
now the answer is quite easy it is
because the Republican Party has
controlled both of those branches in the
Republican Party has over the past 20 25
years in addition to being ideologically
problematic from my perspective but
functionally in terms of Congress have
been totally derelict and they are a
death cult and death cults don't really
care about good government and
accountability but let's see what Ben
Sasse thinks Congress
function the way that I think the
founders intended yeah so I mean I think
in 230 years
US history the Congress is probably at
its second weakest moment the founders
didn't have a vision of the world where
people wanted to be in politics moved to
DC and stay there forever you're
supposed to think the place where you're
from is the most interesting place in
the world and we used the term
historically public service because you
go to Washington to serve for a time and
you're supposed to go back home right
now most people in Washington their
biggest long-term thought is about their
own incumbency they don't want ever
leave that place and so they don't want
to do hard stuff so there's not a lot of
checking and balancing there's a lot of
more kind of parliamentary instinct to
defer to people in your own party and
the founders will be confused by that
pause it you know what the founders
would be confused by a lot of things I
mean this is such a ridiculous argument
there isn't something fundamentally
wrong with politicians who want to
continue to work in government the
bigger problem is that people leave and
then cash in frankly on their service
but the idea that the founders would be
confused by this you know what else
they'd be confused by how people
actually get to Washington they fly are
you telling me they fly in big steel
cans what are you serious what are all
these black people doing to who what is
the point he's trying to make about
public servants like if you look at that
actually we call them public servants
because you weren't supposed to do it
for that long it doesn't follow at all
no you're supposed to go do public
service it's supposed to be something
different from being from having a job
the founding fathers would be absolutely
they'd be awfully shocked to frankly
that what are their slaves doing as in
the Senate what is this whole thing
where you now popularly-elected er what
that's insane we were supposed to hate
some type of power for the landowners
there wouldn't be that confused by
gerrymandering no they wouldn't be that
confused by Jerry Manny and what again
explain to me this thing where they're
flying
we had anticipated the internet we knew
that would happen but we thought
everyone would Skype in we didn't think
they would have the ability to fly
that's absurd
I'm so confused this is just a dumb this
is just ridiculous and and Ben Sasse I'm
sorry is can someone point to me that
something that Ben Sasse has done that
has been provided a check I mean this
guy's so in touch with the essence of
what the founders expected he's like
Jeff Flake might kind of he's not gonna
go all the way but it'll give you a
little taste and I suppose Ben Sasse is
gonna wrap up his career in two years
and head back to Nebraska is that word
to believe Ben Sasse is on his uh his
retirement lap right now but it's
annoying to me because right after this
all that Colbert does is move on to the
next thing Ben Sasse ascore here we have
the 538 that's actually fairly useful
the Trump score oh okay well I would
imagine it is quite low right because he
has been such a check doesn't looks like
he's pretty pretty on board without the
checks are good how'd the balancing has
been going oh really what's he doing
there he's uh oh he's uh he's almost a
90%
he's a b-plus Trumper 90% in fact he is
like a not less than a point away from
his predicted score based upon how well
Trump did like his whole thing of like
it's more parliamentary that people just
subscribe to their own party he has been
there on just about everything and the
only thing he's Aris yeah tariffs and
health care which of course he was
unbelievable
ben's s yes so much for ben sasse
