[Music]
water boat from Kashmir last week I
wrote down pertinent information about
the current situation in Kashmir the
page is filled up and I wasn't anywhere
close to being done I called in on
Thursday when Michael asked me what was
going on in Kashmir I was so overwhelmed
but I had written down I said to Michael
there's so much why don't you ask me a
question I'll mention just one aspect
now people that get arrested are gone
no records whatsoever prisons and
detention camps are overflowing to the
point that they have been moving Kashmir
ease outside of Kashmir to India for
three weeks now the biggest occupation
weapon that India has is the lack of
information about Kashmir and this black
hole of information is amplifying daily
you know look I there's there's good
things that
tulsi gabbard brings to the debate if
you hear but and and certainly we don't
have a bunch of politicians who are
coming out speaking out about what's
going on in Kashmir they don't all have
a record of praising and supporting Modi
but this I think is is unhelpful to
educate people about what's going on in
Kashmir and you know again fair is fair
it's not like I've heard you know many
of the other candidates I mean I know
Bernie has spoken to a little bit but I
haven't heard any of the other
candidates come out and forcefully make
a case for what's going on in Kashmir
are calling attention to it this you
know making it a little bit of like both
side ISM is I think a little problematic
play the play this clip on the issue in
Kashmir what is your personal idea as to
how we deal with such a complex
situation instead of painting it as a
black and white issue yeah but first of
all recognizing that it is complex pause
the point is I think like you know
here's the question is is the is Kashmir
a complex question of course it is it
has been a complex question for decades
it has been
one of the greatest sort of national
security concerns for the entire world
the world security what's going on there
now is a fairly black-and-white question
should this type of oppression should
this type of oppression be condoned in
the form of absolutely no action by the
US government
first of all recognizing that it is
complex it is it is not as clear-cut as
this one side versus this one side I
think it's important as Outsiders
looking in to understand the complex
history of Kashmir and what has happened
to people there in the past and how many
families were driven from their homes
there and fled and have not been able to
return home how the previous government
Anneli she's talking about she is not
talking about the these people in
Kashmir right now who are being sent to
India and the overflowing camps that are
you know people are being disappeared
she is she is getting back to the
original question I mean this is you
know this is this is something that the
left would never tolerate in terms of
the question of Israel and Palestine and
certainly not this type of or standing
rock which she went to right I mean it's
just there you know there's no
candidates that we have that are above
criticism and but continue and fled and
have not been able to return home how
the previous government had policies in
place that made homosexuality illegal
that's depressed the voices of women
that made its I met a woman a couple of
days ago who said that she as a Kashmiri
woman had no rights to own cars it for
one second incidentally if you go back
and to the summer of 2001
when there were problems with
Afghanistan when the Taliban was not
this is one of the reasons what people
at that time we're talking about why we
should attack Afghanistan probably even
prior to 9/11
now when you arrest people wholesale and
put them in prisons you're also sort of
denying them freedom but quite who said
that she as a Kashmiri woman had no
rights to own property there in her
homeland so these these changes are
things that are happening in a sovereign
country they are very difficult there
concerns that that should be addressed
about human rights violations and civil
rights violations but overall I think
this is a situation again in a sovereign
country that must be worked out by all
sides who have a stake in their own
future there I mean I don't think
anybody's calling for military
intervention but the idea that we
wouldn't take a position on this seems
to me to be well I think there's no I
don't think that's naivete that is
driving that I think it's just on a
different side of the issue
