[Music]
Donnie it's just a clip from a football
game in Alabama it's a team you know a
high school football team and they're at
Centerpoint high school I don't know
we're in Alabama just Jefferson County I
guess and they're playing and and then
all of a sudden apparently there's the
sound of gunfire
and this happens here well though one
second
[Music]
yeah something's going on in the field
basically what happens is they hear
gunshots they're celebrating that
towards the end of the game and then all
the players on the field
literally lie down on the ground
cowering in fear for their lives now it
just turns out that I guess somebody was
hunting in the neighborhood and the gun
goes off if you live in a rural area you
used to that sound
I certainly have in the past you get
used to it
you hear gunshots all the time at first
it scares you and then it doesn't these
guys I'm sure they're they're
comfortable hearing gunshots when
they're at their homes or out you know
but this is the society we live in now
we're the first assumption is oh my god
there's a sniper who's shooting
everybody in the football stadium get
all these kids down on the ground so
what do you think they're gonna be
talking about the game they just won and
they were celebrating or oh my god yeah
that's right at any time we could be
shot at because of our gun laws in this
country you don't think this implicates
the the psyche of people like this the
psyche of a nation oh yeah I mean
perfectly reasonable to assume that
there's somebody shooting a sniper
everybody down it's a price of freedom
it's the price of freedom folks yeah
that is a very very narrow definition of
freedom I'm not feeling free with that
we've just got so much more free as the
ar-15s gotten more populous so much more
free you will not take that away from me
alright I'm tired of this virtue
signaling look at all these players
versatile yeah there are other ground
caring for the second
