[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday February 4th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
City Council Speaker of New York City
Corey Johnson on Amazon NYCHA
[Applause]
and his potential run for mayor also on
the program Americans want us to soak
the rich meanwhile Virginia Governor
Ralph Northam contemplates resigning
after a difficult weekend he did the
moonwalk badly Virginia lieutenant
governor puts out a statement denying
claims of his assaulting a woman Donald
Trump doesn't do much besides watch TV
according to his schedule sounds good to
me
executive time executive named 10e u
nations recognize Guido in Venezuela and
US claims it can't return all the
kidnapped kids to their parents
meanwhile sleeps late asleep safe
however 4,000 troops head to the
southern border The Odd Couple folks
Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders seek to
limit stock buybacks
thank you Bill is Onika SCOTUS stops the
roe v-- wade destroying trap law
temporarily Social Security expansion
hearings being organized that presently
and the whistleblower who revealed that
Jared Kushner did not deserve security
clearances put on suspension all this
and more on today's majority report
ladies and gentlemen I hope you had a
good weekend saw some folks out there
today over the weekend at Michael
Brooks's show that happened on Friday
night sparsely attended but it was good
and no it's just nice it was nice to be
in that room because last time I was in
that was so crowded and this time it was
just nice she felt like you move around
Eve like it was just like plenty of room
and isn't that so that was really great
it was well done smart of you to do it
that way yeah like I don't want to sell
more than 15 tickets right a lot of
people complain during the majority
report show oh so crowded it's so packed
is this we close to the fire let me
write you were just like I'm not having
any of that is that what every lishus
so that was really enjoyable a good time
was had by all and of course we had some
maggiore pork fans in studio on Friday
that was also very exciting and then
over the weekend I got introduced to a
professor of marketing who develops like
how what sugary food you eat
make you buy stuff or something like
that and that was exciting
on Twitter yep yeah so that was this is
a very frustrated marketing professor
I'll talk about it more on TMDs but I
thank you everybody who came out that
was a great show and from Australia to
Florida to Denver to Indiana it was
amazing and we had a great time and when
we put it up because we taped the whole
thing we'll put it up first for TBS
patrons obviously there was a very funny
interaction with Sam there we go well
that's I've seen people have cut when
people are cutting different cut bootleg
version yes you can find those if you
have the ingenuity to find those that's
that's my approach to all bootlegs if
you have the ability to find it go we
support all need piracy folks protect
your loved ones with the peace of mind
of life insurance I've mentioned this
before when I didn't even contemplate
life insurance until I well shortly
after I was married my then wife was
pregnant with our first child and I had
to start thinking about getting life
insurance many of you think you can't
afford it maybe you think it's too
complicated well chances are selectquote
can help you get it for less than a
dollar a day selectquote
comparison shops up to ten highly rated
companies including Prudential banner
Life Mutual of Omaha others to find you
company with the best rates
selectquote could find a 35 year old man
a $500,000 policy for under 19 bucks a
month that's less than a dollar a day
cup of coffee a day costs more than that
selects breakthrough technology allows
them to quickly match you with the best
insurance company to find your best
policy plus quotes are free look again
if you have children in particular life
insurance is crucial god forbid
something happens to you and look and
here's the other key get it while you're
young it's cheaper it's significantly
cheaper I am NOT a financial advisor I
can tell you what I did term life
insurance the whole life insurance thing
I was told like you you you know you do
better off just doing a term life so
it's theoretically possible now I know a
lot of people feel this way about you
know others other types of insurance too
social insurance but theoretically
possible you'll pay for twenty years
thirty years I did thirty years on my
first kid twenty on the second because I
still had that first policy and you
won't die and then nobody gets a payoff
but that's the whole point of insurance
this is to cover you in the worst case
scenario let selectquote save you time
and money get your free quote at select
quote comm slash majority today that
select quote dot-com slash majority for
your free quote don't put off protecting
your family another day select quote
dot-com slash majority get full details
on the example policy at select quote
comm slash commercials your premium
could vary depending on your health is
showing company and other factors not
available in all states folks you know
it's not smart job boards that's ND
candidates that aren't qualified for the
role you posted that's not smart and the
ones that send you a mile-high stack of
resumes to sort through
not good but you know it is smart going
to zip recruiter dot-com slash majority
that's the place to hire the right
person for you unlike other job sites
zip recruiter finds qualified candidates
for you it's powerful matching
technology scans through thousands of
resumes to identify people with the
right skills then it actively invites
them to apply for your job so you get
qualified candidates first and fast
that's why zip recruiter rated number
one by employers in the US uh Brendan
how did you how did you how did you find
us
I was no I know you want to zip
recruiter were you actually on zip
recruiter or were you on somewhere else
and it pulled you in really you were on
zip recruiter
alright well either way I was quite
happy with it I mean yeah real talk
brendan is definitely I would say the
nicest and most well-adjusted person
here and I include myself in that
ranking by far not even close and right
now my listeners can try zip recruiter
for free at this exclusive web address
zip recruiter dot-com slash majority if
you love this show show your support to
it and zip recruiter by going to zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority that's
how we got Brandon folks zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority I was super super
impressed with it zip recruiter is the
smartest way to hire all right let's
take a look at this we get news packets
Brandon listen over the over the weekend
I'm not sure if you're aware the
greatest dynasty in professional sports
one which will seal that greatness by
not going to visit Donald Trump despite
the fact that there may be some personal
relationships but it doesn't matter
what's important is their political
actions and their public actions and
despite that couple cell despite a
couple of missteps what's also important
is you have good advisors so maybe you
are not so a savvy about what's going on
in the world
and maybe you buy a wrong hat and put it
in your locker mistakes can be made the
important thing is you listen to your
smarter advisors in this case Tom
Brady's wife she sell basically said
don't do this don't be an idiot
and he said yes dear okay
and yes mark kissed my kid on the lips
well that's fine too
that's fine too that's fine I love Tom
but yeah it's but that said like a guy
who's not a parent that's all I can tell
you yep meanwhile guys loving parent
greatest quarterback in the history of
the game maybe one of the most
accomplished athletes in any sport and
any time I'm sorry I know that bums a
lot of people out but it's true
meanwhile the Super Bowl took place this
weekend and here's Donald Trump talking
about how he's really upset about black
people talking about the the kneeling
position you've taken and the
controversy around it do you think that
the players who did Neil had a point are
you sensitive at all to players like
Colin Kaepernick who point out that the
majority of victims of police violence
are black well you know I'm the one that
had passed judicial reform and if you
look at what I did criminal judicial
reform and what I've done
President Obama tried they all tried
everybody wanted to do it and I got it
done and I've been you know really a lot
of people in the NFL have been calling
and thanking me for it they have been
calling and thanking you know that
people have been trying to get that
taken care of and it's now signed into
law and effects tremendous numbers of
people and very good people I think that
when you want to protest I think that's
great but I don't think you do it at the
sake of our flag at the sake of our
national anthem absolutely but you are
do I understand you saying there though
that you still are sensitive though I
mean you you understand the motivation
for the protest though you don't
normally a lot of it is having to do
with reform from what I understand
whether it's criminal justice or
whatever it may be and they have
different versions and everybody seem to
have a different
version of it but a lot of it had to do
with that and I took care of that I
think that people have to at all times
respect our flag and at all times
respect on our national anthem and our
country and I think there are plenty of
places and times you can protest and you
can do a lot but you can't do that
that's yeah that's bad I took care of it
so the bill that passed the criminal
justice reform bill affects maybe
several thousand of the hundred and
eighty or ninety thousand who are in
federal custody in a federal prison that
has nothing to do well maybe it's like a
fourth-order thing to do with what a
colin kaepernick
was protesting well Colin Kapernick was
protesting was the complete disregard
for for black lives particularly in the
context of the way that black people are
policed in this country and to the
extent that the Trump administration did
anything on that front it was to have
his Attorney General at the time Jeff
Sessions tell every police force in the
country not only are we going to pull
back on any oversight that we're
providing problematic police departments
currently we're not going to engage in
that in the future so in other words if
you have discriminatory practices if you
have a problem on your force with overt
or covert racism or de facto racism or
whatever it is if you have a record of
being particularly violent with black
people don't worry about it we're not
coming from you you go to town you you
do you is what jeff Sessions told told
them so the idea that in any way Donald
Trump addressed this is a farce that's
the first point
maybe he's deluded about that maybe he's
not I don't think he cares one way or
another
and then the idea that you just the
standing up during the the singing of
the national anthem at a football game
is the scenic wanan that's the one thing
that you can't not do you can do that
you could do a lot apparently according
to Donald Trump but that's the one thing
you can't do particularly if you're a
black guy right I mean cuz we all know
that was his attempt to run in the
midterm elections let's make it cultural
I think they're gonna shift and go back
to abortion but we'll see all right look
we got to take a quick break when we
come back we'll be talking to City
Council of New York Speaker Corey
Johnson right back after this
[Music]
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program New York City Council Speaker a
Corey Johnson speaker a welcome to the
program thanks for having me I should
also say you are if I'm not mistaken the
acting Public Advocate as well is that
right that's right I'm the Public
Advocate and so we have the special
election here in New York City later
this month on February 26 and I assumed
the role on January 1st and I'm happy to
hand it over to whoever wins later this
month I would imagine that's you've got
plenty on your plate well let's let's
let's start with this now we've played a
couple of clips of you over the past
well we played one on Friday well we
played over the past couple of weeks
specifically you in conversations or I
should say maybe in hearings frankly
with executives at Amazon let's just
start with this what tell us what the
Amazon deal is as it is now and then we
can talk about what why you find that
problematic in some ways well you guys
have covered it but with great fanfare
in November the governor Governor Cuomo
and the mayor mayor de Blasio made a
joint celebratory announcement saying
that Amazon was coming to New York City
to Long Island City and Queens on the
waterfront on the East River and what
they outlined in that announcement and
what we have learned since is that
Amazon is coming here but Amazon's not
coming here just on their own like other
big companies have they're coming here
and they're getting three billion
dollars in a combination of tax
incentives and direct cash subsidies
they're getting public land they are
avoiding the our city charter our city
constitutions mandated land use process
where there would be a hearing where
they would have to go through and
negotiate and answer questions and they
did this all in a hunger games like
contest pitting over 200 cities and
counties against one another
and what we've learned at these hearings
is that Amazon actually got some well
you can consider better offers from
other cities and states and counties
across the country with more money and
probably more crony capitalism in
corporate welfare but they came here
they said mostly because of our
workforce our talent pool and so it's my
sense that we gave away the store we
gave away too much we're giving away
almost three billion dollars and public
land and not having a public process and
scrutiny for a company that's worth
nearly a trillion dollars to the richest
man in the world Jeff Bezos and the
rotten cherry on top of all of this is
he was able to secretly negotiate a
helipad on top of his new HQ to
headquarters that they'll be able to
land right on top of it instead of using
our subway system that is crumbling and
the ultimate question is is this an
appropriate use of taxpayer dollars is
there a better way to spend three
billion dollars whether it be on our
subway system or on our public schools
or on preventing homelessness or public
housing which is crumbling in New York
City right now and my sense is yes and I
think that we got played I think the
taxpayers got played and I think Amazon
is exhibiting a form of vulture
monopolistic capitalism and the two
hearings that we've had they have been
unable to adequately answer our
questions using scale talking points
over and over again so we had one
hearing in December we had another
hearing this past Wednesday we're having
another hearing next mods and then we're
going to have a public hearing for the
public to testify as well because this
deal deserves scrutiny that it hasn't
received since Amazon got New York City
government employees to sign
non-disclosure agreements
where they avoided any sense of scrutiny
throughout the entire process until the
deal was announced Wow all right so I
didn't realize about these NDA's and and
I and I I want to get to the status of
the deal exactly I mean is it it but but
before we do what what makes the
relationship between Amazon in the city
different than because
I have folks who have said to me well
look the these subsidies are available
to any company that comes in it's just
usually not one maybe this size or with
this baggage is that the case could I
have a small business or any size
business and go to that area in Queens
and say like oh I'm gonna get these
these tax benefits for if I start a
company there well it is true that a
bunch of these subsidies there are two
subsidies one is called reap and the
other is called I cap they're state
subsidies that were created the city
participates in and these are considered
as of right subsidies their subsidies
that you can achieve if you look locate
your business in certain geographic
areas in New York City the the issue
here though is that the only reason why
they're able to get these subsidies in
many ways is because they're locating in
a place in Queens and they're taking
city and state land so you know we're
handing over a public land to them so
they can actually D in a geographic area
where they could qualify for these
subsidies but some of the cash that
they're getting is not part of this
they're getting almost five hundred
million dollars in direct cash from New
York State to be able to actually
construct their building and that is not
as part of these subsidies programs this
was a that was sort of a one-time deal
that was structured for them on top of
the subsidy programs are getting and I
think the larger conversation that needs
to be had here both in New York City New
York State across the country is are
these subsidy programs worthwhile do
they have a good return to the taxpayer
and should these type of subsidy
programs be allowed and I think that's a
much bigger conversation that this
Amazon deal has really highlighted so
even if you start with the premise that
these subsidy plans are a net positive
which again I share your skepticism
about this I've seen ads on television
for years
where
Governor Cuomo's bragging like come to
New York State our corporations pay zero
in taxes wow that's great
if you're one of those corporations but
but so in this instance we they were
were they sold or they were given a
state land I mean that to me I would
think that land is pretty valuable stuff
includes it gets even worse I mean the
land that they are going to be occupying
is city land the cities now I believe
going to lease to the state to be able
to transact this deal and execute it in
the way that it was structured but but
adjacent to the land that they're
building on were two sites one was a
city-owned site just to the north of it
an adjacent parcel that had been
identified to go through our rezoning
process to achieve affordable housing
and other necessary public benefits
whether it be open space or school seats
for the community in Long Island City
and just to the south of the site jace
adjacent to it to the south was a
privately owned site that had been going
slated to go both these sites through
the public approval process where the
City Council would be able to vote on it
and negotiate what was best these sites
were going to achieve somewhere along
the line of 5,000 units of housing
almost 1500 of those units were going to
be affordable housing and what was done
and what I think is really suspect in
strange is that both of those sites
which really have nothing to do with
Amazon they're just adjacent to the
sites both of those sites that were
slated to go through public review were
folded into the Amazon site so these two
sites that for years were identified had
gone through a community planning
process we're about to enter our public
land use review process in New York City
at the very last moment when the Amazon
deal was announced it was said now these
sites are folded into what's called a
general project plan which avoids the
the land use process in New York City so
you have a private site on the south
where now the owner of that site doesn't
have to go through the public review you
have a public site on the north which
was slated to go to the
view which got folded into it and so
again it's a very strange thing here
where it's not even just about the
Amazon site it's about the sites
surrounding it which had been identified
for and we're slated to go through some
level of public review to get a park to
get affordable housing to get school
seats now the community and the City
Council and members of municipal
government are cut out of that process
and it gets folded in with Amazon where
we can't even calculate how much money
they're gonna save avoiding that type of
public review and the housing that was
slated for the site is no longer slated
for the site in some of those sites I
mean so this is I mean this is this is
almost immediate to microcosm of what
people find problematic with a company
like Amazon you know it's almost like a
metaphor right I mean because we have
these set of rules that are supposed to
create processes that are supposed to be
make these the use of this land as
Democratic as possible so there's as
many stakeholders involved in these
conversations and the richest company in
the the world or pretty close anyways
what are the richest men in the world
come in and the whole thing is waived to
provide them with their headquarters so
is this a done deal
I mean is there absolutely is it just
basically two guys the mayor and the the
governor get together sit down with
Bezos and say we made a deal and that's
it there's no is there I mean is there
any way theoretically to stop or to
change this deal well at this point we
have tried to use our bully pulpit as
the municipal legislature here in New
York City to try to shine some light on
a deal where there was no light where
there was no public review no public
process in a meaningful way it was
cloaked in secrecy and in darkness
negotiated was non-disclosure agreements
even though billions of dollars and
public money was being put on the line
the question of whether or not this is a
done deal Amazon's tone changed a bit at
the hearing we have
last week they started to hint well if
you don't want us we want to come to a
place where people actually want us
which I don't really buy I think that's
sort of a scare tactic to try to raise
doubt in the minds of are we going to
lose potentially tens of thousands of
jobs we don't want to lose jobs but we
also don't want to lower Labor Standards
Amazon has one of the most anti-union
Records in the United States and across
the world there have been strikes and
protests across Europe there's a
distribution center on Staten Island
where employees have been lodging
complaints against unfair labor
practices and we wanted to be able to
ask those difficult questions about
their collaboration with ice on station
recognition software and their track
record in Seattle and how they were able
to lobby and water down legislation and
regulations that they didn't like as one
of the biggest employers there is an
obscure board in New York State called
the public authorities control board and
for New Yorkers who may have memory of
about 15 years ago when Mayor Bloomberg
proposed to build an Olympic Stadium for
the Jets on the west side of Manhattan
that proposal was met with a lot of
opposition and had to go through this
obscure Authority called the public
authorities control board that board is
made up of three appointees one by the
governor one by the Speaker of the State
Assembly and one by the majority leader
of this of the state Senate it requires
a unanimous vote if one vote votes no
then it kills the deal the governor is
contending that it does not need to go
through that board other experts on this
or contending that it does need to go
through that board and so there is some
disagreement there I believe it needs to
go to that board which means that there
significant leverage and I think Amazon
is feeling the heat Givens uh tough
questions that have been asked of them
and I think the public outcry related to
this deal okay and so I mean it's I
remember the the idea of the stadium
that would have been a disaster I can't
I mean it's almost impossible to imagine
that now
particularly with housing prices as they
are in New York City and in congestion
and and whatnot so and all right so
let's let's just turn to a little bit in
terms of like what else we could spend
that money on today it was announced
that HUD was not taking over NYCHA
which is the New York City Housing
Authority but it was going to basically
put it under some type of stewardship or
monitoring I guess what can you tell us
about that situation well I mean Nitra
the New York City public housing
authority almost 400,000 New York City
residents live in public housing and it
has seen years if not decades of
disinvestment from the federal
government which has been hugely
problematic there was supposed to be a
consent decree and settlement with a
district court judge judge Pauley here
in New York City in New York State and
he didn't sign it because he didn't
settle it was good enough but the real
the real question is how much money does
public housing need and the estimate of
what public housing needs in New York
City to be able to get it in a season
how little place without lead and
without vermin and without broken
elevators and without all the issues
that plague NYCHA on a day to day basis
is thirty two billion dollars we need
thirty two billion dollars to fix NYCHA
we need sixty billion dollars to fix the
subway and bus system in New York City
we need we're short billions of dollars
in school aid in New York City where if
you are a student who lives in a
low-income zip code predominantly in
neighborhoods that are communities of
color you're not getting an adequate
education because you're not getting the
resources and New York City's owed
billions of dollars from a suit from
over a decade ago so that add that adds
up to be you know almost 100 billion
dollars I think there's a better way to
spend three billion dollars
and taxpayer money for children for
straphangers for public housing
residents rather than give it to a
trillion dollar company with a man who's
worth almost 160 billion dollars we got
played
we were played by Jeff Bezos we were
played by Amazon they created The Hunger
Games
pitted City after City against each
other and they're running away with our
money which they don't need they have a
terrible labor track record they
collaborate with ice in a secretive way
on a regular basis
they've watered down progressive
legislation in the City of Seattle if
they wanted to come here without any
level of subsidy without using public
land and and create jobs fine they can
do that but they're coming here and
they're taking our money
they're taking our land they're lowering
our labor standards there is a better
way to do this and it's incumbent upon
us to expose their track record and to
talk about how this is not the right
deal for New York City how does I mean
what is the argument from those people
who who are pushing this deal from the
from the governor and the mayor and from
others who are pushing this deal what
what what what is the what did the sort
of the metrics of their argument this
three billion dollar investment is going
to lead to I know they say 25,000 jobs I
will also say Foxconn said that the that
Wisconsin was going to get 13 right
right I mean it's wait I think it's gone
from like 30 to 13 to maybe a thousand
at this point what but even presuming
that there's 25,000 jobs that Amazon
brings into the city which is you know I
would imagine 13,000 or 32 Wisconsin far
more relevant in many respects than
25,000 to New York State and certainly
in New York City or vice versa I mean so
but even under those like what is the
metrics here what's supposed to happen
now that we get Amazon broadly that's
gonna benefit the city well we want
25,000 jobs you know you want more jobs
for an economy of something wrong with
that but let's provide a little bit of
context
the Great Recession in 2008 and 2009
where the the national economy in the
New York City economy that took a major
hit we have seen the longest economic
expansion in New York City that's
basically been recorded since the Great
Depression almost a century ago over
700,000 private-sector jobs have been
created in the last 10 years so when you
take 25,000 jobs and you put it in that
context it's a nice number but it's not
a gigantic number it's a gigantic number
if you go to Pittsburgh or Cleveland or
Scranton or somewhere in upstate New
York but it's not the same number you
know that doesn't mean we don't want the
jobs it's just important about the
context the number that Amazon keeps
citing that that New York City and New
York State keep citing is they're saying
that there was a study done mind you I
understand this at the hearing the study
was paid for jointly paid for by New
York City and New York State which says
that that three billion dollars eleven
nine to one return on the investment and
they believed that over the course of
twenty years it will create twenty seven
billion dollars in new revenue but what
they're not able to answer is if those
are the potential benefits and I I'm not
sure I agree with those numbers or find
those numbers to be accurate but even if
they are what they don't account for are
the cost those are the benefits what are
the costs what does it mean an
additional sanitation what does it mean
an additional school seats what does it
mean on the wear and tear on the subways
and public transportation system the
study they're citing did not look at any
cost associated with it it only looked
at potential benefit and so they keep
drumming on the numbers of twenty seven
billion dollars really get twenty seven
million dollars and twenty five thousand
jobs independent analysis disagree with
that number and again if this was done
in a public way we could have had that
conversation talk to economists who
could do this type of analysis but that
wasn't done they're holding their hat on
25 thousand good-paying jobs which we
want but not able to really defend the
three billion dollars in an independent
way right so there's been a total
failure of
of process so best-case scenario would
get a nine to one return but that is
premise that doesn't take into account
any of the liabilities
I would imagine also it doesn't take
into account the opportunity costs of
that land and what else could be there
in terms right of New Yorkers but also
the direct cost to the city in terms of
infrastructure and I would imagine also
to the loss of affordable housing that's
going to be involved with this right and
and and so this is really in many
respects a process argument and it
doesn't take into account which you
mentioned earlier Sam it doesn't take
into account what are the secondary
displacement concerns what are the
housing cost concerns in the adjacent
neighborhoods what are the
gentrification concerns what are the
mass transit concerns it doesn't take
into those kind of larger questions that
you want to look at for surrounding
neighborhoods and communities that have
already seen a level of gentrification
and displacement that is affecting those
neighborhoods and again I mentioned it
earlier but it's really important to say
I'm really proud that New York City is
one of the highest unionized cities in
the United States of America and that's
a really good thing because it creates
good middle-class jobs with pensions and
good benefits for people to be able to
support themselves and their families
it's a pathway to the middle class and
for Economic Security
Amazon's track record is one that is
hugely anti-labour
and when I asked them last Wednesday
would they agree to labor neutrality
just sitting on the sidelines and
letting their workers organize if they
wanted to they said no almost a decade
ago there's a casino called
aqueduct in Eastern Queens that involves
public land and New York State was able
to negotiate with an international
casino operator Genting they were able
to negotiate labor neutrality where the
once the casino opened up and expanded
the operator would not get in the way of
their workers unionizing
Amazon at the hearing on Wednesday when
I said would you agree to labor
neutrality the very short answer was
Oh sir all right sir let me ask you this
and you tell me if I'm out of bounds
here because I know this is sort of like
outside the portfolio of the city but on
this question specifically the the
unions but on other questions too
there's another problem with Amazon
right I mean it's not like a just a a
generic company coming in and looking
for this deal
Amazon outside of New York right has
incredible monopolistic power both in
the marketplace and in terms of money it
has a tremendous influence on the
politics of our country both because
it's such a massive company and has so
much money also they have you know with
Jeff Bezos the owner obviously owns the
Washington Post how much of that I mean
I understand like look your job is to
deal with that with the facts for New
York City but how much of that is a
concern to you because it's not just
that they're not being neutral in the
context of the unionization in their
city there is value to them to fight
unions in New York and the payoff is
much larger than it is for a company
who's just in New York right I mean you
have companies who don't want unions in
their their company they're a New York
company they don't want a union in their
company so they're the way that they
fight is going to be commensurate with
what they think they're gonna have to
pay for unions in New York in New York
State but for Amazon the stakes are much
much larger to fight a union in New York
then because it implicates their their
company you know
internationally and so the what they'll
bring to bear against a union in New
York is much much larger than a company
whose stakes were just in New York and
that's also going to be true in terms of
their influence on politics and a media
how much of that is it appropriate for
you to consider being just a you know
just your portfolio portfolio being
about New York well I mean when we look
at the labor standards that have been
created here in New York City whether
it's the city council a few years
passing paid sick leave for New Yorkers
or all we do to ensure that we're a
labor friendly town when you have one of
the largest companies in the world the
highest valued company their world a
trillion dollars and they have a really
bad extensive anti labor track record
not just around the country and around
the world but documented here in New
York City on Staten Island at a
distribution center that opened up not
that long ago where there are complaints
coming out every single month on how
they treat their workers forcing
overtime not allowing mandatory breaks
working in bad conditions it's important
and I think there is an antitrust
element to this an antitrust element
related to Amazon but we've seen the
conversation grow on antitrust related
to Facebook antitrust related to Google
antitrust related to these companies
that a decade ago were celebrated as
sort of the new economy and we need to
ensure that when you have these large
companies whether it be Airbnb or uber
or these large tech giants we don't want
them to erode labor standards that
protect employees so it's a conversation
that has to be had it's a conversation
that hopefully now with the Democrats in
charge of the house we can have at the
federal level through oversight hearings
through antitrust hearings and it's a
conversation we need to look at across
the country income inequality is still
the biggest issue in the United States
of America and the corporatization of
our politics have showed that
corporations and the CEOs and boards who
run these organizations have far too
much power a disproportionate amount of
power as it relates to the average
citizen and what are the effects of that
how does that affect everyone else how
does that affect how we spend government
money how does it affect public policy
and is it right for the future of our
society that's a much bigger question
than just one side in Long Island City
but this is sort of emblematic of how
they get to as someone likes to say rig
the system and how we need to be able to
look out for
the average New Yorker and the average
American City Council Speaker Cory
Johnson just one last question what's
the story I gonna run for mayor
I've seen some there's you've you've
you've alluded to it on Twitter well I
you know I would I was not trying to
play cute but I hadn't done any
fundraising and I've been in this
position for a year and everyone else
who's definitely running has millions of
dollars in the bank so I wanted to be
forthcoming about my fundraising
strategy which is even though I could
accept contributions of $2,000 I've
self-imposed a limit on myself as two
hundred and fifty dollars per person and
I'm not taking any money from real
estate developers no money from
lobbyists and no money from corporate
PACs and to be able to do that
effectively I need more than 7,000 New
Yorkers to be able to contribute $250
and as I started to fundraise I knew
that if I started to do this privately
it would get out to the press so I was
being transparent about it I haven't
made a final decision I love New York
City 36 years old I came here at 19
years old with two bags knowing one
person it's a city of dreams and
aspirations and and I'm gonna keep
looking at it try to build support and
we'll see what happens two and a half
years is you know 40 lifetimes in
politics right but I'm grateful to be
able to continue to do this work all
right well if people want to get more
information where should they had is
there a site that for Cori for NYC Co re
y fo r NYC comm speaker of the City
Council of New York core Johnson thanks
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you take care bye
that's impressive
incidentally in terms of the
restrictions he's put on his fundraising
first off you never hear of candidates
who don't take real estate money in New
York City the only other candidate I'm
aware of right now that is doing that is
no michi const and which reminds me I
should tell you right now
she needs your support she's got nine
days not even nine days at this point
too I think seven days to raise I think
another $9,000 my numbers may be off by
a thousand or so $9,000 from New York
City residents you can go up to two
hundred and fifty dollars and up to 250
those dollars are matched by the City
eight to one we have a very good
publicly financed campaign system here
and that's why he said he can do up
seven thousand some odd donations to
that amount because there's a limit on
how much you can raise or at least in
terms of being matched and it's seven
thousand times 250 I don't know I can't
do that math off top my head but of
course that was a significant amount of
money but if you have the opportunity
we're gonna put a link to know me Const
and we will also put one to Corey
Johnson site but if you have the
opportunity to to give anything to know
me she will qualify for the matching
funds and even if it's five or ten bucks
20 bucks
that'll be times eight if she qualifies
so it's coming down to the line right
now she got the signatures her
signatures were okayed she's gonna be
making is she's gonna get into the
debate so if you have the opportunity
like I say five ten bucks times eight
that's significant cash when you're
running in a special election in New
York City that election is gonna happen
in three weeks or something I think it
is so so check that out office guys um
the interesting thing to hear Public
Advocate yes she would be great honestly
so outside the system and in really that
job the Public Advocate job is a strange
job it's one of those jobs that and I
think this is true of some jobs in in
politics
but not to the extent that is in this
job this is this job is highly undefined
it has often been a stepping stone for
people I don't think that she has I
don't know if she has the ambitions but
she certainly burned a lot of bridges
and she seems very comfortable with that
I should say and that I think is a great
top line for your resume for that job
she also look she's also worked in the
media and her ideas about about
providing research that are going to
allow for more journalism around the
city is key so I think she's an
extraordinary candidate for that
position and I'm gonna be watching the
the Cory Johnson I mean I think he's
quite interested in a Corey Johnson did
I'm pretty well convinced the just
awareness of like of the dynamics here
and you know I think the stuff with the
Amazon is just not so straightforward as
we were you know sold early on there was
a lot of skepticism early on but I think
he really clearly understands the
dynamic here and Amazon wants to be here
and if they want to be here that much
there is no reason no reason to there is
no reason to have to pay them money that
should be going other places to come
this is gonna make me laugh I see what's
being queued up here I have not seen
this before
this is gonna make me laugh because I
already have someone I have someone who
already sort of says I wonder who made
this accuses you of having a crush on
yes yes folks just a reminder I think
this program just so warm thought this
Pro this program relies on your support
by becoming a member you make this show
possible day-in day-out
you can become a member at join the
majority report dot-com
when you do we give you extra content
every day we give you commercial free
content every day although I'm not sure
what's gonna happen on Wednesday because
I may have to have personal day cuz
Modern Life ladies and gentlemen but so
your support keeps the show going I want
to thank our members obviously so much
we literally could not do it without you
and it is with all the sort of the
mishegoss that we get involved in in the
YouTube world the nice thing about
having a listener-supported show is that
you you don't have to tiptoe around
certain things and so that's good we're
not we're not going to be getting big
funding from any other organizations
that's just not going to happen but
members make it possible for us to feel
good about that
so thank you just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off Michael T MBS
special time because of Tuesday oh wait
oh and a reminder tomorrow night State
of the Union address we're gonna be
doing live coverage not sure what time
it's going to start we will tell you
tomorrow but it starts at 9:00 is that
right I'm sorry all right so we probably
won't start until you know probably 8:00
8:30 or so
so yeah the the idiot is doing is
addressed tomorrow night so we're having
at EMBs on Thursday evening before
returning to our normal time of Tuesday
next week Briana Joy gray is joining us
in studio on Thursday we also have an
activist an Israeli activists who works
on one-state solution politics as well
and then on Tuesday of next week mark
Blythe who has been a regular guest for
patrons is gonna be our main show guest
and check out the primer we just
released for patrons with Nigerian
British writer Ralph Leonard on CLR
James and the critique of identity
politics patreon.com slash t NBS
patreon.com slash t NBS thanks to
everybody who's at the live show Jamie
yeah so this past weekend we did
something a little different on the I T
Fatih
and we invited some of yes indeed we
invited some of our amazing left is best
community members who are in town to
come and make a participatory episode
with us nice how many people we got a
lot of good good folks in here we got
Jeff from Georgia
there was a CI there was a sign of my
there was a note on my seat from train
boy yeah we had training boy he did some
very on brand train talk we had teacher
Lauren vo so many good folks and teacher
Lauren was here yeah I met her husband
at the show and he is a carpenter gave
me really he gave me you carpenter chair
Lauren that's show well I did but III
because he's a carpenter Heidi yeah I
mean I told me he said he said what's
the deal with Sam bothering me about
carpentry you know I got a tip which I
used in making a shelf this weekend
actually which was a lot of talk about
AOC glue yeah it's a good super amazing
and I think it's gonna come out pretty
good we also have our episode that is
still up from last week where we talk
about handmaids fail and the purge
movies with Leslie Lee the third from
struggle session so check it out alright
and Mac literary hangover still in the
Seven Gables episode Edgar Allan Poe
coming soon though
swing and
this is a bull Prager I think both I am
allowed heart I think two unhappy and
will head into the fun half six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number and we will see you there
you
[Music]
my chief said that 200 million would be
40% of the population and that's wrong
right that's six percent I mean that's
closer tell me what it is letting you
see quickly math in 61 person 60% I
clearly lied to you when we all know
after having done it on our calculators
it's 61 percent let's talk about ALC a
little bit right folks please sit down
because it turns out that at one point
in her past
Alexandria Acacio Cortez danced budgets
are moral documents we only have empty
pockets when it comes to the morally
right things to do
health care is right our climate is in a
crisis right now it is time to move over
to a renewable energy economy it will
hire a
every single American should have the
opportunity to attend college or trade
school one of the biggest threats facing
America is income in a father exactly we
see that this is not a pipe dream
every other developed nation in the
world does this personally hope she's
not the future new party who dis
[Music]
it's really not about left versus right
as it is top versus bottom and the only
way that life is going to get better for
us as working-class Americans is by
electing people who don't take an
adorable old frog as a heavy hitter is a
really really really funny one let's go
to the Dave Rubin wall that's great too
Dave Rubin one was great where is that
let's start with this
now look god this guy all right so
apparently there's this other podcast
called pod save America this of course
is a play on on God save America which
is not a thing by the way well it's not
a thing pod save America is not a thing
but it is a thing it exists and here is
a pod save America they copied us on the
type of you know everything everything
the microphone microphone the the boom
the hat wearing the hat wearing they
were had big headphones though because
they're still getting used to the idea
of being on radio I get over that long
time ago and
so here is John Lovett now this is this
is the guy who's now a comedy writer
right is that right it's John Lubbock um
isn't one of them a comedy writer I
don't know he's officially a comedy
writer but he fancies himself comedic
but all of their names are taken here is
and and and and this is why you know
back in my bumble days I I wrote on my
profile let me tell you why you can do
better than pod save America the appeal
of that it's like I will let you you
over dinner not while your podcast well
I just like I'm missing it what's up
honey baby branding options not yes a
bit nevertheless here is here is John
Lovett making an argument that I think
is wrong there are legitimate policy
arguments in favor of a an act of
Medicare acts as approach as opposed to
a medicare-for-all approach that is not
ideological in the sense that it doesn't
make you less liberal and it doesn't
make doesn't make you less progressive
to view it as a positive outcome because
again we are all going to end up paying
for health care the goal the ultimate
goal here is not a process one it does
it is not but you know there a private
health care plan versus a Medicare plan
if you have good insurance that you can
afford that protects you when you need
it most
that gives you the option to get the
preventive care that you need without
bankrupt you and your family that makes
you feel safe and protected that is the
goal as a country our goal is to pay for
everyone's health care in a way that
doesn't eat up a greater and greater
share of our gross domestic product that
is the ultimate goal the debate about
policy the debate about process is a
really really important one but it
should not be always reduced to this
ideological question as to whether or
not you're going along with Bernie or if
you're part of the neoliberals it just
isn't it is more complicated and a more
nuanced than that okay here's what I
agree with it is more nuanced than he's
making it he's actually reducing it far
too
in in in generalizing it far too much I
keep it back up there because I want to
replay the first part of it look I agree
with the sentiment that it is silly to
put labels on this and that these
questions I don't know what it means
that these questions if he's saying they
aren't ideological differences or if
they shouldn't be but the reality is
there there's there's a word here he
uses that does a tremendous amount of
work more work than it can do in reality
and that word is if alright let's play
it down there are legitimate policy
arguments in favor of a an act of
Medicare acts as approach as opposed to
a medicare-for-all approach that is not
ideological in the sense that it doesn't
make you less liberal and it doesn't
make doesn't make you less progressive
to view it as a positive outcome because
again we are all gonna end up paying for
health care the goal the ultimate goal
here is not a process one it does it is
not but you know there a private health
care plan versus a Medicare plan if you
have good insurance that you can afford
that protects you when you need it most
that gives you the option to get the
preventative care that you need without
bankrupt you and your family that makes
you feel safe and protected that is the
goal as a country our goal is to pay for
everyone's health care in a way that
doesn't eat up a greater and greater
share of our gross domestic product that
is the ultimate goal first off it is
clear that we cannot achieve that that
goal that he's talking about not just
the GDP but having health care that will
not bankrupt you and your family it is
clear that we cannot do that with
reliance on the private health insurance
industry that model does not work I
think there's a I think there's a
legitimate actual argument that you
could have you could have
you know supplemental private health
insurance but if every person in the
country does not have the ability to
bypass the private health insurance
industry then we're not going to get
there it is just the case that the
private health insurance industry does
not have a functioning business model
that does not involve making it very
difficult to insure people properly
that's just the fact and so you can say
if but unless that word if is magic and
can actually change physics you're not
going to get there aside from that we
shouldn't just have health insurance
that does not threaten to bankrupt us we
are past this now the American public
compromised and compromised for decades
that we're willing to have the
aspiration for insurance that won't
bankrupt us we're okay with insurance
that won't bankrupt us or that will
actually cover us right that's what the
ACA was that was supposedly the deal we
were making but it but it didn't work on
the on the bankrupt side it cut down on
bankruptcies no doubt but it also puts
such a economic pressure and it ties us
into employers it doesn't free us up we
want freedom from this and the
government in a medicare-for-all like I
say the existence of private insurance
as a supplement that doesn't implicate
this but Medicare for all where the
government ensures all of us ensures and
assures us you will get health insurance
you will be able to pay for this the
vast majority of doctors will have to
take it because they will have no
business otherwise there'll be no point
in them being doctors they won't see any
patients otherwise
and incidentally you won't have to go
through some type of of maze to get
refunded or to find out if your doctor
covers you all this stuff do a little
John Rocker the America yet the American
people is done we made that compromise
and it didn't work it wasn't enough that
we just don't get bankrupt we want it
not to be our second or third job to get
health insurance and to worry if we're
covered or to deal with like oh it's the
opt in the open enrollment this year you
know this month or do I qualify or what
if I got a stay at this job or I'm going
to lose my health insurance we're done
with that the American public is done
with that and to that extent it is an
ideological battle I mean it I think it
gets a little bit too reduced in some
ways I think people overuse the word
neoliberal but nevertheless it is a real
difference that is not processed it's no
more process than like the difference
between walking somewhere and taking a
plane yes you'll get there you'll get
there you want to go to hell that's a
process question do you want to get I
like don't argue with me about whether
you're gonna take a plane whether you
gonna walk you'll get to LA that's
that's what dismissing those those plans
as process is if is equivalent to it
really makes a material difference
whether you fly to LA from New York or
walk to LA from New York when you fly
you get there quicker when you walk you
get there much later and it's going to
be exhausting you'll probably have
blisters maybe unless you brought food
along the way
you might be hungry or cold or exposed
to the weather where are you gonna sleep
during that time you'll have a greater
appreciation of the lay of the land this
is yet to no country this is not just a
process question and and and beyond that
even if you want to go beyond that okay
there is an argument that from an
ideological perspective there are
implications to simply saying that the
government has a responsibility to
provide health insurance it's not that
dramatic of a thing we do it for a
quarter of the third of the population
right now to the American public and to
have a relationship between its citizens
and the government where everyone can
enjoy the benefits that Medicare
recipients do is important in terms of
people's understanding of their
relationship to their government which
will pay other dividends but even
keeping it as narrowly situated as
loved' wants to he's wrong well here's
the thing like he says that we're the
ones being ideological but all the
evidence points to the fact that the
best way to guarantee health care for
everyone is a single-payer system so if
you look at the evidence and you still
want a market-based solution I think
you're being the ideological one but
also like there there is an essential
difference in ideology between the
people who believe that health care is a
right that should be socially provided
for and free at point of service and
those who don't think that it is and
that's like not something that can
really be reconciled but that's why the
pragmatic arguments again are so so
important because like just what just
just one one counterpoint to what he's
saying that he doesn't seem to
understand is that if rich people have
private insurance and their taxes are
going to pay for public insurance for
poor people rich people are going to be
incentivized to want to shrink that
system as much as they possibly can so
that they don't have to pay for it
whereas if everybody is on the same
health system then the people with the
power have a lot of buy-in and it's a
lot less vulnerable to attack I think
that's true although in the context of
Social Security right everybody pays in
rich people don't need that social
insurance when they're richer the the
whatever the two thousand dollars a
month or $2,600 a month
that they get is meaningless to them but
they still can't touch Social Security I
think if everyone is involved in it the
the the the rich that would have perhaps
a supplemental private insurance that
they want a concierge they want their
doctor to show up at their house or
whatever and you know uh you know give
them check their blood pressure at their
home fine all well and good but here's
the thing that is disingenuous about
this there is no argument that the mixed
version he's talking about is more
practical
you never hear anyone make that argument
the practicality or I should say is more
functional the practicality is there are
forces that we cannot fight and if we
want to remove the ideology from this
debate the way to do it is to say
Medicare for all you either criticize
Medicare for all that is where you know
on its merits or you say we simply as a
country are too beholden to the
financial interest of the private health
insurance industry to get enough people
to politically do this like all of that
talk you hear about it but it's
whispered right well it's time to make
it explicit if you want to advocate for
this because you don't think that we as
a a society even though the vast
majority of people might want it have
the political will to fight the money in
the private health insurance industry
then you then you are doing a disservice
to the country to not admit that's the
problem
because once that's admitted then it's
also then things are gonna start getting
ideological like it's not ideological
necessarily to say I want a Medicare
buy-in versus a Medicare for all
particularly it's not until you start
explicitly saying
I'm okay with a system where people the
vast majority of people want one thing
but we have too many powerful money to
interest in and be specific about
there's too many powerful who are going
to prevent us from getting that and
spell it out and then we can move on to
the next question is like what are we
going to do about that problem you know
what what are we gonna do in terms of
antitrust what are we gonna do about X
appropriating the the value maybe it is
for some of the drugs that they get and
of runaway models where they're stuck so
they can't spend so that they're allowed
to spend on lobbying but they're not
going to because we're gonna take away
the profit margin on that drug in such a
way that they're gonna want to just pay
themselves instead of just getting
lobbying instead of trying to corrupt
the processing yeah but that's also
where they're just stuck because you
know when Obama did health care I mean
you could legitimately say there just
wasn't the political context and we'll
to take on all the fights you need to
have and that would be a legitimate
historical argument it was the wrong
policy because even my understanding
from reading people like hacker who I
think is where like the overall design
for that plan can absolutely that
essentially it isn't just idea like the
public plan is ideologically important
but the public plan is the structure
that keeps the prices down essentially
so it's it's very difficult to implement
that successfully just even on a
technocratic level without that part of
the package but they might have had a
case back then that like look people
aren't invested in the specifics the
debate back then was you know it was
still a mainstream position for people
to say like who weren't just Republicans
say like well you know having 40 million
people without coverage is just part of
how we do things it's totally not the
case today and if you want to say that
we're still totally backed in a corner
on yeah like what you're saying then
then it's like you have to make a
completely different argument and that's
gonna be you're gonna be smooth with it
you've got to be super explicit night
and I think in same goes for all of the
candidates who are going to be
prevaricated on those issues whether
they're and clearly like
Biden or McAuliffe or Bloomberg but also
like a Harris or hookers and floor or
Elizabeth Warren or I wasn't I would
have respect for a candidate who says I
want Medicare for all but I'm putting
people on notice right now that they the
the health insurance industry is
extremely powerful and they're going to
fight for it and we may not end up with
a Medicare for all but we're gonna have
to fight for it and it's gonna it
require the American public to stand up
and fight for it and also adopt some
other mechanisms in which to curb their
power in this fight 100% and I and I
mean also though I just want to see like
I agree with you about like sort of like
ancillary providers not being the
biggest thing in the world like if
there's some type of private home care
or something I mean I wouldn't prefer it
but I don't think that that's central to
this question of like essentially
eliminating insurance companies and HMOs
and making it free point of delivery but
I think on the other hand I want to see
I'm very interested in making as much of
the health system writ large in public
as possible so while I'm I would I would
say like okay we could negotiate on that
but I want to start seeing like
following Elizabeth Warren what about
making the pharmaceutical industry
expropriating that and making it public
and really starting to put you know more
on the table because theoretically
that's another way of addressing the
advantages they have is actually just
blistering them and as many angles it's
exactly say just like hey we're going
for everything not only single-payer
we're also gonna make the farmers
industry public it's all built on public
research you brought you profit off a
privatized commons anyways we're gonna
go after hospital chains so when you
think about the fight back it's not
gonna just be single-payer it's the
whole thing
yeah it's gonna become increasingly
clear during this fight who is a
good-faith left-liberal and who thinks
it's totally fine to let a private
profit take precedence over the wants
and needs of the majority
here is Elizabeth Warren and she this is
an instance where not unlike Kamala
Harris although Kamala Harris didn't do
it publicly it sort of came out the
backdoor where there's there's some
wiggle room on this medicare-for-all is
there room for private health insurance
in your vision of the ideal American
health care system so let's start with
the battle we're having right now and
talk about the things we need to be
doing because I don't want to lose sight
of this
it's it's good to talk about our overall
goal and here's our overall goal this is
what distinguishes Democrats former
Republicans Democrats believe health
care is a basic human right and we fight
for basic human rights our obligation is
to make sure that everybody gets
coverage at the lowest possible cost to
all of us so what does that mean right
now it means fighting the Republicans
who are trying to sabotage the
Affordable Care Act right now your
vision for Medicare for all would it
include would it all be a public option
or would it include our private
insurance so right now we've got
multiple there are multiple bills on the
floor in the United States Senate I
signed on to Medicare for all I've
signed on to another one
that gives an option for buying into
Medicaid there are different ways we can
get there but the key has to be always
keep the center of the bullseye in mind
and that is affordable health care for
every American yeah it's not a good
answer
again merely and it's unclear to me like
why why is there already this
negotiation against the old same
pathology it was an interview you could
give a year into her presidency when
it's like it's been backdoored people
are on the streets and this is actually
what's getting hashed out and we didn't
get there a hundred percent yet but we
achieve this this and like why you would
say that again before people started
bone agates are it's got to be either
they're worried about fundraising or
they're getting pushback from big donors
who are saying don't be so don't be so
married to Medicare for all but it seems
to me that you could also even phrase
that even if you had to do this for your
big donors right and anybody running for
president on some level has to do this
it seems I at least those who have
declared at this point I don't know that
well it'll be interesting to see if
Bernie is has this type of wiggle room I
suspect he won't I suspect he won't
we'll see well well but what would to
the extent that she did she expressed it
and there's no reason why it seems to me
that Warren couldn't say look I want
Medicare for all there are a lot of
powerful forces out there that that
don't want it or that it scares them and
it is going to be conditioned upon the
American public if we get there
but I you know it it just this
negotiation beforehand by saying like it
doesn't matter between a Medicaid buy-in
and Medicare for all I'm sorry
those are very very different programs
and those are very different ways of
structuring it and she's also
undermining I mean I think like those of
us who've been treating her you know
fairly and with proper respect frankly
who you know prefer Bernie if he jumps
in but we've been making like like Bosca
aren't I even giving her a lot of credit
for her policy proposals and Politico on
the other end with that report on Wall
Street executives did the inverse where
the bad guys have told you
who's unacceptable to them and she's on
the list right so she should just be
milking all of the political mileage of
being on the bad guy list well here's
here's where the difference in where the
two people are coming from comes into
play right because I think somebody
asked us last week like maybe it was you
Sam like what is the substantive
difference between someone who funding a
left liberal who fundamentally believes
in regulated capitalism and some kind of
democratic socialists like Bernie
identifies as that not the question the
question was what is the difference in
their policy proposals okay well here's
a practical difference
and it also goes back to what Virgil was
saying on Friday about how we need to
suit up for war if you put it a
market-based solution on the same level
as a systemic solution like I don't know
standing up to a large sector of capital
like even if the plan you start with if
even if a plan the left-liberal starts
with is like very good and seems to get
you there if you give an inch to the to
the idea that the private insurance
industry should or could exist in any
kind of helpful way like you've already
lost and that that opens you up
completely to rolling it back to means
testing like you give these people an
inch he'll take a mile
well yeah but she wasn't she wasn't
advocating a market-based she was saying
either buy into Medicaid or a Medicare
for all I mean neither one of those is
market right it's neither one of those
market-based one is there are two
different government programs and buying
into Medicaid the the disadvantage I
mean I guess the disadvantages of buying
into Medicaid is that we've heard that
states have too much control over
Medicaid as opposed to Medicare which is
which is run you know by the federal
government and is now maybe
theoretically in the buy into Medicaid
it's not under the same restrictions
that it would be on the states but she's
not advocating a market one I just think
that like it you know from a political
standpoint now maybe she maybe she does
seems like she was leaving the door open
maybe I misinterpreted what she just
said buy into Medicaid she mentioned two
programs buy into Medicaid and Medicare
for even when you are asking people to
pay for it that's a compromise position
that nobody should be taking at this
stage in the fight the the III mean that
may be the case but she's not she's not
doing what you said she was in terms of
like promoting a market-based solution
now she may be she may and may not that
may be an incomplete clip but in the
context of that clip and I think there
is I agree with you I think the idea of
of taxing and then having you know that
that relationship to the Gummer is
better than to buy into to Medicaid but
neither one of those
is a is a market-based thing why they're
just maybe I need to read the
runoff political capital that she has
from that article I really believe well
I think I did just to really simplify
that particularly in the primary Sante
Sanders and Warren are unacceptable it
should be bold and in an ad with like a
yellow you know marker around it and I
think you know to be fair to her what's
funny about her is I think like it she's
both obviously genuinely willing to
challenge those interests because she
has her whole career and she should get
the credit for that
but then I think this is where her
instinct to quote unquote get stuff done
is not compatible being a good campaign
alright I got thirty people also sign on
to the option that lets private
insurance companies be deliverers of
Medicare if I recall correctly
she's hedging her bets I'm not sure
about that one but appreciate hold on
one second let's go to the phones got
thirty people on the phone calling from
a to 100 area code who's this good
afternoon Spanish shop in San Antonio
Yan from San Antonio how are you sir I'm
okay so in the last week
the debate over a medicare-for-all has
come to the forefront with the Harris
Booker and Warren all abandoning
Bernie's version of Medicare for all
promoting promoting Bernie's version of
Medicare for all which eliminates the
private industry industry over a period
of years earlier in the month the Kaiser
Family Foundation had a poll in which
they stated some honest facts and some
fear-mongering the aspect that the
journalist latched on to there's only 37
percent I surveyed wanted to eliminate
the the private health care insurance
companies you know I don't understand
why people have such a high opinion of
these companies you know they're forced
the American public to pay vastly higher
prices than any other industrial nation
in the world the average American pays
ten thousand two hundred and twenty four
dollars in 2017 the
average of the 12 wealthiest nations is
5280 thousand in 2016 the US spent
seventeen point eight of his gross
domestic product on health care while
the average spending among the the
highest income countries was eleven
point five of GDP why are Americans
paying more for health care the largest
region is because the American
electorate refuses to rein in the health
insurance industry you've interviewed
former health insurance executive
wendell potter many times he's had a Mia
culpa concerning his former role and has
spoken out against the industry is
involved in and the December 14th of
last year Potter I wrote an op-ed that
stated he spent twenty years in the
health insurance industry executive
before leaving my job as vice president
Cigna I can tell you firsthand that
focusing on a half-baked measure like a
Medicare Medicare buy-in Democrats would
use which hand a huge gift to the
private industry insurance industry
while doing less than the bare minimum
to help struggling businesses workers
and families and patients it's time to
the Democrats to stop proposing health
care reform there are lives on insurance
companies to pay their fair share so
after a two decades in the to the
for-profit health care industry I can
assure you that they never will they
have no interest in doing anything that
might in any way jeopardize profits
their only interest is delivering
profits to their shareholders from their
perspective the status quo is very
profitable last Wednesday Paul Waldman
wrote in The Washington Post's called
the piece called the media is badly
botching the Medicare for all debate and
here's some excerpts you know he says
it's just as bad as the Iraq or what the
media is doing and you know you can you
can absolutely talk about whatever you
want about the cost of universal system
and and journalists almost never do
they're not asking questions you have to
compare what a universal system would
cost compared to what your
paying now maintaining the status quo is
a choice the choice that will cost us 50
trillion my opinions is actually of
course they took 45 trillion but still
over ten years in the status quo that's
the most single most important fact to
keep in mind as we talk about costs and
the people have already forgotten to
know about it just this morning Cory
Booker was on CBS morning show with the
Norah O'Donnell and was saying it's
going to cost twenty two trillion 230
trillion dollars over a 10 10 year
period that's too much money here's the
truth the government already pays 20
trillion dollars right now right now in
taxes for healthcare I mean you take out
1.45 that everybody pays in for Medicare
and their employers 1.45 all the other
coverage coming from Medicaid the VA
community health clinics so the real
number is only about 1.2 trillion per
year right and finding that bet
mechanism you know should we should
we're talking ten years we're talking
closer to 12 trillion dollars added to
what we pay now but that 12 trillion if
we were doing it over 10 years and kept
it in the in terms of the private sector
paying for it as individuals paying for
it or businesses paying for it will be
closer to 15 to 17 trillion dollars all
right but listen here here's the I can
answer your first question John okay why
is the American public hesitant about
this and that is for the same reason why
individuals make irrational choices all
the time where they're afraid to do
something different that happens all the
time why do people stay in marriages
they don't want to stay they don't want
to be in why do people stay at jobs they
don't like why do people why do people
you know
I don't know not take their car in to
get an oil change when they know they
should people are nervous about change
they don't they sometimes are a little
bit lazy and feel comfortable where
where they are the unknown is scary and
frankly I mean the irony is is that by
the time people get a taste of what
we're talking about the only thing they
can think about is making sure that they
don't lose it you know that's why
seniors vote and all it takes to
activate seniors in this country you
know Barack Obama you know when people
forget this when Barack Obama ran going
into Iowa
the thing that I'm convinced he won that
what made it took him over the edge in
Iowa was to talk about how Social
Security was in crisis when in fact
Social Security was not in crisis but it
activated older folks who are like this
is the guy he's telling me Social
Security's in crisis he's gonna do
something about it I don't want to lose
my social security and and you you get
the same response with like you know
keep the government off my hands off my
Medicare the American public up until I
think very recently has been completely
unaware of what Medicare for all would
mean they've been scared about it and to
the O to the one extent that I think
that there is an argument to say you
know we're gonna drop you know the first
thing is to drop you know Medicare we're
gonna pass legislation and we're gonna
drop Medicare anybody over the age of 45
goes right into Medicare you know and
maybe people can buy in prior to that
that's the you know the the best
argument for that in my mind is just
that the American public is nervous
because they it's just something that is
foreign to them and what it well I mean
one of the things that Bernie talked
about a few months ago that I thought
was a little bit of a concession was is
he's saying did this this all wouldn't
happen at once in other words
you know it there would be a ten year
phase-in you know in other words the
first time everybody the first one would
be you know people everybody who was you
know born to I think it was 26 years old
and then 55 to 65 would be the first one
and in the next year right it would be
45 right which is to somewhat you know
it's it's saying that we shouldn't you
know didn't do everything at once now if
the Sanders instituted the gathering
they were talking about the Taiwan
system which came up in the late 90s
were worried though it was phased in
over a year and a half and everything
went really well well I actually believe
here's the thing I actually think
there's a danger in phasing it in so
slow that it can be attacked as you go
and people don't get the benefits I
think that can be problematic but all I
can tell you is that the the the fear is
simply like on some level a certain
amount of human nature and I mean think
about this like how much consternation
was there about the Affordable Care Act
that when in fact you know less than 3%
of Americans
aside from the Medicaid expansion right
but in terms of the private insurance
industry less than 3% Americans if I'm
doing my math correctly we're talking
about 10 million people actually buy
their insurance through Obamacare the
rest of the people all that they ended
up getting the only implications were
and I think that the the selling of
Obamacare was completely botched because
I mean when you think about this it's
it's sort of stunning the only thing
that impacted everybody else in terms of
health insurance was they can't have
their insurance taken away from them
they can't be denied for pre-existing
conditions they get free colonoscopies
they get free of birth control they they
can keep their kids on it until they're
26 they're held
insurance has to include certain basic
services essentially and and products to
constitute health insurance that's it in
terms of the implications for everybody
the problem is they over promised they
said it was going to be cheap and the
problem is people hate their health
insurance but even still the idea of
switching to something else is scary
appreciate the call I would look up I
would look at the work of Daniel Ariely
actually um I don't like behavioral
economics applied the policy but he
wrote this book called predictably
irrational and he also did some of the
early research on inequality so he was
one of the people who did like basically
Americans their rhetoric on things like
meritocracy and inequality is completely
mismatched and what they actually choose
in an experimental setting so basically
like they opted for like the most were
distributed progressive less left tax
scheme imaginable like probably bigger
than what a OC is proposing or Bernie
but if you ask them they'll say like no
I don't want to like you know punish
success or whatever but he his other
research is on loss aversion and that's
what you were alerting to about like
staying in a bad marriage or a job you
don't like or something so I do think
like that is gonna have to be something
that's played with and I think that
might be some of I think the totally
mistaken but that might be some of the
instinct that someone like Warren has
when she sort of emphasizes the
essentially like you'll keep your doctor
line right which I which is actually
quite important I mean that was
something that Obama really did get
dinged with yeah and not totally
invalidly frankly I think that's because
he was fiddling around with private
health care and you know creating all
this convoluted new bureaucracy which is
unhelpful just trust those guys right
but I think ultimately you're gonna have
to contend with those concerns I like to
Bosch Carr said on Friday you have to
actually respect people's desire for
normalcy you also have to remember that
this is a billion dollar profitable
industry that has poured millions of
dollars into disinformation of the
populace freaking people out into quote
unquote centrist
tanks who want to lie to people and say
oh yeah we can get there with a
market-based solutions it'll be fine and
also I think what you were just talking
about with the amount that the these
sectors of capital freaked out about
even the lightest attempts to regulate
the industry and to sort of move towards
a better more universal system like
they're gonna treat any attempts even
the nice ones like the ACA as like some
sort of full-on socialist expropriation
campaign so given that fact I think
they've shown that they're not ever
gonna play nice with it with this so we
might as well give them the real thing
that's the only way to deal with it yeah
I mean I think that's true I think that
it but we still haven't addressed in
that equation people's just general
concern about it although I think I feel
like it's changing and politicians like
Bernie and IOC come in who can speak to
people and explain it to them really
well part of the theory behind the
public option within the exchanges
always was there will be a subset of
people out there who will be saying this
is great and my friends you know going
home and saying mom dad or you know sis
bro this public option thing is great
it's too bad you guys aren't eligible
for it and it's not because of you know
how much you may it's just that you get
insurance through your job sorry well
that's what's already been happening
with Medicare right which is one of the
most popular programs in the country
yeah the problem is well if I can stay
alive until I qualify for Medicare I'll
be set right I mean that's what I was
saying earlier is that you know in some
way there hasn't been enough I you just
don't hear enough of the Medicaid
expansion kind of fulfilled some of that
function but it had I think that really
weird class dynamic where you had I mean
particularly Luke was telling me in in
Idaho that the one thing that he would
hear from like reactionary Republican
types at the door that he thought they
were totally justified in you know they
put the blame in the wrong place but
they would be quite pissed that they
were like
hundred bucks or a thousand bucks off
from if you're a medic 84% they're like
I am totally screwed yes I'm being
forced today over the price bad private
insurance testing or yeah and so right
right we know that we can afford not to
means test we can afford to make it free
the only reasons not to do those things
the only reasons not to give people
really good health care it doesn't cost
them anything is out of deference to
these private interests and here is
another inconvenient fact is that
seventy percent of people are happy with
their work based insurance what
percentage of people have had to use it
in any real way well that is I think
that is one of the difficulties of of
all this is that for a long time in
particular it was even worse before the
ACA frankly they like because a small
group of people use their health
insurance to the point where they can
find out how bad it really is and they
just that's the nature of insurance
right like I don't know how bad my fire
insurance is I will tell you after my
house burns down
and they don't rebuild it but I'm one
out of you know thousands in my
neighborhood who have fire insurance and
we all think it's great but we don't
know because we haven't had a fire so
that's what's what's problematic there
so you know this is a this is a tough
nut to crack
I just think that that politicians need
to be more upfront about those
challenges rather than make it like well
this system could work or that system
could work it needs to go for what
really works and then I think
incorporate the the Daniel Ariely stuff
and strike to actually have some
communication the challenges and and
here the challenges and here's why we
may not get there right but they also
need to work with fears too and Anna can
deal with that people are saying they
out loud in a way that they didn't
before and that's only gonna be a good
thing and the number of Democrats who
can say oh I would love to have a
single-payer system but there's just not
popular support or oh the Republicans
are getting in the way like that excuse
will become thinner and thinner I think
that's true all right let's go to the
big story over the weekend of course was
Ralph Northam and I am really well I'll
give my opinion on the on the substance
of the story I also think it's sort of
interesting that this did not come out
until he had these what were considered
controversial statements about abortion
in Virginia now it's weird to me that
this stuff hadn't come out when he ran
he obviously it's weird to me that you
have a yearbook for medical school where
you take pictures like I mean I get it
why people do this in high school have a
good summer
and who's got time for this in college
and and I feel well this is not God
little school dude okay yeah I mean in
Cleveland Morris listen I went to a
small school in college and I'm pretty
sure we had a yearbook and I remember
thinking at the time this is corny but
you know it's your college years but in
medical school gets pretty corny and of
course it turns out that in Ralph's
Northam yearbook in Eastern Virginia
Medical School and my understanding is
that that's the old school Virginia the
that area there is a picture on his
yearbook page of him sitting by a Camaro
or some type of like a cruising car and
then of course he's got the Liggett
Horry hat and outfit and then of course
there's also the obligatory picture of a
man in blackface and a man in a full-on
KKK outfit
zooom ibly going to a party of some sort
I don't know some have to get up now
Northam has it's come out in his defense
was that that that's not me but that
picture somehow landed on my yearbook
page and it was somebody else and he and
he determined this he first came out and
said it was him then he said he called
around to two friends to see if it was
him and people had different stories but
none of them said it was him did he keep
a calendar but chance uh he doesn't have
a calendar he does like beer storage
shaggy defense but here he is here is
his this is the well okay he said I know
that was not me in the black face
because I did put on blackface one time
to do a an impression of Michael Jackson
doing a moonwalk and here's a guy who
well you really get the sense that he's
a little bit lost in all this well look
at this clip yes that's right
[Music]
my wife says in appropriate
circumstances okay so he looks around to
see if there's room for him to do the
moonwalk anything life just has to go
like hey dude are you some type of a the
idiot well now there's an even bigger
problem with Ralph Northam he's a
yeah I mean that is totally dumb that is
pretty this guy is completely like he
doesn't quite get it now Billie Jean is
here's here here is a another question
they asked him turns out that his
nickname at least as written in the
yearbook was man this was written
in the yearbook something like Jesus
Christ yesterday evening was the first
time I saw this photo it was shocking
and it was horrific
[Music]
my main nickname in high school and in
college was goose because when my voice
was changed and I would change an octave
there were two individuals as best I can
relax at VMI they were a year ahead of
me they called me kun man I don't know
their motives or intent I know who they
are but that was the extent of that and
it ended up in the yearbook and I regret
that yeah I bet you do now here's the
thing I don't understand like is this
the first time he's seen his yearbook
he should have he should have gone on
offense he should have got like one time
I saw like I mean I think like this is
the thing that I understand about this
and and I think this is this is you know
important because I'm on the right right
there's a whole mechanism for this that
is I you know I have since come I found
Jesus and forgive me and this fits in
into a whole different thing but on the
left and you know obviously I don't
think Ralph Northam is you know he's not
a member of DSA but on the left and in
terms of Democrats there is no there is
no mechanism for this there is no like
I'm sorry or this and that and I think
the problem here I don't think the
problem is that he he wore that stuff 25
years ago because I don't think he has a
history since then of anything that
would in any way implicate those
feelings it's quite possible to me that
25 years ago in Virginia there was no
sensitivity to dressing up that way
right like you know one guy's got all
these all no sense to the parts of
Virginia today well that's probably true
too but even but I'm saying amongst
people who would now have more
sensitivity to it okay
and so and I've listed bottom line is is
you got to come out and look at this
stuff and if you're gonna be a public
figure you've got to
own up to it and apologize for it or at
the very least you know explain it
contextualize it before it becomes an
issue and then when you come out and
deny it because you're it is then it
becomes a question of just sort of
leadership and if you want to be a
governor of the state then you're also
saying I want to be a leader and if you
want to be and this is the case I think
too with like I want to be a famous blah
blah you know the fact the matter is is
that one of the things that come with
fame is that people are gonna scrutinize
your life and your life decisions and
that's the way it is in this day and age
just be lucky that you're not you know
fourteen-year-old where every single
thing you do is documented in a digital
fashion and is going to be there forever
and you you're gonna have not even
anything that isn't going to be
something that you're gonna have to own
up I have a question to be idealistic
question do you think if he was running
for governor and cuz I was thinking
about this like what cuz I I you know I
think like yeah I think he doesn't have
a record of these things I don't think
that every single you know mistake or
controversy should ruin somebody's
career but it occurred to me like he I
don't know I guess what I'm saying is I
don't know if this would have sunk it
before he began but if he came out when
he was running for governor was like
look of course by the way as a heads up
I did this stupid disgusting racist
embarrassing thing in college and as
part of my transparency with you to
because I want to lead all of 100
percent he should that was yeah this
right here and this during his reign are
you done at any point and said look
either either apropos of what ed Henry's
doing you know we run ignite ed Henry
hydrolyse we is running apropos of these
ads I want to say something I don't
think that you can that that just
because you had racist beliefs in one
time or you're you were acculturated in
in one way growing up in one fashion
that you can't go beyond that here's an
example I drew
stop and blackface or I took a picture
with somebody who was dressed up in
blackface and it's on my page in the
thing and you know in in and
I took that picture and at that time I
thought I'm just you know it's goof
maybe it was a function of not you know
taking black people you know seriously
as other individuals as humans and and I
regret that now and if he had said that
um but he's but he's he's not only Z off
the hook in my mind he's better for it
right be fair he first ran for office in
2007 so that was a totally different
time what do you mean like you know just
blackface wasn't the same kind of
liability that it is now well I'm saying
if he had run for during his Governor
race that was my I think yet if he had
come out and said well look I mean 2007
when was it when Ted Danson wore black
face to a roast for his girlfriend
Whoopi Goldberg it's a joke but a lot of
these things have changed a lot in the
last I mean sure we knew blackface was
not okay in 2007 I don't know when that
happened with Ted Danson and Billy
Crystal did a thing for New Orleans
Katrina relief where he just did like a
black guy accent for like 30 minutes is
really weird I mean you know the the
sensitivity to this stuff and the
awareness of it I think is is a lot more
recent than you would expect
and he should have done it I should have
coming out and this should be a model
frankly and cuz now to me it's like I
think he definitely needs to resign
because of just how it's underlined a
certain sense of disconnect and
disrespect which sort of I think I
inhibits his ability to govern because
of how he's responded to it even just
the thing we played it's hilarious but
like I don't know should I moonwalk no
you shouldn't you should not moonwalk
during this press conference well no
yeah yes that's just that's just like
that's not racist that's just don't
but that's kind of what I'm saying I'm
not just implicating the racism here I'm
implicating the lack total awareness
situation right yes that's what I'm
saying
I mean I will say this in 2000 I did a
movie which in which one of the
characters I had put in blackface and it
was there was a thematic reason to do it
at the time that I don't know that it
worked
it was ostensibly to to mock the concept
of it and it didn't work it's not a
choice I would make today for something
like that and the movie had other
problems as well and that's why I never
officially released it in the context of
people who know my work broadly speaking
I feel like they can interpret it but if
I was to put it out there publicly I
would be I would be more concerned if
that's the first thing that someone saw
of my work there would be too much
opportunity I think of people
misinterpreting it so I wouldn't I
wouldn't publish it in that manner and I
think that Northam could have said like
look this is not something I was trying
to present to the world or to the extent
that I was to present that the community
people knew me and a context like
whatever if he had offered some
explanation of it or had said I feel bad
about it I apologize I didn't know what
I know knew then I think he wouldn't be
in this type of mass and I mean and if
it wasn't like I find it hard to believe
he hadn't looked at his yearbook it's
also an issue for the people who were
supposed to be feting him when he first
got into politics right yeah and his
opponents like clearly Ed Gillespie was
like a colossus like he's gonna go up
five point like my basis
yeah if anything they were afraid of
losing supporters to him for that
meanwhile tell you what a shrew like a
nickname so part of the calculation I
think and and in terms of like calling
for his in calling for his resigning I
mean to the extent that I would call for
his resignation it would be a function
of just like he's not handling it well
that's what I'm saying that's what I'm
saying it's about not him I don't think
that you necessarily need to resign no
because there was a picture of you in
blackface 25 years ago I just think that
he hasn't come out and dealt with it in
a way that gives me any confidence one
way or another about that he's either
learned something from it or that I just
don't believe in it that's it right now
we also put this in context with the
Klan robe right because it's one thing
to have like a culturally insensitive
Halloween costume were you like you're
trying to dress up like your favorite
celebrity and y'all realize you're on
blackface the Klan robe makes it pretty
hard to misinterpret there I I agree and
I think he needs to explain all of that
and and hasn't sufficiently one of the
things I think that has made it easier
and in this may sound a little cynical
but I think it's the case I think was
the case with with Franken to to in a
similar circumstance that has made it
easier for Democrats to come out and say
resign immediately because also the
other there's another factor here right
and that is party politics one factor is
social justice and we're trying to
change the culture and that means that
there's necessarily going to be people
who pay maybe a disproportionate price
then you know we might want in a perfect
world that's going to happen with stuff
in the me to thing
and stuff like this and there are gonna
be individuals who end up paying a
certain percentage more than they
probably should I don't know how you
quantify that you know but that is
nothing compared to the price that has
been paid by those people who have been
oppressed by these things and that's the
way it works with society that's just
the way it works and it sucks that we
don't have a magic wand and say we're
gonna reverse the mistakes of history
and no one's gonna pay a price
now I'm gonna convince the price being
paid that much but maybe it's slightly
disproportionate but the thing that made
it easier and then for the question
that's a social justice question right
then there is a party politics question
does it behoove the Democratic Party to
have a governor who has not been able to
Abele deal with this scandal okay
putting aside what the scandal is he has
not been able to deal with this if this
is no big deal he certainly hasn't been
able to deal with it in a proper way he
could have been off on the Appalachian
zhh with his uh you know with his uh his
amore you know and and that would have
been a different scandal but this is the
scandal he's in he's not handling well
so the calculation is is it worth it
trying to defend this guy or do we
jettison him I think a lot of people
learned a lot of lessons after Bill
Clinton frankly I think there's still
some of that but people have been
anticipating that the lieutenant
government governor in Virginia guy
named Fairfield there Fairfax I should
say just in Fairfax and there was one
question about Northam he did not
include Justin Fairfax on his campaign
material and that was a little bit
controversial because Fairfax is black
guy and there was some controversy about
that now uh that's all I can I can tell
you I don't know enough of the details
to understand you know to put
than in any other context however last
night Justin Fairfax put out a statement
like at 3:00 in the morning I saw this
building late night on Twitter that in
responding to a publication by but big
league politics it's a right-wing
website first posted the photo of North
America school yearbook page that he was
charged with or accused of having
assaulted a woman at the 2004 DNC and he
wrote now she seems she's a professor I
think she was at the DNC so I think she
was at the time anyways a Democrat in
this statement released early Monday
morning
Fairfax office said the Washington Post
had already investigated the allegation
chose not to publish a story due to
significant red flags and
inconsistencies Fairfax has an
outstanding and well-earned reputation
for treating people with dignity respect
read the statement he has never
assaulted anyone ever in any shape or
form he called the the publication false
and AB stanch eiated
against the Lieutenant Governor the post
carefully investigated claim for several
months after being presented with the
facts consistent with the governor's
denial lieutenant governor the
allegation the absence of any evidence
of corroborating the allegation and
significant red flags and
inconsistencies within the allegation
the post made the considered decision
not to publish the story so what we need
now I think from the Washington Post is
a report on that assessment because now
that they've been implicated in this
story this is going to be the the this
is going to be the next big question
because Fairfax could not only assume
the Virginia governor's office but he
would not be time that would count
towards his term limit so he could run
for re-election and essentially serve
almost two full terms so this is a big
deal
keep your eyes on that let's go to the
phone's not getting to as many nearly as
many calls as I had hoped at the
beginning of the day call from an 804
area code who's this where you come from
Richmond Walker from Richmond what's on
your mind
oh well first just one talk about the
Northam thing and yeah it's pretty crazy
how he was in a KKK robe and I was
thinking like oh you know I thought he
was older than he is but this is in the
80s and that is pretty crazy to me like
are you there hello
um Northam got him it's a north um
operative yeah well first of all we
don't know if he was in blackface or in
the KKK robe or in none of it I mean we
don't know the what I definitely find
hard to believe is he didn't know this
was on his page in his yearbook and
that's something you might want to put
out a you know a statement about and we
don't know was it a Halloween party
like we're in a KKK robe to a Halloween
party in and of itself old well it's
bold in the 1980s but out of the out of
the you know the blue I can understand
there could be a context to it but he's
not explaining any of it
and so and in even and like I say if
there was an explanation and I said this
about Kavanagh
- if Breck have and I had gone up there
and said I was a blackout drunk I don't
remember doing that but it doesn't sound
like it's impossible I could have done
that and if I did I regret it and to the
extent that I was aware that this the
accusation was out there for years it is
haunted me and I've tried to live my
life in a way that made that different
there would have been no story that
would have been the end of it we have to
allow for people to make mistakes when
they're younger and learn from it and
then lead their lives in a better way
that has to be allowed for but when
they're older and they've shown no signs
of learning and they show no signs of
accepting the responsibility that's even
more dangerous then if they just had
sort of like never addressed it because
then it shows that like I'm willing to
lie I'm willing to hide my agendas I'm
willing to not allow my personal
failings to be of benefit to society at
all that's a very dangerous quality in
people of substantial power in my
estimation sherrod Brown is inching
towards making an announcement I suspect
about running for president maybe he
won't maybe he will definitely value for
a senator anywhere to be in a position
of people asking you questions if you're
gonna run because he gets you a little
more attention nothing like a little bit
of earned media
here's sherrod Brown though not pulling
any punches as to donald trump and you
know this is this is interesting because
sherrod Brown definitely knows that if
he's going on Chuck Todd's show to say
this the Chuck Todd is gonna be like
wait what it's just the Chuck Todd would
went after a sherrod Brown says this is
a little bit slow and I don't know that
sherrod Brown had lines that were to go
after it do you know I'm talking about
like if you like it was there were times
below a plan there's times in a script
right where you do your lines call for
the other person to interrupt you and so
what happens is they stop writing in the
script and they just do ellipsis dot dot
dot
really what should happen is that the
thought should be continued
and someone should just interrupt
sherrod Brown at dot dot dot it took a
moment for for you watch this you'll see
what I'm saying
folks are now being held accountable for
blackface and waste frankly that that we
didn't we didn't have that kind of that
strong of a moral code I would argue in
our politics until recently why do you
think that is well I think this country
hasn't dealt well with the issues of
race I mean we have a president who's a
racist who we have that's that you
believe in his heart he's a racist well
I don't know what in his heart means I
know that he build his political career
knowing what he was doing on questioning
the legitimacy in the birthplace of the
president United States I know early and
we did there have been all kinds of news
reports about what he did early in his
career on housing we know I mean reread
read the new Jim Crow by Michelle
Alexander read the color of law about
housing discrimination and decades and
decades and decades of housing
discrimination and we know that the
Trump family including the now sitting
president played to that and deepened
that so these issues if this is not a
research are 'lets Ville was only a
symptom and and a more public viewing
and outing if you will of the
president's views about race I mean
there there's just no question about
that we know the president doesn't tell
the truth frequently now we know he lies
frequently and we know of his racial
battery racist comments and background
yeah simple that's super simple I will
also note that we've had both those
authors both those books have been
featured interviews on the majority of
four years ago useless in a sad fair
I've also a brown for that matter but
good for him good whether he's running
or not that's super important for folks
like Chuck Todd to hear politicians say
this and normalize the ability for our
politicians to
call out a racist for being racist
that's another hat tip you can give to a
OC actually of just being the first one
to just feel like yeah of course
what is there to prove even for Varrick
you out but I do love and that was to
say that that was very mr the I don't
know what in his heart means right
obviously I don't know what you're
talking about like okay
maybe he visualizes ponies for everybody
but I'm talking about what he does as
present in the United States and as a
slumlord also someone pointed out I
think it might be giving him a little
too much credit but it was clever enough
to note yeah he does sherrod Brown does
have a little bit of a Caucasian a
little a voice touch of a Caucasian this
is pretty funny
you all remember talk a turning points
USA well they have moved across the
Atlantic but apparently the tipi UK
folks don't have quite the media savvy
that they need to launch they launched
last night yesterday they there was a
there are there is TP UK Manchester is
the name of the group and they launched
but it is unclear there is another group
called turning-point Manchester at
Turning Point
MCR versus T PUK Manchester at TP KTP UK
underscore NCR in other words this is
that situation like I don't know if you
saw it on the original Star Trek where
there was like a clone of Captain Kirk
and he was fighting and he's like going
that's not the real James Kirk and the
other guy goes I am the real James Kirk
that's not the real James Kirk well this
way I figure out which one to shoot you
don't know which one to shoot and so
turning point Manchester at Turning
Point
MCR says this is not Manchester TP UK
this is an anti white ant if a scum who
want to destroy our movement report and
block talking about the TP you can
a underscore MCR tweet but then the tipi
UK MC our handle wrote this is not
Manchester TP UK this is an anti weight
and if scum who want to destroy our
movement report and block and then the
original group goes stop it for F sake
Jack Twitter please ban this
impersonator and then the other the
other one I think the one with the
underscore is on our side right I don't
know it comes back a sergeant or lid
TARDIS you can't do platformer us the
free market has spoken
you're a fake antiphon account trying to
confuse our dedicated and motivated
conservative youth audience owned but
the amazing thing is and then it goes on
the anti full left is currently hate
mobbing TP accounts trying
unsuccessfully to ruin our a successful
launch they will not succeed
TP UK is here to say and then they
respond today's are all I think these
are all trolls except for that one
so the jokes about the size of people's
faces are not funny and could be
considered a hate crime Charlie Kirk is
a hundred times the activists of any of
you cultural Marxist would be go back to
the first one because this is sort of
stunning like because at first I thought
T P UK underscore MCR was the fake one
however the supposed real one is writing
this is anti-white ant if a scum who
want to destroy our movement report and
block also sounds like a parody account
I mean the fact that it's so hard for us
to tell doesn't speak well of the real
one no does not a tough launch for TP UK
or turning point UK and we are sure
which is I'm the real we can think I
think a few people but Vic burger I
think is part of the whole fate
photoshopping Charlie crews had to be
larger than it is by just slightly
really gotta talk to him about his hate
crimes oh my god we should we should
definitely call him out for that that's
not that's so mean
so main calling from a six one nine area
code who's this where he calling from
six one nine I just had a good sir good
yeah yeah I just had a quick question
about about your opinions on how the I'm
sorry your names and where you round for
delegation wait where you no good
it's Ricky it's Ricky Soto from San
Diego California another question about
the new congressional delegation and
what you guys thought about their
responses to different foreign policy uh
you know point of conversation yesterday
I saw that uh you know AOC talked to
Jeremy Corbyn but like after there was
you know some people on Twitter saying
like oh jeremy corbyn's an anti-semite
we need to talk about this like this
isn't okay and her comms team like
responded to Rabbi Shmuley and a bunch
of others about you know having that
dialogue and I was wondering if you
think they're being to both sides II or
if you guys think this is just in
playing politics I think it's a message
out there I think we talked about this a
little bit before the show my personal
feeling is you go you say ah we will
hear your what you're saying because
you've got to take you have to take
broadly speaking you have to take people
who are broadly to be considered
mainstream you have to take their
accusation seriously enough to to to
listen and so I think you know where
they go with that after that will will
will determine you know my assessment of
of what they're doing but let me put
this way it is and so some of what I am
saying is conjecture right but it is
much smarter it seems to me and much
more irresponsible and much more
responsible and in a much better model
too
for them to say oh okay we'll sit down
with you and we'll hear your specific
complaints and accusations and you can
show us evidence of what you're talking
about and then if that evidence is
lacking which I think my guess is it's
going
be they and they walk out of that
meeting and they go we just sat down
we just took time out of our schedule we
just met with the people we paid the
proper respects to individuals who have
a you know a right to raise these issues
and we found that there's no evidence to
substantiate their claims whatsoever
that to me is a far more successful
process than being on twitter and going
we're not going to listen to any of that
I just want to i9 t percent with you I
just the only things that I'm a little
concerned about is I do think there's
some people and schmuely botella could
be a person that actually you don't
respond to you just don't give because
that really is somebody who's in the
absolute gutter so I'm not saying
anybody who it's like you know Michael
Jackson's right advisor I thought
Michael Jackson how to have a healthy
sex life obsession that said that and
then the other thing kosher sex look it
up and then the the other thing I would
say too is like dick ultimately though
it's it's a substantive conflict because
they're not going it's that the answer
that meaning is going to be determined
by them coming out with a clear answer
in Israel Palestine which they don't
have yet because it's like yeah you can
go and say you know look we all know
Jeremy Corbyn has said I I think the
analogy I used was like he said it
though a bit worse but you could draw an
analogy with like some things Bernie
said several years ago weird which were
definitely not bigoted but you could say
oh that's a little tone deaf right so
that's definitely some of the things he
said about Jewish people in the UK but
an actual charge of actual anti-semitism
is baseless and the only way you can get
there is if you transfer it into your
critic of Israel so ultimate and she's
not wanted to and I'm not I've been
pretty easy on her with this one but
when she was running and she was more of
a TSA candidate she was pretty
unequivocal about what was happening
Israel Palestine and then she's kind of
begged off that a bit so to me it's like
that meeting is gonna be ultimately
Jeremy Corbyn is an anti-semite because
he wants democracy
in Israel Palestine what's your position
so you know that that to me is it's
gonna be more complicated than just you
know wacky people saying this or that
which by the way again Shmuel I bought a
ik really is so the other people I think
you're right I agree with you Sam that
take the meeting clear the air but
schmuely will take is like you know you
shouldn't be responding to the random I
get that so of course and I appreciate
the phone call but you know the bottom
line is this is that where we are on
Israel and Palestine is further away
from where we want to be than on most
issues and I think a lot of politicians
when we may like make the assessment
that I can expend X percentage of my
political strength on this one issue
which I will not be able to really have
any influence on long you know short
term or mid term or I can sort of like
hang back not necessarily say the wrong
things but not necessarily press the
right things agree and here's been that
that that political catch it that's
that's by the fact that she won her race
like her switching of rhetoric was after
she won so she won a race
no but I'm sore just the most deal but
the most basic calculation you're
talking about his electoral she well no
no no I'm not making an electoral is no
why did you not well because you need to
build early quick another follow-up
because you need to live Allah Akbar and
Rasheeda to live and the coalition that
she's a part of have already staked out
much further ground on that so she
doesn't need to make it her primary
issue but she absolutely I'm talking as
a general principle as a general
principle you could apply this to Bernie
to well I mean they're sitting on
further the difference with them is I
yes I don't know I think expect
legislatively if you want to get things
done in certain ways there are
constituents there are there are
colleagues who are
working who might find might be harder
to work with them because of big donors
and whatnot it's just they're not there
the the the party broadly speaking is
moving in the right direction
particularly from where it was like five
years ago six years ago I think but this
is something that people are going to
have to be aware of that this is a
calculation that a politician makes not
just from an electoral perspective I
would imagine if you were to pull the
people who voted for her in the primary
and say you know how many of you are
voting is a first issue
israeli-palestinian Rights literally
none and versus you know Medicare for
all right like I mean literally none and
so that's what the base is I'm just
saying I look we could I think it is
actually useful to parse I think when
people get pissed off for Bernie for not
endorsing BDS that is an unrealistic
miss Reed of the political environment
even though of course I disagree I
support BDS but that is quite different
than saying there is a crop of people of
which you're a part of which at the very
least is unequivocal about mass murder
in Gaza and isn't gonna take concern
trolling about Jeremy Corbyn so I I and
I think that's just again it's also just
where her basis the ultimately you also
have to be with your base I also just
don't think there's a huge amount of
people out there who want her to expand
her political capital on protecting
Jeremy Corbyn on Twitter like I don't
know about that it also some of the
issues with standpoint epistemology
right when a Jewish organization says
it's anti-semitic to criticize Israel
and do the things that Jeremy Corbyn has
done it just is where Jewish you have to
take our word for it you have to be able
to evaluate within a rational and
objective framework whether or not you
think that's true and that's something
that's going to be used against the left
over and over again in a variety of
context that we need to be ready for the
best way to fight back on that it seems
to me is to essentially make it clear
that you are assessing the charge
based upon not the identities of those
who are bringing them but rather on the
facts themselves rights issues are not a
monolith like no minority is right but
you know to sit down with them I think
is just a smartest thing to do yeah
that's I mean you know regardless of you
know I don't know if people are as savvy
about just longingly isn't there but yes
I think it's important he's not there I
have a feeling he'll get into any
possible room he can if she's showing a
ho but I I guarantee you if she comes
back and says I met with these people I
looked at the issue I do not believe
that Corbin is an anti-semite the ADL is
not gonna be happy with that but it's
not but she's not doing it for the ADL
at that point what she's doing for is
for everybody in between the ADL and
everywhere else she's doing it to show
that look I'm not rejecting the ADL I'm
going in and I sat down and I listened
to the facts and I encourage other
people to do that that appeals to
everybody who wants just someone to
react react rationally on the facts so
she's never gonna convince the ADL she's
never gonna convince schmuely Bo Tech
she's trying to convince everyone else
from them to you know the the the
left-of-center that she is taking a
clear-eyed view of this and is not being
knee-jerk that agree I agree with that
part of it I just think she needs to be
ready for what's gonna happen at the end
of that process well if she's not then
then then she lacks a certain savvy
which I was doesn't lack because I love
her calling from the 347 area code hello
hello hello hello can you hear me yes I
can can you hear me yes I can now who
are you and where are you guys my name
is Lake Lee I'm calling from City
hello Blakely what's in your mind
um I have a question about you guys
talking about like the plans of or the
coalition of the left and my question
was why is it that the left is so
fragmented when the right is so cohesive
in the way that they stick together I
still don't understand that and I
thought you know I mean it's I can the
the shorthand for that question is is
that the the right is incredibly
homogeneous they are a the the true
party of identity there is one identity
that makes up 90 to 95 percent of its
voters white people they are less
diverse socially economically probably
geographically and they to the extent
that they have political power it is in
places that also see less people that
are different than them and so just the
the natural design of these philosophies
are reflected in that there's just much
more diversity of thought and agenda is
on the left and there would be on the
right I mean it makes total sense
like almost definitiely right like the
bottom line for for conservatives is to
maintain a very narrow status quo to
keep the keep money and culture as
static in in control of very few hands
or very
homogenous hands and it's just not the
case on the left and so that's why Oh
I'd also like to add there's a class
element there because the right eye
which I'll define broadly as like
Republicans in this country is unified
on a class basis right it's the boss
class it's small business owners which
really make up the base of trumps
support even if they might talk in a
more populist way most of them are not
poor whereas the Democratic Party is a
cross class alliance it's not a labor
party it contains bosses and workers so
they have to kind of walk the line of
representing the interests of two
different groups that are often
diametrically opposed right and it seems
to be particularly like that I feel like
in New York like I recently only in the
last few years that are getting involved
with politics and I started trying to
get involved in like the local community
and I after a little bit I was like man
this is a show like it's
really overwhelming how many different
factions there are and how disjointed it
is and I don't even know where to start
like I want to get involved I would like
to run for office but like after I went
to a bunch of events and started getting
involved in some of the groups I was
like oh my god this is worse than I
thought
well yeah it ain't easy if it was yeah
listen here's the bottom line you know
the fact is is that the left's policies
broadly speaking are far more popular
than the rights so you know that's one
of the reason but there are a lot of
competing interests and as to which
policies get addressed first and how and
that's why you know we are where we are
but I appreciate the phone call I would
hang in there let's go to come from a
702 area code who's this where you come
from I just got to call a time for like
two more calls I think who's this 702
Hey hey Mingo from Las Vegas
Roseville Mingo from Las Vegas what's on
your mind
whoo things are gotta be quick number
one again I'm black Kamala Harris she's
a cop she's a prosecutor she built a
career on them coarser eating black
people oh I'm sorry buddy slip referral
laughing about truancy and stuff uh
she's not the one all her support all
her support is astroturf second thing
too is on well thought to be offensive
about Kamala Harris is that she put up
the videos of her dancing and cardi B
you can call it dancing I don't know
what it was and the second thing is all
y'all might converse for whatever
nothing about black issues but you were
talking about converse Wakanda and cardi
B just really really offensive but it
doesn't it doesn't surprise me because
I'm her communications director I guess
a woman named Lily Adams doesn't look
any doesn't look anything like a black
person you say anything like that and
you know this is she's not the one she
just really he's not the one that I can
say I haven't made the black person
who's what go ahead I'm sorry
all right well I mean aside from I mean
I think her her functions as a cop were
more or more concerning to me than her
being a cop but putting that aside it
seems to me the dynamic is with people
of color running at least nationally is
that we're still in an age where a black
person run has to run almost against
their being black like that the the data
suggests that Hillary Clinton had to be
was more racialized in her campaign or
at least had far far more racial
rhetoric than Obama did and I suspect
that Kamala Harris and and Cory Booker
you know two candidates who I'm not
particularly thrilled with you know
Wireless are going to their agenda in
terms of talking about race is to
basically not talk about race oh boy hey
avoid it in two
that they do talk about it they're gonna
talk about you know individual
responsibility they're gonna do stuff
like Obama's you know my brother's
keeper programs right ones that are you
know full respectability politics and
whatnot there's a real dilemma because
however however there is because of the
natural tendency for people to assume
that people who look like me or a simile
situated as me might have my interests
in in mind yeah yeah it's a it's a con
job because well you're dancing the car
DB what they have to do with anything
oh you like converse very nice thanks
for cutting me on the head and calling
me your room has nothing to do with
anything I'm supporting your point but
it's just like it's 2019 now yeah III
think so what Hillary Clinton did we all
played that game you all play that game
and nothing happened I mean of course
look I just want it done and
oversimplifying it right but you get
what I'm saying
well let me put it this way let me put
it this way it's 2019 but it's not 2026
you know like 2026 if we had this
conversation we'd be like seriously but
it's 2019 and you know we've just come
out of you know our politics have become
as racialized as they have been probably
in about forty years you know based on
data that Barack Obama taught fifty
percent of whites without a college
education that the Democrats were
actually to the left of Republicans on
race right that's that isn't an amazing
statistic and I think it's still being
digested in some ways through through
our body politic what else he got gonna
be one more thing yeah in terms of your
commentary about the Ralph Norman thing
I got a push back because you said he
should he should resign on the way he's
handling yet instead of the actual
content of what happened he's not
correcting when I say that well let me
say this the way he's handling it leads
me to believe that the content may
mean more than it could right right but
let me see it good
I don't want to say the same because we
kind of had to push back because you
look at say Florida with Andrew Gilliam
you look at Stacey Abrams in Georgia you
know we have black people here almost
handing us these states without which
were out of reach just even four years
ago and you know this guy should design
I mean look a little to be clear now
again I say like you're getting to your
point saying it's not 2026 its 2019 but
still we're seeing you know black people
report other people too but we're
seniors we've come in the backbone of
the party here and for this guy to be
posing in blackface but if there's no
more excuses
it just it's time to break look let me
ask you this come on yeah the cops are
taking a hard line to get these races
80s and fogs good it's about time take a
look okay no more lip service but just
get them out of here and also to your
point though saying I agree with you on
some of works like you look like a
frickin incompetent you look like a
competent all right but but staying on
your point staying on your point if he
had come out a month ago and said look I
have become aware that there is a
picture of me in blackface and in the
KKK off it whichever right and in my my
high school of my college yearbook I
want to take this time to a apologize to
be say that at the time I didn't realize
the implications of what I was doing I
know I should have but I grew up you
know surrounded by people who were very
casual and using you know the n-word and
the idea of blackface was just funny to
them and I just didn't know any better
and I grew up in this you know I grew up
in this area of Virginia I went to
school in that area viremia and it
wasn't till later when I got a you know
outside I realized the implications of
this so I want to just basically apropos
of nothing other than to clear the air
for myself to say this was wrong I mean
did should he resign in that instance
to use your metaphor it's not 2016
anymore I can understand in 2016 this
this could be flying but at the end of
the day the ground is shifted so much
especially no I understand but do you
think that the guy just I mean it's an
easy question do you think and because
you've said the guy should resign now if
he had come out and done that even
before this was a controversy do you
thought you'd resign at that point yes
because I'll say I say design because
also another thing - then the thing that
you pointed out was when he was hiding
his lieutenant governor's color you know
and not putting him on there there's
something there's something here ok let
me just use it there there this guy has
some racist sentiment again this could
fly like an you know you know the plane
Tony and 3rd weight garbage that we've
been enduring for so long but again
we're seeing now like look a lot of
people don't want to tolerate this
garbage anymore
I mean you screw it he's dead about a
year I mean there's so many things so
many people who are better than this guy
garbage well but he was I mean look
but he was he was elected by the people
of Virginia and so I think like there is
you know some duty to assess you know
but but but nevertheless that's a
hypothetical he didn't do that and I
think that's why is she here's another
create the funk about northen has he
been fighting for the rights of
marginalized people in substantial ways
since then he just expanded Medicaid to
180,000 people I would I would imagine
or see the significant percentage are
people of color certainly anybody who
needs Medicaid is these leading yeah are
marginalized in so far I mean that is a
big deal and I think he also did
something in terms of like criminal
justice reform - right didn't he or was
that am i confusing McAuliffe
oh he voted for it I mean so yeah he
does have I think you know he's not he's
not Bernie Sanders but he does have a
record I think of that one could expect
that is a fairly decent record for a
Democrat in Virginia I mean maybe even
past that because because if you do want
to come back from something like that
you better have been fighting for the
rights of oppressed people specifically
black people pretty hard for a pretty
long time otherwise you don't have a leg
to stand on at all I think I mean I
don't know what what the what the line
is for that but yes he you know he
expanded Medicaid which was you know
within the mechanisms he has as governor
there really nothing else he could do
unilaterally as governor that could have
more impact than that for for folks
situated in that all right we only have
time for one more call we have a lot of
people hanging on
I apologize folks come from a 267 area
code who's this where you calling from
[Music]
so just type that in here me yeah I just
took the first call out of the range of
people who've been on the phone for well
over an hour
who's this where you come from my name
is Connor I'm calling from Bucks County
Pennsylvania Conner from Bucks County
what's going on I just wanted to call
first of all I wanted to say that I just
finishing my first Ursula Guin book all
thanks to Jamie
um um and then I just picked up the
Malcolm X autobiography as well but um I
wanted to ask you what do you think so
I'm I I live in the same county as Mindy
so I'm actually running either for
township supervisor or for a township
auditor in the next coming election
sweetie 2019 but um I'm only 23 so a lot
of the worry within my like local
Democratic group is about like how old I
am and how I lack experience right so
the best like rebuttal would be for that
I mean I pretty well educated and I have
like a I'm a real estate agent I am
studying for my CPA I have a lot of
different things going for me but I mean
even if you apply it to a greater like
how do you how do you think that
Democrats that are younger like approach
that question I think broadly speaking
okay that if you think you have a
liability for anything and you think
other people think that you have that
liability you start by addressing that
so in any speech or any conversation you
have when you're trying to pitch people
as you say I know I'm young and I know a
lot of people think I'm too young to do
this and I'll tell you why I don't think
why my age why I don't think the the
rational concerns that people have about
someone my age are applicable or at
least I would say I still at the end of
the day to the extent that my lack of
experience is a liability a I feel like
I can turn it into a strength and B I
feel like I am a quick learner and I
have established myself in the community
both you know professionally and in
terms of you know the community in this
way in that way and I am willing to
listen to people my my age is not going
to be a an obstacle in terms of
listening to what people have to say and
I appreciate that there are people who
have more experience than me and I'm
gonna be looking to them for advice and
for consult but I have an energy and I
have a responsibility and I like to
think it might be somewhat beyond my age
but so the key is acknowledge people's
concerns break it down as to why they
have those concerns and explain to them
why you have other attributes that will
fill in for anything that you lack in as
a function of age
all right that's awesome yeah I have a
meeting tonight so I have to decide
within the next couple weeks yeah I
would just I mean look you sound like a
smart person you you sound like you have
lined up you know stuff and and then you
know and then once you address the
concerns that people have and you
acknowledge them as being rational once
you do that you put yourself in what
they call the circle of trust right
because if somebody else thinks that
something is a problem and you
acknowledge that it's a problem but once
you do that you're on the same page as
them and then you're you are able to
provide a solution right or things that
are gonna mitigate that problem but you
need to meet people where they are in
terms of what they perceive as a problem
and you know I mean it's almost it's
also an improv lesson right no denial
yes and basically is what you're gonna
say and I would also tweet at Mindy
because I suspect she might be an asset
because you'll have ideas oh yeah she
she she already followed me on there and
I've talked to her briefly about it but
uh that was before I really was
considering a run but my the current
township board is made up of two
democrat I mean sorry two Republican and
one Democrat but the two Republicans are
actually retiring so we could run to
Democrats and really totally flip the
earl's town and agree it'd be a totally
different ballgame for us here right
well it sounds like you bring a lot of
energy to a good luck man appreciate the
call thank you keep us updated
keep us updated all right folks that's
all the time we have for today's program
goodbye see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
[Music]
brakes off switch right
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
