[Music]
speaking of having trouble Dave Rubin is
very upset and this is something that
you would imagine he'd be very excited
about here he is featured in Collette
quill it cooler quill let just sort of
the IDW Bible magazine it's the IDW
Bible it is printed out of Australia
it's my understanding and I believe Dave
Rubin was just in Australia not not too
long ago with his Petersen uh Pete
Peterson norm Peter what's that guy's
name again Jordan Peter Jordan
Peterson's tour and and here he is they
they pictured him sitting on the set of
Tucker Carlson's white nationalist show
no not white national I'm sorry Fox News
show I misspoke and they basically go on
to say that folks like Reuben in
particular they try and pretend that
they're not conservatives but that
really in many respects they are
conservatives and they need to make a
decision I mean this is a this is like
one of those really helpful pieces I
mean for coming from the it's amazing
that it came out in quill it yeah I mean
this is the best quote piece ever by far
and and this is in its it's asking is
the intellectual dark web politically
diverse because the whole thing about
the intellectual dark web is that it's
not a partisan operation that it's just
ideas and it really just champions ideas
and all ideas that's why we'll have
people on who are you know white
nationalist will have somebody on I'll
interview somebody who even Nigel Faraj
who is a the u-clip leader in Britain
yes and then you Kip how would you how
would you like a nationalistic
anti-immigrant right an anti am a booted
a woman out
of their organization because he called
her Nazi or she left the organization
because Nigel Farage called her and now
okay so when you get chastised you know
it's sort of like it's it's sort of like
I don't know when you know some rock
star tells you that hey take it easy at
the party man you get you're getting
getting out of control with your party
there's something like that
it's like malc on you a third-world er
right exactly and so this piece
basically says that the IDW makes claims
that they are not conservatives but
rather mostly a collection of
disillusioned liberals looking for a
place to have honest conversation comes
from this graph I don't know you can see
this here it's not terribly convincing
to me this guy tried to make a graphic
that showed all these guys as leftists
well he scores this on a lot of
different like vaccinations has the same
weight as a wealth inequality as a
problem some of these I don't I know for
a fact aren't true Jaron Peterson does
not agree that wealth inequality is a
problem well he thinks it's a problem
but one that cannot be dealt with in any
way right it's an inevitability yeah
right which of course has so you know
like these are all you know supposedly
a leftist positions that they take
positions left-of-center right and but
this the author just says take a look at
Dave Rubens timeline he relentlessly
attacks dead on Twitter he relentlessly
attacks Democrats retweets Trump jr.
hangs out with Candace Owens and Charlie
Kirk proof is in the pudding some of the
other people are debatable but clearly
the chart is missing something when he
looks at that chart about Dave Rubin and
he writes after gathering a lot of data
it's important to do a sanity check
which means taking a step back and
making sure that the big picture that
emerges from the data makes sense in
this particular case
true that the IDW members with the
exception of Shapiro align almost almost
entirely with liberals on the main
issues that divide liberals and
conservatives then we should reasonably
expect them in practice to align
politically with liberals and not
conservatives right I mean if you hold
these beliefs in a genuine and sincere
fashion you would align with the your
ideological colleagues to make sure that
those proposals actually come to
fruition or remain and he writes yet as
I point out in my tweet it's clearly not
the case with Rubin or as even the
briefest glances at reveals he
relentlessly attacks Democratic
politicians but never Republicans
regularly appears at speaking events
with conservative organizations as
Turning Point USA and frequently
retweets and is retweeted by prominent
conservatives like Trump jr. Charlie
Kirk Kansas Owens in other words while
the data suggests Rubin should be
politically aligned with liberals and
against conservatives on the main issues
that divide them in practice the
opposite is true and he goes on to talk
about how there's a different type of
realignment on YouTube and that there's
a question of like you can posture as
something but fight for something that
is quite different from your posture
better or work right or but but we can
see it in that regard or just sort of
like you know the Fox News Democrat
think they used to bring on this guy Pat
Caddell for instance who I believe just
passed away you know there's a way in
which you can sort of maintain an
identity but actually as I think a lot
of these IDW people would tell you that
your identity is secondary to what you
actually do and advocate for and so
Ruben got pretty upset as he was a
flying home from somewhere I don't know
where and he writes a long discourse
that he then cuts up and puts in there
because he had a lot to say this is most
I think he's ever said I mean who
wouldn't and
he talks about the article implies that
I refused to extend the same courtesy to
the left because he has a lot of right
asan now understand if I'm not mistaken
Dave Rubin says the problem with the
left today is that they've become like
sjw's they become authoritarian they
don't allow people to you know speak and
whatnot so he's now defined who the left
is it's people like me right I mean that
I don't agree with his assessment of me
but he's basically that's who he's
talking about he's being very critical
of these people in fact he won't even
have people like me on but then he
claims that he has had some on the left
like Eric and Brett Weinstein one of
whom I guess works with Peter Thiel
Peter T Lea Sam Harris who but for the
Islamophobia that doesn't exist and IQ
stuff generally my jawed Nawaz who
apparently is a good friend of Sam
Harris's according to sam harris are
firmly on the left i don't know what
that be - how could they firmly be on
the left it's funny - all of the
favorite guests on the left are also his
friends and also their in the IDW that's
weird the only people on the quote left
the dave rubin will sit down with a
comment to have a conversation with our
ones that he's assured beforehand aren't
going to be challenging to him of course
of course
so dave rubin has an opportunity to
actually show the world that he can have
a conversation with someone he considers
to be a true leftist someone who he
considers to be you know out of bounds I
mean if you want to exchange ideas let's
exchange ideas let's have that
conversation he won't and I think this
is why he's getting that criticism and
so good for Aquila
for making that criticism I mean
for gosh sakes this is an opportunity
why you let me ask you this bring it in
a little bit can you do that
let me do this I'll do this why are you
so afraid Dave I'm not going to hurt you
I'm just gonna have a conversation with
you I am sorry that contributor on my
program did a video where he called you
stupid
but I took that video down I made him
apologize to me personally because I was
offended by it
I pulled his commissary rights for three
days he didn't get to have lunch there
so I don't know what else I can do
but let's do this let's do this so that
quill it has to write another article
saying we were wrong they did add a
correction apparently there this article
has been updated to include reference to
to criticisms of the data and society
report alternative influence broadcasted
on the reactionary on YouTube by Rebecca
Lewis but I think that's I think they
might declare that a victory mm-hmm no
maybe not some people are saying they
retracted it but they haven't retracted
this article I don't know how you
retracted it's an opinion piece right
and that you know what's amazing is that
they're so these guys all these IDW guys
that dave rubin cites they go to great
lengths to stifle any critique of theirs
that are even opinion that are opinion
I'm only issuing opinions I haven't
stayed in any facts about dave rubin
other than he got funding from
libertarian organizations supported by
the Koch brothers which he then you know
first denied and then sort of said was
no big deal and doesn't implicate you
know I love that thing where you get a
big chunk of money from an organization
and you don't have to do anything for it
that's great I want to get in on that
how do I get in on that I want some of
that that
- I like that
