[Music]
because I want to talk to you also about
this story about Amazon yeah you've got
running in the prospect what tell us
about sure so I wrote a story yesterday
at the prospect about Amazon and and
specifically about this issue of forced
arbitration which I'm sure you've talked
about on the show these are the clauses
in consumer or employment contracts that
essentially block the courthouse door
they force people who have disputes into
an a private secret arbitration process
where the the company who uses this
process all the time and might have the
same arbiter it hasn't seen involve
conflict they did with the rating
agencies with boys model yeah they work
more for the companies than they work
for you as an individual and also you as
an individual if you have a dispute with
as a customer you know for $50.00 over
getting ripped off on something you're
gonna pay a lawyer to go to this
privates process you can't do class
actions and and so I talked about in the
context of something that doesn't get
talked about a lot which is Amazon's
marketplace this is the third party
sellers that are on Amazon there are
over 2.5 million people on Amazon
selling their goods and sometimes it's
their own brands that they've come up
with sometimes they buy a bunch of stuff
at a discount store then resell it on
Amazon and all of them must sign this
arbitration clause as part of their
agreement of selling on Amazon and in an
employment context this is the largest
class the largest entity of people who
have signed an arbitration agreement
signed away their right to sue Amazon
for over any dispute and this creates
this weird Byzantine private government
basically that Amazon uses to govern its
marketplace and I talked about this in
detail in the piece but just as a short
version basically Amazon has has terms
and
that change all the time you had you
have to abide by them they can suspend
you at any time for any reason you get
an email in the middle of the night you
say your account suspended you know it
can be as much as one bad review that
you get from a customer it's a very
customer is always right kind of place
and if you are suspended you obviously
can't sue you you can go to arbitration
but that's a long shot there's this
weird appeals process that Amazon has
outsourced all the appeals deciders to
low-wage countries like India or Costa
Rica or wherever and the people who read
these appeals have to read 17 of them an
hour
so they're basically spending three
minutes on your appeal which is your
livelihood because when you're suspended
you can't sell anything right any money
that hasn't been remitted to you from
prior sales Amazon keeps Amazon keeps
your inventory Amazon can sell your
inventory if it's commingled with other
inventories that's like a a widget
that's the same as other people's widget
they can just sell your stuff you have
to pay to get your inventory back no
it's crazy it's absolutely crazy and the
Amazon Marketplace is a complete Wild
West where people write fake reviews
they have counterfeits all over the
place
there are all these ways that that
rivals try to scheme do dirty tricks to
get you off of the marketplace and
Amazon is in charge of all of that and
you can't you know the laws the the
arbitration clause prevents you from
seeking article one courts to resolve
any of these disputes years ago we had
an Amazon link at one point they were
starting to shut down links like ours
the way that we were using it apparently
okay we got our shut down
I had a check from them for I don't know
was fifteen hundred bucks right went to
cash it bounced Wow they had shut it
down even they'd issue the check
this is indicative it seems to me of all
these major tech companies where they
don't want to have to hire human beings
right so they're gonna do it as much as
they can without they also don't want
liability so like they don't want to
proactively do anything if you give a
complaint to them they'll they'll clean
it up but they don't want to have to say
well we intervened here why didn't you
intervene here and then you your your
your liability is increase and of course
the arbitration clause just amps that up
another level because then they're
insulated from any kind of court
lawsuits and they go through this
private secret process where the law
isn't really applied uniformly it's it's
a case-by-case basis right and I got to
go in a couple minutes but just to put a
point on this like we talked about the
this arbitration thing and there's some
some working through companies like
Google just ended its arbitration clause
for sexual harassment cases other
workers are organizing around these
arbitration clauses but this is a
different animal these are 2.5 million
people who are essentially in
competition with one another selling on
Amazon's marketplace and their rights
are being completely stripped by this
arbitration clause and they live in fear
essentially that Amazon's no Requiem
right can shut them down with no
recourse and so this I think is a good
way to talk about arbitration and what
it can really do to people I will bring
that up when we get to Vegas when we
talk to some of these tort lawyers
because they have a real problem with
with this this type of time solution all
right I know you only get two minutes
left
yes Netroots nation give me your two
minutes summary of how it's evolved now
it's early it's early on is really going
here but what I've been told is that
this is the largest net roots nation
ever no 3,500 people will be at this
this weekend's event it's brought some
of us who's been here a while and then
sort of drifted away and this is my
first year back after two years I had
that conversation with with a with a
dozen people why do you
that is well it's in an election year
and I think you know having the
presidentials although there are only
going to be four candidates there right
understanding so having them here I
think is is part of it and part of it is
that it's easier to get here on the
Acela right part of it but I don't know
I for me this is my hometown I wanted to
come back for that reason partially but
also reconnecting with this community
which is you know bigger it's more
diverse it's got a bigger issue sort of
space right and I think it is it does
remain let me bounce with home
credibility is an important copy even
though there are sort of I think more
distinct flavors of the left the roots
of this was built in opposition to
George Bush yes and I think after a year
or two now because I felt like this was
happening last year was the first time I
was back in five or six years that the
being in the opposition party right
being on the out there's something that
happens and you know things there's a
bit there's a thrust that everybody can
sign on to even if you have disparate
agendas within and it's true that you
know people talk about like the one good
thing about Trump is he's activated this
you know people on the left people just
on the broad left you know
left-of-centre to you know think about
themselves as activists and engage in
these issues in a broader way and you
know networks is certainly a part of
that always has been a part of that and
now you're seeing you know people from
the center people from you know the
institutional machinery get really you
know militant about these issues and so
I think Trump has has brought that to
the fore he did in 2018 we'll see what
happens in 2020 I think a lot of that is
being defined right now by what is
happening in Congress and maybe we can
talk about that another
and and sort of demobilizing the left in
some ways but you know that it's still
strong at least in a residual way right
here and we'll see how that goes
David and prospect org folks go and get
a subscription now please please do
thank you all right thanks dad
