I don't know where the okay sign comes
from I noticed that people show that
Eddie Murphy made the sign in one of the
Beverly Hills cops movies well it's a
common gesture it used to be yeah okay
I've seen it
scuba context it brightens like I'm not
drowning right and I just hit a
three-pointer on a basketball court
it means I just hit a three-pointer and
that's cool right in a right wing
context it means I'm a white supremacist
precisely and in turning points USA
which is each the Navy is recently had
to apologize for something involving
that symbol let's read @tp us a
statement to the University of Nevada
I'm assuming that's what is University
of Nevada Las Vegas community TPA TPS TP
USA's official statement as soon as the
video in question came to the attention
of turning-points USA we swiftly and
permanently removed the student for many
of our current or future involvement
with our organization due process his
comments were abhorrent an American and
disqualifying we'd also like to command
commend the decisive action taken by the
UN UNLV chapter leadership that acted
quickly to remove the student from their
chapter membership and involvement as
any larger organization should TP USA
has a zero-tolerance policy for hate no
matter the media more dated or act the
comment we hold our tens of thousands of
students to the higher standards wasn't
this one the one with like also the
leaked conversations of like don't don't
lead with the Jew stuff don't lead with
the Jew stuff here's also an image of
Bridget okay let's do this first this is
the video that they were apologizing for
this is a kid named Riley grazer who was
in the teepee a TPS USA chapter leader
for UNLV
he was the chapter leader for the UNLV
apparently he's also the son of a vice
president Michael Reiser at Aegis senior
communities
so I don't know who the girl is in the
video it's a little I mean think and
they could have been you know seventeen
sixteen fifteen when this came out but
he was a chapter leader of this group
that gets a huge amount of money from
people like Foster Friess that have
helped you know with the support of
people like Jordan Peterson are trying
to eliminate any type of even basic
historical conversation in college
campuses this is there's a reason why
junior bolson ro is gutting academia in
Brazil there's a reason why as Cornel
West said in the Reagan era the first
thing to go is arts funding I mean there
is a structural purpose behind the
propaganda campaigns of these people and
this is the type of sickness and white
supremacy and grotesqueness that it's
facilitating we we had definitely like
you know if you're a language warning
and a few and kids you know this is
totally disgusting but I'm sure it won't
surprise anybody it's about exploring
ideas just after you explore ideas I
want Buse I want to know reading ideas
to bring up here where is this Tim Poole
picked at like a few days ago was upset
that the white power that hand gesture
that they said when they said white
power right was blurred out at a Cubs
game and in Tim pools like well it's
just the okay it's just the circle game
the circle game is a game where if you
make that gesture make a circle
underneath your belt there's like I
think in my hometown it was like you
could get punched in the private parts
that oh okay so it's the circle game but
yeah not I don't think they're playing
the circle game right there I don't
think so this is Charlie Kirk I don't
think he's playing the circle game
either unless that little guy punched
him in nuts underneath the Trump sign
after it so there you go
I mean look I think again I think that
there are plenty of people who are not
part of the Republican Party who might
not be up-to-date with every bit of
language they might even disagree on
things that are really important but I
don't think that they're fundamentally
driven by by this I think that
particularly if you're a young person
and you're going if if you look at
Donald Trump and you want to join that
party today I think we need to be real
about what's motivating people I'm not
sure that every single member of the
tipi us a college campus has those
beliefs but I would be shocked if it
wasn't over 80% of them oh oh and
they're throwing the sign behind the
black commentator okay yeah yeah that
really adds to you know to to to to
forwarding beanie man's point over there
and Tim Poole says I can't see things
improving Society is falling apart we
know it's the circle game we know it was
part of a hoax they don't care the hoax
thing is just it's garbage like 4chan
 like this it doesn't matter
if white supremacists think they're
being or what to what degree white
supremacists think they're being ironic
with that gesture they're still white
supremacists throwing that gesture they
know what it means
precisely
