[Music]
well let's do this thing
let's do this this that clip that we
were gonna play at the top of the show
we didn't get to because I get so
annoyed but I mean just that
speaking of annoyed Tom Styer I mean I
don't know where he is on education I
can't imagine it's well I have no idea
but what this guy could do with a
hundred million dollars my god
but we will talk more about that later
meanwhile Fox News wants you to know
that just because Donald Trump is not
trying to cut Social Security at the
moment that that day will come and that
it's super important for them to
continue to remind their their viewers
that Social Security is is gonna go
bankrupt even though it's not and that
the 401k plans the fact that they're a
failed experiment not that relevant how
do you deal with these realities how do
you how do you basically try and make
people feel comfortable with the notion
that it may be difficult for them to
retire to offer solutions or there's
maybe another way well retirement
inching closer to becoming a thing in
the past for a lot of Americans in fact
a recent poll finds nearly one in four
people don't expect to ever leave the
workforce this as the number of people
working multiple jobs also spiking so
why are so many people financially unfit
to call it quits well it's up for debate
so let's ask Trend Micro CIO Donald
lustin you know these kind of polls are
already always around right the bank
rate does some things and other folks
but it's always a alarming 32% of people
say they over there retire before age 65
which might be unrealistic but
23% said never it's that worrisome for
you Donald I doesn't worry me personally
I I guess I'm one of those people who
plans never to retire I mean I got to
tell you what do people do when they
retire you know how do you spend a day I
mean it is bowling that interesting is
fishing that interesting I mean I happen
to love my work why do I want to stop it
you know it's not like it hurts why
would I stop it this is great what a
great country where we have the
opportunity to keep working what a
miracle where our lives are long enough
and we're healthy enough and mentally
alert enough so that we don't have to
retire like generations before us this
is a great blessing you should embrace
it
what's amazing is they are literally
showing b-roll alongside this guy of
just about every job that you could have
where you'd actually literally does hurt
right like hey I'm working construction
I get news for you your body gives out
in construction you if you can make it
to 65 after a lifetime of construction
then you are super super lucky
especially if you have all your fingers
well your fingers but I mean never mind
workplace injuries mask knees is just as
brutal waiting tables working in Factor
every single piece of b-roll or things
that were absolutely visited they should
have gotten b-roll of people getting
taken in a town car to a TV hit people
sitting on their ass at a hedge fund
people getting a massive check from the
Koch brothers who are you and their
assistants people yelling at their
assistants to type faster as they
dictate an EIN Rand masturbatory fantasy
this is I mean honestly though this is
the sort of the the perfect example of
the last refuge right where they got
like the question is why why are so many
people worried about the you know or or
or you know why can't we we managed to
have perfect retirement and this guy
responds with why can't we have why
would we want it let's think outside of
looks yeah exactly I
folks you don't need it you just don't
need it look at me I'm doing great
why would you need to rhyme on TV right
now why would you want to not wait
tables when you're 85 think about it oh
my gosh and yes identity I've listed a
couple of activities that are really fun
and rewarding to people let me add a few
others who wants to spend more time with
their family families are a burden my
ex-wife's a total as an example ah
this is a luskin's John cult this guy
does like a these ads on fox and who is
he's going to get let you into the
secret here played a little bit of this
why is Iran's great novel Atlas Shrugged
a best-seller today more than half a
century after it was written it's
because our real world today is just
like the fictional future that ran
foresaw in Atlas Shrugged it's a time of
crisis and decay but it's also a world
of innovation and achievement it's a
world of heroes and villains driven by
very different philosophies we wrote I
am John Galt to tell their stories we
look at the heroic innovators who are
building our world and show that they're
doing it just like the heroes of iron
rands novels they're using her
philosophy of capitalism reason
objective reality and self-interest who
is John Galt meet John Allison the
mild-mannered southerner who created one
of America's greatest banking empires he
did it with iron philosophy by getting
every one of his tens of thousands of
employees to read Atlas Shrugged and
live by its code in the great financial
crisis of 2008 individual his bank was
about the only one that didn't need a
government bailout but the government
forced Allison to take tarp money anyway
Johnson walked away just like John Galt
did there's so many other Rand heroes in
our midst there's Bill Gates like oh the
former CEO president of the Cato
Institute and I I would love we should
look at can you just can I love
individualistic focus of forcing all of
your employees to read a Colt book and
guess what super individualistic you
don't need to we don't need to
contribute to your 401k cuz you don't
want to retire anyway skies
that's what you're gonna do the world is
very similar to the time of John Galt in
the sense that there's in addition to
pillaging and destroying the country
CEOs still need to have some delusional
Russian author with no writing capacity
tell them that they're like Che Guevara
really Capri sank they need to be
flattered on top of everything else
that's that is the incredible thing
about iron Rand it's like the actual
economics of it makes sense if you are
an oligarch but the heroism of it shows
that all of them secretly want to think
of themselves a swashbuckling
revolutionary that's the
not-so-secret reactionary you know why
it's so funny I mean that's the whole
notion of like the IDW and the ferme of
the free market Fonzie I mean all of it
all of it free market funds folks
