[Music]
medicare-for-all advocate 80 bark and he
is he has ALS I believe and he's been
you know I think first came onto the
scene when he questioned Ted Cruz on the
plane in the in the lead-up to the votes
on the Affordable Care Act and he has
been as he is basically dying he has
been a tireless advocate and here he is
interviewing Kamala Harris on her
Medicare for all plan first only
Medicare for all will get everyone that
care they need under your plan millions
of people like me will still be denied
care by their for-profit insurance
company during the 10-year transition
period and afterwards in addition people
will avoid getting needed care because
of high co-pays and deductibles second
only a true Medicare for All system will
drive down costs it will save us
hundreds of billions of dollars per year
in administrative and billing costs that
are the result of a for-profit insurance
system that will not happen if providers
still have to build numerous insurance
companies finally there is the political
reality the insurance industry is going
to do everything it can to block any of
these proposals including yours which
means the only way to win is with a huge
grassroots movement and from what I can
see that enthusiasm only exists for
Medicare for all so where am I wrong
under my medicare-for-all plan on day
one you can get into the system of
medicare for all and have a public plan
you don't have to do a private plan it's
your choice your plan has a ten year
transition period until it is fully
enacted spanning the course of at least
two different presidencies given what
you saw Donald Trump's attempts to
dismantle Obamacare why do you think the
transition to a different health care
system should be so gradual giving the
Republicans many opportunities to block
it what we saw in a
and what we saw as the end result is yes
they played politics with public health
they named the Affordable Care Act
Obamacare in an attempt to make it
unpopular but what we saw happen is that
when more people get coverage and under
our plan within the first five years the
majority of Americans will be covered as
opposed to currently 30 million
Americans not having coverage is that
the people speak and there's a great
amount of power and political power and
the people I mean I think there's some
truth to her answer but the other truth
is that they've done quite a bit to sort
of undermined the the Affordable Care
Act as it is I mean aside from just you
know the the expansion of the Medicaid
but even within the context of the
exchanges it's still a the the bones are
still there I mean for better or for
worse what what do you make a bet above
her response I just I mean I don't know
to say at this point she's she's been
hacked she's had so many different
opinions on Medicare for all that it's
hard for me to take anything she says
seriously I mean will the average
primary voter know that no I I think
just talking about process people get
very overwhelmed by process and I
remember 10 years ago when we were
fighting over the Affordable Care Act
how confusing it was you know you get an
insurance executive out there to give
their spin you have a you know a
medicare-for-all advocate it will it was
extremely complicated and I think um
even the debates on the debate stage
were a little complicated for the
average viewer and that's why I think
Bernie Sanders is just keeping it at
Medicare for all makes it very easy for
people to digest and part of the
popularity I think lies in that here's
the Times reporting that the share of
Americans with health insurance declined
in 2018 this despite a strong economy
it's the first drop since 2009 which was
at least partly caused by efforts to
weaken the Affordable Care Act I imagine
some of it is just that people aren't as
obligated by the mandate but there was
also I would imagine so you know costs
were driven up significantly and you had
people you had companies leaving
the exchanges because they were not
getting essentially the subsidies that
the not on the patient side but on the
corporate side from the risk pool
insurance essentially that the the
federal government had but that 10-year
thing it's sort of stunning like even
the most sort of medicare-for-all
skeptical people were like wait a second
what ten years that doesn't make any
sense whatsoever but I think it was her
way of sort of contrasting with Bernie
which again is sort of I mean it is
amazing how much his plans have have
dictated where everybody else is you
know something else about about this I
was talking to a friend in California
who does not have access to health
insurance right now and she's she's
complaining that it's just extremely
difficult the process of it is very
difficult and I think the same thing
here in New York I mean you know those
are two democratic states that I don't
know how much insurance companies lobby
in New York but in California they're
pretty powerful in New Jersey of course
but they make the process so difficult
for you that I think a lot of folks just
say I you know I give up it's that is
the thing that people I don't understand
I think it sure like putting any
obstacles in and we'd to see what voting
right I mean there's a report out
they've closed 1,700 polling places in
areas that used to be covered under
preclearance under the Voting Rights Act
and in 2013 holder a Shelby versus
holder the Supreme Court essentially
negated the the the the preclearance
formula under Section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act and basically said we we
agree that there can be a notion of
preclearance this is this would subject
states and counties Queens I think was
one of them actually that was subject to
preclearance so it's not just southern
states it's areas that have had in the
past a record of disenfranchising people
based upon their race or their religion
I believe and this
breem court said well we agree that the
concept of preclearance can exist in
other words you cannot change the voting
rules here without getting the DOJ to
sign off on it because you have a
history of doing these things in a bad
way
but we don't like the formula because
it's not right to hold these people
responsible for past racism and the
House and the Senate can can create a
new formula now of course Republicans
wouldn't vote on this there is no vote
this is something that you know we talk
about I think a if you get a Democratic
president I don't care who it is and you
get a Democratic Senate this is going to
be something that will happen
immediately and one of the few things I
think we can really count on that
they're going to reinstate there come up
with another version of section 5 but
you have 1600 almost 1,700 polling
places closed in these states that were
subject to the Voting Rights Act and the
reason why they closed these polls is
because they want to make it harder to
vote and so every time you close the
vote I mean look you see examples of
this in every endeavor even think
progress saying like you could opt out
of paying us
we're just not gonna kid the reason why
you do that is because you know like
okay 30% of people will opt out 60
percent of people will opt out whatever
that number is is less than a hundred
percent if you turned off the Machine
and they know that every time they close
a poll there's probably some Republican
operative somewhere saying like if you
close a polling place in a district with
60% African American population you will
increase the likelihood of a Republican
winning in that district by 1.3 percent
I mean there's there is a formula and
that was the stuff I think you know that
we found on that hard drive with his
dead Republican operative which was you
know affected the outcome of the census
question I think the 2020 census
question on immigration it affected the
outcome and
North Carolina no doubt I have a feeling
that as they dig through this stuff it's
going to affect some other states again
it's process and it's process it's all
processed they just know like we don't
have to make a big announcement that
we're suppressing the vote of black
people we can just administrative Lee
close stuff procedure process and have
real-world outcomes and it is not as
sexy it is very hard to organize people
around that it involves a lot more sort
of like detailed understanding what's
going on and it is there's no glory I
think you could attest to that
