[Music]
so a lot of people are trying to defend
the presidents I guess announcement or
just in the course of an interview
making it clear that he will take Oppo
research from anybody even if it's a
foreign country I don't even know they
would even back it up necessarily I'll
take it as long as it favors me I'll do
it I don't care
and so Gorka gets out there like where
does he get off getting that presence at
the presidential seal in his studio I
worked for him yes I was a politically
commissioned officer and and is this new
- is he always had the Twin Towers in
the background I think they've been
there for at least a little bit he's got
the blue lives matter flag - and then he
has like an ancient reel-to-reel
recording device which he obviously
doesn't use but I got this for a good
deal from Ace of Base just want to make
sure I understand it's fellow travelers
there I'm on radio here it is it's is
this the relief factor is that a an ad I
think that must be an ad I don't know
but his show is America first and why
does he have a flag like in the
foreground is weird all right but here
is Gorka the president said and you
heard the audio or played again I'm sure
in the next hour if a country like
Norway provided relevant damaging
information I would listen to it now
what is no way no way is an ally it is
actually a treaty ally of the United
States it is a founding member of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO
and yes if an allied nation had
intelligence about some dastardly
history with regards to a political
candidate you would be obliged
to listen to them it's what allies do
not just in wartime but in peacetime we
share information with each other and if
that information is about people who are
subvert in national security to ignore
it would be the reprehensible act no no
if Gore could really got the point well
Gorka is changing the point because one
Hillary Clinton was not subverting the
national security of the United States
with the emails that went back and forth
in her campaign a and B that's actually
he just told his retold how the whole
Muller investigation came to be it was a
former Australian diplomat treated
country that tipped off the FBI to a
conversation he had with Papadopoulos
that's what got the investigation wasn't
the criminal investigation wasn't the
Muller investigation but it was the the
Intel investigation off and rolling
but Gorkhas got a Gork which is why this
is even better this is the not even a
show and this is one of my new favorite
two YouTube pages these guys call up and
do prank phone calls to right wing talk
shows and then cut them up and sort of a
there's a little bit of like Vic burger
and this is this is good stuff though
here it is
adjectives very important and you know
if if we can log your vocabulary with
more adjectives we will do so
John line for Idaho welcome to the first
hey mister Gorka thank you so much for
taking my call I'm huge fan
super-excited that you have the radio
show for me to listen to every day I got
a liberal sister who's she gives me a
hard time about being such a fan she
says your she calls you a big-headed
boot licker and also tenacity she is she
older or younger she's younger than I am
and then how do you how do you respond
to her rudeness I mean it's such a
leftie thing that's what I say I don't
say anything about any of the people
that she listens to her likes and you
know she watches The Daily Show I don't
ever mess on that and she's she's always
saying stuff like she says that you know
you seem like you're your breath smells
and and you know ridiculous is that what
your parents taught her I mean I I hope
not cuz I mean I was taught the same
thing and I don't I don't talk like that
she says always got nice three-piece
suits but you can put a three-piece suit
on a piece of dog crap it's still a
piece of dog crap and he's actually one
of the ugliest and biggest losers on the
entire hate radio how hateful she is
what's her first name yeah
what's your first what's your sister's
name John her first name is Gorka oh so
you're a troll
oh yeah you gotta hit them yeah thank
you see this is why the left will never
win because they are fueled by hate by
by by hate they are being eaten by acid
on the inside by acid are these there's
a lot more go and check it out there's a
three it's if going to look there's a
three-hour it's called the JJ supercut
may be a good place to start this
weekend the show it's not this is it's a
not even a show not even a show
not even a show on YouTube he really
should just quit what he's doing and be
a voice actor yes and you can you hook
him up Sam you got connections it would
be great like my book like cartoon
villain play like some type of like no
but like something kind of like like
some type of like like I don't know like
evil rat and like some type of Disney
movie or the rats that I eanes stop to
eat each other no work well is like in a
totally different context that'll be
good for a kids movie like and then we
will finally have the Fox family
cornered and he is turning over the
tables in the swamp as I do I think Wes
Anderson could do a lot with him
fantastic mr. gore Cove and I'm thick
mist er well no he would be like some
type of like gun collecting exterminator
or something that the Foxes had to
outwit
