[Music]
these two clips they're both disturbing
in their own way here is a woman who
describes voting for Bernie this is a
vice roundtable a woman who describes
voting for Bernie in the in the primary
and then listen to how she voted in the
general and the looks on the faces of
the women around her are pretty stunning
terrible by a show of hands who here
voted for Trump
I don't publicize my votes actually so
does anyone have questions for the women
here that voted for Trump the reason why
I voted for Trump is because I actually
was a fellow for the Democratic Party
and so I just really did not like
Hillary Clinton you know I actually also
did a lot of community work for Bernie
Sanders as well and I don't know I was
in this I literally sat in the voting
booth for like well it was a long time
and I don't know I just like check the
box honestly I thought it was I honestly
didn't even think he was gonna win so
part of it was a kind of a joke but but
again I again I don't know but before I
speak to the privilege that that holds
for that election to be a joke for you
right it wasn't really a joke I was like
you know I said it well I mean let me
read let me recant when I met by a joke
you know I didn't like either party you
know I think it was like I if Bernie
Sanders was on the ticket I would have
voted for Bernie Sanders's I really did
at the time really love what he said
what he stood for because you know he
really did a lot of grassroots and I
related to him as a Jewish American I
thought that socialism was the answer
and then you know but then when Hillary
what happened with Hillary Clinton when
she stole the election from him you know
I just couldn't vote for for her just
she was a woman so I did vote for Trump
why I didn't because that's not that's a
wasting a vote but it was a joke but it
was a joke okay I mean
let me just start with saying like kudos
for her for having the courage to say
that I guess but the the thing that
really disturbs me out of all that and
and and and to be clear that the
percentage of people who voted for for
Bernie and then ultimately voted for
Trump was was lower than at least it was
in the last the last comparable election
but with that said Bernie never made the
claim that Hillary Clinton stole the
primary from him so I don't know where
that comes from but I do know where that
comes from
and you know people ask me like what was
problematic with people like that
first of all completely untrue
completely untrue is it the case that
the DNC has a an organization that had
very little influence on the outcome of
the election favored Clinton over Bernie
without a doubt were the debates set up
in a way that the DNC thought it would
help Hillary Clinton by putting him on
the weekends absolutely did it turn out
to help Hillary Clinton I don't think so
but regardless that's it they had no
ability to influence anything else
there was no stolen election that's just
the fact the system is rigged but not
this system is no election was not
literally rigged like like that is not
true either well certainly when you have
to sign up a year beforehand to vote in
a primary that is in favor of
establishment candidates don't you think
that may be in favor establishing
candidates and maybe not
I mean it's may be in favor of people
who just I mean the idea that a
political party is gonna require like
look I think yes but the rules were the
rules I mean you could say rigged does
not mean that you could say that there
are structural forces that make it
easier for longtime Democrats if you
appeal to longtime Democrats that you
will get elected but that's not the same
as being rigged it wasn't rigged prior
to 1970 when there were no primaries
where it was just picked at the
convention was okay well I mean then if
you have an extremely man yes except for
semantics means something because when
that woman hears the word they're stolen
the election is stolen from Bernie
Sanders that makes her go in and say f
it I'm gonna spend a lot of time in this
ballot box and an ethic and so it makes
a big difference because rigged has a
definition and it's not there's no
structural advantage for candidates that
appeal to members of the Democratic
Party that's true that's true
that doesn't mean it's rigged in favor
of Hillary Clinton that's not true that
means it perhaps not frighten Hillary
Clinton if there was another Democrat
after you if there was a another
longtime Democratic candidate in there
but it's not slanted in it is there is a
structural advantage to people who have
been longtime members of the Democratic
Party now is that gonna hurt Bernie this
time around I don't think so do you
think it's gonna hurt him as much as it
did the first time around certainly not
as much as it did the first time around
why because he's more popular now and
because he's running earlier and people
now have the opportunity he's running to
win but I do think there are plenty of
people who will intend to vote for
Bernie and then realize when they show
up to vote
oops I didn't register as a Democrats a
long enough time ago yes and the day in
the Bernie Sanders campaign better be
out there trying to reach those people
and let them know what the rules are and
they
it I agree it should be much easier to
vote for people in primaries I would
like to see same-day registration in all
of these primaries but there's a
different critique than saying the the
election was stolen or that there was
some force that was rigging the election
in a way that Bernie wouldn't win
because they didn't nobody contemplated
Bernie running nobody I can assure you
Bernie figured out that he could win
probably around the same time that other
people figured out that he could win and
it was late in the game for any of it
and so there was nobody who's
contemplating but yes does a political
party set themselves up in such a way
that they will favor the their their
their partisans of course I mean I
happen to think that we should have
same-day registration on primaries as
well as general election but it's it's
sort of hard to you know make the
argument that there was some nefarious
plan other than long time structural
bias towards having people who are
declared members of your party vote in
the primary some people would call that
rigged not in the literal sense like
stuffing ballot boxes some people will
call it a structural advantage and they
have an issue with that which they have
every right to but we go back to that
woman for a second it reminds me of the
onion article ironic porn purchase leads
to an ironic ejaculation right I like
that I it's pretty stunning I gotta say
it's pretty stunning I would really like
to hear from the woman in purple sitting
next to her who doesn't publicize or
vote I wouldn't sit on this channel but
I don't want to talk about my my
political action yeah exactly I want to
be on TV
but and then and then to be fair here is
an example of I think someone who's
probably more of an outlier maybe but
maybe not but I think yes statistic
speaking more of an outlier another
woman on the panel they're all young
women seems to me I mean maybe
everybody's young to me but a young
african-american woman who had this to
say is to her vote for Donald Trump well
me I support Trump simply because he a
businessman and I come from a business
family I was raised my dad was a single
day he owned his own business so you
know entire being there just cause his
dad gave him a million dollars out the
words what does that mean you have to
keep up with that how you build from
that 1 million I mean he got that 1
million he went all the way like
internet almost into like what a billion
dollar that came up out of that and have
been successful every sense and I mean
me I'm not a person that just sit there
and watches one news channel I'll go out
and I'll go to the windows March I go
and I talk to everybody both sides I'm
not a one sided person I would never be
that because once you were one sided
person and they can easily eat you alive
well I guess it's nice that a small
percentage of black people has enough
money that they don't have to care about
this stuff I mean we can vote their
class interests I think there are I mean
I don't know I don't know what her her I
don't know that she's necessarily has
money I mean her dad's a small
businessman may that could mean any
number of things but the idea that
certainly been ingrained in certain
segments of our society that that that
the accumulation of money has has
attributes that are associated with in
our society that aren't necessarily
aren't necessarily the case right I mean
Donald Trump has a lot of money even if
he was to have earned that money himself
which I think it's very hard to say
based upon how much money he was left by
his dad and how much money he was given
by his dad and how much of his business
deals were co-signed literally
guaranteed by his dad just this idea
that is out there I mean look the
Republican Party had been cultivating
this for a long time George Bush was the
CEO president Romney I mean this is an
attitude that is out there that somehow
that that that business is running a
business is in some way analogous or an
indication of how you will be in the
context of public service is I think
we've seen that you know when you run a
business your business man you get in
there and you still see it as business
he's still running it like a business
but for him for his benefit
