[Music]
so here's a good lesson in what you
should not do if someone is making the
case that you have an outsized power in
our society and therefore should be
subjected to some type of of scrutiny
and regulation by the government so that
you do not have this outsized Authority
in our society here is here's Charles
Payne trying to justify why Facebook did
the right thing by pulling down
Elizabeth Warren's ads talking about her
introduction of antitrust measures our
proposed antitrust measures to break up
Facebook Elizabeth Warren going after
Facebook I'm liking it for a while then
Facebook made a reversal Charles Payne
host to making money on FB n here to
tell us the stories that she she put
some ads on Facebook saying break up
Facebook Facebook took the ads damn
right because they said she used the
Facebook low logo right and then they
later put it back oh yeah what's
happening Mike said kicked me I'm going
to take it why does Charles Payne think
he's that funny you know it's it's
creepy because that probably did play a
role in Mark Zuckerberg decision to
remove those ads I don't know if Mark
Zuckerberg thought about that there's no
doubt that's how he gets to feel like
persecuted victim even when he's an
older car but this I mean the the or was
base culture jammer inside Facebook
who's like what's really underscore the
worries of her point I just want to yeah
exactly
I mean Facebook we know that most people
get their news from Facebook at least in
part if not in
you know the the majority this is where
they get their news they don't know they
they're these where news stories come
from and the idea that they have the
ability to to do censor in that way is
highly problematic
now you could nationalize it but then of
course you've got a real problem I think
with the the US government being in the
business of determining if some stuff is
you know borderline you know an
exception to the First Amendment and so
I think you know nationalizing Facebook
or Google I find to be highly
problematic I think there's a lot of
things that would be everything would be
tied up in the courts better to make
Facebook not the the sole means in which
people get their news but rather there
be other platforms if Charles Payne's
back was the place where most of the
people at his high school got their news
that's what would be a problem that's
right
Oh incidentally if you need to know the
change in the cafeteria schedule it's on
the back am i visibly on my back exactly
they're just trying to do something
about bullying okay but how
short-sighted too I mean this is the
other thing is that these are not very
bright people if you wanted to make
Elizabeth Warren's case for her that's
what you would do and that's why they
put it back I almost wonder if Warren's
people didn't include the Facebook logo
for that purpose intentionally oh they
definitely were goading Facebook into
doing it there's no doubt that was smart
of them to do that frankly that's
perfect Friendster you know buddy hated
Friendster right I was not on that I
didn't know anything about that
