the making the caravan the most
dangerous issue facing Americans is an
all-hands-on-deck project so so much so
that they've even asked for Gorka who I
don't know where he's living but he's
it's not in the gym I can tell you that
frogs it's exactly the kind of ubirr
I'll I'm sorry I'm sorry I just noticed
it's just that it's always interesting
to me to see how when people get on TV
quite a bit and there was a story in The
Times about this
I think people start getting on TV quite
a bit all of a sudden that they drop
like 10 20 pounds and they start
dressing well and then sometimes like
when you can tell like when they're out
of the public eye they start to maybe
sit at home and like snack too much the
calls are incoming and they have more
Crisco and so here he is you've heard
martha maccallum sort of imply that
maybe these people are armed you've
heard other people imply that they're
invading the country but Gorka takes it
one step further and and I frankly I
don't know where they're getting the
demographic research on this but I guess
you could guess you can eyeball it you
can type all this yeah one of the things
the Romans had to do often with a with
an invading force that was five weeks
out and prepared to apply for asylum my
face is literally facial recognition
software
and we are when you look at the fact
that this is 80 percent of the caravan
are military age males that's a
potential national security threat and
at the end of the day that logic doesn't
bear weight because there's seven
billion people in the world a lot of
them are poor so where do we stop do we
do we open the borders and let everybody
then America ceases to exist Eve it's a
good point yes of course a couple of
good points
I love the
idea like military age military age the
military age the Gateway pundit had some
tweets up and look for it here they keep
calling
they keep describing the men in the
caravan as virile it's it's like very
19th century sort of like there's a lot
of good workers who are going to be able
to contribute to social security for
decades these are some of the most
strapping young bucks horde of migrants
the horde of migrants are mainly
military agent V remains males this is
an invasion mm-hmm
thousands of military age viral veera
mostly Honduran males breached the
Guatemala border gate over the weekend
they didn't breach or storm the Mexican
border bridge they walk across it now
that's all Mexican authorities
ultimately let the caravan through this
is what's going to happen in America
they're gonna have they're going to uh
Wow he's one day my wife is giving me an
allowance from her family's trust fund
then next she's with a viewer I'll water
Malin I see the very reason why one has
a Ford Mustang c7 is it still a mystery
to you where the term cut comes from
I've had to I've had to upgrade to an
iroc-z to get my virility up and let me
tell you something even with that iroc-z
the Jim is the not the only thing that
I'm not getting to if you know what I'm
saying to call Bill O'Reilly so we can
be first on market with some virility
pills we've got the jaws of life to
expand the size of my Mustang side door
so I get it I'm not getting my next
Doctor Janet not getting booked next
week fine but haagen-dazs it is
good Hannity could Shawn use me later no
no I will be every couple anchovy pizza
please with extra cheese garlic
breadsticks as well as a leader of so
let's go
