[Music]
all right and so let's move to the other
member of the IDW the even more wounded
animals ladies and gentlemen I've been
telling you for years that part of the
reason why I would was determined to I
don't say harass but to question Dave
Rubens assertions that he makes in
public about where he stands politically
was because he had announced several
years ago that he had a book coming out
and I want to make sure that if he got
press for that book that they would see
that his whole shtick is bunk
and well it is uh it is time for Dave
Reubens book to come out it is entitled
don't burn this book implying that there
are people doing book burnings in the
country the last burning of any media I
cannot be aware of was conservatives
burning the Dixie Chicks albums when
they spoke out against the war we don't
burn books as bad for the environment oh
wait it was also the Koran being burned
by some right-wingers I guess about
eight and nine years ago
don't burn this book which is also sort
of ironic because well it's it's Abbie
Hoffman and which was steal this book
should I call it don't remainder this
book they don't remainder this book
don't burn this book this was his way of
basically saying there's book burnings
that are taking place but don't burn
this one because I don't believe in free
speech I guess I don't believe in its
expression it's just like he's trying to
reverse psychology us into one interpret
oh yeah nobody buy this book and then
burn it
oh god I'm doing his marketing for I
don't like whatever you do don't burn
them no I am willing to bet anything
I own wait here somebody are you sure
you're monitoring Twitter for the book
burnings because I haven't seen a single
one see they're gonna they're gonna get
about don't burn this book the
progressive woke machine from outraged
mobs and online censorship to activists
masquerading as journalists its waging
war against the last free thinkers in
the world there's only like eight three
years ago like eight free thinkers left
it's kind of like one of those if I move
you know one of them are Weinstein you
know what I am your brother you know
what I feel like is also happening
somebody must be waging a war against
the last copy editors - that is quite a
sentence
this book is both an explanation of the
current political upheaval and your
guide to surviving it it's a survival
book is there is there more oh there's a
little bit more here it is it's oh wow
there's a lot here oh we got to get put
this up there okay and America and the
West in general is gonna be genius West
in general it's in the midst of an
identity I feel like I need I need music
for this can we can we get some type of
how about I don't feel like that yeah
this is this breed it what do you guys
okay
America and the West in general is in
the midst of an identity crisis that's
headed towards an outright revolution
[Laughter]
the progressive left once the advocates
of free expression an individual
autonomy now undermine these values at
every turn the uncomfortable truth is
turned moderates and true liberals into
the politically homeless class in
response Dave Rubin launched his
political talk show the Rubin report in
2015 as a laboratory for anyone trying
to make sense of our shifting political
landscape the landscape is shifting he
disasters the most controversial issues
of the day with people he both agrees
and disagrees with yeah including those
who have been dismissed de platformed
and even despised because I've had a
chance to speak for themselves sometimes
they change video titles based on his
own story as well as his experiences
from the front lines of the free speech
wars this book will inspire you to make
up your own mind about what you believe
on any issue and show you how to check
your facts not your privilege no matter
your gender economic class or level of
education you're still allowed to have
opinions for now Reuben separates facts
from feelings dispelling today's most
pervasive myths like the wage gap gun
violence racism
affirmative action climate change hate
crimes and more okay give it other way
of action doesn't even go in that list
but wait a second what are the does
using the logic of this paragraph but
I'm not even sure what this means
dispelling today's most pervasive mesh
he's saying those things aren't real the
wage gap is is pervasive pervasive myth
gun violence is a pervasive myth racism
is a pervasive myth affirmative action
that doesn't even exist affirmative
action exactly climate change doesn't
exist
hate crimes doesn't and more doesn't
exist and more learn to stand your
ground my husband did a lot of
negotiations with the Koch brothers to
have the climate change stand your
ground is one of those phrases that as a
liberal I love to use a difference of
opinion should not be a deal-breaker for
any relationship professional or
personal sadly sadly these days it often
is Ruben will show you that losing a few
friends is a small price to pay for
standing up for what you believe like
nano Anna why won't you takes me back
anymore my I don't know why being so
weird about stuff Milo that's a weird
yeah choosing an authentic path is
ultimately worth it defend liberalism
while you still can
there it is Oh about his publisher
Sentinel was established in 2003 as a
dedicated conservative imprint with
penguin group it publishes a variety of
right-of-center books on subjects like
politics history public policy defend
liberalism while you can is as always
saying time is running out to defend
individual rights limited government and
free expression rubin provides a roadmap
for true classically liberal principles
regardless of your party affiliation and
shows you why freedom is impossible
without them
don't burn this book empowers you with
time-tested and common-sense principles
that can turn the tide against
authoritarians on both sides in this
increasingly pretty brown boatside
calling up boats because whatever
is a rallying cries for anyone who wants
to live freely which is quickly becoming
the most radical belief you could have
right now in a selfies you know what
this copy this copy is like some like
anxious person at a restaurant making
sure they get everything in an order
you could cut down 50% of this and have
the same thing
racism is fake stop trying to do
platform is description wanting to live
freely is not a belief I'm sorry to be
pretentious you have been so pedantic
don't you know he's disturb unkingly
pervasive myth of affirmative action
yeah it's it's big of a conservative
imprint to publish the last liberal like
that to show Bob and I'm also impressed
that he dispels pervasive myths and wage
gap gun violence racism affirmative
action climate change hate crimes and
more all in a slim 256 pages don't worry
I don't need that many brevity's it at
they said forever
gravity blank the dude is a pervasive
myth and just you punked it I just
debunked all right lose the jazz the
slow Joe so I am very interested I think
I really think is Walter so it's an
Eaton was alive today I'm telling you
right now we're introducing a new
segment on this program we will be
reading from the Dave Rubin book once a
week we will read maybe will put it out
as a member benefit I'm not sure how
we're gonna be we're gonna be doing this
Walter silts and Eaton said that if he
was alive today oh he's still alive but
but he would come on my show and we
talked about the Soviet Union we will
read from this book and we will
scrutinize every single word of it and
if you see any indication that Dave
Rubin is meeting with the journalists I
hope for god sakes so that we can get
the full story because I know how Dave
doesn't want anybody D platformed I want
a platform in that piece written about
the book
I want a complete audit of any magazine
that does a or newspaper or website that
does a positive review of this
immediately look like I want to know who
is funding that outlet where do we blurb
well I'd also look a little bit closer
at this part here speaking of copy
editors just learn learn to stand your
ground
it felt really empowering to write this
myself I take this out I'm walking back
with my smoothie with one hand I think
I'm gonna keep living my life all right
dude I want
