all right this is fun to watch look it's
pretty rare I get to watch somebody who
I really love
talk about somebody else who I love no
not this guy who I love the other guy
this is Chris Christie who apparently I
didn't realize this but is still alive
and still gets invited back on it to
television shows I don't know what he's
doing is he working at a law firm doing
some lobbying or something probably
right but this is how you know that
chris Christie has given up on his dream
to be Donald Trump's manservant I give
you Chris Christie with cousin Margaret
Hoover on Wow look how we fallen firing
line I want to talk about Jared Kushner
because frankly it comes it down that
he's the one who fired you right that's
a steep banner called me yes and you
believe that sure right you believe that
because there's history between the two
of you between me and his father not
between me and him you can understand
why he takes it personally yes and no
would you separate your experience if
your father had been put in jail from
the prosecutor who put him in jail if my
father was guilty
I would mr. Kushner pled guilty he
admitted the crimes and so what am I
supposed to do as a prosecutor I mean if
a guy hires a prostitute to seduce his
brother-in-law and videotapes it and
then since the videotape to his sister
to attempt to intimidate her from
testifying before a grand jury do I
really need any more justification than
that I mean it's one of the most
loathsome disgusting crimes that I
prosecuted when I was US Attorney and I
was he was attorney in New Jersey
Margaret so we had some clothes of a
disgusting crime going on there there
you go I enjoy that clip for a number of
reasons I mean tell me to lie the the
best part is just how much Glee Chris
Christie is getting in repeating that
I'll be totally happy to refresh
everybody's memory on how utterly
despicable the Kushner family how do you
say that because I have a computer here
with a whole
keynote address with the graphics of the
PowerPoint yeah yes that's enjoyable but
it's an indication I don't think Chris
Christie does that even six months ago
no it's over it is that ship has sank
chump got chucked on the shutdown and he
wants to take a little tour back on TV I
think so remember it was Jared Kushner
who thought like we're really going to
be oh but I
I've marshaled in this whole criminal
justice reform didn't like so classic
did not understand that this thing was
already basically done right they
brought him a baked cake and he thought
he made it from scratch this is gonna be
just like I can barely palace exactly I
have an idea
oh I'm going to hire a hooker and give
it to my sister's husband and then
she'll get the tape and then they'll
give me the money
how does that I don't understand how
that intimidates her from I mean I don't
know well because she'll see the tape
and she'll feel very upset and then I'll
get the money but we've but if the wife
sees the tape she's not gonna go in and
testify what against whom well I think
no I think she wanted to drive a wedge
between the wife I'm gonna dude I see
yeah that was the play okay he shall see
the other woman and then she'll go to
Pilates even more and then she'll be
distracted and then I'll get the money
hold on one second I have a call on the
other line no we're not turning the heat
on
