[Music]
this is this is pretty astonishing and
this is why you tune into a news outlet
like Fox News that wouldn't get caught
up in the Mulla report because they're
blowing the lid off of what's going on
with this foreign aid
everybody says foreign aid is like less
than 1% of our budget yeah that's true
but why why we giving why are we giving
foreign aid to to Mexico three times
over what what's going on
it's the screen is black we're we're
about to play the clip my bad never mind
okay so this whole thing where we are
paying one country three times this is
just crazy this is based on the story
that the White House not only thinking
about closing down the border but is
going to punish Central America because
the best way to deal with the to the
extent that we you know to deal with the
idea that people are streaming towards
the American border because our foreign
policy over the years has completely
destabilized these societies is of
course to withhold money unless these
the leaders there start to crack down on
the weakest and most vulnerable people
in these countries cutting payments aid
payments to El Salvador Guatemala and
Honduras over the fact that those
countries are have been unable to
contain the flood of migrants heading
through Mexico to our southern border so
yesterday we talked about potentially
shutting down this other border there
two days ago excuse me no that's
yesterday weekend is just two days posit
I'm gonna read to you the chyron from
Fox and Friends so this is not just
someone speaking do you know what I mean
like it's not like a
Trump cuts US aid to three Mexican
countries first of all its Mexico been
posing it's three countries to get three
times the aid what's going on they're
blowing the roof off this so we're in
slightly different sombreros what
exactly it's just not it's just
unbelievable isn't it I've been to all
of the Mexico's and I find them all
quite unique in their own way it would
probably be too punitive for us to find
out who is writing the Chiron's but it
might be interesting from like if we had
a public Ombudsman say this is how this
happened we how we called El Salvador of
Mexico just keep on does anybody notice
it on the show actually shutting down
this other border there two days ago no
that's yesterday two days but yesterday
we also heard that this is a big move
this is the one of the few punitive
measures the executive branch has still
to these countries to say get it under
control we've been giving you aid for
decades we want your societies to be
better your economies to be better
because right now there's a huge
magnetic pole to our southern border
that's that's gonna be we'll see if that
leads to any changes in policy in those
countries yeah see this this is the
belief that these lunatics have that
it's just simply the magnetism of the
United States that is pulling them there
as opposed to report after report after
report of the incredible amounts of
violence and danger that is in these
countries for these people it's it's
grotesque in real it really is but gosh
which Mexico is your favorite mat boy
you know
