[Music]
all right one other thing I know we're
bumping up against it a little bit but
one other thing I want to talk about
before we go into the fun half is this
warn proposal from yesterday and there's
a couple of things happening in the
Senate that are very interesting in
terms of Democratic Democratic potential
candidates for for the presidency so
Elizabeth Warren yesterday and I haven't
seen the specific details of it but she
will release or has I think as of
yesterday released a bill that would
effectively create a government-run
pharmaceutical manufacturer to
mass-produce generic drugs and and bring
down prices in the same process the the
bill would establish an office of drug
manufacturing that would be required to
manufacture at least 15 generic drugs in
its first year where the agency
determines there is a failure in the
market the standards for determining a
market failure will be threefold one if
no companies producing a generic drug
people get surprised by this but this
happens all the time
they don't produce a drug because
there's not enough money to be made at
it I mean which in and of itself is a
perfect example of I mean they call it a
market failure this is not a market
failure this is this is intrinsic to
capitalism there are these are the
intrinsic limitations to capitalism the
idea that there are no beneficial things
in the world that can't as a defined by
by whether you can profit on it or not
is absurd it's an absurd premise we have
examples all around us did you know that
there is a Lyme disease vaccination
Michael no coming from an area where
there's just tremendous and he's know
hiking did you know it yeah I've had it
you had no no Lyme do
okay the vaccination was rolled out
about I think thirty some-odd years ago
it was only about 70% effective but 70%
effective is pretty good pretty good I'm
getting a really actually incredibly
damaging disease and it was just not
enough people used it at the time they
took it off the market has never been
seen they're probably sitting on the
patent that competition would start
kicking in right and even more and you
know expanding it out we know that
there's whole sets of tropical and
infectious diseases that predominantly
hit like sub-saharan Africa and parts of
Asia that there's there's not even any
broad research into dealing with them
because there's no no honey there's no
money and we also know in the late 90s
the Clinton administration threatened to
slap sanctions on South Africa because
they were gonna produce generics for
their AIDS medications when their crisis
was spiked yep so in this instance one
of the market failures is if no company
is producing the drug if one or two
companies are making the drug and
there's a shortage or a recent price
price hike higher than medical inflation
that would also kick in the the drug
manufacturing Bureau essentially or if
the drug is on the World Health
Organization's essential medicine list
and the price is deemed too high while
being produced by only one or two
companies so but the idea of the US
government getting into producing a
product I'm trying to think if there's
another example of that this is a pretty
I mean it's an obvious proposal we
should be doing this we should be doing
this with a bunch of stuff I think we
should be we should be running the oil
refineries frankly I think we should Eva
delivering the internet but those are
all sort of like more like services in
terms of products I mean frankly I think
we should be in the business of doing
this not just for generic drugs we
should be doing this for a whole host of
things public there should just be a
pure public pharmaceutical option and
before you go to nationalize all
pharmaceuticals be worth they use it or
lose it patent requirement the idea that
people are sitting on intellectual
property that could save lives or
improve the lives of people and they're
just sitting on it to prevent a
competitor from getting it down the road
is absurd I think frankly there should
be but use it or lose it for all patents
that's probably most important
pharmaceutical ones but intellectual
property in terms of creative culture as
well and but she has pointed to that
story about the 300 generic drugs and 16
companies that were were price-fixing as
a sign that her policy is needed but
just like even in the short moment that
we we contemplate you know because one
of the things that we have in this
country is a failure to imagine like how
government could continue to make our
lives better
how could policies that are are meant to
that are not considered market or
capitalist policies can improve our
lives and stuff like this starts to jog
the imagination a little bit now the
interesting thing about this now of
course it's not going to we're not going
to pass this in the Senate I don't know
how many even Democratic senators will
sign on to it we'll see last week
Merkley Kamala Harris Amy Klobuchar
introduced the cure high drug prices Act
which allows federal government to block
price increases on certain drugs that my
mind does not go far enough but I like
it again Merkley put forward separate
legislation the low drug prices act the
week earlier bernie sanders introduced
his own bill the prescription drug price
Relief Act in November you see a lot of
activity all of those people could very
well run for the presidency however and
and maybe we'll do well do that bet
thing later we're gonna pre record
something with Perrine for for next week
but I think particularly coming after
that meeting that Warren and Sanders had
last week this is a sign to me that
Sanders may not be running because
because if I'm Elizabeth
Warren and I'm running and I know that
Sanders is running now maybe he hasn't
decided yet it's good which it's quite
possible by Mo's this is very risky
thing for her to do because this is a
pretty radical piece of legislation I
mean I think she's very good at
presenting things that are radical in
the context of the United States where
we write politically but just making
them sound a little bit more sort of
like obvious in the homespun
on some level but this is a pretty she's
leaning into it quite a bit and if she's
gonna be running against Bernie Sanders
the lane she's gonna choose is not gonna
be to the left of Bernie Sanders the
lane she's gonna choose is gonna be just
to the right of Bernie Sanders and this
policy puts her to the left of Bernie
Sanders or maybe she's trying to
appropriate some of his politics to win
I think he does that if Sanders is not
there I mean look you pick a lane in a
primary and it's quite possible that
that Lane on the left of her is opened
up that's why that's exactly my point
is that she's not gonna try and out
Bernie Sanders to Bernie Sanders because
no Bernie Sanders supporters are gonna
abandon him for her because she's got
more left policies they're going to
abandon him for her because they think
that she can win they they're her
policies are good enough or whatever it
is and so her lane is not to the left of
Bernie Sanders unless Bernie Sanders is
not gonna be there
in which case then she needs to bring
those people in also my theory it also
could be possible that she's savvy
enough to recognize that the plates that
the dynamics are shifting so much that
she needs to in the context even of this
primary to be slightly to the right of
him but theoretically more palatable
though the polling doesn't show that she
needs to reach a little bit deeper into
her left flank
you see I'm saying yep yep it's possible
I guess time will tell what Isis out the
other people trying to do that and it
totally Isis out all right because like
a guy like sherrod Brown at this point
who I think is another good candidate
but he's fully playing now
which is like I have a more serious
legislative and credible progressive
labor record I'll stack that against
anybody and he's very clearly like I'm
not gonna call for abolishing ice I'm
not gonna do Medicare for all yet
because he's totally going the Lane of
like I'm a legislator I'm serious I'm
gonna run in the Midwest blah blah blah
and so Elizabeth Warren is actually
gonna triangulate between those two
positions and I think she needs to shore
up her flank on her left both say
Merkley and sherrod Brown also
introduced legislation that would
permanently ban members of Congress and
senior staff from trading individual
stocks the the idea that they you can
even do that now it's just absurd well
what we've seen but but it's interesting
the this is the thing you know there's a
little bit of like a racehorse II stuff
to the quality this but the other part
that's really great about it is these
introducing these this legislation is a
sense of where it gives you a sense of
where these candidates are going to run
and it gives you a sense of just like
what's happening in the Democratic Party
is very encouraging because there is a
certain clamoring even if people want to
be rooted in the like I mean I don't
know these people are talking about seem
to be one or be rooted in the center of
the the Democratic Party but to the
extent that they want to be anchored a
certain distance away from that center
there's still the like the drift the
current is to the left and so you know
everybody they may drop their anchor but
if you look at the direction in which
the chain that is attached to their
their boat is it's all tracking to the
left hundred percent yeah and that's
encouraging but I still want to make the
distinction between rhetoric and policy
right because we've heard these are
policies a lot yeah but are they
actually going to prioritize those
things once they're in office and I
think we need to look at the past record
evidence if that I root that algebra
Center who gives the money but the other
big quote or and how mobilized and
aggressive their bases and
what they need to satisfy in the context
of holding it right our the the idea is
that the more people glam on to and on
by people I mean like actual people
attach themselves to these policies the
more weight they have to give them you
know like you see a policy that you're
that a candidate has and you like that
policy start to organize around it and
create and make it something that they
can't let go of that's the idea now I
don't know this actually article doesn't
seem that revelatory and I don't know
how well connected but Jonathan Martin
in the New York Times his report on this
meaning is Sanders and Warren meat and
agreed that they're both probably
running yeah so you know but that
doesn't I'm reading into it and it
doesn't it all it conveys is like
they're friendly and they respect each
other and they're talking which could
just as easily mean what's am saying it
mean who knows or it could mean like hey
we're both gonna run but let's try to
not tear each other apart right because
we're in a similar Lane or it could mean
that she's saying I'm not gonna run and
I want more specific wonky things from
you right this is what I thought was
gonna happen and I'm so annoyed that we
have to talk about the presidential race
in 2020 already just throwing that out
there yeah yeah we're talking about oh I
know I know it's just very triggering
for me I talk about it too though it's
fine I get really invested in it I'm not
ready yeah everything will be fine I'm
looking forward to Cory Booker like
proposing like summer Airy executions
for Sheldon Adelson or something he's
like super on it Cory Booker is like I
think all the Cork's actually need to be
put to death that's the most spiritually
sound strategy
