[Music]
this is this is pretty stunning
what's-his-face Seth Moulton was on a
this guy you know sometimes you screw up
and you really try and start to
backpedal and this I think happens a lot
if you if you mess up in politics one of
the tax that you can take is you go you
go home and you lick your wounds the
other tack you can take is you try and
attack someone who has less power than
the person that you just failed to
attack and you just sort of move down in
your mind you know the the pecking order
as to who might be vulnerable
right I tried to go after this person I
got faced and so now I'm gonna go after
someone else I perceive as vulnerable of
all the people I want you to think of
all the people who defended Nancy Pelosi
from the the insurgency to keep her from
being Speaker of the House there was 15
people who as you know signed a letter
to defeat her there was also the No
Labels people who were trying to
leverage her but everybody else who was
defending her think of all the people
right like the David Axelrod's like the
Clintons like the centrists and people
on the left to a certain extent because
of of where the the politics of Seth Moe
I want you to think of all those people
if you're Seth Moulton and you want to
come out in an attack one or one subset
of those people who defended Pelosi who
would you choose who would be the most
obvious person you attack well of course
it's Alexandra Ocasio cortez obviously
from masters speaking of new generation
of leadership and speaking of women you
as you know even at your town hall
meeting you've been accused of being a
sexist the highest profile person of the
new generation of leadership Ocasio
Cortez tweets all the challenges to
leader Pelosi are coming from her right
and an apparent effort to make the party
more conservative and bent toward
corporate interests are you worried
about the impact of this challenge both
on your constituents and on you sets
Moulton no I'm not because I believe I'm
doing the right thing for the party in
the country and I'm always going to do
that and people who know me know that
about me you know they may not even
always agree with my perspective on
things but they should know that I will
always fight for what's right and I'm
not gonna just Bend with the political
winds I mean again this is a position
I've had for two years so just because
there are some people on the far left
I'm complaining about it right now
doesn't mean that I'm suddenly going to
change my position and frankly you know
that that tweet is I think pretty
obsessives if someone like Linda Sanchez
the congresswoman from California who's
been at the forefront of this effort for
a long time it's offensive because she's
in the Progressive Caucus so she is a
very very progressive member of Congress
she is not to the right of Nancy Pelosi
by any means and it's also a census
because she's a woman what exactly
Bernie bro AOC at it again like I just
really do not want women in leadership
so I will stay in the house I will not
run for the Senators not ready your
country is not ready like I can
represent the Bronx and queens I cannot
do statewide
obviously woman which is why I support
Nancy Pelosi make ma little sense Seth
Moulton is going to get primary and
without a doubt and I'm telling you
right now I am committed to helping
raise money for Seth Moulton so primary
bazaar I mean I mean look the Sankey
sexist because he wants the challenge
Pelosi is ludicrous do of course there's
such a way of just being like but where
did that come from
no I mean that in that conversation
nobody went from like a ludicrous
accusation against him to all of a
sudden like do you have an issue with
women speak to the house because you've
weird is that Mike Birbiglia
a Rob Riggle a lot of rebels a lot
cooler hey dude very very similar that's
very odd I would like to run Rob Riggle
against Seth mole yeah and I think
wriggles from from the Boston area rigor
would toast impressive guy he's a
progressive III don't know what it is
exact pallet exile but he's also a vet
so it'll smoke molten there you go his
molten of that is that his deal is that
like not as good a bet as rigorous of
course
