it started we are only about a week less
away from the Democratic debates primary
debates and of course now Donald Trump
has officially declared his hour
launched I guess his 2020 campaign it
seems to me that he's been doing
campaign rallies really since the start
of his administration but with that said
Donald Trump gave one of his first
campaign or official campaign rallies
speeches of 2020 in Orlando Florida and
it really seems like a little bit
muddled but I don't know if that makes a
difference but it did seem sort of
muddled didn't it yeah I mean just to
just you know move back just a little
bit he you're absolutely right that he's
been doing this ever since he was was
inaugurated indeed he did it throughout
the transition to nobody had ever done
that before and he did like four or five
member he was a thank you tour or
whatever and basically he was just doing
his same rally and Trump filed his
re-election papers on the day he was
inaugurated no one's ever done that
before and he told Karen Tumulty of the
Washington Post within the first week
that he already had a new campaign
slogan trademarked which was keep
America great so in one within one month
29 days from the day he was inaugurated
Trump gave a campaign rally in Orlando
in which he said almost exactly the same
stuff that he just said last night he's
been doing this ever since nothing has
really changed I mean there are few
details in his rallies that are slightly
different but for the most part what his
rallies have evolved into is sort of a
greatest hits tour for his followers
where they get to he does this call and
response they get to cheer they get to
boo they get to chant all the big hits
they the you know they sing along with
lock her up and drain the swamp and
build that wall and it's kind of it's a
it's more it's not really a political
rally anymore
mean I really don't think that's what
he's he's he's doing and I'm not saying
it doesn't function that way but the
this is not the way normal political
leaders speak it's not the way it's an
interaction between him and his base his
followers his cult I think there's a
cult-like aspect to this where they just
get to commune with one another it's
about how they feel with each other this
kind of sense of of you know their own
sort of you know cult-like you know
movement that they've developed and they
get to interact with their leader and
this is they want they participate they
cheer and they Boo and all that but I
don't get the sense and I've used to see
what you think I watched the whole thing
last night just because I had to write
about it first Elan and I watched it you
know from beginning to end I even
watched the earlier speakers and we can
talk about that a little bit because
that there's something actually
interesting and one of those but he he
you know the the whole thing was really
it's just a feel-good kind of thing and
I feel good I mean and a listing out of
grievances and anger at the at the
opposition in this sense that we're all
you know we're all under siege I mean he
said that over and over again actually
and and he made a point of saying
they're not coming after me it's not
about me it's about you they're coming
after you and so he's stoking the sense
of grievance in the sense of their own
kind of cult like you know insular
little bubble that they're all living in
and you know this is this is what it is
I mean I really think that it's
important for people to understand it
this isn't really politics this is
something else this is this as an actual
Adams beyond the movement - I mean this
is is this you know kind of a cult-like
worship of a singular figure well I mean
I the only the only pushback I would
give to that and maybe maybe this is not
maybe I'm not contradicting you but the
notion of grievance the notion that
there are
outside forces coming to assail you
seems to me to be quintessentially the
conservative mind I mean you know you
know this is all maybe it is you know
it's founded in this but it's the most
authoritarian of of of these
conservatives but this notion I mean
this is it really is I mean it's just a
question of what they're gonna demand
who they're gonna demonize on any given
week I mean it's really more era
oriented I mean I don't know how much
you watch Fox News but this week if you
tuned in to Fox News people would see a
concerted effort for whatever reason to
and maybe it's just we need to really
ratchet it up they and maybe it's
because there are reports that
immigration from Mexico has you know
dropped over the past ten years like you
know the the the building of the crisis
has not been significant enough and so
now they're making it about Africans who
are immigrating to the United States is
the real is like the the latest flood of
immigrants that we're getting and and
and maybe it's just a function I mean
like it was stunning
you know if I follow this on a regular
basis and to watch two shows in one
night on Fox suddenly talk about this
huge problem we have with African
immigrants too just to be sort of
startling in a way that the way that
they're just sort of shifting maybe they
as they get closer to the to the
election there's a sense that we need to
make the boogeyman darker I don't know
what it is but it really is and and the
the other thing though I will say this
that occurred to me because yes Trump is
saying that you know they're coming for
you and it's no you know I'm here for
you and this and that but I wonder if
you know what what struck me was two
things about the the rally one was how
much response he's still getting with
Clinton lock her up like that seemed to
be the
most animated the crowd was and the
other is that and I don't know if he'll
stick with it but this new slogan is you
know keep America great that to me
sounds sounds a little bit problematic I
mean a part of what supposedly propelled
him last time was his acknowledgment of
problems that we had in America even if
it was sort of just you know broadly
speaking because you know these people I
think would be aware for the most part
on some level that things necessarily
haven't necessarily improved for them
unless and I know that this is this is
true for a significant portion of his
base but it's not it's not an electoral
it's not a base that is big enough to
win an election I think when they talk
about keeping America great it is all
about
watch us dis women immigrants the libs
you know gay people
trans people I mean that I think is that
is a that is a commodity to a lot of
these people but we've got to take a
quick break speaking of commodities for
commercials we will be back in just a
moment I'm Sam cedar this is ring of
fire radio talking to the great Digby
