[Music]
you're calling from a 847 area code who
are you where you're calling from hi
Michael this is Josh for Chicago Josh
from Chicago how's it going good good I
found by the lake just chiming in on
what the other caller said um
hi there are certain people in my life I
just don't talk about politics with at
the end of the day although I have found
that particularly with one my Republican
friends we were talking about
I think the immigration stuff and he's
actually like once we were not in like a
tent he did debate about this he's
actually for open borders and so I've
done I think the common ground thing is
 I've heard a lot of people
saying oh can you find common ground but
there are certain aspects if you
actually depending on how you approach
it that you can actually find some
common ground and then you can get on to
sort of like and they've tried to change
their mind or I guess coming from where
you're are telling them where you're
coming from
if you propulsion a sort of less
argumentative way I found I also think
there's that different time you can tell
the difference between people who are
really reactive because you know they're
mark meadows and they just they're
really they're far gone and sometimes
sometimes people and again I'm drawing
on the israel-palestine stuff sometimes
that real extreme level of defensive 'no
sir there steps away from actually being
like you know what this is actually
really unacceptable so you kind of have
to gauge that anyways josh what else is
on your mind um I want to talk about
actually uh what happened Labor Party
that's okay and get your thoughts on
their their latest move
so as I mean a lot of people know there
was the independent group that formed
recently I think was four or five people
from labor along with two or three
people from the conservative step down
and formed this stupid group and of
course they were met with backlash by
Sadiq Khan he was probably the most
popular politician and in London or one
most popular politicians in England and
I think their primary reason was about
being for people's referendum labour
recently is proposing a people's num
referendum they just came out in favor
of it um I think it's a good idea but
what do you think I think it basically
just called them out on the fact that
this whole defection had nothing to do
with the people's my referendum
everything that he was Jeremy Corbyn so
you the people's wherever in them just
to be clear basically he's voting on
Briggs it again I think that yeah I mean
look your read on it is a hundred
percent right there's no doubt that this
isn't about brexit it's about Korbin and
it's about this religious devotion to
this idea of quote/unquote centrist
politics that only exists in these very
elite spaces and I've talked about this
in a variety of ways and I won't kind of
restate everything but all of the
polling indicates whether we're talking
about the United States or the UK that
there is not some you know right-wing
economic but socially moderate silent
majority out there at all if anything
it's the opposite so yeah I mean it's
all about hating Corbyn and it's all
about not wanting to reverse austerity
and do something to deal with the
structural crises in the UK I think that
on one hand you got to say look you
can't the United Kingdom has been in
crisis for several years and before
brexit because of austerity and because
of the massive increases in poverty and
inequality and of course a lot of you
know of course the inequality goes back
Cades and it's the neoliberal turn and
deregulation and blah blah blah but
there has been a a massive increase in
just raw human suffering under the tory
governments going back to 2010 when the
David Cameron Nick Clegg a coalition
government came to power so the UK there
isn't just that every time you have a
conversation about a future-oriented
crisis that is completely negating a
current room be really skeptical and
then that being said brexit is obviously
a really bad idea and the left case
against brags about what was being voted
on and it wasn't on the table so sure
have another vote but there should be
elections first that's first and
foremost get an extension on brexit have
elections have a legitimate government
in place and then you can go and take it
again to the people I will say though
I'm I'm not convinced that brexit I mean
not only their mind it might win again
and that's the other calculus and it
shows you know the elite discourse is so
delusional because they're talking as if
and and look it would be a different
political reality if if the polls were
like look this is gonna win by over 20
percent and everybody in the UK gets
that this was a tremendously stupid
thing to do but all that's happening
actually the polls haven't moved most
people still actually even support
brexit even now and the only thing I
mean not a big you know it was tiny
polarity but there's no but it won by a
tiny clarity right and the whole idea of
the same group of people again negative
polling and this was the same group of
people that this vote was registering
against the begin with right so like
just like with Trump it's a it's a it's
a it's a fusion of I mean it's a
foundation of xenophobia for sure but
it's also a brought I am there is no
mistake that the top keyword search in
Google after brexit was what's brexit in
the united kingdom there was tons of
people I probably even more so than
Trump I would actually wager because
it's a referendum and it sounds
technical that literally were just like
you if you're Tony Blair if you're the
BBC if you're David Cameron if you're
you know Ed Miliband you and and as
things have gotten even worse uh you
know there's just no indication to me
that this is actually like an escape
route so you know I don't again brags a
terrible idea
it shouldn't happen the UK actually was
in a relatively privileged position
relative to the you know relative to
other countries in the EU it the way
that you use constituted definitely
would harm the ability of a government
to be truly a democratically socialist
and progressive but given what was on
the table it was the wrong vote it was a
bad decision but the people who were
running around saying that you know we
should just have another referendum or
as with every single other move they've
made not reading the politics correctly
so you know I'm not opposed to it and I
think labour does need to have a
stronger position on it but I think it's
a fantasy to think that this is some
type of done deal yeah and if that if
that loses then that is um I mean that's
even worse
that's let me just build it something
right yeah so there you go I think it's
worth yeah I think I think also what you
need is someone like a prime minister
just you if they're not going to get a
better deal than what they what they're
going to get from you you you just won't
budge what you're gonna need is possibly
a prime minister just to flip their foot
down and say we're not going to do this
for the good of the country we're not
going to do a breakfast I think that's
what you would need and I don't think
you recent they want to do that because
she just you in bed with the hard wreck
that there's she won't she definitely
won't do that thanks to the calm in
