gone from a 5:1 to area code who's this
where he come from
hi this this is almost from Austin Texas
hi Omar what's on your mind yeah I
wanted to talk about a topic that's come
up a lot on the show recently with Jamie
about capitalism and destroying or
getting rid of capitalism so and I used
to think that that's completely not not
valid but I'm not not hundred percent
show animals he's starting to get to me
in the logic but I'm still not there yet
I think that I think it should be a
minority position and what I'd like to
consider there the Bernie Sanders on
socialism to be to be dominant at worst
case it'll be a like a stepping stone to
what Jamie's talking about best case it
might be the the utopia that means sorry
I'm nervous um well I'll tell you Omar
that is that is sort of my perspective
on that is somewhat similar I mean I
think the idea of anarcho-communism and
Jamie and I have had this conversation I
think is utopian and I don't I don't
think it's I don't think it's viable I
think it's not consistent with with at
least my understanding of you know how
humans function and and you know not all
of them but at least enough to ruin a
situation like that however they're the
reason why I don't have a problem with
that ideology in the way that I have a
problem with a sort of similarly
situated libertarianism is that the
problems with libertarianism is all of
these steps towards that utopia are
worse in our situation nearly all of the
steps towards general utopia are
actually very positive
Specter yes exactly and and that's
that's basically my perspective my basic
my base basic thing that that makes me
worried about getting rid of capitalism
it's sort of like throwing the baby out
with the bathwater kind of deal because
I think that like I know I mentioned
this on messages before that like for
example the the concept of Moore's Law
you know doubling of processing power
every two years that's been going on
since 73 I completely know that that
couldn't happen with our socialism then
in terms of government funding and basic
research right but I don't think it
could happen without capitalism as well
and I think if you see the history of
life on this planet have been many
extinction events and I think that that
humanity might be the only maybe the
only the first species that's capable of
avoiding the different ways mother
nature tries to you know kill us all may
bomb and if it if it is successful
because it would be it wouldn't just be
through technology but it'll be like
ridiculously advanced it's like
especially talking about asteroid
impacts so it seems like if if we
couldn't really do that without and who
knows when that happens so I if we can
ramp up socialism to try and remove the
bad effects of capitalism that might be
a better scenario than risking rapidly
advancing technology yeah I mean you
know but it's it's tough to say like
first off why is Moore's law necessarily
a good thing I mean let's say you're
right that Moore's law could not exist
word not for capitalism I think the
argument would be that maybe it's you
know like why is it necessarily a good
thing well the reason that I think that
it may be necessarily a good thing is
that we don't know when MIT might might
happen ingenuous and might they happen
we might find out in 50 years that
asteroid is heading our way we don't
know that there was a technology that
fine it's one of those like one person
of course the destructor of humanity
that's my point is that you know we
don't know I I certainly don't have an
answer as to whether or not humanity at
the end of humanity will be if there is
going to be an end to humanity that
Moore's law if we had never had Moore's
law we would have been better off or if
we never had Moore's law you know maybe
we would still be survive you know if we
had Moore's law we'd survive there's no
way to answer that I mean I think really
the key is just like you know how much
better does it make things for people
now I don't know if you can even answer
that now right like you know there's an
argument yeah if we didn't have a lot of
the technology we have that maybe there
would be you know we would be happier if
it could we evolved could we evolve in
terms of the emancipation of people and
the the sense that and being more
egalitarian which is what the our
evolution has been right completely in
fact I'm gonna step further I can even
conceive of a reality where we don't
have technology at all and we have net
levels of better happening I mean right
you don't know Harare talks about this
in sapiens
that's his thesis right I mean we don't
know it's possible but all right well
Omar III appreciate I appreciate the
call we'll have to we'll have to wait
and see if we're survivors my only
comment is I get when I think about
socialism versus capitalism I my biases
not to think in sort of utopian super
long horizon terms it's that basically
who's making the decision for a given
resource and how its expended so like
oil we should socialize that that should
be a democratic there should be a
democratic body in charge that
capitalism to me is that just a private
capitalist or collection of them get to
decide economic production and I think
ultimately any capitalist should be
under a democratic framework and and
that's basically my bias a more
democracy in the economy I just saw I
had the great misfortune of watching
some clip
of what's-his-face ben shapiro and he
was talking about with the reasons why
no I think it was Norway your you know
it was his one of his like anti
socialism buttons hey you sure this
wasn't a Reuben no no it was him it was
a Shapiro and he's like Norway of course
you know it has an advantage because
they have a massive oil slush fund and
it's like where you think they got that
from chief we have oil here too like
we've got the most oil right like Alaska
has a big oil slush fund incidentally
even the entire like North Dakota I mean
they're not being as generous as Alaska
is but they're using it to basically
create a huge giant slush fund for North
Dakota yeah we could do the whole we
could do that too and nobody should
nobody should be getting rich off of
fossil fuels in the year 2018 like that
like we could have a slush fund that's
not it's not like God came down and said
you are the chosen people in Norwegians
you will have the giant oil slush fund
it was just a political choice it wasn't
Thor rises right now of course I
would've illogical hero what am I
thinking of I'm so geocentric I assumed
it was yahwah
