so John in the the first segment we were
walking through really in many respects
the failures of borders to function in
many places around the world we also
discussed that the the concept that the
United States has not had and of course
we're not when we say open borders we're
not saying get rid of borders keep
borders so that you know people know
what laws they're subject to what the
speed limit is in certain areas right
like the concept is really built on the
borders between Massachusetts in New
York or you know the Florida and Georgia
or whatever it is state to state there
are borders there are implications to
those borders but people can pass freely
through them and we are you know capable
as human beings to understand like now
I'm in Florida so you know my speed
limit may be different or now I'm in you
know New York so my Apple Sider needs to
be pasteurized whatever those
differences are people can accept them
but there are some just not just
arguments that we can handle this but
there are ethical environmental and
economic arguments for open borders what
we've touched a little bit on the
ethical but there's more to that yeah
there's plenty more to that you know I
think like some context it's really
important here so you know open borders
as you sort of said in your intro has
become it becomes basically political
kryptonite and and Bill this the left
hasn't been able to put forth any sort
of alternative to this incredible
militarization of the borders and they
you know both in the 2013 and 2005
comprehensive immigration reform debates
they really have capitulated to the
status quo of border militarization and
what that does is it results in people
dying and so like this is that again
like touch kind of ethical
arguments though since 2000 at least
7,000 people have died across the
us-mexico border at least week that's
the people that we know of then when you
look more globally just since 2014
there's been at least 60,000 people
worldwide who have gone missing or have
died because of militarized bor√•s
throughout the globe so there is you
know a lot of the knee-jerk reaction
you're talking about is on the left I'm
not for open borders but I'm for a more
humane immigration policy but rolling
back trumpism to pre 2017 isn't enough
there's there's you have to go much more
than that I think the the point here is
that a humane immigration policy is open
borders and as long as you have a border
as long as you have a wall you're going
to have family separation you're going
to have people dying you're going to
have you're going to be inflicting
trauma on tens of thousands of people in
immigration detention centers or at
they're trying to hide from immigration
authorities and get across the border so
that's again like I think that is really
important to emphasize on the ethical
side then when you get to the economic
side and you we were talking a little
bit about integration you know there's
there's there's a couple natural
experiments that we can look at here one
was in 1980 during the Mariel boatlift
when about a hundred thousand Cubans
came to Miami in a very short period of
time and there's been a number of
studies and calendar studies that have
looked at this economic you know result
of what happened and in the end it seems
like there was no wage like depression
and or employment depression and you
know there might have been some small
sector of the economy that had a slight
negative some negative repercussions but
if we think smartly about this or we
could compensate those people so there's
there's a recent study that said per
migrant that comes to to the United
States there's 1.2 jobs that are created
as they enter into the normal economy so
oh and and and also like when the the
the a a sort of big picture study about
open borders what it wouldn't actually
mean for the global economy was
estimating a forty trillion dollar rise
in global GDP so you know a lot of these
figures are a little bit contentious but
what we look at is like no anti open
borders or like Pro immigration
enforcement economists is making it
clear a credible argument for an actual
depression of wages or a loss of jobs
because of migration and then extending
a little bit further into integration
people are worried about you know
welfare or how
migrants really taking up services and
you know III relying on Michael Clement
is a really smart analyst on this issue
with migrant migration policy institute
and he points to Medicare and before you
can access Medicare you either have to
have been here for ten years paying into
the system or pay in right away and
there can't be a pretty simple fix to
someone fear or like telling someone
secure saying well if all these migrants
come also they're gonna bleed all these
social welfare programs completely dry
but you know we can be smart about and
say like well if you come here right
away and you want to yeah use some of
these benefits you have to pay in a
little bit and then isn't completely
blocking them or denying their humanity
and sending them into the shadows but
just thinking about a smart way of
integrating them and we don't have to
just shout with each other and they like
it's got to be all or nothing we can
consider very reasonable term this like
this that are sort of a middle ground
that once people are here because at
least eleven million people are here
without documentation how to integrate
them in a fair way right and look I mean
the dynamic of social insurance becoming
more efficient and effective and cost
effective as you expand the risk pool
is you know this is basic this is basic
elementary here if you have more people
paying in its going to help these
systems like Medicare and Social
Security
in addition obviously to the - you know
expending the money that you expend on
the militarization of the border on more
socially valuable expenditures right
it's just it's much better to spend
money on a light rail system in a city
than having to pay and and to have and
pay the the personnel to operate it then
having a a bunch of guys and women stand
around with guns for no reason at the
border I mean it's just it doesn't it's
a much more productive expenditure of
our assets all right so I mean are we
anywhere we just have about a minute
left here I mean are we anywhere close
to any like mainstream politicians sort
of saying like you know what I'm not
afraid to go and make this very basic
argument which is we open up the borders
we can still you know we can still you
know
stamp passports and whatnot but we don't
need to militarize it and we figure out
a way of integrating immigrants into
this country but we're not going to get
hundreds of thousands of people massed
at the border you know it may increase a
little bit but maybe it bounces out
because people get kicked out come back
in I mean who knows what are we anywhere
close to that
I don't think so you know like as I said
I think most of the mainstream
Democratic candidates really haven't put
forward any sort of plan there's a
couple of rolling out right now Cory
Booker just like laid out his plan a
couple days ago Joaquin Castro as well
but you know Bernie Sanders recently
also said I'm not for open borders but
III think there has been just a dearth
of serious consideration on the topic
and I don't think we can wait for our
politicians to look harder than think
about I think we
make the argument either as journalist
to look hard and define a term or as
people an advocate to want to find a
humane way to control immigration to
well it well said Jerusalem
well said and I appreciate your time and
discussing this with us
