[Music]
folks the blazes dave rubin is still
around
i feel like i don't because i don't get
the blaze i haven't subscribed to the
blaze i don't know what's up with dave
as much but he had a sit down this was
at yall con the young americans for
liberty convention this is part of
Dave's libertarian tour I think I don't
know if he's getting paid by
turning-points USA to go there or or
what but here he is for some reason
trying to defend well I know why he's
doing that this is how he ensures that
he's on the next tour he is defending
Jordan Peterson's enforce monogamy
position that he has had where he was
and this came up in the context of a New
York Times piece right because Jordan
Peterson was upset about the blame that
in cells were getting for being
responsible for their their involuntary
celibacy and the problem is of course
that there are Matt was it that men out
there there are some men who are taking
all the women here it is he was
responding to the violent attacks they
had done by by in cells and he said
violent attacks are what happens when
men do not have partners mr. Peterson
says and society needs to work to make
sure those men are married he was angry
at God because women were rejecting him
mr. Peterson says of the Toronto killer
and that's it presumably why he killed
humans because he was mad at God quote
the cure for that is enforced monogamy
that's actually why monogamy emerges mr.
Peterson does not
cause when he says this enforced
monogamy is to him simply a rational
solution otherwise women will all only
go for the most high status men he
explains and that couldn't make either
gender happy in the end
half the men fail he says meaning they
don't procreate and no one cares about
the men who fail I laugh because it's
absurd says the writer you're laughing
about them he says giving me a
disappointed look that's because you're
female mm-hmm
but aside from interventions that would
redistribute sex mr. Peterson is
staunchly against what he calls equality
of outcomes or efforts to equalize
society so he is for equality of
enforced enforced monogamy now there's a
lot of different ways you can interpret
come enforce monogamy well really only
like two or three I guess but something
is enforced that means that there is a
enforcing body right that says you must
do this and if you stray from monogamy
you will be punished by the enforcing
body let's listen to Dave Rubin explain
to all of us the blazes Dave Rubin
explained to all of us what Peterson
really meant was that every time the
media would try to sandbag him and try
to destroy him which we saw many times
you guys may remember that one at one of
the biggest moments was when the New
York Times wrote that piece that Jordan
is for enforced monogamy remember that
and everyone made it sound like he wants
to basically put positive one second now
to be clear it's not that they wrote the
piece that he about him that he was for
enforcement agony in the interview he
specifically said I'm for enforced
monogamy I believe that I'm looking at
the sentence the cure for that is
enforced monogamy there you go the cure
for violent in cells killing people is
enforcement agha me is for enforced
naga me remember that and everyone made
it sound like he wants to basically put
make women slaves and we're gonna be in
the hands made tail enforcement ugly
just means marriage it's but you if you
look actually Eric Weinstein checked out
on the New York Times archives the only
other two references to enforce monogamy
are positive references about marriage
that marriage is a fundamental building
block for a Western society why is it
for one second now I suppose we could go
and check that archive I have a feeling
that there's someone who wrote like some
people feel that marriage enforces
monogamy but of course it doesn't
because people cheat and people go
outside of marriages to have what you
could call casual sex or Affairs now but
if he says Eric Weinstein did it we know
how much integrity Eric Weinstein has it
must be the case that there were
references to the enforcement of
monogamy but that's of course not what
Petersen says but let's go back a little
bit and hear Dave's trying to explain
this make women slaves and we're gonna
be in the hands made tail enforcement
ugly just means marriage it's been you
if you look actually Eric Weinstein
checked out on the New York Times
archives the only other two references
to enforce monogamy are positive
references about marriage that marriage
is a fundamental building block for a
Western society it's it causes us to
reproduce and have familial bonds and
all of these things well dave is married
and it will not cause him to reproduce
in some instances marriage causes people
to reproduce although we also know that
you don't need to be married to
reproduce so none of what he said is
accurate or true and even if that's the
case even if you want to you know if you
want to switch out monogamy for marriage
in forced marriages are also problematic
but here is let's just check in with
Jordan Peterson and look at what he said
in the past
not mediated by the New York Times but
rather his specific tweet on this in
December of 2016 could quote unquote
casual sex necessitate state tyranny you
know what state tyranny is right that is
when the state uses their monopoly of
force to force you to do something and
he writes the missing responsibility has
to be enforced somehow he is calling for
either state enforced marriage really
state enforced monogamy because we know
that just because you're married doesn't
mean that you don't have casual sex with
others you could have a high-status Mel
who is married who is still having sex
with all the ladies so much so that
there are men out there who do can't
find a partner to procreate with and
they must be partnered according to him
or they will of course be mad at God and
then shoot people check back in on the
blaze to see if Dave and on theblaze
updates that as it goes forward
