welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
lori wallach she's the director of
public citizen's global trade watch and
a 25 year veteran of congressional trade
battles starting with the 1990s fight
over NAFTA I did want to say I I just
because in your bio I mentioned in the
office this morning during prep that
when I was I think well I was about you
know I was about 15 or 16 years old and
I went to my one of my first you know
major protests and it was a World Bank
IMF protest I think in 2000 and I
remember I was probably like reading
some of your articles in the nation
thanks for being here I was only 12 when
I wrote those no I know you were
precocious you were known as they called
you the child prodigy of global trade
critiques I remember that so now you're
now yeah I mean I it was embarrassing
actually because I said my god she's 12
years old and five years older than her
and she's already writing great
critiques of the general agreement on
trade and tariffs in the nation and now
here we are with NAFTA getting
renegotiated can you give us a history
of NAFTA before we get to the
renegotiations where is this trade
agreement come from where did it start
what was agreed to in the 90s the short
version of it is that NAFTA effectively
hijacked the the concept of trade
agreements and used that branding to
implement a set of binding international
rules that created a whole set of new
rights and powers for corporations and
limited government right to regulate a
lot of things unrelated to trade so when
senator Elizabeth Warren talks about
corporate rigged trade agreements that
is precisely accurate in that prior to
now
trade agreements dealt with cutting
border taxes called tariffs on physical
goods that would cross borders so any
imported product with NAFTA the
corporations who under us procedures
have a special insider role there are
more than 500 official corporate
advisors to the NAFTA negotiations and
with a closed-door process Congress from
the press and public relax out they
effectively hijacked that process no one
was paying a lot of attention to border
taxes fell asleep thinking about it
insert a whole different agenda so now
she became this incredibly elegant
Trojan horse where for instance the
pharmaceutical industry inserted new
monopolies anti-competitive rules in a
free trade agreement to give them
protections against competition from
generic medicines to keep drug prices
high or the agribusiness industry
rules that that got rid of the policies
that had been in place for 50 years that
said imported food had to meet US
standards not anymore under NAFTA and
all the companies that were looking to
outsource production to exploit low
wages in Mexico got a whole set of
special investor protections and
privileges that basically made it much
less risky and cheaper to outsource jobs
and that whole package got sold as trade
and the results sadly have been even
more devastating than the coalition of
environmental and labor and family farm
and consumer groups and progressive
Democrats who fought NAFTA in the early
90s predicted so can we just that will
get back to specifically NAFTA in a
second but I mean this is also a part of
a whole kind of broader set of global
trade regimes that were particularly you
know prevalent in the 90s like I'm
thinking
of GATT general agreement on trade and
tariffs but then also very similar to
the Obama administration pushing TPP and
I want to just put one other thing on
the table just briefly because your work
I think always showed this because you
were and are so good at basically yeah I
mean translating technical things that
seem really boring but actually have a
big impact on everybody's life and
there's this new scholarship from a
quince Lobo Dane Slobodan excuse me and
I'm forgetting the name of his book but
he his argument is basically that when
we say when we accept the neoliberal or
nasal lays a fair idea that they're
advocating for less government less
interference in the market that's a
fundamental misconception because all of
these trade systems and all of these way
the rules of the road of things like the
WTO are highly bureaucratic highly
technical highly government involved
they're just written in a way that
explicitly benefits like you were just
saying the pharmaceutical industry so
I'm wondering first I mean does that
kind of make sense as a way of
understanding the thing the broader
thing and then like how do all these
trade systems fit together is it really
just like writing the rules of the road
to benefit the corporate sector across
the planet that that's it
in fact that you know Quinn's
description of it is exactly right it's
not that the agreements are eliminating
regulation and government interference
they are rather imposing
one-size-fits-all a set of rules that
explicitly privilege big corporations
and stick it to working people the
environment and frankly undermine the
principle and practice of democracy
because trade agreements shouldn't be
locking in the parameters of what
permissible domestic policy is on access
to affordable medicines on the
regulation of banks on the inspection of
food for safety those are issues we need
to fight out in Congress local issues
about land use and zoning agreements
like NAFTA try and make
sure that for instance a community can't
limit big box stores why is in here back
in a trade agreement that should be
fought out at City Council with everyone
who's gonna live with the results
involved so the whole idea of basically
hijacking the trade agreements was to
create these Trojan horse instruments
that would shift decision-making away
from those who would be affected and
lock-in rules that privileged global
corporations and you know speaking of
good books robert kuttner Bob Kutner has
a new book out that talks specifically
about the fundamental incompatibility of
these kind of rules and democracy it's
called kin democracy survive global
capitalism and it sounds like it's a
companion to Quinn's book because he
basically points out yes of course we
should have trade rules trade can be
good but we have to extract all of this
corporate protectionism from the trade
agreements and this is by the way to
jump back now to the future this is
exactly where what progressive
organizations and unions and Democrats
and Congress are now fighting for with
the NAFTA renegotiation differs with
what Trump's business Trump's worldview
about this is these trade agreements are
about other countries sticking it to the
US we were dumb and how we negotiated
them or other countries take advantage
of us that's not the deal the deal is
actually that these agreements were
hatched in the u.s. after being
marinated in corporate influence and we
the US helped impose these corporate
rules on everyone it wasn't we're the
victim we were one of the reasons these
bad rules got hatched and so the results
that Trump spotlighted very bad results
to appeal to voters in Wisconsin and
Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania
those are real results but the reason
those results are there is not because
Mexico's stuck it to us and NAFTA it's
because a bunch of big corporations
mainly
in the US but also in Canada and Mexico
gotta set a rule that they like that
have been a losing proposition for
people in all three countries so we do
diddily with Lac law the labor council
for Latin American advancement that's on
our website trade watch org that
presents the empirical data that shows
actually the biggest victims people most
penalized by NAFTA are working people in
Mexico and Latino and African American
workers in the US US workers have seen
almost a million specific good
manufacturing middle-aged middle class
wage jobs certified by the US government
is outsourced to NAFTA under these
special protections that promote
outsourcing Mexico Canada have paid
hundreds of millions of dollars to
corporations who attack domestic
policies using the outrageous NAFTA
investor state tribunal system where
corporations can extract taxpayer money
attacking domestic health and
environmental laws claiming they violate
their new nafta investor rights all of
these outcomes are directly attributable
to a set of rules that basically put
corporate interests first and so when
Trump is renegotiating NAFTA you know
his view of what the problem is Mexico
stuck it to us is not related to what
the actual problem is now happily the
guy who this is lead negotiator is a guy
who's worked with the unions for a very
long time and he actually managed to get
some of the fixes exactly right so we
have this renegotiated NAFTA that was
signed in November 30th and part of it
got fixed so those investor state
tribunals got largely whacked which is
amazing that's suicide you should feel
great about that
can you just briefly get into the
investor state because those are those
are really big can you just give us a
little bit of details on those in a
minute and then explain where the
renegotiation failed you bet so what I
want to say before I explain investor
state is the way I would look at it
right now is
some important things got fixed things
that progressive in Bandung forever some
new bad stuff got added new rights for
Big Pharma to lock-in hi medicine prices
that has got to go and then there's some
really important unfinished business
there's some improvements on labor
standards but not enough and they're not
yet sufficiently enforceable the
environmental standards still need to be
strengthened and made more enforceable
and right now progressive members of
Congress organizations are all United
basically thank goodness because the
Democrats now the majority in the house
saying hey you want this agreement to
pass you got to make the rest of the
improvement you got to get rid of the
big pharma stuff you got to add the
labor and environmental enforcement and
strengthening and then there might be an
agreement that could stop some of NASA's
damage the agreement you signed is not
going to cut it so is D us one of the
things they did fix is this regime that
was first hatched with NAFTA because
NAFTA really was the model for all of
these other bad agreements including TPP
TPP was like NAFTA on steroids so at the
heart of all of those agreements is this
regime called investor state dispute
settlement where multinational
corporations are empowered to attack
countries domestic laws and attack them
not in domestic courts but in front of
tribunals of three corporate attorneys
and the corporate attorneys are allowed
to ordered governments to pay unlimited
amounts to be paid by US taxpayers for
any domestic policy law regulation Court
decision government action that the
corporation's claimed undermine the
investor protections and rights they
have in the agreement and these three
private sector attorneys who rotate
between being the not really judges and
suing governments for corporations these
guys rotate some incredible conflicts of
interest and their decisions aren't
appealable
and the sums they can make us pay are
unlimited so 392 million dollars has
been ordered paid in ISPs NAFTA attacks
against zoning policies water policy
timber policies energy policies tax
expands and that system in the revised
NAFTA is totally eliminated between the
US and Canada which is a big deal
because the sad story is the majority of
the attacks have been US corporations
attacking Canada's superior
environmental and health laws so that's
totally ended in in NAFTA 2.0 and then
with respect to Mexico the broad
corporate rights that have been the
basis for these attacks and
environmental laws are eliminated the
claims that can be made are for what's
called expropriation if the government
takes your property and doesn't pay you
back and there are limits on how much
the damages can be there's a new rule
that says no rotating for the panel's a
tribunal ascend the people who sue
governments but most importantly under
this replacement for ISPs the the
corporation's have to go domestic courts
they have to spend two and a half years
in domestic courts and get a ruling from
the highest court in the land or get no
ruling before they can even start the
process under the very limited claims
available that's huge progress there's
one loophole the broad rights are
preserved for the seven US oil and gas
companies that have nine existing
contracts with Mexico's high school
carbons authority and that loophole
Democrats and progressives are fighting
to get narrowed but that was an
important improvement that people been
fighting for forever in contrast you
know the TPP expanded ISPs it covered in
TPP it wasn't just the whole old bad
system it also allowed to tax on
financial regulation policies so that
that is a step big stuff big step in the
right direction also some horrible NAFTA
rules that forced countries to export
natural resources that they wanted to
serve was removed some actual trade
rules that allowed a lot of products
basically made in China to sneak through
under the NAFTA duty-free benefits were
tightened up that's important an
interesting new rule is added that for
products to get the NAFTA benefits a
portion of a automobiles value has to be
made by workers making $16 an hour or
more that's a first time that wage
levels had been linked to market access
that's super important
another big fix was a big problem on the
original NAFTA basically requiring
trucks from Mexico and Canada that
didn't meet US environmental or safety
standards they had to be allowed on us
roads backup removed so now those safety
standards and also the worker driver
that work a driver our or safety rules
all that stuff can be reapplied so those
are important improvements the problem
is that the environmental and labor
improvements needed to get rid of to at
least lessen the incentives to outsource
jobs are not yet sufficient and they
added new monopoly rights for Big Pharma
so I want to get yeah we'll get those I
want to actually before we get to that
what are specifically the new monopoly
rights for Big Pharma
so here is what the agreement did it has
it has rules that would guarantee for
pharmaceutical corporations that
basically forever because trade
agreements generally don't have
termination periods the new NAFTA does
have a six year review provision which
is important
corporations hate it there is a way that
it can be sunset it's not easy to use
but the current NAFTA goes on forever
and an improvement in the new agreement
is there is this review and possible
sunset but basically unless a country
got out there would be forever
a requirement that all governments
provide to pharmaceutical companies the
exact policy is now in place in the US
that caused the high prices so for
instance ten years of what's called
marketing exclusivity for what are
called biologic medicines those are all
the cutting-edge new drugs that are used
to treat cancer diabetes a lot of
autoimmune diseases plus a bunch of
vaccines and these drugs now in addition
to their patents which is a monopoly for
twenty years have these marketing
exclusivity x' which which basically
says even if you don't have a patent you
just can't sell this drug for ten years
as a generic so that has led to prices
for these kind of biologic medicines
being hundreds of thousands of dollars a
year per patient just totally I mean to
put this in perspective biologics are a
relatively small portion of total
medicines but they represent seventy
percent of the growth in medicine price
expenditures in the last five years so
they're they're super expensive that's
got to change
lots of legislation in Congress would
whack back those exclusive exclusivity
period another thing the new NAFTA would
lock in is what's called evergreening
these are a whole basket of different
policies the pharmaceutical companies
used to extend their actual patents
behind 20 years so that is for instance
the new NAFTA requires government to
allow new 20-year patents
on known chemicals one that's already
had a patent if the company finds a new
use
so like viagra was originally a hair
growth medicine and this other effect
was reported so a second patent for the
other use of Viagra besides growing hair
could be registered for another 20 years
or for instance by combining patented
drug with something else you can get a
new 20 year monopoly that kind of stuff
has to go that means you know it's about
companies get more than 20 years in
monopoly so those things get locked in
so those are some of the things that
have to come out it's stuff Mexico and
Canada didn't want the US negotiators
push that stuff and now the Democrats in
Congress are very unified saying hey
whatever you think about trade we're not
going to sign an international agreement
that takes away Congress's ability to
make the changes necessary to bring down
medicine prices and and forgive me if
I'm wrong but I for when we think of
what industry spends the most on
lobbying in Washington and we think of
defense and oil companies and obviously
financial services in Silicon Valley but
if I understand correctly it is Pharma
Pharma has the most lobbyists or most
money flowing to Congress if I
understand that correctly so that's that
show that but here is the one thing
that's happened yeah that gives us the
chance to get this fixed everyone in
this country Democrats Republicans has
come into a state of rage about current
medicine prices and we saw a lot of
Democrats who are now the new majority
in the House elected on this issue so as
much as Pharma has lots of money
sloshing around Washington there are
also a lot of members of Congress who
realized the public is like ready to
come after them with pitchforks if they
don't deal with this and even the
president has been screaming the press
has been in the last two weeks screaming
at his own advisers about what are we
doing to bring down medicine prices what
the first thing they couldn't do with
blocking high prices
