can we just hear a Donald Trump
pontificate on Louisiana Purchase like
what context was he talking about this
he's in New Orleans and he's getting
this speech he's talking about basically
you know trying to I guess in some
respects you know cover for the
government shut down assuring farmers
don't worry help is on the way except
there it's not but here he is he's gonna
explain to us about Louisiana Purchase
what he's reading this right this is not
extemporaneous not only did we gain New
Orleans we doubled the size of the
United States we secured new parts and
ports new parts of the map and globe
that we never thought that's what
happens right you've got this prepared
statement and we got we gained new ports
and then he realized like I spent parts
parts and ports parts of the country in
ports parts and parts so important so
important ports ports ports are places
where boats go back and forth in a port
here he is talking about again getting
lost in his teleprompter in the same
speech talking about farmers you know
trying to explain to farmers why the
wall is important despite the fact that
they're not getting the slush fund that
is necessary because of his uh trade
barriers thank you as president the
defense of our nation is my highest and
most important duty and this is the
defense of our nation
just like we prepare for other nations
that you think more traditionally is
what that sentence refers to when it
comes to keeping the American people
safe I will never ever back down I
didn't need this
this is a road can we go back to the
beginning is it because he this is the
problem it's like he tries to go off the
script and then he just gets completely
lost take it again
thank you thank you president the
defense of our nation is my highest and
most important duty and this is the
defense of our nation
just like we prepare for other nations
that you think more traditionally is
what that sentence refers to exactly
when it comes to keeping the American
people safe I will never ever back down
I didn't need this fight this is a rough
fight we're dealing against people who
think that if they can stop me from
building the wall again we've already
done a lot of work but they think that's
a good thing for 2020 because they're
not going to win they think if they can
stop me from building the wall that's
good this is the reason why they don't
want the wall built because they all
know it works they all approved it
numerous times I mean Chuck Schumer had
his hand up every time this would come
up the Senators know this they're only
doing this because of the 2020 election
because I said I'll build the wall and
I'm gonna build the wall and it's only
one of many things that I promised I
mean if you look at I was able to make a
lot of promises Mexico gonna pay for the
got you the biggest tax cut beyond the
Ronald Reagan tax cuts and waar getting
rid of the individual mandate the
biggest cuts in regulations in the
history of our country and there you go
Wow well I mean part of it is true right
like the Democrats did say Chuck and
Nancy did say we need better border
security which was a real groaner moment
and that's why we need someone like
Bernie who can't be forced to own the
dumb things that didn't that the
Democrats have done or may be made to
look like a hypocrite by this idiot well
I don't know that Bernie wasn't on board
with that wouldn't have voted for that
deal had
then they made it last year daca and
whatnot I don't know he probably would
have but I think that's really important
actually to you know look there there
has to be a discourse on this that is in
between like a future utopian goal of no
borders and like kowtow to Republican
fascist talking points today and I think
that just like part of these litmus
tests could be like do you support
demilitarizing the border like what kind
of border are you actually talking about
is a major difference in policy that I
want to see all of them start to
different right but they also I don't
know I mean the reality is though right
now is that the the Republicans control
two-thirds of the the the lawmaking
ability and so the question is what
position do you take i I don't agree
with the the rhetoric of the Democrats I
think they need a have an actual
immigration policy that lands somewhere
rather than just sort of these empty
rhetoric anyways the American public is
you know I don't loop it this way
I don't think the Democratic Party in
saying that we're all for border
security is frankly too distant from the
the vast majority of the American public
I mean maybe you have polling that shows
that they're there the vast majority of
American public doesn't want border
security definitely not but I did see
but could it be like polls on gun
control where most people if you like
the top layer is like oh I'm I'm
moderate or maybe even like conservative
on guns but if you actually go down and
specific proposals the support may be
weak for what border security a most
American and most Americans on a border
but they want to protect daca do you
think there should be border security of
course I would imagine that that it
pulls somewhere around 75 to 85 percent
for border security because that's what
Chuck said if you said the words more
border security I would imagine you
would get 75 to 85
also I mean I've seen some polls where
Americans are generally supportive of
immigration I do I think they are
generally in concert I don't think
there's a contradiction there at all I
mean it's certainly been the process
that we've had in this country for the
vast majority of it so I don't think
they see a contradiction in I mean the
reality is to expect the Democratic
Party to be more progressive than you
know at least in terms of rhetoric then
seventy-five percent of the country
whatever that figure is I think is just
you know it's that's it would be nice I
think a conch I mean I think Democrats
can be pushed in that way but I think
they need an immigration policy right
and I think they could lead a little bit
by saying we're gonna have without a
doubt a strong secure blah blah blah
border the stuff you need to say but
we're also not gonna handle this like
it's not a military threat and we're not
gonna talk about it like a military
threat that's inaccurate right and so on
yeah and also we're gonna get rid of ice
because it serves no purpose other than
to terrorize population any movement to
get rid of ice it's coming from the
Democrats well that's another one that
we clear about what they mean by it
right because they're all saying it but
then that's gonna be there's gonna be a
lot of devil in the details I think
there's enough rhetoric going on that in
the event that there is a Democratic
president and a Democratic House and
Senate you're going to see reforms and
and to what extent those reforms happen
I we don't know
