[Music]
it's a really easy three-step process
here and I would really would recommend
that you watch the commentary I did 40
mb/s on Tuesday about this but venezuela
has its own internal problems venezuela
has its own failings and abuses it's
also been under relentless pressure and
economic warfare from the united states
going back to the bush aragon chavez
through obama and it's escalated today
in an in a profoundly radical way with
bride away designs from trump that's not
just about venezuela this is going is
gonna spread to cuba nicaragua and of
course as in all these cases if you are
so naive and delusional enough to think
there's a humanitarian concern here look
at the government's that they're
supporting both scenarios abuses are
going to far exceed Maduro s-- without
any doubt even his plans alone for the
amazon and indigenous people are
constitute of crime against humanity not
to mention a global planetary system and
there's still democratic functions
happening in venezuela there's still
some of the huge accomplishments of the
Bolivarian government still in place and
most Venezuelans including those who of
course honestly and fervently oppose
this government for absolutely justified
reasons do not want a foreign coup or
intervention to install a regime for
them there have been other opposition
leaders in venezuela who have not been
able to win elections and until the 2018
election where the reporting is mixed
but i would accept that there were some
irregularities for sure
Maduro won his first election according
to serious analysts and there might have
been some problems in irregularities but
he won and it was a much tighter margin
chavez definitely want his elections and
those that would say otherwise are just
sort of you know they're telling they're
telling themselves maybe in you a
bedtime story it's just pure falsehood
so but leaders like Falcone had a more
organic foundation
and John White oh and they did you could
potentially argue in some cases might
have represented a center-left tendency
to a contrast with the Bulevar a in one
the structures of how you deal with
corruption are much more complicated
because the corruption networks that
have been perpetuated by the Bulevar in
government they have not dealt with it
at all
no doubt predate Chavez I mean just like
you see in South Africa the transition
to the ANC the State apparatuses of
corruption and patronage networks have
just been inherited and perpetuated from
under apartheid these are state
structure problems but that being said
guado
is a figure of the right and any person
who is gonna get propped by the Trump
administration the Colombian government
the balsan ro regime the far-right
government of Macri and Argentina this
is not somebody that one can trust or
support and so I still see some people
kind of spinning this notion I don't
know where this idea comes from then
he's some type of social democrat but
he's on his way to Brazil this is a
government that holds a former president
in prison with no material evidence and
he and who would it who led all election
polls this president Lula da Silva this
is a government that is attacking
viciously the LGBTQ community there's a
government with almost I would say
massive death plans for the indigenous
people in terms of clear cutting
rainforests and they're attacking labor
unions systemically not to mention all
of them very serious and actual material
evidence that is emerging between the
bolsa narrow family paramilitaries and
mafias this is where the social democrat
with the backing of the Trump
administration all of these extremist
far-right forces in Latin America is
going to for support and Brian mayor of
tellus or who's also editor at Brazil
wire an indispensable news site on
Brazil in particular obviously has a
report on it let's check it out Paula
we're at 10 o'clock tonight Juan why
don't is expected to arrive from
Colombia on a flight from
with Brazilian President Jerry bowls
narrow to talk about a possible plan of
action for renewed aggressions against
the democratically elected government of
Venezuela now some people are
questioning his judgment and even
wanting to meet with bolsa narrow
because bolster was unable to establish
consensus within his own ruling
coalition to support Donald Trump's
so-called humanitarian move on Saturday
February 23rd against the government of
Venezuela apparently according to fuller
Tucson Paulo newspaper many of Banaras
top generals as well as House Speaker
Rodrigo Maia
spoke out against any participation in
the initiative and that's why the
government only sent to pick up trucks
with a small amount of supplies on them
to partake in this what appeared to be a
publicity stunt that was held on the
Brazilian border with Venezuela
so grindin is arriving there's gonna be
a lot of media attention for it but will
there be any concrete results
general Hamilton vice president of
Brazil said the day before yesterday in
Colombia that Brazil will not allow the
US military to use its territory to
launch any kind of military attack
against Venezuela and Brazil will also
refuse to engage in these kinds of
attacks so that's very interesting and
it runs contrary to all of the moves
that the bolsa narrow regime has put in
place which has been reset during the US
military command in Brazil giving way to
all US military demands so far and of
course all the demands of wall street in
terms of things like pension reform and
other assaults on brazilian workers and
middle class but there's a practical
reason here one is political the
Brazilian people even though they took a
far right turn in this election are not
eager for a some type of catastrophic
military adventure event as well and
also the Venezuelan military is in much
stronger shape than the Brazilian one
and doing this would be extremely
dangerous and destructive to both sides
but this is what whydo is I mean look
he's going to seek the support of a
fascist government or a fascist aspiring
government and an apparently an attempt
to instigate even more radical move
that have already been restrained by
more sane voices inside that extremist
formation of bowls in our own Brazil
which by the way is already reaching
record levels of unpopularity so that is
great oh that is this opposition
