one with ya which is the one where he
where Anderson Cooper can't believe it
he has that look of surprise it's about
the racism one oh the racism okay yeah
here it is
now here's a clip of aoc on 60 minutes
we can't we
you know CBS for whatever reason doesn't
believe in fair use and so they have an
issue with us using video but the audio
is good enough it'll cause you to listen
to it but we did want to put the picture
of Anderson Cooper looking very
surprised by what AOC is saying like you
know this is perturbed dog this is but
this is part and parcel of the same
thing of Jim sciutto saying like isn't
it possible that you'll be portrayed as
obstructionist like like did someone
kidnap everyone in the media and and and
then bring them up like is it like one
of those things like men in black
situation where they all get they they
cannot aggregate any information or
context or know anything outside of that
very moment like are they reborn at
every single moment someone in the
Democratic Party or someone to the left
of them or even to not to the left or
just someone nominally on the Left says
something it's as if they're like
approaching it with virgin ears like I
know nothing about the world or anything
I'm just shocked to hear this are you
saying there's something do you think
that that the Republicans are in some
way motivated by race really
here's a LSC talking to Anderson Cooper
you don't talk about the President Trump
very much no why because I think he's a
symptom of a problem what do you mean
the president certainly didn't invent
racism but he's certainly given a voice
to it and expanded it and created a
platform for those things
do you believe President Trump is a
racist yeah no how can you say that when
you look at the words that he uses
which are historic dog whistles of white
supremacy when you look at how he
reacted to the Charlottesville incident
where neo-nazis murdered a woman versus
how he manufactures crises like
immigrants seeking legal refuge on our
borders it's it's night and day
I like how she could just say like by
every observable action both stated and
like what like what I mean it really is
like a where do you begin answer right
like we could go to the stuff you guys
talk about all the time his Twitter feed
is but or we could go to policy like
temporary protected status for Haitians
we go to the children that have died
under his policies because of the
motivation of racism where would you
like to start and maybe you could wipe
the confused credulous idiot look off
your face while I establish reality I
mean there's varying degrees I think she
showed the the proper restraint and
walked him through it like one would a
not a totally like not a toddler but one
would maybe a junior high student but
she could have also just said I don't
know is there gravity like I mean yes it
just what's worth I get the concept I
know some people I know there's like
very literal of speak well what do you
think at me I'm sorry going I'm just
saying I understand something understand
Cooper's like he's supposed to pretend
to be objective and he can't editorial
and it's like okay I'm not saying that
Anderson Cooper I don't think we're
saying like he Anderson Cooper should be
like yeah yeah we all know he's a racist
piece of garbage but like really that
level of just in reality like not even
like well I understand why a lot of
people hold that view but do you really
feel as a congresswoman or or so many
ways friend what's your perspective on
why that's the case as opposed to
everyone else's perspective as opposed
to the white nationalist who say that
Donald Trump is giving us voice as
opposed to how can I say that right
what really I mean that was like as if
she was just like I mean like she might
as well have been talking about Jeb Bush
the way he said it
right yeah how didn't you say that right
like what do you what what is the voice
of incredulity that you use for other
people like what's left it's really how
can you say that and here is ALC
explaining to Anderson Cooper that the
knee-jerk and just as you know when we
were talking to Julian Zelizer
earlier this idea that the conservative
movement the Republican Party is for
limited government no they have
different priorities that's all these
are two parties with different
priorities as to how you spend money and
who should pay for it
the Republicans feel the wealthy should
pay less the Democrats largely feel the
wealthy should pay more Republicans want
to spend the money on stuff that
specifically enriches them Democrats
largely at least theoretically want to
spend it on helping those people who who
fall through the cracks and provide a
social safety net and there are also
elements of the Democratic Party
hopefully growing and I think are who
want to expand universal programs and
services by government this is pretty
all straightforward stuff that I would
hope that after the 25 years in on CNN
that Anderson Cooper has picked up but
there is like some notion of like
remember doing an interview got to
maintain a certain amount of incredulity
here gotta be just like it's I'm like I
don't know where any of this is coming
from how are you going to pay for all of
this
when asked how we're gonna pay for this
space force no one asked how we paid for
a two trillion dollar tax cut we only
ask how we pay for it on issues of
housing health care and education how do
we pay for it with the same exact
mechanisms that we pay for military
increases for the space force for all of
these ambitious policies there are
Democrats obviously who are worried
about your effect on the party
Democratic Center Chris Cohen said about
left-leaning Democrats if the next two
years is just a race to offer
increasingly unrealistic proposals it'll
be difficult for us to make a credible
case we should be allowed to govern
again what makes it unrealistic how to
pay for we pay more per capita in health
care and education for lower outcomes
than many other nations and so for me
what's unrealistic is is what we're
living in right now there you go yeah
you know what I would like to I would
like to see a se with the debate with
Chris Coons Chris Coons of course
incidentally is the one who wants to
return the filibuster well Chris Coons
is also just another Delaware right
Blake yeah credit card subsidy senator
he's the one up for election until yeah
I mean Chris Coons is an utter
mediocrity the only reason he's in the
Senate is because he lucked out by
getting to run against Christine
O'Donnell he has nothing distinguishing
to his name and has done nothing to
forward any type of national cause
whatsoever she's done any favor months
in national life that he's done his
whole career in the Senate to be fair he
does have that proposal to have the
state legislatures pick senators again
that was the nature of compromise how
about we you vote to restore the
filibuster in exchange I would like to
offer that the Senate selects state
legislation when have decided that may
be the best way to pick senators would
be to allow the board of directors at
the Lincoln Center to to choose them for
every state so we got to just keep
hitting like her proposal is hard as
easier on the oligarchs than Jimmy
Carter's was in the late 70s we had a
90% rate in the 50s
economy worked great Sweden still has a
70% rate there a global actually
lobbying editor there a global superstar
in terms of economic performance like
this is just total nonsense
