[Music]
here is a han gyeo dhatus on the daily
show really sort of I don't know laying
it out quite well in terms of of the
choices that we have in the Democratic
field Peabody judge
the other day said that he and Elizabeth
Warren share a lot of the same goals but
he doesn't want to fight so much you
just want to fight you know she wants to
fight and I want to Simpson outcomes I
think he said that's it I'm interested
in outcomes not fighting and the idea
that you can get change you can get
these outcomes as if it was just like
we're just gonna go and we're gonna have
tea and we're gonna say look this is the
type of thing we want I know you don't
want it but come on guys let's just do
this no and here's your dad√≠s
making that point a lot of the people
who sound similar when they're talking
about fixing this problem are actually
quite different and I think of the book
as a set of infrared lenses to actually
understand who's pedaling real change
and who's peddling fake change because
you look at people who say gosh you got
to rebuild the middle class but who also
say as Joe Biden did you know nothing's
gonna fundamentally change for the
billionaires in this country I just have
to say that is an incoherent and I don't
just mean rambling incoherent as the
Biden way but is an incoherent
intellectually incoherent theory because
in this moment I'm not saying all
moments but in this moment the people up
above are up above because they are
stepping on people down below and the
people down below are down below because
they are being stepped on and you
say that I want to help the people down
below in a way that will change nothing
for the people standing on their necks
the same way you couldn't address feudal
England you couldn't address the Downton
Abbey world without dealing with why the
Grantham's are the only people who own
that damn castle so big right you
couldn't deal with slavery without
making things worse for the white
plantation owners if there's no you
can't frankly look at the me to world
you can't make things better for women
in this world without frankly reducing
the power of men to have impunity in so
many of the spaces you and I and
everybody else operated real change
involves the loss of power and at the
heart of this book is the idea that
there has been an ideology for the last
forty years that is the ideology of
win-win we can empower the least among
us we can help people in Africa we can
help people in Appalachia and no one has
to suffer the rich people don't have to
pay any more taxes they don't have to be
regulated anymore and it is a lie it is
a lie the only change worth doing in a
moment like this with such inequity is
change that will necessarily make the
plutocrats less powerful the answer to a
winner-take-all world is almost
logically a world in which the winners
take less and as you said they're not
going to sign up for that it's us acting
together joining things getting involved
getting involved in democracy they're
gonna take change back from the charade
zero-sum I think is what he's arguing
clearly he's been watching this show you
can go back and listen to the interview
we did with uh I guess that was a over a
year ago it was that's right it was
right before a event reference before in
California hi ando yellow pronunciation
of your name is a zero-sum game but the
the point that he's making there I think
is an important one that really is in to
a large extent the way that you separate
the platitudes from their actual agenda
is the recognition that there are there
are
there are enemies as it were to this
change and you need to name them you
need to be able to identify them because
they're there and it's quite obvious who
they are it's quite obvious if you're
going to make society more equitable if
you're going to help people you're going
to have to prevent a small group of
people from from cornering the market on
all the benefits of society or a
disproportionate an astonishingly
disproportionate amount of the benefits
of society you can't have four people
with the same amount of money as 50% of
your population you cannot do it can
have four people who control more
resources than a hundred and fifty
million in your country and think that
that is sustainable never mind just but
that's then the only way for that to
change is do you take that money from
them we're gonna take it back from them
because remember our work made that
money labor creates wealth and value and
that's the only reason the billionaires
exist in the first place but you know
the the other thing is like I don't even
need to justify that it to take it back
I mean I think that's true but I think
it's also like look you want to live in
our society everybody has to contribute
it to making it function and it's
dysfunctional it's dysfunctional you got
lucky
maybe you got lucky cuz you got smarts
or you got lucky because of the way you
were positioned or whatever it is and
you ended up with more than I mean way
more than anyone needs but also more
than is healthy for society for you to
have period that's it like we're doing
in the best interest of society
don't even need to have any
justification beyond that there's no
natural right to money government's
produce money you can go on as many
bitcoins as you want how's that sound or
you know whatever
billionaire coins that you've you've
created yourself but if you're talking
about
a currency that's convertible into the
US dollar that can then be used to pay
taxes of course didn't grow in a tree
wasn't natural he wasn't you know didn't
show up next to Adam and Eve it exists
because Society has organized themselves
so you're subject to you know society
that's a confess Kotori taxation there
are multiple reasons why we need to do
that policy what yeah but I'm saying
like you don't need you know as far as
like justification that's all the
justification I think we need I feel
like it adds a lot of heft though to to
remember that our work your work made
that money as the guys from street fight
said that's your money and we're gonna
get it back yeah I mean I think that's
true I think that's true as well
