[Music]
okay so this happened it's graduation
time as you know around the country and
this was one of the probably the best
speech in terms of what folks thought
around the you know or I should say
students considered at their graduations
this is a guy named Robert F Smith he's
a billionaire don't know how he made his
money
private equity great put that aside for
a moment and think positively just for a
moment he is addressing almost 400
graduates at Morehouse College I assume
he's uh he's an alum there right because
he well you'll you'll sense it from the
speech pretty sure he's in LA maybe
isn't but he's challenging other alum
nevertheless he has an interesting
announcement to make
to the three hundred some-odd three
hundred almost four hundred kids
students I should say at a Morehouse
generations of my family who have been
in this country we're going to put a
little fuel in your bus now I've got the
alumni over there and this is the
challenge to you alumni this is my class
2019
[Applause]
and my family is making a grant to
eliminate their student loans
[Applause]
okay I mean yeah behind you know that I
think it's a faculty on the on the dais
just going like whoa apparently a chance
of MBP we're we're chanted after that
there were people who obviously very
excited they're not quite it's not quite
clear how much money that is I've I've
seen stuff like ten to forty million
dollars worth of debt that he'll be
paying off but nevertheless it the
challenge probably should have gone out
to others besides the alumni but let's
hold on that for a moment let's hear how
Fox News Fox and Friends did talk about
this because I remember when Elizabeth
Warren talked about relieving everyone's
college debt not just the the lucky
people who set happen to be sitting in
that that audience they were very very
skeptical I've heard stuff like well
people won't appreciate the value of
their education or it's not fair to
other people who have had their who've
paid off their debt or just largely why
shouldn't you have to pay for it
let's hear their perspective on this now
well this guy James Alan Grant was
exhausted he said of listening to
speeches since 6:00 in the morning he's
22 years old but then all of a sudden
when they made this announcement he
looked at his dad who's a bank examiner
was going to work for another ten years
to pay off his forty five thousand
dollars in debt all of a sudden his dad
says I basically retire because of what
that gentleman just did mr. Smith just
did what would you how would you feel do
if you were you'd already paid it your
parents already paid it well that's it
that's losing the spirit of an age but
I'm just saying you know you could be
practical why don't he just set up
grants for it I think it's great he also
said one of the keys to his success in
life was it for one second let's just
stay there and
go back a little bit so I mean just
think about the implications of this
you're talking 380 people one anecdote
already one guy says I can retire like
I'm going to be able to fundamentally
alter the the trajectory of my life
because now I can retire now for those
people who didn't have a parent who's
gonna work an extra ten years to pay off
their dad think of what they're going to
be able to do now options like I mean I
wonder how many of those 380 students
let's say are now saying like uh I'm
changing my plans like I may now go into
teaching I may know go into Social Work
I may now be an entrepreneur I may now
be able to take care of my my grandma
whatever it is we're gonna see I mean
and I mean apparently I mean I was
saying this would be this is a social
scientists you know best best you know
dream come true because you're gonna be
able to track what the choice is the
class of 2019 makes as opposed to 2018
or 2020 2017 2021 I mean you're gonna be
able to check this out and apparently
ALC beat me to the punch
yesterday to be fair I didn't see it
yesterday but she said this could be the
start of what's known in Econ as a
natural experiment follow these students
compare their life choices with their
peers over the next 10 to 15 years I
mean it's it will be stunning and so now
of course I don't expect Fox and Friends
to get the idea like hey this seems like
a great thing to do for these 370 kids
if we have the ability to do so by
taxing that guy who can just like throw
it off like look at me
I'm just doing this I'm billionaire we
could tax those people
Elizabeth Warren has her wealth tax plan
Bernie has a plan we could tax these
people and do this for tens of thousands
of people a year we could do it but they
don't quite get it
meanwhile the stumbling on and just not
quite getting it doesn't just stop there
with this segment for the Fox and
Friends here is what's this guy's name
again Brian kill me oh yeah kilmeade
here he is also stumbling into the value
of a nother government program that was
controversial that I have no doubt he
would be against today in retrospect and
certainly at the time but here it is
he's talking about that billionaire
Robert Smith you could be practical why
don't he just set up Grand Sport I think
it's great he also said one of the keys
to his success in life was the fact that
when he was in Denver they bust him to a
predominantly white school Carson school
and this was where he met the best
teachers most inspirational people along
with having two parents with PhDs yeah
that's the school choice that's so
important how wonderful is okay first
off let me work let me work backwards on
this that's not school choice
that's not school choice when you here
school choice that's not the program
that we're talking about
that's called busing busing was a very
different program than school choice now
I know kilmeade when he first looked at
that casually was like oh this is gonna
be my opportunity to talk about why
white schools and white people are
better than other things I'm not gonna
get too deep into this I'm just gonna
point it out that the white school was
the best and what he doesn't realize
here was he is making an argument not
only for forced busing forced
integration
but that there are how many Robert
Smith's and Roberta Smith's are there
that back in that generation and
generations before them and following
them who don't have access to what those
kids in Carson have are sitting there
real with completely unreal eyes
potential not just to make a billion
dollars but to cure cancer to just be a
really good teacher to you know a whole
host of things it doesn't matter live a
decent life live a decent life I mean in
that one segment he pointed out one the
value of free college education to the
fundamental inequity that exists in our
public schooling and our schooling
across the country and how it how
government has the ability to fix this
and completely all of it just went by
and he just saw it as white schools are
better and billionaires can be really
good for society yeah ready for being to
the left of Joe Biden on this issue I
mean really stunning I had to ask my
friend mr. Smith who's giving me money
from his private equity PAC in the past
why the hell are you going easy on these
black Millennials I met peanut in the
pool in the 60s that was hardship yeah
oh you can't get a job and you're up to
your neck and in student loans I don't
care I know everybody Charlottesville
was bad by the way thank box who goes up
to Brian afterwards and said hey Brian I
mean do you know you just basically came
out and praised busing what's bossing
exactly his book he exactly I wrote a
history of busing as I'm a his story
yeah he's so motley not Brian he's still
in the 1800s he doesn't work that way
that'll work
