[Music]
so Mitch McConnell got very upset
apparently deliver my wife he doesn't
mind being called cocaine Mitch but I
guess when they call Moscow Mitch he
gets really uptight about that and I
think the reason why people are doing
that is because we got extensive reports
from both now maybe dan coats
I don't know dan coats quit the Director
of National Intelligence because of
repeated watering downs of his warnings
of of interference by Russians in our
elections and look I was on Dave
Feldman's show the other day and he
asked me if I thought that it made a
difference what the Russians did buying
you know I don't know how many millions
of people saw those facebook facebook
ads but they say 10 million or 100
million doesn't matter I have no idea I
also have no idea if what we do here
every day means anything at all I don't
know if what David Feldman does means
anything I don't know if what's a ruins
at Antelope high yes dude I'm talking
about Dave Feldman III I don't know I
don't know if any anybody who puts out
any information or disinformation
whatever it is implicates anybody's vote
in it influences anyone's vote or I
don't know there's no way to know I do
know that it was reported that the stuff
about Hillary's health supposedly that
she had Parkinson's I don't know if
people voted against her if that if that
added to sort of like the miasma of why
people voted against her or we're not
interested in going out and voting for
her it's hard to imagine that there
weren't five people or ten I don't know
if there was a thousand I don't know if
there was 10,000 I mean we're talking
about 220 plus million people voting
I do know that when they pushed that
meme that she was sick that Jimmy door
pursued it and he spread it to another
several hundred thousand people I don't
know if that influenced anybody we don't
know I can list a bunch of other reasons
that I think that Hillary Clinton lost
that probably had more salience but it
was a very close election should it have
been that close I don't think so but
George Bush won by five hundred votes
twenty years ago this is a very
polarized country so when there are
multiple reports that a foreign entity
nevermind a foreign entity I mean I
think if we found out that Boeing was
doing this that I have a problem with it
and they're certainly doing it through
lobbying and whatnot from a legislative
perspective and I have a huge issue with
that whole point of citizens united was
to get dark money out so there's an
attempt by the Senate and the house to
pass bills to protect the databases that
include voter registration for people
and Mitch McConnell refused to bring it
to a vote why would you do this he
thinks it's gonna benefit Democrats it
might
we know that the Republicans have as
their stated goal to diminish the number
of people on the voting rolls because it
behooves them so people started calling
him Moscow Mitch it made him very very
angry and other things keeping our
Republic means we can't let modern-day
McCarthyism win so here's my commitment
no matter how much they lie no matter
how much they bully I will not be
intimidated for decades
abused my Senate seat to stand up to
Russia and protect the United States of
America I'm proud of my record I'm proud
that it's right there
why posit and I recall that Mitch
McConnell it is reported and he is not
refuted that when Barack Obama assembled
all the political leaders to say look we
got a problem with Russia interference
in our election we're seeing it we want
to tell the public about it that man
right there said if you do that we're
gonna make it a political issue right
and Liars cannot Gaslight it away in the
1980s as a freshman senator I probably
stood with President Reagan on missile
defense and other aspects of his Soviet
policy while the liberal media was
shrieking shrieking that Reagan Bush
foreign policy wouldn't work I was
honored to support it with my vote and
then watch communism crumble then in the
1990s I used my place on the state
foreign ops subcommittee to sound the
alarm and President Clinton was too soft
on Russia develop during my lived
experience he was very very very angry
about being called my well good they're
engaging in a racer of my eternity as a
cold warrior I'm an abuse victim our
gasoline Castle it outside of a
discourse that has a race my lived
experience so
