I will get to Giuliani in a second but
the this has relevance insofar as this
question after Giuliani apparently went
to Ukraine it was reported he went to go
find dirt on Joe Biden because but now
we know according to him the State
Department basically commissioned him to
do this bill Barr was up in front of the
Judiciary Committee in the Senate and
this was in what was it May 1st one gets
the sense that Kamala Harris had some
knowledge of something around this
because she asked bill Barr an
interesting question remember on the
transcript with the president of Ukraine
Donald Trump is saying I'm gonna have
Rudy call you and my attorney general
we're gonna have him both call you
they're both gonna call you and
apparently back in May and this phone
call happened in July there was already
word that Donald Trump had already
started the wheels in motion because
this is the question that Kamala Harris
asked bill Barr
Thank You mr. chairman Attorney General
bar has the president or anyone at the
White House ever asked or suggested that
you open an investigation of anyone I
wouldn't I wouldn't yes or no could you
repeat that question I will repeat it
has the President or anyone at the White
House ever asked or suggested that you
open an investigation of anyone yes or
no please sir the President or anybody
else seems you would remember something
like that and be able to tell us yeah
but I'm trying to grapple with the word
suggest I mean there have been
discussions of matters out there that
they have not asked me to open a
station but perhaps they've suggested I
don't know I wouldn't say suggest hinted
I don't know inferred you don't know
okay
in other words I want to figure out a
way of not answering this question I
don't know what the word ask means what
do you mean ask what does that mean ask
it's your father write a bizarre book
about sex slave colonies in space
Attorney General bar did did actually
yeah he did give me that paper
am I asking I don't know I don't know if
it meets my asking am i asking for the
paper can you restate that for me give
me the paper
can you restate that for me I didn't ask
I didn't ask
I didn't hear there you go I mean this
is this is uh this is a mess actually
that it was a real mess for that Allahu
Akbar
this is the type of stuff that I think
like you know Bill Barr could have some
problems here Mike Pompeo could have
some problems here Mick Mulvaney can
have some problems here and the real
question is gonna be not just how the
Democrats handle the hearings and
whatnot but it's also gonna be are they
gonna use inherent contempt whoa whoa
whoa slow down explain it to me like I
just dropped off at Olive Oyl Bo
inherently I was I afraid I believe
that's the one but tell me restate in
your words why this is a problem
real simple inherent contempt is the
power of Congress to levy fines or to
arrest and imprison people who are in
contempt of Congress that is literally
the only thing that is gonna make any
difference with these people without a
doubt is so obvious we're gonna need to
see like in some instances ten fifteen
thousand dollar fines maybe more and
they're gonna have to trust the Donald
Trump is gonna reimburse them
that's checks in the mail because that's
don't worry I know of course you're
totally covered do it can't do it now
cuz I'm president but afterwards
definitely
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take that
meaning and then I'm gonna write that
check right now first after the meeting
that I better write that check peach
peaches devolves into a whole series
Trump delaying reimbursing people
exactly
