[Music]
Nancy Pelosi really just wanted to
underline to everybody that she's not
good not good
there is a woman running for Congress in
Texas named Jessica Cisneros who was a
great progressive champion she's running
against a far-right Democrat and I do
mean far right way up Henry Quayle our
Henry Cuellar has been Donald Trump's
Democrat I remember him getting into
politics because he was george w bush's
Democrat talkin anti-immigration votes
were talking at the healthcare votes and
so on this is a extreme conservative
corporate vote in a district that does
not need to be appeased like that
there's almost no district that exists
like that and you have well let's be
honest about Nancy Pelosi you have a
very progressive incredibly charismatic
and engaging young woman leader running
against him I think we can all imagine
why Nancy Pelosi might not want her
going into Congress based off of her
previous track record with dealing with
ilan Omar but here's Nancy Pelosi
affirming that she is of the
dysfunctional static stagnant status quo
will you have a friendly incumbent rule
heading into this election cycle so that
if any incumbent Democrat in your house
is challenged in a primary that you will
default to endorsing the incumbent
Democrat that's absolutely that is the
easiest question you can so Henry
Cuellar is in the audience congressman
Cuellar from Laredo who is here and has
a challenger in the primary you are a
Henry Cuellar ad absolutely absolutely
I'm very very proud of
work in the Congress and I'm proud to
support look up Henry's work going back
to the Iraq war best dad Jessica
Cisneros could have had really hopefully
hopefully come on Texas
come on Texas
