[Music]
from 8:06 area code who's this where he
come from hey this is a thin from West
Texas Bend from West Texas what's on
your mind man and if you guys saw the I
guess the big controversy from yesterday
on The Daily wire type people's radar
with this Kyle Kossuth kid having his
admission to Harvard rescinded for his
yeah let me just catch people up is he
is he was one of the students involved
in parkland shooting he came out of it
and is conservative he was was basically
saying that you know was was advocating
no gun control in the wake of this he
was admitted to Harvard and apparently
in the past couple of days it has been
released and I think with some help of
Mike Serna vich and Jacob wall although
it's an unclear photos of a whatsapp
chat or some other chat device from two
years ago where he's using the n-word
and spewing some racist bile as my
understanding here is an example of it
and he subsequently posted a and an
apology that he sent to Harvard I don't
know if maybe an apology is not the
right word but it's he doesn't say the
words I'm sorry in it I can actually
read it you know what why don't you put
this up because it's a here it is I have
recently been made aware of screenshots
circulating that include offensive
comments former classmates and I made a
few years ago long before the shooting I
want to address this with honesty and
transparency we were 16 year olds making
idiotic
comments using callous and inflammatory
language in an effort to be as extreme
and shocking as possible I'm embarrassed
by it
but I want to be clear that the comments
I made were not indicative of who I am
or what I've become in the years since
how many years could that have possibly
been well two years the exactly two
years the the past year has forced me to
mature and grow an incredibly drastic
way my world like everyone else's in
parkland it was turned upside down On
February 14th when your classmates your
teachers and your neighbors are killed
it transforms you as a human being I see
the world through different eyes and
embarrassed by the petty flippant kid
represented in those screenshots I
believe I've gotten those I've gotten to
know since then and know that I'm a
better person than that I can and will
do better moving forward and then
Harvard rescinded its admission to him
so everybody's caught up what what's
your thoughts oh I just I was mused by
the I don't know there seems to be a big
a big deal yesterday a lot of people
think and this is a huge misstep from
Harvard a lot of people on the right I
should clarify he's missed up from
Harvard and saying that it's I know I
think Michael Tracy had some thoughts on
this below but he just was saying
not Michael Tracy but just in general
that like the idea you would hold high
school kids accountable for something
they said when they were 16 when they're
applying for college the idea that a
college would hold over your head
something you did when you were 16
during your high school career as a
factor in your admission I just thought
that was a little silly
to say the least and also uh Ben Shapiro
I think at one point he did a segment on
it and he was talking about how you know
these were silly things being said and
you know like you know what 16 girls do
they do this because they're dumb 16
year-olds are dumb and I would just like
to make the point that there are a lot
of dumb 16 year-olds and a lot of those
dumb 16 year-olds don't get
Harvard right you know the way it worked
right
you're not guarant like yeah that's the
thing is that you're not guaranteed a
spot in Harvard and had this guy put it
on his application hey I said this stuff
he probably would have been rejected my
feeling is this I frankly if the if I
thought this letter that he wrote them
was better I as an admissions person at
Harvard could see myself making the
decision to let him in because because
look I mean this is all subjective stuff
right where you you you admit a student
and frankly you know like the fact that
the words I'm sorry aren't written in
that letter lead me to believe that this
is not the guy this guy does not have
the emotional maturity or awareness of
the implications of of this thing in
such a way I mean so I don't think this
should automatically disqualify him but
I don't think that his I don't know if I
would call it apology quick note on
callous comments the thing is these are
not callous comments callous comments
are like I don't care that that kid fell
down the stairs he was a he was a jerk
and I'm glad the guy is in a wheelchair
that's that's a callous comment these
comments are racist comments that were
used you know maybe he wanted they were
trying to be offensive but the the
letter that the the quick note that he
sent apparently to Harvard I don't know
if he sent it to who he sent it to but I
imagine he sent it to Harvard it's not
sufficient and it's really basically
based on that that I would rescind the
guy's application because more
information I mean look here's the
bottom line you could get into Harvard
and if you
yep the second half of your uh your
school year uh they can say you know
what you've failed out we're not gonna
let you in now and or hey we found out
that your essay was not accurate or
whatever it is it's within their purview
to do this and I just think that he his
apology to the extent that he even make
an apology I don't even know if he would
characterize it was not a contribution
to public fora okay he didn't even he
didn't even he didn't even characterize
as an apology Twitter he said here's a
quick note I'd like the distinction no
III like I agree with you a hundred
percent because I just I don't want us
to be like the you know no redemption
skulls so I'm always interested in what
the second play is like it not like oh
well that thing happened and that's it I
don't want to have that position but I
agree with you it's it's in what he
wrote today and it clearly was not you
know I don't buy it
if I buy it it would be a different
position like I think he's being
perfectly honest but I think that
frankly he doesn't get it
well sure whatever way you wanna
whatever way you want to say it I just
think that's a very valuable distinction
to make like in the whatever the second
act is you know and and I don't yeah I
don't think he gets it I don't think you
know whatever way we want to frame it
reshape the car program that I would
like to see there might be for him to
acknowledge that his comments were
racist right and he does know starting
point of any actual genius is wow that
was obscenely racist here here is the
kid went on to Fox News
apparently expecting a bit of a softball
from host Edie Henry and apparently Edie
Henry was deciding that hmm I might not
be going to the company picnic this year
here at Harvard for people who don't
know Harvard was founded in 1636 by
slave owners it has a long history of
racism sexism misogyny but I think that
people can grow and people can change
and and I don't I don't hold that
standard Tarver and I think that people
can make mistakes and I don't think that
mistakes make you irredeemable as
Harvard showed for me as arborist we're
gonna give you a timeout there so you're
imagining they had slave-owners in the
1600s uh-huh you using the n-word was
what a year year and a half ago
do you see years ago two years ago a
little more recent okay but nevertheless
I mean I think his point is is is okay
but again when I read his quick note he
doesn't call them he just said you
didn't say that Harvard was callous back
in the day bad slave owners now he
called them racist and they they were we
had a racist society like not to say
that we don't now but one that was far
more at least institutional and a lot
more full-throated and he doesn't refer
to his comments as racist in that note
and I think he get one second swing at
the bed hit the ball there and you
missed so what is it what is it that Tom
Cruise says at the end of at the house
that damn movie no no gosh risky
business as though it was Jack Nicklaus
Illinois State I think that's really
basically said at the right there you go
grandpa just had it's a yeah
it
it's like Illinois State can't believe
talking about risky business I have seen
that movie it reminds me okay you know
remember when he said Illinois state I
guess it didn't make a huge impression I
mean when the guy shows up at the house
who's going to like give him the
admissions interview to wherever it was
to some Ivy League school and it looks
like it's not working and he doesn't
care he's in the middle of the party and
he just it's sort of like maybe I'll
have to rewatch it call him from a five
