[Music]
let's play this piece of sound you know
even the theme of this show has been
us-backed
atrocities and murder across the world
and sometimes of course the United
States does it itself as in all of the
atrocities in Iraq as an example here's
Duncan Hunter who I thought Duncan
Duncan Hunter was on his way to jail I
know that his district is apparently so
afraid of Muslims that they actually he
defeated a very promising candidate
running a totally bigoted fear-mongering
a actual bigoted fear-mongering campaign
in actual reality just like Kevin
McCarthy's George Soros Tom Steyer meme
was in fact actually anti-semitic here's
Duncan Hunter taking a break from all
the various corruption probes about him
to say like you know it's totally
Affairs the fact that like the US
military even has rules of engagement
like what the Matt Golson is under
suspicion for premeditated murder
Eddie Gallagher's in jail in San Diego a
Navy SEAL that is in trouble for killing
bad guys the wrong way what I think we
have here is a case of what the US
government would call compassionate
combat meaning the US government for the
last five years under President Bush and
crystallized under President Obama has
wanted us to kill the bad guys but in
the right way meaning they they want us
to kill guys compassionately and only
under the rules of engagement that they
say - and if you kill the bad guys that
we actually say are bad guys the wrong
way well the US government then is gonna
try you for murder and put you in jail
even if you're a decorated Green Beret
if you're a Navy SEAL if you're Marine
Corps Force Recon that's that's where
we've fallen here and I think that's
that's the umbrella that all this falls
under that's why Golson is in so much
trouble they're supposed to be a thing
now
compassionate combat which doesn't exist
either you want us to kill the bad guys
or you don't
Matt what is the goldstein yeah this is
from splinter the Republican
specifically calls out the Republican
being hunter in this case hunter
specifically calls out several US
service members who are under
investigation or on trial for war crimes
or murder Army Major Matthew
Goldstein for instance is accused of
taking a captured Afghan insurgent off
the base he was being held at executing
him and then burning his body in a trash
pit to hide the evidence mmm you know
what's really interesting here and I
hesitate to even go here because this is
this is actually where there is just
like a moral full stop and there isn't
really anything other to say other than
the fact that a sitting US congressman
is on a massive propaganda network for
the Republican Party promoting murder
and atrocities which should speak for
itself but the shift under Bush and
Obama and that he's referring to and
certainly Bush was responsible not only
for many civilian casualties but a
global torture regimen and the drone war
of Obama killed a extraordinary amount
of innocent people in Pakistan and Yemen
but what they're talking about and it's
funny because he's actually really
insulting people at these that they used
to at least lionized like Stanley
McChrystal and David Petraeus who also
have plenty of body accounts and blood
on their hands but the theory of coin of
counterinsurgency strategy is based off
of a pretty simple premise which is that
if you're fighting a essentially you're
doing police work in in the way the
police work globally has become highly
militarized and is a actually a huge
problem of the center or pressing the
peripheries everywhere and obviously you
know Israel Palestine is kind of the
prototype of that dynamic but you see it
in Ferguson as an example but the theory
of coin is based on the premise that if
you need to cooperate with a local
village as an example to tip you off on
a suicide bomb making factory it helps
if all of the people there don't hate
you because you're murdering them so the
theory it's is that it is in your
self-interest to play soccer with the
kids to sit down and have some tea
versus abduct somebody kill them and
then burn their body in a pit to cover
the evidence so I
hesitate to even go to that second-order
point because that's a Congress person
sitting on television advocating murder
and atrocities while idiots not alone
but even by their own logic and I will
use that phrase these not understanding
coin strategy and if some
Brooklyn socialist adidas track suit guy
could break that down for you
there's a big problem there
