[Music]
here is um Donald Trump having who has
welcomed to the White House a full-on
fascist let's let's listen to the Fox
News clip we're gonna have to get some
of these other clips tomorrow but let's
go to the Fox News clip where bolson ro
who has had no bones of being Verint Lee
anti-lgbt right I mean like I don't even
know everything but I mean if you want
to go on the list yes I'd prefer my son
be dead than gay is a sample right here
is him on fox news with shannon bream
and just a bagent like the idea of any
other world leader well basically what
this is indicative of is Donald Trump
loves this guy and if Trump loves them
then Fox News folks are gonna love them
about something you retweeted during
Carnivale that was sexual in nature
why did you retweet it and and the
comment that you made this video was
circulating on the web already and was
sexual in nature it was a guy urinating
on another guy right yeah I mean we
don't know but the the way that they're
introducing this is as if like we're
gonna give you we're gonna put up the
excuse for your for you know we're gonna
present this in such a way as we're not
going to talk about your virulent
homophobia over the years what we're
gonna talk about is a video of a guy
peeing on another guy at Carnivale as a
way of in some ways basically justifying
your homophobia as the other way
homophobia was
was a function of just seeing this video
and it isn't just rhetoric one of his
first moves along with taking the Amazon
out of protection was removing
protections for LGBTQ people from the
books and Brazil's formally first gay
member of the Congress fled the country
under death threats to mention the
murdered activist Mariela Franco was
that's another Weir this video was
circulating on the web already and we
just shared it to try to showcase how
way off the track Carnival is going did
you think it would generate so much
controversy well not really I have
always acted that way also one of the
things that got me like this present was
my sense of respect to families
principles traditions and customs and of
course respect towards our culture as
well as our religion I am a Christian I
cannot become president totally change
my way of living and doing things which
happens to be very common in the
political circles yes let me nod my head
I mean so this is the way that the right
is very good at whitewashing this stuff
they will bring up a controversial topic
and they will just be so satisfied with
the response and so if you're a fox
viewer you're watching that clip it's
like I don't blame him for being just no
wonder there is a problem it's the look
what you made me do
exactly got to five exactly and Fox News
providing that and the sovereign or
politics that carnival I mean
historically of course but even just
literally the previous carnival had it
was won by a team that represented you
know afro indigenous people if I recall
correctly a lot of the teams were
organized around freeing Lula there was
Giant posters memorializing Mari le so
it was a whole site of resistance to
this regime here is which one which
which clip is which here okay here is
Boston arrow defending his anti LGBT
administration
and couching it in the same terms that
we've heard the Republican Party couched
in for years Brazil and the United
States stand side-by-side in their
efforts to ensure liberties and respect
to traditional family lifestyles respect
to God our Creator against the gender
ideology or the politically correct
attitudes and against fake news excuse
me the announcer right you see that yeah
so when folks like dave rubin say he's
really good about the sjw's we now have
a full-on fascist sitting there next to
donald trump saying doing exactly what a
fascist like this wants I am just like
the United States here's the proof the
president I say I'm gonna say it in
front of the president United States and
he's gonna sit there and smile and be
okay with it we we play back again to
understand what Donald Trump has just
accepted from bolson ro as to what we as
a country stand for Brazil and the
United States stand side-by-side in
their efforts to ensure liberties and
respect to traditional family lifestyles
respect to God our Creator against the
gender ideology or the politically
correct attitudes and against fake news
the United States stands against this
gender ideology in God's eyes I mean and
also just got it I mean he also said
fake news that got the Trump smirk right
because let's be clear like Trump
obviously is totally happy to completely
destroy transgender and you know people
queer people but he doesn't care but his
personal narcissism his ears perk up at
this fake news thing and a major part of
his campaign both snarls campaign was a
slush fund that was not investigated it
was tabled by the Supreme Court that
spread aggressive fake news through
whatsapp groups until basically Facebook
actually pulled the plug on it in the
last couple weeks of the campaign and
this is one of the only case
that we can look at and I'm not saying I
don't know I mean maybe the fake news
did have the roll in in 2016 but we can
actually correlate the numbers slightly
tightening up with these whatsapp groups
getting shut down so you know he's
nodding along with that and Bannon is
their advising ball Starro as well and
in fact actual fake news was a part of a
broad scale you know and let's be clear
broadly us-backed campaign to get this
guy elected because in addition to all
of these assaults on rights of LGBTQ
it's a complete assault on labor unions
and indigenous people on behalf of
Western companies
lastly we probably should play seven
right is that I don't want to play too
many more of these this is a Bolton ro
and look it's I don't think there's much
of a coincidence where we have the
United States policy shared by other
countries to be fair but certainly far
more aggressive on the United States
side to to undermine Maduro
and to promote the presidency of of guy
doe here is bolson ro addressing the
question on of military intervention in
venezuela
well there are a few issues speak
they're no longer strategic therefore
reserve issues which may be discussed if
they have not you recall this was Donald
Trump's line during the campaign right
we can't tell you I can't tell you what
I'm gonna do because that's we have a
secret plan like Nixon on some level we
have a secret plan and we can't tell you
because then we will be giving away our
strategy I mean there's there it's not a
coincidence we're seeing the the same
construction of these talking where
fascists rationalize keeping the
Democratic people in the dark and the
and the dynamic
I guess there's a few more seconds left
but the dynamic is really disturbing
because on one hand bolson arrow has
done everything like there's new billet
bases going up there's even talk of
Brazil joining NATO which doesn't make
any Geographic sense but that was on
their agenda and they're on the North
Atlantic I mean and and so actually
maybe I mean I'm being facetious I was
gonna say what there is sorry oh yes so
the reason though that the the Brazilian
military has actually been really cool
on this because they don't have the
capacity to take on Venezuela and they
know that if there's some catastrophe
across the hemisphere they'll actually
deal with it not us and so it's very
revealing though that the ball star went
to CIA headquarters with his justice
minister the same guy who put Lula in
jail that's a very unusual meeting
sequence and the reporting that I've
seen is definitely like one of those
kind of splits of the military and you
know the Vice President and other
horrible figures from a domestic point
of view who are mainly willing to be
totally subservient to the United States
they see the immense logistical
challenges of doing something in
Venezuela balsan ro who is an idiot and
has like an astrology fascist adviser in
Virginia look that guy up he's
interested in you know basically doing
whatever it takes to please Trump
specifically I don't think just the
United States continue will not be kyra
member on a debate here in the United
States when a candidate as another
candidate what he would do to fight the
Islamic state he said if I say I will no
longer be able to beat it so it's a
matter of strategy for everything that
we discussed here will be honored but
unfortunately there's there is such a
codependent relationship here between
these two
and the we are not only did was Donald
Trump an invitation to the Brazilian
electorate to elect someone like him and
and an invitation to the Brazilian of
lead to say well you know we can get
away with this but also his presence is
is his midwifing a lot of this in in
laundering a lot of this horridness
all right we're running out of time
