with
Fiza the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elisa's they
are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday September 11th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today good riddance to John Bolton even
an insane clock is Right two times a day
but it's also still insane publicans eke
out a victory in North Carolina's ninth
district indicates 2018 sentiments
unchanged California passes or I should
say to pass a huge new labor law aimed
at worker miss classification polls show
a weaker but still leading Biden the eve
of the well I guess we were at the eve
of the next democratic debate tomorrow
night in Houston majority reportedly
covering it live meanwhile Trump
planning to use the federal government
to sweep up homeless people in
California unclear how Democrats
actually are in disarray over the
question of impeachment the North
Carolina Senate and House begin
redrawing maps for 2020 in the wake of
that major North Carolina Superior State
Court ruling protesters greet Susan
Collins and Chris Coons
over another heinous Republican judicial
pick and in the wake of the Supreme
Court gutting the Voting Rights
Amendment in 2013
1,700 polling places have closed in
areas that had a history of racial or
religious discrimination all this and
more on today's program and we have a
special guest in studio with us today
Michael is is out of course it's
Wednesday and so Michael is is on an
extended vacation joining us know Micasa
know me welcome how are you just pulled
that down microphone in a little bit are
you you have been on the radio have I
did a lot of radio there was a stint
where it's just my whole life I never
left the studio I know that's dent well
and I've alluded a little bit people
longtime listeners will remember that in
2014 for about a month and a half I was
doing a radio show after I would do this
one and I think everybody I mean people
at contemporaneously listening at that
time knew the reasons why I ended it was
because of the the business partner I
had gotten into I decided oh wait about
this oh yeah oh no I'm very frank about
it he decided not that that the show was
sustainable basically because I was
getting paid to anything and so yeah it
sounds familiar yes technical experience
it was a very valuable experience I
learned never to do business with him
again and there were times where I felt
like I probably should warn other people
and maybe that was the case I wish well
six months of my life down the drain it
was wonderful training I would say
because you know what happens when
you're exploited his they work you to
death but you develop some skills along
the way that's right you become a
superhuman that's right and a thick
hecto a skeleton as it were
and so a pleasure to have you here in
studio we should just say I mean
obviously well I'll say a couple words
about 9/11 in in a moment or two but
let's start with with this John Bolton
is gone we had mentioned this on the
show yesterday briefly and because the
word just got in that he was was gone
and in the main like this is a great
thing for the country and for will peace
now I don't give Donald Trump a lot of
credit because John Bolton would not
have had to have been fired had Donald
Trump never hired him right but be that
as it may it's a good thing he is out
for folks who didn't know you know and I
think hopefully most of the people know
John Bolton was considered to be so out
of control in terms of his war mongering
and just general disposition that a
Republican Senate in 2005 maybe it was
maybe it was 2004 refused to confirm him
as an ambassador to the United Nations
he ended up getting there was a what do
you call it the bush did a recess break
or I should say a recess appointment and
got him in there for a year it runs out
after a year now for whatever the
Supreme Court wants Barack Obama became
president basically said oh yeah there's
no such thing as recess anymore that
doesn't exist but back in the Bush era
Boulton was a recess appointed and so
the guy's a lunatic and nobody wants to
own him and nobody wants to be a part of
it and here is Tucker Carlson
misinforming the John Bolton was one of
the neo cons who was promoting the Iraq
war back in 2000
one two up into three and then you know
was certainly cheerleading the efforts
afterwards he was part of that whole
cabal of of neo-cons
and here is Tucker Carlson who I will
tell you may have personally not cared
about the Iraq war when it was happening
but was on television
cheerleading it cheerleading the run-up
I know that he would he would go walk
out of that CNN studio have a couple of
cigarettes say I don't care about this
but when he was on television he
certainly was cheerleading for it and
here he is again well in one fashion or
another misinforming his audience if
you're wondering why so many
progressives are mourning Bolton's
firing tonight it's because Bolton
himself fundamentally was a man I mean
I'm wondering what progressives he's
talking about there is there you know
there were you saw these tweets right
yeah well they think Nancy Pelosi is
progressive because she's from liberal
San Francisco and is a woman and speaks
indeed and she tweeted out something
like John Bolton is a man of honor and
the president blah blah blah which of
course is just a sack of crap they the
the Democrats are trying to make some
hay with low information voters
suggesting that you know they're the the
administration is in total disarray now
that can be true and john bolton going
is also good can be true simultaneously
what's weird about this first off this
is the day before 9/11 one of the
architects of the Iraq war you know and
and biggest advocates after 9/11 strange
also you know this is a former colleague
of Tucker Carlson's is it Fox I mean
that I find really strange the dynamic
between you know pulling back the
curtain between the Fox are yes and who
Trump is taking his cues from right I'm
yesterday we saw brian kilmeade get an
on-air text from bolton saying the
president essentially the subtext of it
saying i resigned the subtext being
donald trump is lying about what
happened tucker carlson is part of the
sort of like the pat buchanan school of
conservatism which is much less
interested in in in foreign affairs and
imposing democracy at the at the end of
a gun like a john bolton is and and and
all i can tell you is that in 2004 at
the i guess it was the republican or
maybe was the Democratic National
Convention in Boston a guy comes up to
me on radio row they didn't know
anything about air America at the time
and he said you guys are liberals is
that right and I was like yeah he goes
yeah well I I'm not with this crew in
the White House I'm a pap you can in
conservative you know these guys were
all doing these wars they're all Jews oh
right and I was just like but so let's
hear did Tucker explained to us now all
progressives are upset about john bolton
tonight it's because bolton himself
fundamentally was a man of the left
there was not a human problem john
bolton wasn't totally convinced could be
solved with the brute force of
government that's an assumption of the
left not the right don't let the
mustache fool you yes john bolton was
one of the most progressive people in
the trump administration well i don't
know what problems he's talking about i
mean john bolton was you know his whole
portfolio was foreign affairs i don't
know that Republicans have been
restrained in their involvement in
foreign affairs i don't know if he's
been aware of the fact that you know
we've had multiple wars in the past two
decades initiated by republicans is he
doing a weird somersault where he
defines interventionism as progressive
governor
it's like his idea of big government is
any spending that enhances the budget of
the government whether it's and then
he's equated that with progressives
saying well progressives like big
government not understanding or of
course he knows he's very sophisticated
he knows this that expanding the word
budget is not something that
progressives yeah I mean I don't know
how you look at the biggest part a slice
of our budget and say that which is
driven by Republican interests and to be
fair at times too much Democrats go
along with it but it's certainly driven
by a Republican agenda and but there is
Tucker Carlson once again spreading the
truth to his audience good for him
though meanwhile folks we just had a
story about this about joy Burton you
can tell the story too if you want but
you can lead and then I'll so one of our
sponsors today joy Bird furniture they
have a place right around the corner
when they don't have any too many a
brick-and-mortar places but I go in
there and I basically try out all the
couches and just try extremely
comfortable with joy bird you get
one-of-a-kind furniture that's crafted
after you're in unique taste you want a
sofa an aquatic blue or indigo a
loveseat and the hottest red if you can
dream it joy bird can make it a reality
from rich buttery leather to the
plushest velvet you've ever felt find
the fabric and the texture that's right
for you joy bird even offers a range of
kid and pet friendly upholstery options
that stand the test of time if they if
they had a time machine and I could go
back and get that stuff before my kids
you know Sol's on the tail end of
destroying a couch plus they have a free
personal design consultants help you
nail down all the the perfect design for
you and they have a 365-day home trial
sit on it sleep on it
break it in if you don't love you joy
bird you return it for free within two
weeks of delivery what's that I don't
understand the 365 day trial if you
don't love the return it for free within
two weeks oh I guess you have a 365
maybe it's free within the first two
weeks and then after a hundred percent
sure you can see how
joy bird will help you design your dream
space and make furniture your own at joy
Bird dot-com slash majority twenty five
you were gonna get a joy berry right I
ordered it I designed it they were
making it as last year and then um you
know it wasn't expensive as expensive as
other couches it's they're really really
really nice couches for the price and
then they were making it and they were
gonna deliver it like in a week and I
decided how I am I'm gonna run for
office and not take an income for six
months I probably can't afford this so I
called them up and they said no problem
we'll refund you the money and I still
want that couch there you go
well now you have the opportunity to
take 25 off at joy Bird dot-com slash
majority 25 to create the furniture that
brings you joy today joy bird calms
slash a majority twenty-five and get
twenty five percent off your first order
by using the code majority twenty five
that is the all right let's obviously
today is 9/11 last night they had the
towers of light that they sent up that
they do every year
I don't know we'd you you must have been
like in high school
I was my senior year of high school I
think it was like the second day of
school or third day of school right it
would have been very close I mean the
weather was very similar to today
actually and I mean I think I've
mentioned in the past I I distinctly
remember getting out of the shower
listening a Howard Stern at that time
yes there they thought that everybody
thought at the time it was a small plane
that had gone in guy called in to Howard
Stern said it was not a small plane I
saw a big tire I lived at that point had
a bit of a sitcom money so I had an
apartment on 29th and Park I went up to
the roof and with my video camera
because of course I was also had about
14 different video cameras at the time
and basically videotaped the second
plane coming in I mean I didn't see the
plane you couldn't see it from where I
was because I was north
I was north east of the Tau
and so I only saw the back I only saw
the explosion on the back end and I had
friends who lived down there I'm fact I
went down there John Benjamin and lived
on Duane Street at the time and he had
come up because obviously staying at my
apartment cuz he couldn't go down there
because the police had coordinate off
everything below
well at first 14th Street and then I
think was Canal and we rode I think it
must have been September 12 and to get
some of his stuff out and there was
literally like two or three inches of
ash everywhere everywhere and just
random cars that had been pulled out of
the area that were smashed
I was very strange and but the and then
for months and months and months you
would hear processions that would go
down 34th Street coming from the the
pile as it were as they were pulling
people out and I lived right on the
corner from a National Guard Armory on
Lex and 28th or something like that
maybe it's 26 that can't remember
and there was blocks of people had put
posters up looking for missing loved
ones very difficult time in New York
City
but this of all those things that
happened and obviously the the horror
you know everyone was scared I'm you
know was convinced at the time I still
I'm convinced that had someone walked
into Bloomingdale's with a stick of
dynamite and blown themselves up half of
the New York City would have left
because it was it was a very tense time
we had to my building on like I say on
28th or 29th and Park South had to be
evacuated because it was their fear
about the Empire State Building wow this
is some rumor and so everybody you
evacuated buildings remember right after
9/11 like a
after there was a plane that went down
in Queens yes yes yeah there was a lot
of things that follow that there was
anthrax that followed that as well
there was story I was interning for
Senator Schumer in Buffalo New York and
the job of the interns back then was to
open the actual physical mail so we had
to go through they gave us the what was
the pill that they they made us take
what to Supriya or yeah Sabri oh that's
what I think that it was called can't
remember they made us take that and then
put the gloves on and oh geez open up
the mail and it was yeah it was a tough
time and there was anthrax going around
I mean part of that it's unclear never
found out who was sending the anthrax
around but part of that they suspected
one scientist but it did turned out
maybe after his death that it wasn't him
I'm not quite sure it was all of that
was used was rolled up and used and used
in a way that in many respects obviously
for those who lost lost loved ones I
mean by I go by a firehouse where at you
know the 8:30 in the morning essentially
when it ever exactly hit they take a
moment of silence they lost a couple of
guys out of that firehouse up in in my
part of Brooklyn obviously a lot of
tragedy on that day but in terms of the
country you see stuff like killing
hundreds of thousands of civilians in
Iraq you the the the really the
explosion of the drone and missile
strike program that we have torture that
took place in Iraq spying yes spying
exactly Jose Padilla spying
who expanded the authorization for use
of military force which has become a
sort of way of short-circuiting
Congress's role in and and what it did
to our Paul
takes in many respects I mean there was
obviously deep-seated problems but for a
couple of years if you spoke out in any
fashion it was it was scary I mean Bill
Maher got a show canceled
Bill Maher got his show canceled checks
disco records run over and burned they I
could tell you that you know having
worked with with Janine at that time in
the run-up to the war and and after she
was multiple physical threats against
her it was an extremely ugly time I got
picked on at school there you go man
John Bolton still and in light of all
that still couldn't get confirmed what
exactly exactly
and here is Rudy Giuliani who I want to
remind you before I show you this Rudy
Giuliani placed the command center the
emergency command center for New York
City against all of the advice from all
of his advisers who were dealing with
first responders and whatnot they all
told him put it in Brooklyn he didn't
want to put in Brooklyn he didn't want
to put it in Peru clinique I was using
it to as a Love Shack to have an affair
with you know III like it doesn't matter
you know whether his wife or not I mean
that's not the reason why you put a
command center in seven World Trade
seven in World Trade Center seven oh gee
and yeah and and so here's a guy who
made the response to what was going on
far more dangerous for people there was
no communication communication had been
destroyed at that point with with guys
in the towers and and I think like his
buddy Bernie Kerik after they got the
new apartment overlooking the the pie
I ended up using that for his affair
these are scumbags and and they never go
away Bernie Kerik is another one never
goes News contributor that whole
ecosystem here is how Rudy Giuliani
celebrated and I do mean celebrate
because it's it's almost like a fascist
holiday for them hmm you've guys in
North Carolina the North Carolina Senate
today did a sneak vote 9/11 in the
morning knowing that people would be out
to overturn the governor's veto of their
budget with barely half of their house
full because people were out for you
know 9/11 ceremonies here is what Rudy
Giuliani posted today beautiful for
Heroes
[Music]
more than South their country I mean is
this the first purge like what the hell
right I honestly like how fascistic do
you I mean like how much more fascistic
could that be if you were trying to make
it fascistic but what's his agenda there
I mean he's under investigation right
now I don't understand what the point
other than Rudy Giuliani taking
advantage of 9/11 every time rolls
around to remind people he was mayor who
paid for this this is this is basically
his vision that the that you have these
people who are you know this is their
way of bashing the left they you listen
9/11 was used to to defeat guys like Max
Cleland who had lost multiple limbs in
Vietnam by morphing him into bin Laden
this was the way they took power they
and look there's you know there was the
the it's quite clear that they were
asleep at the wheel
they did not take bin Laden as a threat
very seriously God knows you know how
the bin Laden folk knew that we were
doing a training exercise that day
similar training exercise which was
confusing to people there's no doubt in
my mind that people who worked I mean
look bin Laden was a CIA asset at one
point there's a lot of cross currents in
there at the very least the negligence
on the part of the Bush administration
at George Bush himself when he said you
know you know you've covered your ass
when he saw that and that presidential
warning but for all that the bottom line
is they exploited the hell out of this
and they were incredibly opportunistic
and much to the detriment of the country
and they continued to do it it's just
that Rudy Julie
an old guy and I I don't know how people
receive this now I mean normal human
beings receive this now but it's that is
it's sick
kids don't watch TV so that was one
little part with a little kid watching a
television like oh well no that is set
back that was the idea is that that cop
who is there dropping his nightstick so
he can go beat up these protesters he's
going back on the moments that brought
him there and it went back to when he
got pinned as a cop and then before that
he was in the military and before that
he joined the military ostensibly I
guess because he had seen the Towers
fall and that's what he was watching on
TV do you think that was a paid
placement from the apparel company and
Giuliani's 9/11 tweet because that would
just be the icing on the cake I made it
could very well be where I don't
understand where did this come from yeah
these guys cuz I think they said that
this was their Superbowl commercial that
wasn't allowed to air but obviously they
could not afford a Super Bowl spot
charitable giving beer guarantee grunt
style Wow
it's like fascist Outfitters yeah yeah
that's very sweet um bacon and whiskey
hell yeah what if you just like one of
those I mean it's what are we Tim Allen
its but I mean it is really a minute you
get all the different flavors that you
want out of the right in this era
freedom bacon and whiskey it's a serious
pan Tina fascism all right well let's
let's let's turn to what's going on what
took place in North Carolina's ninth
last night I mean in and I want to sort
of tie this into what's going on with
impeachment I'll start with this here is
AOC calling for an impeachment vote on
the record calling out Nancy Pelosi and
look it you know this is regardless of
what your opinion of impeachment is
and I think people know mine when you
start seeing stories like this in
Politico where they interview the 16
House Democrats and interviews offered
conflicting assessments of the status of
the House Judiciary Committee's
investigation of Trump which is chairman
Jerry Nadler bills as quote an
impeachment investigation here it is
we have been in the midst of an
impeachment investigation says
represented Pramila jeyapaul a member of
the Judiciary Committee quote no we're
not in an impeachment investigation end
quote says representative Jim Hines
Connecticut member of the House
Intelligence Committee third
representative Gregory Meeks said the
house is investigating to determine
quote whether or not there should be an
impeachment investigation like there's
no value in this and I said this
yesterday but it bears repeating the
founding fathers contemplated a Donald
Trump that is why they have a a method
to impeach someone like Donald Trump
what they did not contemplate with
someone like Nancy Pelosi who was in the
opposition party who just basically says
but he definitely deserves it every day
we see new law breaking I mean they
should have impeached him just on the
attempt to reappropriation
their the there's so many and she knows
it she thinks there's political benefit
in not and I don't here's aoc
disagreeing with that premise I want to
see every Republican go on the record
and knowingly vote against impeachment
of this president knowing his corruption
having it on the record so that they can
have that stay on their careers for the
rest of their lives because this is
outrageous to protect the amount of
lawlessness and corruption coming out of
this presidency speaker to take that
message I you know any message that
works I would like them to take up that
message but personally I think that that
it is beyond
I'm and we have to end this lawlessness
and corruption coming out of the White
House
I mean she's right and you know we saw
this I mean this to me ties into this
North Carolina race obviously this is a
district that Donald Trump won by 12
votes 12 percent in in 2016
I think Mitt Romney's similar amount 12
percent in 2016 this is a very red
district the Democrat missed it by two
percentage points it was a thousand
votes last time and a significant number
of those votes we know were fraudulent
but what the Republicans did MacCready
the Democrat was able to bring out more
of his voters just not enough to
overcome the fact that Bishop the
Republican brought out even more rural
voters because Donald Trump shows up
there and they do better
traditionally in special elections you
know erase the last couple of cycles
where there's been a revived Democratic
base on the progressive side organizing
and and even you know Democrats and
these special elections Republicans
traditionally have an edge when they
they they get their together and
start to organize so even when the
Democratic Party invests so much money
into what I think is a very 2004 ask
candidate a young you know veteran an
entrepreneur lawyer - you know
what - Harvard and Yale and Harvard and
Duke I think very cookie cutter even
with that they still if they put
everything into it and they still
couldn't you know overrun the
Republicans who just have a natural edge
well they have a natural edge but here's
also I think the thing that is a that is
not that is not natural you have all
these people coming out cuz you're
supporting Donald Trump and the vast
majority of people who are voting are
voting against Donald Trump and if
that's the formula you've got to go out
there and give this candidate an
opportunity now he basically said I
would not vote for Nancy Pelosi etc etc
but
this seems to me to be indication that
there isn't necessarily enough people
who are gonna be motivated by your
coming up there and saying I am just
slightly more moderate version of this
guy people are not looking for
moderation
they are looking they have their
opinions they're just looking for the
person who can convince them that the
candidate that can convince them that
I'm going to act on your opinions and
you can't compromise with someone like
this and this is what what drives me mad
with the Democrats is you know we were
talking about polarization yes our
country is polarized you have Nazis who
are who have invaded the White House and
John Bolton's and then you have the
Democrats being like well we need to
compromise and have people in the middle
you want to compromise with a Nazi you
want to compromise somebody who when
you're with with an oligarchy with with
monopolies that hasn't worked in the
last 20 years and I think in places like
North Carolina know if you've done work
they're gone there at all but there's a
there's a real populism there even in
Charlotte you know larger cities there's
a real populism
in cities in in rural communities and if
the Democrats are continuing with this
cookie cutter approach I just don't
think they're gonna be able to go over
the edge we saw with Asaf yes yes and I
see him running for governor in in
Georgia and that's a little bit scary in
that respect I mean I think like the
bottom line to it seems to me and you
know I've I've been you know following a
little bit of this this woman her name
is is it it's Rachel bit Cofer bite
Cofer she is she was a statistician who
predicted the 2018 blow out very very
early in the cycle and there's some
things from that I don't necessarily
subscribe to that she suggests but I one
thing I think that she makes a very good
case is that like partisanship you need
to play into the partisanship because
you have one side that is active that is
using partisanship to its full potential
and the other side that is not and they
can't you you you know it's almost it's
not even I'm not even convinced
necessarily that you need to have a
specific ideal
logical set of plans but whatever they
are they have to be in opposition to
Donald Trump and the Republicans as they
stand today and that and and in clouding
that the fact that you stand on on one
side of the divide and convincing your
voters because there are no sort of like
lean Democrat lean Republican voters
they are either I lean Democrat or I
lean Republican and who's gonna motivate
me who's gonna make who's going to
inspire those reasons why I already lean
for those people as opposed to I could
go either way and also just I think the
the way that we define voters in America
is just dated you know the the middle
voters well what does that mean what
does it actually mean are they
conservative on some issues economics at
a theater he's a Bernie voter and he
said well you know I'm uh I'm socially
progressive and I'm economically
conservative and I said well how I don't
understand that could you could you
explain it to me and he realized after
he's a lawyer he broke down the argan
cuz I don't know I just I just always
thought that because the media sort of
portrayed it that way and I think that's
really what this is about when you go
down into rural North Carolina which is
not necessarily as District but if you
go into the rural areas you'll meet
people who who hear Bernie Sanders's
message and they don't this big
government idea it's confusing to them
for the same reasons that we were saying
earlier it's you know what does big
government mean does it mean I get
health care okay I really don't want to
be paying so much for my health care
right now I can't afford it or I'm a
small business owner and I would much
prefer to pay you know to have Medicare
for all so we're not losing so much
money I mean I think that we're just
defining them based on social issues and
ignoring the economic issues and this is
where I think that even with with
polling things get really flawed yeah
this is the thing I can't I mean
speaking of polling there was there's so
there's a poll out today in Texas they
did a lot of polls apparently the past
week or so in Texas and yes and you made
that you made the point that like you
know by the time we get to Texas there's
gonna be a whole lot of other factors
that are gonna determine people's
perception of of of the candidates right
I mean if
I think particularly Joe Biden is most
susceptible to this if he loses Iowa and
New Hampshire the narrative is going to
be like maybe this guy can't win and
that's the biggest thing that he's got
going for him but there are so in Texas
we have polling that shows that it's
very strange
it seems to me Joe Biden leads the
Democratic presidential race in in to
Texas polls Biden's at about 28% in two
different polls once 28 once 26 then
Warren she's at 18 in both of them and
then in one it's O'Rourke but then one
it's Bernie Sanders right right but so
here it is so so Bernie comes in fourth
in both or a third or fourth in both
these in terms of who would you who
would get your vote in a Democratic
presidential primary today
now again that's today and what happens
in the primary race may impact that but
then there's another poll that shows
that Univision Bernie Sanders doing best
and a hypothetical head-to-head matchup
against Trump in Texas again you know
who knows but leading Trump forty eight
to forty two Biden is more or less the
same 47 to 43 warned a little bit less
but you know statistically not terribly
different 44 to 42 I mean that suggests
to me that there is more strength in a
general election for Democrats than most
Democrats think right and I think
ultimately that's gonna hurt Joe Biden
right you tell me I believe so I mean
this is somebody who's been wishy-washy
on his stance on the Iraq war just
recently in the last week which which
you know blew me away
how
are you going to be able to have an
alternate vision other than just
speaking to the Rust Belt which is I
think his entire campaign strategy is
you know down-home Joe speaking to the
Rust Belt yeah but only in the most
shallow and pandering of ways right
like he's not speaking to their class
interests at all right he's not talking
about policy he is he's he's running a
campaign as if this is mikemaya she with
Democrats is that they're too quick to
hyper react to four years ago the
country shifts especially with
Millennials shifts dramatically in
social media and this idiot Trump you
know it's it's shifted quite a bit in
the last three years and so I don't I
don't personally even know if the Rust
Belt is gonna be as powerful as it was
last time this time around maybe Texas
will be more powerful but again it
really comes down to this primary
process it's New Hampshire it's Iowa
possibly New York State if the governor
has his way moving the primary yeah what
do you make about that this was
announced I guess the other day that
Cuomo is trying to move it up to
February's also I mean it's obviously a
big protection racket for incumbents in
the state if if it's if it's matched
with with state election elections which
is one of the options what I understand
but it's you know it's the presidential
primary so what is he thinking what is
what what is Cuomo yeah I know that his
agenda has to be something that I would
not like there's always like 15 layers
of Andrew Cuomo in his thought process
the other side of it is there's an
article I think yesterday saying a lot
of incumbent state lawmakers who are
running for Congress a lot a couple
would lose their positions would likely
lose their their seats if they're
running simultaneously because of the
primary the primary dates would switch
and and they would be hurt by earlier
primaries yes because ostensibly the
challengers have more having a not as
wide but a deeper connection to their
followers and people who are pissed will
come out as opposed to or what is a
legal technicality if you're running for
Congress and the primary for Congress is
in June of next year or whatever the
data is but usually around then and the
legislative primary is in February if
that's moved to them because they're
always different
we like to make things complicated so
that voters don't turnout in an
overwhelmingly democratic state god
forbid the Democratic Party get its base
out right so wait I understand how would
people in Congress lose not in Congress
so for instance there's an open seat
right now I'm in in the Bronx right and
there are there is a state lawmaker
who's running he's an assemblyman
Michael Blake he's also a vice chair of
the DNC and that his his case was was
made in that if his primary were in
February and he lost it he lost
I mean meaning like that he'd be running
for Congress and he can't run
simultaneously oh I see yeah I see so it
would hurt those sitting state reps in
their attempts to run for Congress I see
which is also you know everything in New
York at least on the Senate side is down
to a couple of votes always for the last
you know 15 years but we had the IDC
right which blocked that's that works
two Cuomo's favor like he wants to be
able to take care of some you know some
people in like for instance Blake is a
perfect example because well he is more
establishment he has not gotten along
with the Bronx machine and the Bronx
machine is really important for Cuomo
but we're getting into the New York you
know but all politics is local what we
saw with AOC was was more about local
politics in New York in my opinion than
having an extraordinary voice in
Congress representing progressives right
right I don't think people were voting
on that in Mannino York they wanted to
get rid of Crowley and here's the
queen's boss machine so all right so why
would Cuomo move up the presidential
primary I think there's there's a bunch
of reasons um there's a lot of delegates
in New York they're not really selected
democratically like maybe others day
it's like Iowa for instance um so he
thinks that's gonna help Biden yeah
it'll probably help iDEN as a closed
primary it's the most closed primary in
the entire country in terms of
democratic primaries there have been
some voting reform laws passed but he
has not signed them like automatic voter
registration so he wants to make sure
that he can control the electorate and
he thinks that maybe if it's if it's
hung out there longer he'll have less
control over who show
up at the polls so if it's between New
Hampshire I mean Iowa New Hampshire
that's crazy and California's primary
has been moved up as well it's a more
open primary yep um you know they're not
New York by any means but you know New
York I think he also just wants New York
to be important again i but I mean I
believe that Bernie Sanders election
ended in New York in April last time
around but it was also because it was an
extremely close primary people you had
it you've registered as an int as a
Democrat over a year in advance if
you're switching parties and so we have
so many independents here especially
young people who were Bernie Sanders
supporters that couldn't change their
party registration and we have a really
archaic
you know Board of Elections system so
people's votes get lost all the time
well that is why I register as a
Democrat in New York I want choose yeah
exactly I want to if you want to be able
to - I mean if you can stomach the idea
that somebody could find out that you're
registered as a Democrat but you want to
have a voice in determining who of the
two most viable candidates the more to
the left would word one is going to be
you got to you got to register as a
Democrat yeah you know - all you ultra
leftists who think you're too cool the
register is a Democrat I'm registered as
a Democrat and I am extremely cool there
you go
I mean I am and I hate the party but it
really I mean you're you're you're half
joking but you're not I mean that's the
thing is like the idea that it's like I
it's just it wouldn't be cool for me to
be a Democrat like there is nothing else
that is involved with registering as a
Democrat and New York at least other
than you get the opportunity to vote in
the Democratic primary taking it you
know to another we're not an open
primary state meaning you okay if you're
registered as a Democrat
you can vote Democrat in a Democratic
primary but if you're registered under
another party like Green Party for
instance you can't write and the
Green Party and other third parties they
rely on having people registered and
voting on their party line but that
doesn't mean you don't have to be
registered as a Democrat in the
Democratic primary meaning if you're
gonna vote on that party line in the
general election you can still vote I
don't think I voted for a Democrat in in
the general election under the
Democratic line in any race any time
unless that's the only party line
they're on but more often than not it's
WFP and I will vote on the WFP line at
one point I asked those folks like you
know is it good for me to register as a
Democrat and they're like no don't
register as a Democrat I mean excuse me
they said yes register as a Democrat
don't register as a working families
party member just vote on our line right
because that's what determines you know
what empowers us in the general in the
general election general cuz you can't
do that in the primary you can't do that
in primary because they don't they don't
first of all they don't have primaries
in the Working Families Party or in most
of the other parties there's no value in
it you can vote on any line you want and
it says the I think it's a very simple
thing but like understanding that and
sort of being able to sort of swallow
like I don't get to say that I'm not
registered as a Democrat and I
understand the value of that I mean
certainly I understand the value of it
but the value of registering is Democrat
is that you actually get to exert some
tiny tiny modicum of power in that
election and that's why they don't want
you to be able to register right so
stick it to them you have until October
11th if this primary date isn't changed
to change your registration go to the
Board of Elections New York Board of
Elections website print out the form
sign it you have to sign it and mail it
because we don't do things easily in New
York so all right look I just want to
just hammer home this point one more
time about North Carolina here's a clip
of Dan Bishop he is the new congressman
from North Carolina's ninth district
incidentally the ninth district may not
be the ninth
come 2020 so he's there for about a year
and a half maybe a year and change by I
would imagine this district is gonna
change like others and you know when you
win by two percentage points and when
you're talking about a presidential
election where Democrats tend to come
out more a slight change in the
composition of this district and that
Democrat has a very good shot what do
you know what the legislature makeup is
and who oversees redistricting well they
just had a major case in North Carolina
and right now I can show you who's in
charge of redistricting bring this up a
state Superior Court in in North
Carolina a week ago invalidated the
state lines there I think in part
because they realized that the more
information was coming out from this
godfather of the the gerrymandering this
guy Hofstetter who had all the documents
on his hard drives that his his daughter
had basically revealed and it was quite
clear that these districts were not only
extremely partisan gerrymandered but
they were done so based on race and so
these were gonna be struck down the
Republicans have not fought it instead
what they've done and I don't think this
looks as this is as nefarious as it
looks they apparently ran a hundred or a
thousand different potential plans
through a computer they got the top five
Democrats do have an issue with some of
the algorithms that there was used to
determine this but here in the North
Carolina Senate is how they picked which
of the five they were going to do they
brought in their lottery machine go
ahead run this
I'm just saying so this is they have
five plans five falls and this is how
they're you want to know how they're
gonna there it is and that's how they're
going to pick their maps at least in the
Senate but here is Dan bishop and he is
this is what I was saying about you have
polarization you have hyper partisanship
you can either participate in it or lose
I think that's the only two choices when
they do it it has to be met because
anybody who is not attracted to this is
attracted to voting against Donald Trump
and so you've got to sell that hard and
I don't think Macready quite did but
here is Bishop we've all watched as the
Democratic Party
[Applause]
the socialist Democrat party
[Applause]
we had to get in the Democrat seats the
president's destruction every day we've
seen a dishonest media
[Applause]
he's laughing he shouldn't believe in
that mission we've watched as the
greatest fighter ever to occupy the
White House has
[Applause]
I mean I mean the bottom line is if
you're a Trump fan if you're in any way
offended by you know the the attack on
Donald Trump you're gonna vote through
that guy so you've got to go after your
people by saying we're gonna go after
Trump and I don't know that that
happened as much as it should have you
know what I would love to see is
Democrats pay for a mailer that goes to
Republicans with a quote of Nancy Pelosi
saying we are not a socialist party it's
not gonna but that's how it is and
that's just the way it is but that is
but that is their theory is that somehow
that's going to move Republican voters
and it's not right they're just gonna go
like well I'm still gonna go and vote
like it's it's a complete miss Reid of
it really gets down to the difference
between being a persuasion election
versus a mobilization election although
I do think that there is something
clicking with an older you know older
voters I don't know if I necessarily
totally agree on this because I have
family in Arizona and they're they hate
Trump they hate Trump and they they
identify as like you know independent
Republicans like McCain I mean there's a
lot of that in Arizona right and my one
of my family members called me up
recently and and she's a Democrat and
she's and family Republicans and she
says I just don't know what to think
about aoc I'm listening to all my
friends and they think that she is
bringing communism to America and I go
what do you know what communism is and
then and and I do think that there's an
era of voters that do turnout in these
primaries and do turnout in special
elections that are the Fox News viewers
that are not our Democratic base that
are not you know in Brooklyn and the
Bronx and want impeachment right away
and and they really are scared of
socialism I mean it's I hear an MPR with
hosts on NPR bring this up no I mean I
agree III I agree with that
that concept that they're afraid and and
I and I do think that that is you know
it's a tough hill to climb like I'm not
sure I would have chosen to sort of like
make that dds a speech that
Burnie did at the beginning yes a member
and I don't know if I agree with that
either yeah I mean I I don't know if
that would have been my agenda I think
it you know like to educate the populace
on this at that point is it's a hard
road to I'm much more interested in the
policies I don't care what you call it
and and I think they're the right has a
machine and is much better like you just
look at the polling more Republicans
know who a OC is then Democrats they
have been very successful in the fire
that's why you know you're you have
relatives in Arizona who are like she's
a communist because I saw it on Fox News
and I hear it on every and particularly
as you get into the center of the
country that's dominated by conservative
media hey what's the class position of
these relatives and Arizona would you
say yeah
mixed but I would say that you know
probably Arizona so middle class at
Arizona okay cuz they're working
middle-class yeah cuz there are some
people who are scared of the word
because they grew up in the Cold War era
and then there are some people who are
scared of the word and the policies
because it will involve paying more in
taxes I don't think they're that
sophisticated in their analysis I mean
it was basically and I'm and I'm also
looking at their Facebook walls do you I
don't block your family members who are
Republicans because to me it is
fascinating to see the fights on on
their walls and where their their lines
are because there are some Republicans
that are anti Trump or critical don't
like the way don't like a style but will
still vote for him and I want to know
exactly what that spectrum is cuz those
are the people I think that we can move
just as if you know they're moving but
are those the people like I mean
but can we though I mean because when
you because there's a cost associated
with trying to move them yes my uncle is
a Republican who hates Trump and is
gonna vote for Democrat doesn't matter
who it is he told he goes get your party
together like he you know sophisticated
DNC analysis that he is he's like get
your party together because there's too
many candidates and you're all gonna eat
each other alive and Trump is taking
advantage of that right all right so
that guy's off the I mean he's off the
board he's gonna vote for the Democrat
but I'm saying like the and he's gonna
do it because he hate
right so he's a Trump hater I'm put
aside like you know with the the the
idea is like you don't have to persuade
that guy anything you do like anything
that you do to attempt to persuade that
guy is gonna cut against the other end
of your party and I just don't think
that those people are persuadable as
much as like there are some there and
there are some not and the return on
investment in using persuasion is less
it seems to me than the return on
investment in getting people who are
already basically agree with you but but
don't necessarily feel moved and that is
a very broad you know that's a very
broad category you know what it takes to
move people for some I think it's just
sort of like visceral stuff for others
it might be more policy oriented for
some I think it's just sort of like
we're gonna impeach the guy we're gonna
put him in Chains like you could go out
there and we're just gonna put them in
Chains afterwards and that might
motivate people I mean I think but
whatever moves them on some type of
visceral level it's really less about
persuading them of what side of the
divide they're on and more persuading
them of the stakes that are involved in
that vote and I think that's why when we
had people staying at home in you know
in Wisconsin aside from the voter
suppression or in Michigan her and third
in Pennsylvania I think it wasn't so
much that they didn't agree with the
policy sets of Hillary Clinton couldn't
do it for Hillary
go at when we'll talk about this a b5
which is a big deal and it you know
uber and lyft and TaskRabbit and you
know whatever it is you know five bucks
you know fiver
I don't know fibers doing that but but
those gig economy things are they're
freaking out because people are going to
have to get are going to be classified
as employees that means that they're
going to be put into the Social Security
system it means that they're going to
have workers comp coverage that means
that they're going to have unemployment
insurance and we will talk more about
that that's going to have implications
across the country I think in the
meantime just a reminder this program
relies on your support you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report calm when you do you get extra
content every day did we ever put up
that Hannity thing Lisa yes so and your
members feed there should be a extra
knot it will be done today because I'm
uploading there you go hey you gotta do
that do my board so join the majority
port calm don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get ten percent
off and the a.m. quickie it's in your
majority report audio podcast feed just
go on to iTunes or stitcher or wherever
you get your podcast subscribe to the
majori report feed and you will get the
a.m. quickie we're just a couple weeks
away from it being living on its own
we just found I think we found some
logos right oh yeah very close very very
close Michael's not here today but you
can go check out tea MBS it's on iTunes
and a patreon patreon comm /tt MBS and
youtube
he had a big show last night and jamie
mantecato yeah this week on the anti
Fattah we speak with our friends Sophie
st. Thomas who is a sex and weed
journalist pretty cool job about my trip
to LA hurricane sex pickup artist magic
relationship bordick ISM and I got her
take on Alexandra : Ty's celebrated si
make wing make way for wing at eros a
letter to working youth I also want to
plug the article that I wrote on the DSA
Convention if you haven't read it yet
you should it's in kommune magazine so
go to commune mag calm and check it out
it's called when the wave crashes also
we're doing a live show
October 12th at Littlefield so come to
that also close the camps and YC is
doing a direct action this weekend and
they need way more people so if you're
interested in that go to close the
camp's NYC calm and we'll put those
links in the podcast feed indeed and
know me join us for the fun half yes'm
you're great where I'm gonna be
announcing my podcast called hurricane
sex there you go
I feel like that would sell right back
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's off their buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
you know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
nervous a little bit upset yeah maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you alright but dude dude
dude dude dude dude
yes like you are a dinosaur all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to go
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is
the fun half of the majority part I'm
going to turn the I am machine on right
now because I keep forgetting to do that
and I haven't done I am sin a while and
well I'd actually take Iams it's like an
actual not a I am NOT a no oh no not not
yeah what's your say oh well instant
managed what's it what's your screen
name what's your aim name I think it's I
think it's majority dot F M I don't know
what what it is who the Apple guy 69 my
my original email address was something
like that I don't want to say I don't
want it but it but it was because when
when we got email I mean I'm old we got
an email we didn't know what it was like
we didn't know like where's this
technology going is this gonna be like
my social security number and and and so
everybody put up and you know things
that they could remember but that other
people couldn't tell it was them because
at that time we didn't realize that
every part of our lives would be
broadcast and we wouldn't be you know
basically inviting the entire world into
whatever we're doing and and then
marketing it and monetizing it so I mean
have we known at the time I would have
ever gotten would I would started in the
ground running exactly
I have already reserved oh my kids the
websites this is a thing now you're like
congratulations it's your baby shower
I've bought their domain names that's a
good idea that's actually a good idea
yeah can you imagine your entire life
being on Instagram
no that's horrifying
I have a friend who has a baby and they
have an Instagram right now Wow Oh God I
have a friend who has a little kid who
she will not post on social media she
always blocks out his face and I respect
that
because it seems like it should be
something you opt into oh yeah no I I
wouldn't even let my my kid do it for
herself either but yes no I agree with
that but I mean I was also a little bit
nervous so let's uh let's go into this
with with we were talking about you know
and Warren's got is Warren is you know
how to bump I mean she's going through a
little bit of a surge right now and it's
been interesting because to a large
extent the the Biden people in
particular seem to be very very nervous
about her I don't I don't I don't get
the sense that the Bernese people are as
nervous about her at this point I think
the idea is that like they want I think
the election to be between you know two
people to the left of Joe Biden frankly
but Biden definitely seems worried about
he his people announced today that
they're going to be talking about her
corporate the payments and which now
you've worked in a bunch of campaigns
you've run for office do you communicate
a couple of days beforehand in to your
opponent like what you're going to be
attacking them on no they probably wish
so right but I mean what is the what is
that what is Biden doing there is he
trying to like just is it just a way to
sort of get that idea out there my only
thought is maybe they were preventing an
attack there was something coming out
from Warren's team and it was like a
little bit of a threat that oh honey
you're not honey right speaking and
voice come on of course of course
actually probably how II think it's
exactly how he thinks I mean II said kid
to Kabul here right um you know that
that be careful we have stuff to I mean
everybody has stuff on each other and
they don't always use it and and
oftentimes they wait until the perfect
moment and you know there's also
information they can put out there but I
don't know if the corporate base I mean
the attack that they said that they're
gonna use is that you know we're gonna
expose that used to work for
corporations or something like that like
that your corporate employees which I
don't know if that's a substantial I
mean would you attack somebody it
depends on what they did of course like
if they represented corporations for for
fraud if I was Joe Biden I wouldn't use
that attack because that's part of
probably the allure that I project him
of some of my voters anyways I have a
feeling it's you know there it's
probably it may be part of like a sort
of a broader narrative to say that she's
disingenuous in some fashion but here's
Jim Cramer on CNBC and then we'll get a
chance to pick up more on this here's
Jim Cramer on CNBC they're already
starting on CNBC to talk about the doom
and gloom if the Democrats win and in
particular Elizabeth Warren and they're
talking about Wells Fargo
just a reminder folks Wells Fargo you
know in addition to all this stuff
involved in the companies that they
bought that were involved in the sort of
the massive fraud that existed in
foreclosures and and the run-up to the
2008 financial crisis Wells Fargo since
that time has had literally thousands of
their own employees place people I don't
even know how to express this you go in
you get a bank account they take your
info and without you knowing it sell you
other products that the bank is selling
and you get billed for it and if you if
you're lucky you notice if you're not
lucky you don't and Wells Fargo was just
like we had if we jut maybe we were a
little bit over-ambitious
with our workers guilty but we didn't
tell them to do this well would think
that you would have controls in there
that like you need maybe a signature or
something but here is a Jim Cramer
talking about how scared they are if
Elizabeth Warren gets
but how is it possible that this company
cannot find a CEO I mean are they
worried about Elizabeth Warren attacking
that's you she sure he would be course
they are and of course that person is
why wouldn't they be if she becomes
president what do you think is gonna
happen other banks posit let me just be
clear on what happened here Jim Cramer
is making a joke yeah
right he's making a joke about like why
can't Wells Fargo find a CEO now I would
guess it's probably because somebody's
going like uh I don't want to go in
there because every other day it seems
like they find massive amounts of crack
criminality in the company and I don't
want to be overseeing that type of stuff
or be held liable for juggling brought
into courts and it's so Kramer does not
respond when this guy goes yeah that is
wise they're afraid of good she becomes
the president what do you think is gonna
happen to the banks well it's not a
suboptimal situation tonight I think you
think Elizabeth Warren know pushes banks
into a woman they're already down 20
percent from the heart but yeah I just
think thing you're there were these
Curie's in the 30s where they want rich
people in front of Congress who just
kind of trash them about 20 years later
we had the least discrepancy in incomes
in the fifties and sixties right I don't
know it's good happen look I've gotta
tell you when you get off the desk II
talked to executives they're more
fearful of her winning I mean I've never
heard anybody say look she's gotta be
stopped
she's gotta be something I don't know
she's very uh she keeps going up in the
polls all right she's raised a ton of
money it's gonna win I believe she's a
very compelling figure on the stump by
the way I hear it too and it's another
reason why companies are being implored
to do things now
if you want to get something done you
really think M&A or anything think about
doing it soon because come early to mid
2020 if Elizabeth Warren's rolling along
everybody's gonna be like that's it so
you're here too
oh yeah I mean oh he's having well I
mean the you know if I'm Elizabeth
Warren I cut that into an ad for me his
friend Jim Cramer
now it's Cramer friends with drugs like
he's always praising him and to be very
strange friends with Trump if they're on
TV they're friends with Trump
this is NBC NBC has a long relationship
with Trump in some way or form and I
just I find it I'm not trying to be
conspiratorial but there's like a lot of
Warren praising on NBC and I watched
unfortunately all weekend I watched NBC
and barely heard Bernie's name you know
wouldn't they really be scared of Bernie
one would think that they would be
scared of Bernie but Bernie has always
been ignored in this way
I mean I've told the story many times
but I got a call in the run-up of 2016
election in the the spring of 2015 from
a reporter from Politico who was doing a
piece on Martin O'Malley and he says to
me is you know like he calls and he says
look you know I'm doing this piece on
martin o'malley martin O'Malley wants to
know how we can get progressives how we
can you know compete with Elizabeth
Warren for progressives like Elizabeth
Warren's not running for election Bernie
Sanders is he's got to worry about
Bernie Sanders and the guy just laughed
well but the point is I think you know
at CNBC
they have the same attitude like it's
completely and probably NBC broadly
speaking it is unfathomable to them is
it or is it a direction I mean the way
these networks we've both worked for
networks and do there is actual
editorial direction given that's passed
down like we're gonna cover this story
we're not covering this story we're
gonna talk about these people
there's the graphics I mean I think some
of it is a little bit of like an inner
you know establishment and Beltway
mentality but then I think some of it is
actually very intentional i I don't I I
would
surprised if there were directives that
were specifically we're gonna not cover
Bernie Sanders what not I think it's
just honestly the vast majority of those
people there just think in one way
that's why they're there that if they
thought a different way they just
wouldn't get through the hiring process
just because it's like I don't want that
freak in here and so I just think it
just didn't even like it they just don't
take him seriously even now after you
look at the entire campaign sort of
organized around his issue sets they
still don't take him seriously and I
think that's probably not a bad place
for Bernie to be in at this point in the
race right I mean because the difference
between 2020 and 2016 at this juncture
is that Bernie takes his chances more
seriously and he did not in 20 you know
when we were 2015 I guess it would have
been is the equivalent and in September
2015
I don't think Bernie Sanders thought
like I'm in this way race to win I think
he's like I'm in this race to make it
clear about income inequality and money
that has corrupted our political process
and I don't think he had a real agenda
to win until five months later four
months later and that was a little bit
too late I think that's the big
difference right now is that that maybe
he's being overlooked by the national
media that's fine because they're
building something on the ground I would
think oh yeah and my hope is that
there's a feedback effect there because
people want to pick a winner people
don't want to be wasting their time so
hopefully the more Bernie thinks he can
win the more other people will and the
more people will volunteer and do the
whole not meet us think to make sure
there's actually a grassroots movement
behind him
speaking of grassroots there's a you
know meanwhile the Senate machine to
just crank in right-wing justices for
lifetime appointments on federal courts
remember Donald Trump is already I think
the
most successful in placing his judges on
the federal court and the the most
recent who has been sped through and
your good friend Chuck Schumer made
multiple deals to allow this well it's
hard
Chuck Schumer has done as far as I can
tell
absolutely nothing to stop this this
this like you know relentless onslaught
of right-wing judges and and there's
only and there's a limited amount in
what he could do
frankly it's just that he could make it
he could slow the you know he could slow
the roll somewhat and at the very least
he could just make an effort which would
make people feel like he's making an
effort this the latest judge is this guy
Stephen minashi
he's a legal aide to Donald Trump he has
incredible hostility for women as far as
I can tell for folks of color for LGBTQ
he's a forty year old lawyer clerked for
Sam Alito served as acting general
counsel for Betsy DeVos wrote dozens of
incendiary editorials and blog posts in
the late 90s and early 2000s decrying
leftist multiculturalism and PC
orthodoxy it's gonna be a federal judge
folks he complained about gyno centrists
what is that you just so you all you
kits like I think you see the whole
world through your vagina essentially
penis centrists penile centuries right
he said that he complained that gyno
centrist were participating and they
take back the night marches the Take
Back the Night marches are marches that
are essentially anti-rape marches
they're trying to raise
awareness that women shouldn't be afraid
to go out at night for getting raped
so motorizing yes so PC he accused the
Human Rights Campaign of having to quote
incessantly exploiting the slaying of
Matthew Shepard who was a young guy who
was killed because he was gay he claimed
that a Dartmouth fraternity wasn't being
racist when it held a quote ghetto party
attended by white party goers wearing
afros and carrying toy guns some of his
past writings include him comparing race
data collection and college admissions
to Germany under Adolf Hitler denouncing
women's marches as sexual assault
that's opposing the radical abortion
rights advocated by campus feminists and
codified in roe v wade arguing that
diverse communities quote exhibit less
political and civil civic engagement
less effective government institutions
and fewer public goods he opposed
need-based financial aid because it hurt
wealthy people oh my god and he was also
full of means he also exactly people
struck with a affluenza he also spread
the the myth the Islamic phobic myth
that Donald Trump did as well that
general john pershing executed muslim
prisoners in the philippines in 1913
with bullets dipped in pig fat yeah
and he's horrible we have protesters
though going and not just protesting
Republicans because of course but people
like Chris Coons Democratic Senate
senator from Maryland
excuse me Delaware who has talked about
how we need to get bring back the
filibuster if Democrats take the Senate
for judicial pics and and also Susan
Collins who of course I'm sure it's just
absolutely
upset about this guy and we'll have to
vote for him
[Music]
Oh
now they're there yelling we won't back
down on Brown because what right-wing
justices have now done as they are
refusing to say if brown v board of
education the ruling that basically said
separate but equal is not equal was
correctly decided that's so bad it's
unbelievable yep let's go to the phone's
counsel right of course we can't take
these things for granted no calling for
a 6:05 area code who's this where we
come from hey Sam this is Dylan from
Wyoming Dylan from Wyoming what's on
your mind
yeah you guys tend to have discussions
with folks that footage generally why
politically - you're right I was
wondering if you'd be interested in
having with discussion with somebody who
lies politically to your left
um sure I I think I do that but go ahead
oh yeah no nothing you don't do it I'm
you know but basically what I wanted to
Coen about is something that's been
bugging me
basically I don't think it's reasonable
to say that there is a feasible path to
justice through the mechanism of our
liberal democracy and that's basically
my thesis and then I have several like
you know points that I can use to back
that up okay let's hear so basically
yeah yeah so you were just talking about
how the judicial wing of our government
is not going to be within the reach of
liberal much less leftist goals or aims
for the next
20 years probably I mean I think that's
and any well I I mean I think that's I
think there's a I think there's a very
strong case that you're correct in that
yes yeah metafiles you know they might
just get caught and have to say right
right well you know God willing right um
but but so that brings us to so you know
that's that's one third of the
government that we can't use right in
order to achieve our goals I'll you know
we probably agree on those things so the
legislative branch is I mean it's
reasonable that will hold the house it's
possible the Democrats can take the
Senate correct but even even Bernie
Sanders as of yet does not oppose the
filibuster directly right right so so
it's it's less likely that those levers
of power will be open to progressive
goals and and and I would make the the
contention that if Bernie Sanders is
elected president which I believe is is
is very possible and it's something we
should aspire toward but it doesn't make
sense that or rather I would I would
postulate that the filibuster will
remain in place if and only if Bernie
Sanders is elected because the people
that he is going to be opposed to
politically are more likely going to be
Democrats than Republicans in terms of
the actual passing of legislation you
know I know yes yes okay let me so let
me stipulate this so that we can we can
move this long I think yes for the sake
of this argument the this the the court
system definitely going to be an
adversary to progressive change at the
very least for twenty years
if Bernie Sanders becomes president the
absence or the inclusion it's more
likely that the the filibuster will be
there
it's a perfect cover for Democrats who
want to fort his his agenda and and so
okay with all that stipulated make your
case yeah so um in order for there to be
any meaningful change for I would say
probably most groups in America you know
if you're looking at gender equality
wage equality racial equality any class
consciousness in order for any of those
to be meaningfully progress or achieved
it is going to require a fundamentally
different governmental system that the
one that we have can neither become nor
can it allow to become a just system for
live again so well in that system hate
frankly the world what would that system
be well I mean if you're asking me Sam
I'm a I'm a Marxist Leninist but you
know so III think that you know we're
going to disagree what that terminus
looks like but I think our goals are the
same right well here's but here's the
thing is that here's where I think where
I would disagree and I don't know if
this is well I guess it is an argument
from the left but the likelihood of
whatever that new system of government
that you're talking about coming into
existence seems to me to be smaller then
the likelihood that we can reform the
judiciary or that Bernie Sanders changes
his mind on the filibuster or that he
has the ability to go to you know to
West Virginia and convince Joe Manchin
to give in on one or two things I mean I
don't know what meaningful means to you
but like I can think even if I put
myself in the mindset of they're going
to stop Bernie on everything they can
and I'm talking about Democrats you know
even if I put myself in that mind
things like dhaka things like dhaba or
things like an expansion of where we are
in healthcare things like $15 minimum
wage things like expansion of Social
Security these are all things that I
think are are gonna happen even if they
fight Bernie on the biggest of things
that he wants to fight on and so and I
think those are meaningful I I mean I I
don't think that they're fundamental in
the way maybe that you're talking about
but I do think they're meaningful yes I
so I'm of the belief that the Democratic
Party fundamentally is the problem and I
think a lot of folks don't really I
spend a lot of time in the process of
the Democratic Party for a reason
because people don't understand how it
works and the rules aren't out there but
the reason I say that is you know in the
early 80s late 70s when the Koch
brothers started investing in state
legislators in the Republican Party
taking over judiciary taking over
you know legislators and you know taking
away our rights which we see today still
that was also same time when the
Democratic Party decided oh guess what
we're gonna become a centralized party
and we're not going to invest in States
and then it got worse and worse and
worse and so we've been losing these
battles as they've been making ground
it's why I believe like we really have
to understand how the DNC is structured
and functions because they're setting
the tone for the d-triple-c and for you
know our investment in and the message
and what kind of candidates and polls
are done it really does have this this
effect and I look at the membership of
the DNC and I'm like there are 30 bad
actors holding this all up so if you
want to have a real revolution yeah good
luck fighting the military-industrial
complex with your like with your you
know small little army how about you
take on the 30 people through ideology
and calling them out that are holding up
everything in the DNC because their
lobbyists for the weapons or any factors
and for the oil companies and they're
the ones setting the tone on everything
an insurance company hold that thought
because I want to return to that in
terms of like just sort of from the
process standpoint but okay so but just
respond to that idea that the any of the
the fundamental change that you're
talking about is more
apt to happen then the reasons that you
and and I've stipulated prevent that
change within the context of the system
we have well I will I will try to
respond to it as directly as I can but
the reason that I feel so strongly about
this what is essentially a political
shot at the moon is that we have like 20
years maybe left of society if we don't
do something about climate change you
know like we have 20 years left to do
something like there are people dying
already every day in the beleaguered and
exploited global South because we refuse
to take action and we're concerned with
things like the the petty actions of a
party and the more we fight about that
the more that we don't fix this like
okay but this is all preamble I mean get
to get to what so you believe that you
know we should swing for the fences but
I want to know like what that what the
odds are for I want to know what that
constitutes and then what the what you
think the odds are right right um III
honestly I honestly don't know what the
odds are okay that's that's that's
what's terrifying about alright well
what it would drive stitute what is it
you're talking about sorry you broke up
briefly would you mind repeating that
question what are you talking about so
you're saying that the current our
current system is not going to work what
what get into the alternative so that we
can assess whether it's actually like I
mean you know I could give you an
alternative to I have magical powers I
can control everything through my mind
and I change everything I just pick a
day and boom then everybody shows up
it's like Friday and everything changes
what what is your sense yeah well mine
is slightly less fantastic I I just
it would require an organic movement of
a workers party that would not shackle
itself to the chains of our current
political system in order to affect the
change directly and with commensurate
force to which it is opposed whether you
know the laws are different to get on
the ballot I mean the WFP
which I wouldn't say is a worker there's
an actual Workers Party has been trying
to do this for 20 years and they have
different rules and different you know
they have ballot line in New York they
don't have one in Arizona oh I think
he's using the linearised definition of
the party which is a little bit
different than what we traditionally
think of as political parties yeah well
let me ask you I've actually got my copy
of State and Revolution and references
okay what is inhibiting that now do you
think it's that people are too caught up
in the process of what's going on with
the DNC no I think that you know Society
exists in order that people don't
realize that power they have like the
media the government politics in general
all of these things seek to atomize
people and defy them of class-conscious
I agree so yeah and and and so I I don't
think that it is possible under the
current regime no I know that you said
that that's that was the premise of all
no I understand that but I'm asking you
what is the theory of change yeah I mean
like like it's I I hear what you're
saying
if yeah if there were if the workers of
the country workers of the world if the
workers of the world rose up and
overthrow the current structure things
would be different yeah if is doing a
tremendous amount of work there can I
say something here because I think we
talked about um you know revolution or
whatever you want to call revolution
like if we don't do that we're going to
continue on with the status quo that we
have right now and that's absolutely not
true
we are headed
off of a cliff that is the way that the
track is headed so whether or not a
revolution could work
the alternative is worse and I know that
but yes but I'm not even arguing that a
revolution couldn't work I'm arguing
like how do you get there
like I can tell you exactly how you get
to get rid of the filibuster you
pressure Bernie and probably just wait
until he gets into a position where he
thinks it's the safest time to actually
introduce like I don't think that's that
I don't think that's the idea of Bernie
Sanders reversing himself on on on the
filibuster let's say which is one of the
things that you cited I think is
actually yeah very high if he's in a
position where a filibuster would help
hurt him his chances versus help like I
think that's a very I I actually think
it would be political malfeasance on
some level to to voice if ously talk
about getting rid of the filibuster when
you're not in a position to gain
anything from that I'd rather wait to
see if the Democrats could take the
Senate if I but so that I can explain to
you and I can say when part of the way
that that can happen is just simply a
big push and when we talk about reform
of the judiciary I think a president
Sanders I think a president you know
Julian Castro could go to the Supreme
Court and say you know get worried
Roberts like look we're gonna push for
this we're gonna push for some type of
reform and yeah but you need to explain
to me how you get to this class
consciousness and what the opportunity
cost of the you know what I think you
would perceive is either incremental ism
or futile incrementalism is yeah can I
think well we're not asking my question
so let him know no you go you answer
because we spent a lot of time on this
I'm getting a little frustrated because
I've stipulated everything you wanted to
say under pressure you know I've
stipulated everything how do you get to
what you think needs to happen
um that's that's kind of unfortunately
that's a question that hasn't been
answered by history right I mean this is
visited in France and Germany and Russia
and burkina faso like this has all been
attempted but it's been frustrated it's
been foiled that's not a question that
has a definite answer it's not a math
equation okay but see you're not even
giving me a non definite answer and I'll
tell you what see so when I think about
what is if we have the clock ticking for
20 years
what is a greater distraction from what
needs to be done it would be what you're
positing to me
this is just my opinion if that is okay
that's great but well it may be or may
not sorry if your child is in a cage
right now if your child is in a cage
right now yeah you know the Revolution
needed to happen a month ago five months
ago a year ago having a theoretical
revolution which is exactly what it is
given that attempts have not succeeded
it is a theoretical revolution rather
than strategically I mean if you want to
talk revolution you want to talk about
we know war you have to be strategic you
have to have actual moves you have to
say okay this person is standing in the
way we need to pressure this person this
is where there has to be a commune of
trains are exactly theory a change or a
map or or you know it's it's do we have
20 years process possibly you know we're
going off a cliff it's happening right
now it's not 20 years stipulate that 20
years we can say 30 years we could say
it's 12 we can say it's 40 I mean it
doesn't matter the point is is that like
yeah if you don't even have I'm not
saying it definite like you know I'm not
asking for you know my money back if
this doesn't work I'm just asking for an
idea yeah of like just give me even
though the harebrained version is it a
massive strike is it you know workers of
the world unite okay but how this isn't
lettuce Russia this is 2009
brother land there are lots there are
lots and lots of ways for us to do this
and one of the reasons that I like being
in TSA is because they don't make you
choose right I'm not against reforms I
think all of us are for and we're all in
favor of reforms if all the reforms do
is make people's lives a little less
crappy than great if what they do is
build class consciousness or in a way
that builds our movement more and more
that's really good too that's the best
case scenario so I'm never going to be
that focused on the electoral part but
I'm happy that other people are doing it
I would love to focus more on things
like dual power right building up
independent working class institutions
they can run things in their area I'm
real into municipal ism I think that's
gonna be really important and you know
as we go into more and more crises it's
possible that the states gonna break
down and these institutions need to be
ready to step in but like the states
probably not going to wither away on its
own and I think we also need to redefine
what we mean by revolution because a lot
of people think of revolution as like
fighting in the streets or whatever
that's not gonna work that's never
worked a capitalist democracy except you
know maybe briefly in the Spanish Civil
War which was not coincidentally led by
anarchists so I'm gonna keep my
sectarianism out of it though even
though you've unmasked yourself as
techie scum but but listen but but
here's the but here's the point is that
like you know there's nothing I just
don't know I think there should be more
organizing on the ground I think both
for the aims that the Jaime's talking
about and just as sort of some type of
you know a muscle in the street in the
event that we have someone on the inside
who for whom that you know from a
legislative process or from a movement
process you know can be swayed and
pushed in certain directions and can be
backed up I mean all this is good it's
just that when you get to you know when
you say we need to go from here to there
and in between we just do
with a black box I'm sorry like you got
to come back and tell me what's in that
black box before I stop doing other
things that are actually tangible you
know and I'm saying like you know I'm
just played a clip of people occupying
offices there that I think will make a
difference at the very least it will
raise people's consciousness about the
importance of the courts and in what's
going on I mean I think I you know I'm
not I I I'm not just saying electoral
ism I'm saying organizing but but the
party the Democratic Party this is what
people I think our generation don't get
because we don't know the previous party
was a working class funded party we did
have the decentralized structure we did
push for immunization for some degree to
some degree but he's okay for a solid 20
years you know the largest funder of the
Democratic Party is still the teachers
union and that's you know you're
activated it still exists doesn't mean
that they're putting all the pressure
that they should you know as unions have
been attacked and they're not all
perfect you know at the same listen go
back to the era when the Democrats which
they used to equate to the Mafia because
of its union Association you know there
was more power locally it was different
Tammany Hall yeah was corrupt but it
also represented workers who did not
have a voice in government and that was
you know manipulating even in the
municipal eyes government so you know
these things used to it is the only
logical conclusion of a party to serve
capital I think the over emphasis on the
party is kind of a mistake in either
direction and I'll admit that I got this
from reading gildo vay which is some
real galaxy brain but what he
basically said was you know if you're
obsessed with building the party to the
exclusion of all else that's bad if
you're obsessed with not having a party
that's bad to you the council communists
he said we're going about it the wrong
way if you're doing the work the party
will take care of itself and by party he
means basically any working class
formation that arises to swell power I
mean I think I listen I appreciate the
phone call
get back to that black black box and
when you have the answer it's not the
definite one I'll take it the hard
preaching is that this is something that
we're gonna have to figure out over the
course of struggle and it's always gonna
be a harder sell than oh here's this
incremental reform that can make
people's lives better right away but I
think it's not even a sell yet though
that's wait further we go the more we're
gonna see that these kinds of
incremental reforms are necessary but
insufficient to really solve the root
causes of these problems like kids being
locked in cages and that may or may not
be the case but you can just get the
kids out of the cages I'm mental I think
that's that's what people are getting
getting confused about spending criminal
because the corporate people have had
the control but right now we're like we
talked about that 30 the so yeah you
know you have I think as probably a
clear-eyed perspective of exactly the
what the DNC can and cannot do and you
know it's strengthened its power or you
know it to the extent that it's been
overstated or understated or you you've
seen it from the outside like what when
you say there's 30 people right I would
around 30 people there's 235 members or
something like that of the DNC um and
you know there's a good chunk that are
reformers like real reformers you could
just look at the the vote between keith
Ellison and Tom Perez there are people
who've had frustrations way before
Bernie Sanders and didn't even support
Bernie Sanders with how the DNC
functions but there are a group of
people that are dancing members that are
voting that are mostly appointed by Tom
Perez or previous chairs and have been
reappointed who are literally working
for weapons dealers who are in the
business of war who are in the business
of making sure that the Democratic Party
stays in those interests and so that
they don't have climate debates you know
they're representing oil companies right
they're also they also happen to be you
know contributors on MSNBC and CNN and
writing for The New York Times they're
the ones you're seeing in the media
they're the ones that the DNC puts out
as spokespeople they're not elected in
the DNC like all the other members you
know they're not all perfect I think a
lot of DNC members still vote for
whatever the chair says to do because
there
are probably more more likely to be
party hacks right um but there are folks
union members organizers activists who
have been fighting this fight for a
really long time the problem is right
now is the DNC's not following its own
rules and you know they don't have any
budget oversight which I've complained
about right this is process stuff it's
actually not pretty it's actually not
incremental I mean what you saw with I
believe change happens in spurts
incremental is the process that happens
over time but if you don't pay attention
to process you're going to get attacked
and that's how the Koch brothers snuck
under you know our noses and completely
took over our government so how much of
an improvement were the reforms that
came through I mean well you know are
there less of those people the fact that
Perez is appointing 30 I mean I would
imagine maybe let's say 250 they have a
yeah he appoints I imagine four years
ago you would've said like the problem
is 120 people uh no I think it's always
kind of been around the same number
since you know different there was a ban
on lobbyists in the DNC when Obama was
president the but the DNC was not they
didn't have elections before for chairs
so Debbie wasserman-schultz was just
appointed and she used her executive
nobody paid attention to the rules
they'd have these big events and they
were like fundraising events and the DNC
members were used as props as dr. Zogby
says but on the come there's committees
within the DNC just like in Congress and
those committees will say it will be
like the Rules Committee and then how
funny is it that everybody on the Rules
Committee is not elected but appointed
we try to change that on the Unity
Reform Commission but we didn't have
enough votes so what can look and what
can we do all these people out you know
there is a list of DNC members in your
community find out what they do I mean I
I think this is something that's really
great for the crowd to do um I don't
think you should leave it to even
activists in the DNC because they've
just been dealing with these fights for
so long that's part of the problem is
that the DNC members are so tired the
ones that have been doing activism it's
the outside folks the Sunrise movement
folks who have signed a light it's
Bernie Sanders is platform committee
made up of folks that were in the D and
see that shined a light on and exposed
what was happening internally so you
know find out who these DNC members are
it's listed the intercept is done a lot
of work on this um I'm happy to you know
tweet responses for specific you know
questions but there are very large
lobbying groups that represent
Republicans and Democrats who are DNC
voting members memorizing they're bad
people I mean they're bad people like
really bad people and if you don't think
that hat makes a difference in where
Kamala Harris stands on certain issues
also these some of these consultants
will represent oil companies and a
presidential candidate how much will
they can they influence or how do they
influence the outcome of the primaries
well the primary prop I guess that's a
little bit different but there back when
we had super-delegates tremendously so
right on you know the climate debate for
instance was decided not to happen you
know that can influence a primary in
terms of issues so it's bank shots in
terms of like the outcome of the primary
but it creates a structure that well
people conform to and and develop
they're they're sort of a most
ideological perspective yes and so the
Democratic primary rules were set
already and part of that was through the
Unity Reform Commission we had a big
fight over Iowa and caucuses the law
says that a state has to determine
whether they want a primary or a caucus
it was not up to the Unity Reform
Commission although there was a massive
smear campaign effort to make it sound
like the Bernie people were racist and
only wanted caucuses because they
falsely accused caucuses of not being um
you know diverse enough but the problem
is is that caucuses you know they have a
lot of issues depending on the state so
we called for all these reforms Iowa
pushed for it and now the DNC is saying
the technology was not sophisticated
enough and again advised Iowa I mean I
believe they're trying to push Iowa to
become a primary state because it's it's
so influential in the elections and
usually size of populism that the
Democrats cannot control the outcome and
it really sets the tone for the
presidential primary interesting let's
go to the phone's call
from an eight-five Oh area code who's
this where he come from hey Sam
my name is Donny I'm from Florida Donny
what's on your mind um I wanted to talk
to you about our legalization of drugs I
believe in full decriminalization of
drugs but I was curious as to what do
you think like should be the line in the
sand when legalizing why do you think
cocaine should be a legal or
psychedelics or what are your opinions
on that I mean I probably I mean I
haven't spent too much time on it but I
would legalize probably psychedelics
before I would legalize cocaine I
probably would maybe decriminalize it I
mean I think I'd probably decriminalized
most drugs but I would put I would
legalize obviously marijuana and maybe
psychedelics because when you legalize
things it can also be used to the effect
that no overprescribing when you
legalize them you're putting them in
within a context of a legal framework
and you're regulating your tack saying
you're taxing and whatnot I mean I you
know I think there's a lot more there's
a lot more benefits I think to
psychedelics you know that and then you
know that ultimately will find in
marijuana then I would say cocaine Frank
oh yeah I mean I'm very passionate about
the subject I've done a lot of reporting
on it I've talked to people whose lives
have literally been saved by psychedelic
therapies for alcoholism and opioid
addiction and I think it's a crime that
these things are not more widely
available to people have you read
Michael Pollan's new book type not
appreciate the call I think he's trying
to mainstream thank you yeah was very
tempted to do an imitation of you Sam as
Michael doing an imitation I think that
we should you know psychedelics it's
good for you here is a clip from this
now this news medicare-for-all advocate
a tea bark and he is
he has ALS I believe and he's been you
know I think first came onto the scene
when he questioned Ted Cruz on the plane
in the in the lead-up to the votes on
the Affordable Care Act and he has been
as he is basically dying he has been a
tireless advocate and here he is
interviewing Kamala Harris on her
Medicare for all plan first only
Medicare for all will get everyone that
care they need under your plan millions
of people like me will still be denied
care by their for-profit insurance
company during the ten year transition
period and afterwards in addition people
will avoid getting needed care because
of high co-pays and deductibles second
only a true Medicare for All system will
drive down costs it will save us
hundreds of billions of dollars per year
in administrative and billing costs that
are the result of a for-profit insurance
system that will not happen if providers
still have to build numerous insurance
companies finally there is the political
reality the insurance industry is going
to do everything it can to block any of
these proposals including yours which
means the only way to win is with a huge
grassroots movement and from what I can
see that enthusiasm only exists for
Medicare for all so where am I wrong
under my medicare-for-all plan on day
one you can get into the system of
medicare for all and have a public plan
you don't have to do a private plan it's
your choice your plan has a ten year
transition period until it is fully
enacted spanning the course of at least
two different presidencies given what
you saw of Donald Trump's attempts to
dismantle Obamacare why do you think the
transition to a different health care
system should be so gradual giving the
Republicans many opportunities to block
it what we saw in effect and what we saw
as the end result is yes they play
politics with public health
they named the Affordable Care Act
Obamacare in an attempt to make it
unpopular but what we saw have
is that when more people get coverage
and under our plan within the first five
years the majority of Americans will be
covered as opposed to currently 30
million Americans not having coverage is
that the people speak and there's a
great amount of power and political
power and the people I mean I think
there's some truth to her answer but the
other truth is that they've done quite a
bit to sort of undermined the the
Affordable Care Act as it is I mean
aside from just you know the the
expansion of the Medicaid but even
within the context of the exchanges it's
still a the the bones are still there I
mean for better or for worse what what
do you make a bet above her response I
just I mean I don't know to say at this
point she's she's been hacked she's had
so many different opinions on Medicare
for all that it's hard for me to take
anything she says seriously I mean will
the average primary voter know that no I
I think just talking about process
people get very overwhelmed by process
and I remember 10 years ago when we were
fighting over the Affordable Care Act
how confusing it was you know you get an
insurance executive out there to give
their spin you have a you know a
medicare-for-all Advocate it will it was
extremely complicated and I think even
the debates on the debate stage were a
little complicated for the average
viewer and that's why I think Bernie
Sanders is just keeping it up Medicare
for all makes it very easy for people to
digest and part of the popularity I
think lies in that here's the Times
reporting that the share of Americans
with health insurance declined in 2018
this despite a strong economy it's the
first drop since 2009 which was at least
partly caused by efforts to weaken the
Affordable Care Act I imagine some of it
is just that people aren't as obligated
by the mandate but there was also I
would imagine so you know costs were
driven up significantly and you had
people you had companies leaving the
exchanges because they were not getting
essentially the subsidies that the not
on the patient side but on the corporate
side
from the risk pool insurance essentially
that the federal government had but that
ten-year thing it's sort of stunning
like even the most sort of
medicare-for-all skeptical people were
like wait a second what ten years that
doesn't make any sense whatsoever but I
think it was her way of sort of
contrasting with Bernie which again is
sort of I mean it is amazing how much
his plans have have dictated where
everybody else is you know something
else about about this I was talking to a
friend in California who does not have
access to health insurance right now and
she's she's complaining that it's just
extremely difficult the process of it is
very difficult and I think the same
thing here in New York I mean you know
those are two Democratic states that I
don't know how much insurance companies
lobby in New York but in California
they're pretty powerful in New Jersey of
course but they make the process so
difficult for you that I think a lot of
folks just say I you know I give up it's
that is the thing that if people I don't
understand I think it's sure like
putting any obstacles in and we'd to see
what voting right I mean there's a
report out they've closed 1,700 polling
places in areas that used to be covered
under preclearance under the Voting
Rights Act and in 2013 holder a Shelby
versus holder the Supreme Court
essentially negated the the the the
preclearance formula under Section 5 of
the Voting Rights Act and basically said
we we agree that there can be a notion
of preclearance this is this would
subject states and counties Queens I
think was one of them actually that was
subject to preclearance so it's not just
southern states that's areas that have
had in the past a record of
disenfranchising people based upon their
race or their religion I believe and the
Supreme Court said well we agree that
the concept of preclearance can exist in
other words you cannot change the voting
rules here without getting the DOJ to
sign off on it because you have a
history of doing the
things in a bad way but we don't like
the formula because it's not right to
hold these people responsible for past
racism and the House and the Senate can
can create a new formula now of course
Republicans wouldn't vote on this there
is no vote this is something that you
know we talk about I think a if you get
a Democratic president I don't care who
it is and you get a Democratic Senate
this is going to be something that will
happen immediately and one of the few
things I think we can really count on
that they're going to reinstate there
can come up with another version of
section 5 but you have 1600 almost 1,700
polling places closed in these states
that were subject to the Voting Rights
Act and the reason why they closed these
polls is because they wanna make it
harder to vote and so every time you
close the vote I mean look you see
examples of this in every endeavor even
think progress saying like you could opt
out of paying us we're just not gonna
kid the reason why you do that is
because you know like okay 30 percent of
people will opt out 60 percent of people
will opt out whatever that number is is
less than a hundred percent if you
turned off the Machine and they know
that every time they close a poll
there's probably some Republican
operative somewhere saying like if you
close a polling place in a district with
60% African American population you will
increase the likelihood of a Republican
winning in that district by 1.3 percent
I mean there's there is a formula and
that was the stuff I think you know that
we found on that hard drive with his
dead Republican operative which was you
know affected the outcome of the census
question I think the 2020 census
question on immigration it affected the
outcome of North Carolina no doubt I
have a feeling that as they dig through
this stuff it's going to affect some
other states again it's process and its
process it's all processed they just
know like we don't have to make a big
announcement
that we're suppressing the vote of black
people we can just administrative Lee
close stuff procedure process and have
real-world outcomes and it is not as
sexy it is very hard to organize people
around that it involves a lot more sort
of like detailed understanding what's
going on
and it is there's no glory I think you
could it's as to that but it is hugely
hugely important in terms of like you
know real outcomes I mean it's why
investigative reporting is also so
important we have a lot of clickbait
reporting right now but it costs a lot
of money you know when the the reporting
crisis happened ten years ago the first
to be cut worse were City reporters I'm
sorry uh legislative reporters so House
reporters and which covered process and
investigative journalists because it's
expensive let's just talk about this
what's going on in in California because
this is a big deal here is the cheers
that went up in the California Capitol
in the passing of a b5 people were
pretty excited they are working on this
is going to mean a lot for a lot of
workers because often what happens in
California doesn't just stay there but
in California they're talking about
maybe a million workers who are gonna be
affected by this the bill passed twenty
nine to eleven in the Senate in the
state Senate it will apply to app based
companies I don't know how much further
it goes beyond the at these app based
companies and it's not it's not the
people who are developing the app that
it's the people who are using the app in
these sort of like gig economy type of
situation seamless be a website I would
imagine seamless they already classified
their delivery people as as workers
anyways as opposed to contractors but I
would imagine that would apply Gavin
Newsom has said he's going to sign it
the state assembly is basically already
in
that they're gonna pass it it would go
and effect you anyway first that workers
must be designated as employees instead
of contractors if a company exerts
control over how they perform their
tasks and if their work is part of the
company's regular business so here is
and I don't know how you define regular
business is what the regulatory agency
in the state will determine maybe it's a
function of like what percentage of your
business is a function of drivers
picking people up and dropping them off
and if it's you know a hundred percent
that's definitely part of your regular
business if it's twenty-five percent
maybe it's not but here is the cheers
that went up in in the Statehouse
[Applause]
now this is an example this is not
electoral politics it's legislative
politics it's it's organizing around and
bringing pressure politicians largely
you know it is you know what percentage
of people actively organized around this
in California you know even measurable I
don't know five percent maybe I mean you
the this the amount of people that it
takes to to make these changes I think
it's far smaller than people imagine
machine is powerful yeah I'm okay it was
the number one tool use isn't shame and
and it it it works and politicians don't
want to be seen as standing in the way
of things that are important to people I
bet you Komal Harris is gonna change
your mind again it's conceivable yeah it
really is conceivable this is and
basically what happens is here is if
you're a contractor your 1099 you're not
getting paid into Social Security
theoretically I think you got to do it
yourself we get to double it up you are
not subject to minimum wage you don't
necessarily need to make a minimum wage
you do not have unemployment insurance
through the state and there may be other
protections but those are the those are
the big ones and this is going to impact
Oberon lift it's going to impact you
know it there are it's also maybe like
nail salon workers apparently we're
brought in may be I would imagine also
like maybe barbers I mean it depends on
what the relationship is with these
places maybe in nail salons I'm not a
hundred percent sure how it works but
maybe it's like we give you the nail
stuff and you come in and you're just a
contractor you work you know on you know
like you're a trainer at you know a gym
and you have some relationship with the
gym or something what about I'm
undocumented workers I mean undocumented
are still basically I don't think this
impacts them whatsoever any more or less
than
then it would now so you come in if
anything it might make it more difficult
in some instances for undocumented
workers they need to establish they have
a social security number to get into the
system well you do that for independent
contractors - theoretically right what's
that I have a social security number and
all that there was a huge New York Times
expose on those few years ago about the
workers and nails and nuttin a good
number of workers and nail salons were
living there where there was a whole
there's a whole system of recruiting
them from Southeast Asia horrifying I
would I the I think the difference we
like you know if I take your Social
Security number for a 1099 as opposed to
if I take your social security number
because I'm actually gonna pay into your
account right I think is probably the
level of scrutiny is different but I
don't know that's a good question I mean
well soon people I think we'll get more
in depth reporting on this and and find
out but this is a this is a big deal
because they're talking about it could
impact a million workers in California
and it's certainly going to impact
workers all across the country is it
it's a possibility with a million
workers that would be crazy
that's amazing no I absolutely believe
it and the way that most of these
garbage tech companies make money is not
by inventing something new in the world
it's by labor and regulatory arbitrage
getting around the rules that exist for
a normal taxi company by saying oh no
we're just a tech company so anytime
that you tell people they can't do that
is a victory for workers indeed and you
know what else worked on labor arbitrage
cotton and the building of this country
basically yep free labor is very helpful
when you're trying to start a business
apparently or a country or a country I'm
sure let's just end the clips and we'll
get into some what a couple more phone
calls and
some IMS with where we started this is
Donald Trump on 9/11 I haven't seen the
whole speech is this one he gave this
morning or something I haven't seen the
whole speech I don't know if he talked
about how brave he was when he went down
there or how many thousands of Muslims
he saw cheering out of his window I
don't know if he mentioned the fact that
on the upside on 9/11 it made his
building the tallest one in the city
like he did while there was still smoke
in the air I don't even know if the
second tower had fought with it we must
have been right after the second tower
fall fell where Donald Trump in an
interview bragged that his building was
now the biggest one in New York City I
mean the guy's a lunatic but here he is
in some ways it's his like this is why I
will be the national security adviser to
my sister we do not seek conflict but if
anyone dares to strike our land we will
respond with the full measure of
American power and the iron will of the
American spirit and that spirit is
unbreakable we had peace talks scheduled
a few days ago I called them off when I
learned that they had killed a great
American soldier from Puerto Rico and 11
other innocent people they thought they
would use this attack to show strength
but actually what they showed is
unrelenting weakness the last four days
we have hit our enemy harder than they
have ever been hit before
and that will continue
and if for any reason they come back to
our country we will go wherever they are
and use power the likes of which the
United States has never used before and
I'm not even talking about nuclear power
they will never have seen anything like
what will happen to them no enemy on
earth did this is a written speech it
actually feels like he wrote this
doesn't it like who the hell who who
even says like nuclear power like it's
not a nuclear power what power you want
to know why posad ism is making a
comeback with its fetishization of
global thermonuclear war it's stuff like
this well it's I mean he's talking
though beyond nuclear power something
that is like even the transcends new
hydrogen bombs the idea that he's using
this opportunity to provide himself
cover for screwing up this these peace
talks with the Taliban I mean the
reality is that there has been ongoing
hostilities and killings by the Taliban
and by American forces throughout this
entire eight or nine month process in
which I they've been negotiating this
stuff I mean it's a complete lie
they screwed up they screwed up they
didn't even let the Afghan government
know that it would that this was going
on that the deal had been made
they just said show up you're gonna be
here so we can take pictures with you
when we signed this with the Taliban and
the Afghan government sure shocking said
Dec oh wait master oh yeah exactly
I mean it's and and the idea that he's
using this speech as a sort of a way of
trying to salvage something is I this is
impressive stuff he clearly I think they
must have fired Bolton's speechwriter to
or whoever it is the National Security
Adviser speech it brighter but good no
enemy on earth can match the
overwhelming strength skill and might of
the American armed forces
Wow he's got a scientist developing ice
9 in a lab right now as we speak I'm
going to use superpowers
there it is calling for the defense
secretary the new one I can't keep track
of the names right now hey oh no not to
find second post Shannon oh oh I can't
even remember this guy's name you gave a
speech right after and my jaw dropped
when I heard it because it it was on the
same level but not Trump they tailor it
for Trump they're all like him now water
boat from Kashmir last week I wrote down
pertinent information about the current
situation in Kashmir the pages filled up
then I wasn't anywhere close to being
done I called in on Thursday when
Michael asked me what was going on in
Kashmir I was so overwhelmed but I had
written down I said to Michael there's
so much why don't you ask me a question
I'll mention just one aspect now people
that get arrested are gone no records
whatsoever prisons and detention camps
are overflowing to the point that they
have been moving Kashmir ease outside of
Kashmir to India for three weeks now the
biggest occupation weapon that India has
is the lack of information about Kashmir
and this black hole of information is
amplifying daily you know look I there's
there's good things that tulsi gabbard
brings to the debate if you leave here
but and and certainly we don't have a
bunch of politicians who are coming out
speaking out about what's going on in
Kashmir they don't all have a record of
of praising and supporting Modi but this
I think is is unhelpful to educate
people about what's going on in Kashmir
and and you know again fair is fair it's
not like I've heard you know many of the
other candidates I mean I know Bernie
has spoken to a little bit but I haven't
heard any of the other candidates come
out and forcefully make a case for
what's going on in Kashmir
are calling attention to it this you
know making it a little bit of like both
side ISM is I think a little problematic
play it plays clip the issue in Kashmir
what is your personal ideas to how we
deal with such a complex situation
instead of painting it as a black and
white issue yeah but first of all
recognizing that it is complex positive
I think like you know here's the
question is is the is Kashmir a complex
question of course it is it has been a
complex question for decades it has been
one of the greatest sort of national
security concerns for the entire world
the world security what's going on there
now is a fairly black-and-white question
should this type of oppression should
this type of oppression be condoned in
the form of absolutely no action by the
US government
first of all recognizing that it is
complex it is it is not as clear-cut as
this one side versus this one side I
think it's important as outsiders
looking in to understand the complex
history of Kashmir and what has happened
to people there in the past and how many
families were driven from their homes
there and fled and have not been able to
return home how the previous government
Anneli she's talking about she is not
talking about the these people in
Kashmir right now who are being sent to
India and in the overflowing camps that
are you know people are being
disappeared she is she is getting back
to the original question I mean this is
you know this is this is something that
the left would never tolerate in terms
of the question of Israel and Palestine
and certainly not this type of or
standing rock which she went to right I
mean it's just there you know there's no
candidates that we have that are
above criticism and but continued and
fled and have not been able to return
home how the previous government had
policies in place that made
homosexuality illegal
that's depressed the voices of women
that made its I met a woman a couple of
days ago who said that she as a Kashmiri
woman had no rights to own property was
it for one second incidentally if you go
back and to the summer of 2001 when
there were problems with the Afghanistan
when the Taliban was not this is one of
the reasons what people at that time
we're talking about why we should attack
Afghanistan probably even prior to 9/11
now when you arrest people wholesale and
put them in prisons you're also sort of
denying them freedom but quite who said
that she as a Kashmiri woman had no
rights to own property there in her
homeland so these these changes are
things that are happening in a sovereign
country they are very difficult their
concerns that that should be addressed
about human rights violations and civil
rights violations but overall I think
this is a situation again in a sovereign
country that must be worked out by all
sides who have a stake in their own
future there I mean I don't think
anybody's calling for military
intervention but the idea that we
wouldn't take a position on this seems
to me to be well I think there's no I
don't think that's naivete that is
driving that I think it's just on a
different side of the issue can justify
that type of stuff doe link my humble
opinion only Democratic can handle a
trump on a debate stage will be Bernie
Biden would be catastrophe by the way
from yesterday basic very basic humble
one-bedroom apartment in Houston $1000
plus Michael Moore where to invade next
perfect depiction of social democracy
Harry any high no Mickey's dad here four
years old no please
does this really your day maybe move on
I don't know what he's saying but just
move on my dad's very internet heavy
yeah he was talking about Sex in the
City
I don't know oh he's a fan of yours I
don't know what he said yeah oh if your
dad ever calls into the show your mom
this could be gnar this could be a joke
and it's it's just the the the payoff of
the joke is I now just recently realized
the whole thing's a silly construct
about saying that I'm a Miranda or a
Samantha and none of us I think it's
just a joke four years ago I would
reflexively go around saying I was a
Miranda but upon actual reflection I
decided I'm actually a Samantha and now
just recently I realized the whole thing
is a silly construct and none of us fit
neatly into any section City character I
don't know is that based on polling
constructs I have no I don't think my
dad I have a feeling my dad does not
like me but he would do this just Buju
Pakman are you going to debate any
libertarians at Politico no I am NOT
going to politican so I will not be Ben
Shapiro puberty blockers Sam I think you
should tell libertarians to eff off the
first time they start repeating
sentences and changing the premise dumb
ass for yesterday we had a libertarian
Colin and Steve Cali
hell yeah John Bolton is a free agent
now he can finally supplant Bernie
Sanders and Liz Warren and the
progressive caucus unless the Patriots
signed him first sight arista why do
people stay home in Wisconsin it's
because nobody in the choir you preached
to wanted to volunteer for Clinton why
didn't anybody want to volunteer for
Clinton she has a trash progressive
record was running on trash things did
these IMS even get through I I think
that's true I mean I think that I think
that and I would even go even a step
further they they either did not try and
create a ground game or they realize
that it would be too hard
they started using algorithms to model
stuff and they didn't find out how bad a
shape they were in until it was too late
and by too late I mean like the day they
started sending people out to get out
the vote it was definitely an algorithm
algorithm heavy campaign and the amount
of money they put into Texas for
instance and the margins were not that
small even the last you know two weeks
of the campaign I remember this story
has now come out publicly but the deputy
campaign manager for Bernie Sanders
people you know Bernie was campaigning
for Hillary if you recall in Wisconsin
in Michigan in Ohio and he was flying
commercial and people would stop him of
course he's Bernie Sanders and it was
really he was you know it's not very
time efficient to do so so they asked
could you offer one of your campaign
planes for Bernie given the fact that he
is campaigning for you Hillary Clinton
right we remind them and they said no we
can't afford it and then they pumped in
I think it was like tens of millions of
dollars into an ad campaign in Texas in
a district they knew very well in Ronnie
but Reese was the deputy campaign
manager for Bernie was from Texas she's
like I know that's not going anywhere
you can't afford this you can't afford
an office in Wisconsin you can't afford
an office in Ohio you're not gonna do as
well as you think you are in Texas and
and it's a consultant game too it's like
what we have to understand is there's
not a lot of big money there's money but
not big money and field there's a lot of
big money in media and polling and and
you know whatever new scientific model
they come up with next week I mean that
it's amazing how stuff like that comes
down to that depth of stuff hmm you
don't have lobbyists and consultants on
the DNC setting the rules of the primary
yes human brain human Brian I'll be
going to Vegas for the first time in a
couple of weeks any tips for someone
who's never gambled before yes don't
read up and probably don't gamble wizard
of odds if you really want to go deep
but what I would do if I were you is do
what I did one time down there is
there's a you can go and for like an
hour drive a piece of heavy machinery
what do you mean heavy machine like a I
did a skid what do you call it one of
those
kid trackers or whatever it is and you
could do a bulldozer I think next time
I'm gonna go down to a backhoe in
definitely have interest what's it do
they breathalyze you first before they
let you drive over back on nope you can
do whatever you want there and hell yeah
a skid steer I did a skid steer and I
think next time I'm gonna do a bulldozer
wait where is this in Vegas we're in
Vegas like you know really like it's
just there's so many empty plots that
they're building on at a point like
they're expanding the city they just
find an empty plot and like you don't
need much room you just like basically
learn to do it was more or less like a
like a big Bobcat okay if anybody so I
heads a front loader and I would go
scoop up dirt from one area drive it
across the other dump it off it was fun
to drive they really do make any fantasy
come true in that town they have it's
it's they had those and then you could
also fire off like apparently a
semi-automatic weapon while you're on I
don't know there seems to be some
combination between the two but I didn't
look into the guns I was more interested
in the I might have to go back there and
check that out
is there whiskey and bacon no none of
that
Steve sad Josh got a Meyer of New Jersey
fifth District has a primary challenger
in a rowdy cribbage please volunteer and
donate to her campaign also nate
silver's dangerous ignorant hack who
advises against impeachment because he
doesn't know how politics work i think
on ring of fire I'm going to have her on
we've been doing challengers - do you
ever think that there's any situation
where a Democrat shouldn't be primary no
I am of the ROE Khanna mentality he
primary a progressive and his State now
he says primary me I believe in
democracy it's expensive let's be like I
understand the rationale behind don't
primary good Democrats you know
definitely be strategic but are you
doing it because you want to oust a
progressive are you doing it because
you're a mechanism of an institution are
you doing it because you want to raise
your name ID and it might actually hurt
the person
maybe not the best idea but I believe in
the democratic process there's two
things that have brought me around on
primary Democrats regardless who who
they are one is that they need even in
the instances of like even if they're
good they need the pressure for certain
issue sets that they can bring back to a
Nancy Pelosi and say like you know I'm
in trouble here and I've got a vote this
way and so I can't be you need to
release me or you you know I need to
vote for this you know like I think
Nadler with impeachment I think that he
at the very least is pretending like
he's impeaching because of his primary
challenge also the second thing is a
Jana Presley let's play this clip here
you know I think it was I can never
pronounce the name Capuano cap you oh no
cap Ianno from Massachusetts was a good
Democrat a very progressive but I think
that having youth and you know some
measure of diversity and there is
younger Democrats hat tend to be more
partisan even if the politics align like
they tend to be more partisan they tend
to fight more and I think that's
important it's time in the swamp III or
it's not even the swamp because I don't
think Capuano was like corrupt I just
think that that you are shaped by the
era many people are shaped by the era in
which they sort of you know develop and
then you're stuck in that you know it's
like me with music and I think on some
level there is there's a there's
generations of Democrats who were just
raised to believe that the the the
political landscape is one way and it's
not anymore and they don't realize that
and I think IANA Presley does and one
point about that
a lot of these primaries where people of
one are their Democratic primaries and
Democratic districts it's the ones that
are I think super important where we
really need to have a progressive
economic voice is is the swing districts
and that's I
what why Nancy Pelosi in particular
saying stop primary Democrats because
you have you know the New York Democrats
who are great at raising money and and
they're now at home having to fight off
challengers because they're raising
money for the swing districts that's
sort of their machination they can't say
that publicly is not very sexy but
that's really what's happening is that
it's expensive and oh well do your job
right exactly
here's the Jana Presley on the what
committee is she in here this is the
Finance Committee and here play this
clip it means that people are alive but
not living this debt is not just choking
at our ability to build wealth or
purchasing power it is quite literally
choking people we had a hearing and
oversight and reform on trauma and and
we learned that suicides are on the rise
for many reasons
and one of those reasons is debt despair
so this is choking at the promise of our
country and quite literally we are
losing lives because of the debt that
folks are burdened by so it is a crisis
and for those across the aisle that
perhaps think that we are being dramatic
you cannot overstate a one point six
trillion in debt crushing close to 45
million borrowers you cannot describe
that as anything less than a crisis
she's talking about student debt in this
country which is and there's a lot lot
going on here it is really important for
Democrats to lay the groundwork for a
Democratic president to come in and take
some dramatic steps to alleviate this
debt from people not just in the future
but also the existing debt that exists
there and one of the things that is not
in that clip that is the case is that
there is a place in bankruptcy there is
a bankruptcy law that says that you
cannot discharge that student debt even
in bankruptcy so if I out a company and
I'm getting widgets from the guy down
the street mm-hmm and I've used those
widgets and I've actually sold my
dishwasher with those widgets in it or
whatever
I'm selling it's out the door and that
money come in and giving me some
compensation I can get protected from
what I owe that widget maker but if I've
borrowed money from the US government
making money off of me I cannot get
protection there and now under Betsy
DeVos even if I can prove that I was
defrauded by the school that they lent
the money to me to go to I can't and the
reason why that is the case that you
cannot discharge that debt is because of
the bankruptcy bill that Joe Biden was a
big champion and I think we're gonna
hear more about that tomorrow night but
in the meantime
quit your bitching Millennials and you
know the fact that you can't discharge
that applies to people who are even
older now of course they didn't have to
take as much debt because at that time
we financed public school options which
I think depressed the the rate of
acceleration of tuition etc etc and we
didn't have the advent of these
for-profit universities that to his
credit Obama had had started to crack
down and quit quite a bit on and now
that's that's done but we're out of time
no me spots it was so much fun to have
you here we can do this again and folks
Michael be here tomorrow tomorrow night
we will have coverage live coverage of
the debates we just gotta figure out
where we're gonna do it what platform
we're gonna do it on so that we do not
get basically vaporized
but until then see you tomorrow
[Music]
to get to where I want
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
I was
[Music]
No
[Music]
[Applause]
I just said where the choice is made so
the option where you don't get paid
for the road
there's
we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
