this guy this is pretty rough
I guess Emma big 'land from TYT went
down to a trump rally was this a trump
rally or before the election all this
before the election okay and this is in
Fort Myers Florida as you know both now
Andrew Gilliam and Bill Nelson have
conceded Bill Nelson picked up about two
thousand votes in the manual recount not
enough here is that Trump manga rally
this is from October 31st we just came
across this is pretty impressive tattoo
that I don't know I guess it's better
than the Sam Harris tattoo it's not on
his face will say that
[Music]
so that's Obama that's Hillary Clinton
who's that down there Osama bin Laden
that's the isola Khomeini and then the
worst enemy of the United States is on
top dungeon area on top George Soros
worst enemy
so on your back he got George Soros
Hillary Clinton Obama and the Ayatollah
as negative not positive you can see
Michael the Archangel cast as demon in
two and then you have below them the
enemies of the United States and its
constitution Jesus oh look forward to
hearing him on the new crooked media
podcast right it reminds me of I can't
member who said this but it might be
like Sartre or something like that but
talks about how the anti-semite spends
more of his time thinking about Jews
then like Jewish people do yeah like you
literally put Obama and Hillary and
George Soros on his back with the tattoo
yes absolutely
like a 70 year old man as well that's
the new tattoo death cult death cult
that's what it is it's a death cult
