so Trudy were we've been talking about
the story of your catastrophic health
event experience that lasted you know
many months in and around a hospital
after having written about health care
for years and one thing you said that I
want to you know I'm not sure that
people are aware of you said that
hospitals are very unsafe places what
why is that and what do you mean by that
well I think we've never really figured
out why some researchers keep trying to
figure it out but there are medication
errors that happen all the time
there are infections that go through
hospitals some of the inceptions come
from the devices that they put inside I
had what was called a PICC line and my
right arm and lots of people who are
very sick have these lines in them
because they make it easier to
administer medicines and draw blood and
so forth and when I realize I had one of
those I thought oh my I've written about
these these are the object of safety
campaigns in many hospitals across the
country so I knew how dangerous it was
and I kept asking people you know what
what was going on here and finally I
learned that the site where the line was
inserted had to be cleansed and
redressed every few days I think is what
I was told and then I wasn't told that
until fairly late on in my stay and then
after that when I knew what the protocol
was I could watch for it to make sure it
was done but that's just a simple thing
that families can do if they know that
that's something they need to keep on
top of for example that that dynamic in
and I've experienced this like I said
earlier in in the experience of caring
you know being with a loved one who went
through
pneumonia and sepsis and and also in the
context of of childbirth that dynamic
where we as patients or we as just sort
of lay people go in and assume that
everything that is happening in the
hospital is a medical necessity and that
there is like this broad coordination
across everybody who walks into your
room they've all talked to each other
and they all have some sophisticated
methodology of communicating and that
they're always practicing best practices
none of that seems to be true and there
is no way to communicate that to the
patients and their families unless you
are someone like yourself who's been
writing about it I was fortunate enough
to to have someone who works in the
medical profession you know sort of
coaching me from afar and had witnessed
another friend of mine go through a
series of medical issues over years but
if you don't have that level of savvy
you don't even know to question what's
going on no that's exactly right and I
think that that we've been I think what
our concern is and we've known for about
20-25 years that there were these
problems and hospitals and there have
been all kinds of panels being done on
it and in educational sessions for
reporters by different groups over the
years and so on but I think that we may
have been barking up the wrong tree here
we have all these metrics that have come
about and one of the things that I
probably contributed to this too because
I was a big proponent of how we can
measure things and put ratings up we
rated nursing homes and other health
care entities and you know tell people
that this one's the best er this one's
the best and in the end unless either
you're having a baby and confuse your
obstetrician you're not in any position
to do a whole lot of shopping in
comparison of anything once you are and
a patient at a hospital for the serious
illness
here pretty much at the mercy of
whatever they're going to do that's not
to say you or your family shouldn't be
asking a lot of questions because you
should and one of the things that we did
that was really very beneficial we
realized at one facility that there was
a pulmonologist that was assigned to me
that we didn't launch we didn't like him
and he showed up very late at night to
do his rounds and I had to go to sleep I
mean it was just a it was just not good
so my daughter and I waged the campaign
to get somebody else in there that we
really wanted and the facility listened
to us and we finally did get who we
wanted and I think that the point is
most patients don't believe that they
can fire a doctor if the doctor or the
hospital practitioner is doing something
they don't like they're very much afraid
to speak up and I think that's one of
the things that we learned from this
whole experience that you have to speak
up well let me ask you this I mean
because like you know that dynamic
you're talking about I think people even
have that with their car mechanic but
the implications of that relationship
the intimidation because I don't know
anything about the car and this person's
a mechanic so they must know something
about the car I can't question them it
that dynamic is is similar I think in
the context of being in a hospital but
here is the question because the
implications of you know someone may be
you know a mechanic saying to you you
should you need synthetic oil or you you
know you don't need synthetic oil the
implications of that are far less
significant than maybe a doctor who's
being a little bit sloppy or who you
know is not providing the care that you
want are communicating with your other
doctors or whatever it is is there from
your perspective the combination of
having written on this stuff and also
been a patient a policy prescription
right I mean if we don't have the
ability as a patient in the most dire in
really most relevant circumstances to do
informed shopping because
where a patient is there are their
policy prescriptions that will take care
of this
you know before we're in that situation
well I think one of the things I learned
early on when I started covering this
really rather rigorously sometime in the
90s I said to a person who was running a
hospital unit at the time in New York
City and I said well what do we really
do about these problems because the
shopping stuff isn't really going to get
us anywhere and he said well I guess we
could regulate the hospital's more than
we do and so you either put the onus on
the family or the consumer to do this
quote shopping which is not very useful
in these some of these situations and I
would argue in most of these situations
or you bring in the regulators and you
regulate the hospitals and you really
find out whether or not they are wearing
gloves like the hospital says they're
supposed to I mean one night I chased
away a couple of aids because it was at
the height of the flu season and they
came in and they wouldn't put on gloves
and I said you're not touching me and I
asked them to leave and I think that
it's you know the patient in that case
has to sort of be the eyes and ears here
but really somebody in authority needs
to say you know the hospital needs to be
monitoring this or they're going to get
penalized in some way because you know
not everybody can is going to have the
guts to say to this this guy who comes
in you're not going to touch me because
you don't have any gloves on and that's
just one example I don't know that
they're very strictly regulated it's
quite a an open question of what's going
on I do think in one area there is are
some policy prescriptions that we need
to work on and I didn't address this in
the piece because it was getting so long
but a whole round discharge planning and
the
options that a family has when you're
being transferred from facility to
facility as I was I mean I went to four
different places before all this was
over and my family learned that you
really don't have any control where
you're going and this whole notion that
you can choose your hospital or you can
choose your facility is crazy because in
those situations you have no choice it's
all decided for you and my daughter
found that when it was time to leave
hospital first hospital that clearly
wanted me out for whatever reason we
really never knew she tried to find a
place in Manhattan for me and couldn't
and found that she couldn't even get in
the door they wouldn't even speak to her
that all this is decided between the two
facilities that are involved and so I
think then the disclosure that's given
to people is not adequate it's it's
pretty much useless
I think the recourse that people have at
the end to object into file complaints
is pretty useless so I think there are
some policy prescriptions that can be
done and should be done around that
whole area and I know one of the things
I found when I was going to rehab
because I had to learn to walk again and
use my arms because everything had kind
of atrophied I would meet people over at
the rehab place here in New York and you
know people realize I was a writer and
they said well why don't you write a
book or something and tell us what to do
because we don't know any of this and I
thought a lot about that as I observed
them waiting for my therapist to come in
and call me she would say the people
would say we don't know what to do we
just sort of work you know I had a
stroke when I was 55 I'm 56 now we don't
know what to do I don't know what to do
and I think there's a whole lot more
that we can do on that end of it that at
least it's a start
yeah well true
it's a fascinating story I can't
encourage people to read it enough thank
you so much for your time today I really
appreciate it
