CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Thursday actually Thursday
October 10th in 2019 I'm Michael Brooks
hybrid Michael and Sam Thursday and this
is the five-time award-winning majority
report were broadcasting live steps from
the industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal
in the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Sarah
CEO Sarah a CEO policing the open road
how cars transformed American freedom
Turkey's president threatens that he
will send 3.6 million Syrian refugees
currently located in Turkey to Europe if
European countries label his country his
country's military bombardment an
occupation Turkish military operations
are much larger than expected analysts
say operation peace Spring has already
claimed multiple civilian lives
including 16 civilians 33 members of the
Syrian democratic forces were wounded
Trump meanwhile has amplified his
despicable sell out of the Kurds by
downplaying their historical role and
shockingly getting a basic piece of
history wrong
amid reports of civilian deaths Bernie
Sanders condemns Trump giving the
Turkish army permission the slaughter
Kurds in Turkey Apple removes an app
that tracked the Hong Kong police
helping protesters but I should say the
app helps protesters Apple is now
helping authorities Trump urged client
at top aid to help Giuliani client
facing DOJ charges out of Ukraine Envoy
expected to testify an impeachment probe
despite White House vow not to cooperate
congressional aides say representative
mark Pocan calls for blocking Pompeo
salary until ambassadors Sunland
testifies on Ukraine finally some
hardball and Donald Trump always on the
international front defends a diplomat's
wife involved in a car crash that killed
a British teenager it happens
activists entice ice agents to quit by
finding them new jobs brilliant piece of
activism there the Espionage Act is
again deployed against the government
official leaking to the media as the war
going back to the Bush and Obama
administration's against whistleblowers
continues in Ernests top labor leaders
say that US MCA will be defeated if a
quick vote is held and Sanders says he
misspoke about scaling back rallies
after a heart attack vows a vigorous
2020 campaign his campaign is still
profoundly real folks if you're on the
left
time to stop effing around and take it
seriously all that and much much more on
today's majority report we've got some
ads that Sam lovingly and fully crafted
to get to in a minute or two
we'll talk more about ro Java here's the
reality the reality is is that the
permission given and the removal of US
presence is facilitating a mass
slaughter conducted by a vicious Turkish
regime ro Java is not perfect it is not
a utopia but it is a dynamic left-wing
experiment and it is a group of people
that have fought enormous ly effectively
against Isis we should oppose all
imperialism's absolutely the most
empower 'fl imperialism the world today
is the us global order this is a micro
example where the greater harm is
obviously the precipitous withdrawal and
we see it happening right now
which is sort of stunning that people
can still build justifications or
fantasies about this
now obviously Lindsey Graham and other
people are shedding crocodile tears they
were never serious about safeguarding
the Kurds and it may well be that the
only option left for the Kurds in
something that should have been
supported should have been supported
years ago is some type of strategic
alliance with Assad I mean this is
geopolitics the Kurds had to rely on a
hegemon to secure their safety maybe now
they have to partner with a government
and a leader who's engaged in multiple
crimes against humanity but right now
the Turks are engaging in crimes against
humanity and destroying an experiment
which we should and must have solidarity
with again with no equivocating nonsense
and simplistic one-dimensional thinking
and you know yes it makes there's plenty
of strange bedfellows
it sure it's weird to have the same
position as a Lindsey Graham for
entirely different reasons but I think
it's weird that other people have
apparently the same position as tie up
air21 and Donald Trump for their own
different
reasons this is Donald Trump today
expressing this was yesterday rather
expressing his profound contempt for the
Kurdish people and again this is
historical the Kurds are multi-sector
victims they are the victim of internal
Imperial internal hegemonic projects
which have thwarted their autonomous
will most glaringly in Turkey but I mean
also obviously in Iraq where they were
victims of genocide all actions by the
Saddam government all across that region
and now they have generated an
autonomous space of leftist innovation
which is certainly not perfect certainly
has mistakes and bla bla bla bla bla but
we I have never made a perfection the
metric of anything let alone global
politics and they're gonna get routed
and gutted unless something
significantly changes and this is the
contempt that this disgusting grotesque
leader and the White House has for them
and everybody who's supporting this
action is showing the Kurds are fighting
for the land just so you understand
they're fighting for their land and if
somebody wrote in a very very powerful
article today they didn't help us in the
Second World War they didn't help us
with nor Normandy as an example they
mentioned names of different battles
they were there but they're there to
help us with their land and that's a
different thing in addition to that we
we have spent tremendous amounts of
money on helping the Kurds in terms of
ammunition in terms of weapons in terms
of money in terms of pay with all of
that okay so first we actually do have a
minor fact check which is not the main
point but I do want to do the minor fact
check we're okay setting aside the Kurds
traveling across Eurasian land
to volunteer for Normandy I think we can
ignore that one maybe Trump is confusing
it with other or with a British colonial
subjects like enforced soldiers from
India who fought on behalf of the
British Empire maybe that's what he has
in mind in his you know his his fizzle
brain but there actually was support for
the Kurds towards a broader global
effort against Hitler's Germany what was
that Brenton they were part of the Iraq
levies there are a quarter of the
fighting force and which eventually was
rolled into part of the British Royal
Marine Commando and they fought in
Albania Italy and Greece Wow soon at
Normandy checkmate - not Normandy
checkmate so this bloated idiot and this
bloated disgusting gets it wrong
even by the same stupid disingenuous
metrics he's using I think it's very
interesting to watch actual you know the
way Trump gets played by people with
actual savvy like it air21
this and and again you know we'll keep
spelling this out this isn't a
preventative war this isn't this is
about to happen and we should deploy
u.s. airpower or troops those situations
have led to catastrophic US actions
across the globe so-called humanitarian
intervention but just in the same way
that we need to pivot radically from a
moralistic one-dimensional airbrushing
of u.s. hegemonic actions across the
globe we can still look at and deal with
the world as it is and appreciate the
historical irony that a US troop
presence was protecting first of all a
historically repressed and genocided
group by multiple middle-eastern
governments Turkish and Arab then also
recognize that in fact and that by the
way should be sufficient that should be
efficient the same dynamic could apply
to the Kurds of northern Iraq who have
much more I would say Emirati politics
in some respects but it also then
happens to extend to the fact that they
have a dynamic and important political
innovation an experiment which is the
only recognizable left in that region
not nationalist but left and I'm on the
left so that's who I have solidarity
with I condemn this action I think it's
disgusting
I think it's horrifying I think it is
analogous not the same but it exists on
a spectrum of the Israeli occupation and
slaughters in Gaza with the Modi
regime's attacks on Kashmir with what's
happening in West Papua and and and and
this broader sort of formalization of
this type of brutality who wrote that
piece that brilliant piece that Donald
Trump wrote a man by the name of Kurtz
Lichter will Sumner summer pointed this
out
she looked or wrote a column here not
sure what the headline is but this part
is the relevant portion it's also true
that the Kurds would have fought Isis
anyway since their psycho Caliphate was
right next door let's be honest the
Kurds didn't show up for us at Normandy
or Incheon or caisson or Kandahar the
Syrian Kurds allied with us in their
homeland because we have a shared common
interest in wiping out the head lobbying
freak show that was Isis moreover not
all Kurds are not equal the PKK the
Kurdish stand Workers Party are a bunch
of commie terrorists who have been
fighting the Turks for a long time those
are no friends of ours of someone's
getting their Turkish talking points I
mean look there's actually reeled the
the SDF is definitely connected to the
PKK there's no doubt about it and has
the PKK not the SDF but a separate
operations engaged in terrorist attacks
historically in Turkey yes absolutely at
the same time do they represent a
genuine aspiration for rights in
autonomy 100% and if I
understand and think with some
complexity about a group like the IRA I
certainly can about the PKK now in
addition to that under the broader
leadership embracing the work of Murray
Bookchin so first of all their demands
and their suffering and their oppression
they're a hundred percent right about
anybody who would deny that is being
chauvinist or insincere delusional or
uninformed and now in the current
political context they have been a force
of a dynamic progressive experimentation
this is also another thing though that a
Kurdish lictor apparently has on his
record did we have this up I don't even
know who Kurt Schlichter is I mean I
know he's I mean obviously he's just
some other grotesque idiot but this is a
photo
it's from CBS News a yemeni mother
fought for seventeen months to overcome
the u.s. travel ban visit her sick
two-year-old son he died only days after
she arrived and clerks licked her in the
epitome of trumpism quote tweeted this
story with i don't care
but you know I guess my questions really
though do a lot of people is you know is
that frankly your same reaction to the
slaughter that's taking place now by
Turkey all right
there's no elegant transition so we'll
just get to it well change the mood up a
little bit
Sam's got some some paid consumer
reports folks you know that for the
better part of this program we've been
doing it for almost this iteration for
ten years my daughter would not do
anything with me she was not excited to
see me she would not talk to me my son
is like this now though my kids just
they want nothing to do with me that has
changed he can in the most unlikely way
maybe it's unlikely hunt a killer is the
murder mystery subscription box that
immerses you in an ongoing detective
experience
milah is so psyched about this it's
unbelievable
so with every delivery you sift through
a case file right full of evidence
you'll eliminate suspects till of course
you can he'd crack the case you catch
the killer hunt a killer to gets you
talking having fun together my land I
anticipate when the box is coming you
get we're doing now multiple they
basically have like think about it is
like a TV show like a six episode TV
show seasons and we're already talking
about like I don't know what we may do
this until she gets to college if you're
a detective that pervert prefers to work
solo
Hunter Killer is built so that you can
choose how you want to play with two
thousand five star reviews on Trustpilot
it's no wonder fast company named them
is one of the most innovative
entertainment companies of 2019 plus
part of the proceeds for every box goes
to the Cold Case Foundation to help you
fund a cold case investigations mile and
I have a board that is you know like a
bulletin board that we've put up in a
room has all the the evidence on there
and she calls me with theories it's fun
and its and the thing is you can play
with other people online if you want but
but she's actually doing something that
she enjoys that does not involve a
screen and that is worth a million
dollars but fortunately for you for our
listeners a hunter-killer does not cost
a million dollars and you can go to
hunter-killer dot-com slash majority for
twenty percent off your first box hurry
to take advantage of this offer embrace
your inner detective that's hunt a
killer dot-com slash majority for twenty
percent off your first box hunt a killer
calm slash majority oh I like when Sam
throws back to me Muslims it's better
when he goes back to Michael and I go
thank you Sam
alright this is an interview that Sam
just I think this recorded last week a
really good conversation policing the
open road how cars transformed American
freedom with Sarah see
a CEO we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome to the program legal
historian of criminal law and procedure
the 20th century United States teaching
at the Iowa University Iowa law school
author of open road how cars transformed
American freedom Sarah
sayo welcome to the program thank you so
much for having me it's great to be here
this is a fascinating story and it
starts with the well let's actually
start with with how you came to to
choose this topic because it's not the
implications of the the advent of the
car on our law is not you know something
that's necessarily floating around the
ether right I mean it's just full of
unintended consequences I don't think
they contemplate it beforehand and I
don't think it gets much attention after
the fact but how did you come to write
about this specific topic actually I
started from the end of my book I got
interested in it because I wanted to
look at the history of the war on drugs
the question really started forming when
I was clerking in New York City for two
federal judges and much of the criminal
docket in federal courts of New York
were drug cases I was really interested
in how the drug war shaped
our Criminal Procedure and criminal laws
and so what I started doing is and I was
really interested in the law enforcement
of the war on drugs and so if you wanted
to study law enforcement as a
constitutional matter really there is
one provision that is most directly
relevant to governing what the police
can do and that's the Fourth Amendment
because the Fourth Amendment prohibits
unreasonable searches and seizures and
most police encounters with citizens
begin with a seizure which is a stop a
police stop someone
we the fourth amendment kicks in and in
that encounter as the search can happen
as well and so the Fourth Amendment
governs that police citizen encounter
and so what I did I'm a historian so I
just started reading all Fourth
Amendment cases from the very beginning
us tree and what I found when I pulled
up all these Fourth Amendment cases in
West law wasn't really surprising to me
I can go on well I mean I guess let's
yeah tell us what was surprising about
these Fourth Amendment cases and then
you know then I think we can circle back
and talk about why there was a need for
the development of this law you know in
the era as cars were being introduced in
a mass way but what were those Fourth
Amendment cases that were were so
interesting well so there's two things
that really stuck out to me one was that
Fourth Amendment cases were really rare
until the 1920s some years some decades
there were one or zero Fourth Amendment
cases in state or federal courts they
started popping up a bit more in the
late 19th century but there was an
explosion of Fourth Amendment cases in
the 1920s which goes to the topic of my
book it coincided with a mass production
of cars and when I was reading these
cases from the 1920s on so many Fourth
Amendment cases had to do with car stops
and searches and so from the very
beginning I realized that this really is
a story the story of the Fourth
Amendment
it's a 20th century history first of all
because they were pretty rare before
them and second of all it's a story
about cars policing cars it's
fascinating and let me and before we get
into sort of the the sort of the what
the implications of the of the of the
the introduction of the car in such a
widespread way impacted our society in
policing what why what why what really
give me a sense of like what the Fourth
Amendment cases were before it started
to involve a car I mean obviously you
know it's the Fourth Amendment it
obviously was on the minds of folks when
they're drying up the Constitution what
was the what was the original
construction or I guess impetus behind
the Fourth Amendment and why was it so
underutilized
I guess urn why was there less of a need
for it in let's say the 19th century
sure so I think you're asking two
questions one was what was an original
need for the Fourth Amendment why did
the founding fathers include the Fourth
Amendment as one of the amendments to
the bill arrives I think that's mine of
your first questions right and the
second question is about what were some
of the cases the few cases that did
arise what were they about that's kind
of the second question okay so starting
with the original purpose for why'd the
founding fathers included it so they
went back to the experience during that
led up to the American Revolution we
we've all studied about how American
colonists protested taxation without
representation right England imposed
taxes on the American colonists they
didn't want to pay and so a lot of them
didn't pay their taxes and so what
Parliament did was they passed these
general laws they basically passed a law
that allowed agents of the King to stop
and search anyone anywhere any place
these were and they were called general
warrants
I gave agents and law enforcement agents
to search for tax evasion basically and
so in the tax evasion just to be clear I
mean my understanding is the tax evasion
was a function of basically goods that
we would you know that would be that
from the Kings perspective were smuggled
so if you had certain goods on you that
had not you had not paid tax on maybe
didn't have the stamp or the the wax or
whatever it was that indicated that you
had already that you would pay taxes on
these they were contraband exactly
exactly and so what the Fourth Amendment
requires a specific warrant but it
doesn't take away law enforcement
ability to search and to seize what the
Fourth Amendment says is if the
government wants to search and seize
they need to have a specific warrant
specifying who they're going to feed or
arrest what they're going to search and
where they're going to search so no more
general warrants that are enacted by law
law enforcement have to go to a judge to
get out of the Pacific warrant the idea
being that you need to be aware that
there's been a specific you know a case
of smuggling or / tax evasion however
you want to call it as opposed to I'm
going to search every home and person
and just fishing up expedition at any
and all times exactly what what the
founding fathers wanted to prepare were
general exploratory fishing expeditions
but and so what another requirement of
the Fourth Amendment specifies is that
to get a warrant to get a specific
warrant the law enforcement needs to
make out a probable cause right there's
there's a reason why they want to look
at certain places or to make an arrest
they have to articulate probable cause
in front of a neutral magistrate so that
was a protection to prohibit general
warrants from being enacted the original
purpose go ahead well and then I guess I
mean the the so the absence of needing
the Fourth Amendment after you know the
the idea of we don't have an outside
force I mean what did what does they I
guess the lack of an invocation of the
Fourth Amendment during the 19th century
tell us about the dynamic of policing
sure so there's two things one is so the
Fourth Amendment applies only to the
federal
permit before the 20th century the
federal federal government didn't really
have a police force the general police
force they had a really small state with
very few law enforcement agents that
really focused on discrete federal
crimes and there weren't a lot of
federal crimes most of the crimes were
tax evasion types of crimes treasury
crimes so you know before the FBI which
is the main law enforcement agency today
the FBI was founded and I believe 1908
before then most of the law enforcement
agents in the federal government were
part of the Treasury Department and so
the the the opportunities for a federal
law enforcement agents to need to
investigate crimes and it was just not a
common occurrence before the 20th
century so you don't really have the 20
you don't really have the Fourth
Amendment coming into play all that
often so that's the federal government
story my Picasa looks bad what's going
on in the state courts as well right
because there are local police
departments or local law enforcement
agencies at the local and state level
and all states have their version of the
Fourth Amendment in their state
constitution and so the question is why
don't we see more Fourth Amendment cases
at the state level until the 20th
century there's different reasons for
that even at the local level there
weren't a really big law enforcement
presence there were sheriffs and
constables some of the big cities by the
mid 19th century did establish police
forces but they weren't as heavily
staffed as one might expect and that's
because much of criminal investigation
prosecution enforcement was done
privately and what I mean by that is it
was often private citizens and private
businesses who investigated and
prosecuted crime against the people who
committed crimes against them
it wasn't a public police department or
public prosecutor and so the Fourth
Amendment really doesn't come into play
that in those cases in either so the
development of modern police forces
which happens in the 20th century leads
to more Fourth Amendment issues before
then it didn't really come up well and
that's and that leads us to this sordid
story of the development of the cars and
I mean just give us a sense I I couldn't
help but think when I was reading about
the development of sort of the
widespread adoption I guess we should
say of of cars in society that one of
the the major sticking points in the
libertarian primary presidential primary
debates was the the argument that we
shouldn't have driver's licenses and
certainly the introduction of cars in
the early 1900's I can't remember the
statistic on my table ahead but the
number of like deaths and pedestrian
death I mean give us a sense of what was
going on with cars as they were widely
adopted right so one thing to point out
is that the mass production and also the
mass adoption of car cuts and really
quickly I think the tipping point in
terms of a majority of American families
who owned a car you know getting past
the 50% tipping point was happened
sometime in the mid 1920s so the the
infiltration of cars in American society
happened really quickly and cities and
towns throughout the country were not
prepared for the influx of cars on their
streets and highways so that's the one
thing that and so what that led to was
this mass chaos in terms of traffic jams
in terms of just all of the cars on the
streets but also like you mentioned
traffic accidents and the fatalities
rate was it was declared a national
crisis by the Secretary of Commerce at
the time Herbert Hoover
there was one statistic that
that from 1913 to 1930 the death rate by
car accidents increased I want to say
four hundred percent or something like
that whereas death by all other types of
ex accidents decreased forty percent and
so the the traffic accidents from cars
made front-page news on the New York
Times in newspapers throughout the
country it was a really big deal and
immediately Thomson City started
regulating the operation of Motor
Vehicles including a Garmin essences so
so we have this we we adopt basically
regulations and laws on how to drive and
and what constitutes traffic violations
for the safety of individuals but we
have no mechanism at that point to
enforce it and everybody violated
traffic laws and huge process and so so
at that point what is it just like a ton
of Help Wanted sign and you know signs
like we need more cops I mean like what
happens at that point because this is
the first I mean basically the
introduction of technology and then some
level like this is like the story of
society's right I mean the introduction
of this technology creates a whole
almost entire new universe of potential
like you know obviously a lot of
positives but obviously a lot of
potential negatives that the the only
the state is able to step in and in
anyway you know make it function in a
way that you know there has to be some
type of I guess for lack of a better
term monopoly of force here but there
was literally no force no force to I
guess execute that monopoly of force
right so one of the main arguments that
I make in the first half of my book is
to show how American society as a whole
did its very method of governing society
because of cars we went from a
nineteenth-century
voluntary Association self-governance
types of organizations that govern
society to what I call twentieth-century
police law enforcement of the mode of
governance so the problem of how to get
people to obey traffic laws right how
did how did American society get people
to obey laws in the nineteenth century
it wasn't through police ma enforcement
it was through voluntary associations
like churches trade unions common law
courts people suit each other and you
know for trespass or contract violations
or things like that those were the types
of needs used to make people obey norms
of society and as in the first decade
and two or so of the automobile American
society tried those nineteenth-century
forms of government to get people to
obey traffic laws they had associations
like you know kept like the California
development Association the automobile
and the National Automobile Association
the traffic officials associated all
these different associations try to get
together to try to convince people to
obey laws people volunteered to direct
traffic
they had people there was a safety
pledge drive in California they try they
try to get people to find a safety
pledge pledging their honor that they
would obey traffic laws they there was
one county in California that put up a
billboard saying our speed limit is 30
miles per hour beyond your honor obey us
so we don't need to hire more traffic
cop and then so these they're there the
whole premise of these voluntary
associations is that your bad citizens
are a part of a community and part of
the local organization and you could
appeal to their reasonableness or their
honor to follow the rules and they tried
that it didn't work
and so the bouncing cities had to hire
more traffic hubs and what they were
realizing was that all the fines that
they could generate from traffic
violations would pay for more traffic
officers and so that's how these modern
ir deduce modern-day people departments
grew it was through it was through
traffic law enforcement so and and and
then I mean this is fascinating cuz we
they start as almost like these like you
know I guess traffic cops and it becomes
you right the first time that the law
abiding for lack of a better term right
like this sort of the average citizen
who is not causing enough of a problem
that other people say hey this guy's
causing a problem have begin to have
interactions with police on a regular
basis
exactly it's actually mob biting citizen
is not for lack of a better word it's
the phrasing they use themselves this is
the nineties throughout the twentieth
century what do we do with these
law-abiding citizens who violate traffic
laws so it's that's that's a term that
they use themselves and and one of the
main arguments of my book is you know no
it was surprising to find that the
development of modern police who began
because of the need to discipline the
respectable ordinary law-abiding
citizens
it wasn't because of the need to
discipline the poor or the foreigners or
immigrants of the population that we
focus on today in today's literature
about the the vulnerable population
subject to policing as the the story the
history of policing of modern policing
begins with the small abiding citizen
ring
that's fascinating and and then what
what turns is essentially starts with
Carol vu s right I mean this is where at
some level like this is the is this the
original sin is it I mean I don't know
maybe it's not even a sin but this is
this is where the dynamic changes where
essentially the court can't come up with
a better way of doing this then
basically allowing police discretion
exactly it's Carroll versus the United
States was decided by the US Supreme
Court in 1925 and then what the US
Supreme Court's first car case it
actually came up before the US Supreme
Court in 1923 but the issue was so hard
that they asked for another year they
asked from the parties to argue the case
again the next year and they decided in
1925 and the reason why the issue was so
hard but because it's the juxtaposition
of these two car stories one about cars
and freedom it democratizes democratized
transportation to large numbers of the
population it was you know the early
adopters of cars were from the
law-abiding class so you have that story
about cars and freedom and it depended
from all of that and then you also have
cars and not just the need for policing
for traffic law regulation and
enforcement but you also have cars that
really transforms the commission of
crime the 1920s which is when the mass
adoption of causes really gaining speed
90 2001 national prohibition is becoming
import or is enforced becomes the law of
the land and microfiber mode of
transporting their their liquor was the
car right they could the cars basically
one way to think about it as a humongous
movable container that can conceal
liquor or other contraband and it's easy
to move move boxes of liquor inside a
car and so you have
law enforcement trying to enforce those
laws as well and so on the other hand
you want to be able to the court wants
to want it to be able to allow law
enforcement to go after bootleggers
gangsters and all that so then there's
these two two different stories about
the cars - tensions that the court was
trying to grapple with and they had a
really hard time grappling with it in
and that's the idea that one is like
your property it can't be searched and
the other is that there's it can't be
searched without a warrant
I guess and the other the mobility is
such that you can't it's tough to get a
warrant because you go to court they
drive off and deliver their liquor and
and so the police are now armed with a
with a certain discretion and it's like
the courts trying to split that
difference between the I guess the
British agents who would come by and
just do a total fishing expedition and
the idea that you know that that people
could just drive off exactly so what the
Court did in the Carroll case was to say
you know we're going to create a warrant
exception for cars right just like you
said cars are private property and so
they are protected by the Fourth
Amendment which requires a specific
warrant but because of because of the
specific and you know difficulties about
cars they're going to get rid of that
warrant requirement and the requirement
is that the officer be able to
articulate probable cause if an officer
believe that he or she has probable
cause that there's evidence of a crime
inside the car they can stop and search
the car without a warrant and what was a
huge thing that that decision does is
that it transfers the decision of
whether there is probable cause from a
neutral judge over to an officer and not
just you know and
that's a huge shift for one thing but
also an officer on the road can decide
at that moment whether to stop and
search a car and so it
I argue this is the first time that that
the court constitutionally recognizes
the legitimacy of police discretionary
powers and I mean it's interesting it
just occurs to me that like you know
that that the sort of the solitude that
I guess a police officer would do this
in right I mean this is you know we're
talking about on the road it's not like
there's a high amount of density
necessarily right where this is
happening or is it I mean like the the
freedom that an officer has at that
point seems to be pretty pretty wide
berth I mean the freedom to decide yeah
like that yeah so the potential for
abuse gets pointed out right after
Carol's decided one commentator points
out you know an officer in the officer
doesn't have to be 100% right that
there's evidence of a premise I'd the
car right the standard is just probable
cause which allows room for an officer
to be wrong about the fact that there
might be evidence of a crime in the car
and so given that wiggle room an officer
could fudge the probable cause
determination right he could have a mere
hint hunch
rather than probable cause right and if
if that decision gets challenged later
in court one of the commentators said
right after the Carroll decision came
out there's something called judicial
charity where judges will be charitable
towards the officers determination
probable cause especially if they're
right if they turned out to be right
that there was evidence of crime in a
car so right after Carroll of the
commentators are criticizing the
decision for giving too much power
putting
too much power into the hands of police
officers on the road and this thing gets
picked up again it gets picked up in
1949 in another Supreme Court case in a
discernment by Justice Jackson and he
outlines is pretty poignant Lee he says
you know when an officer decides to stop
a citizen on the side of the road it's
done in haste
right a lot of these traffic stops you
know take place over a few minutes
there's nobody to oversee the whole
process and so the citizen is pulled
over camp I'm asked for a neutral
magistrate judge to make sure that
everything's kosher and and was just an
innocent person who stopped and the
police let that person go and then the
privacy privacy violations already
happened and the innocent person can't
challenge that police action because
there's no evidence of crime to
challenge and so innocent people have to
experience potentially unconstitutional
unconstitutional searches and seizures
without ever having a court of law
review that and if you're guilty and
there is evidence of a crime there's you
know what the commentator said in the
1920 additional charity and so a court
is likely to see what the police said
that's reasonable because the you know
the police was right they there was
evidence of the crime and then and
suggest Jackson was worried about how
the way that the Carroll decision played
out in practice would erode Fourth
Amendment rights over the Fourth
Amendment rights in cars and and and the
problem then becomes like there's really
two scenarios where that erosion becomes
really problematic I mean broadly and
that is one you either get a bunch of
police who are you know who become
obsessed with their power and decide to
do this to everybody across the board or
it becomes a mechanism in which to to I
guess
act upon racial bias that you have
that ends up being the it that ends up
being the problem right and we see that
play out in the history of policing cars
and the there's there's two stories that
are little several stories that are
coming together at this point that one
is you know the criminal laws get
developed over the 20th century we had
prohibition that lasted for a little
over a decade and then after that we had
various drug laws which turned
increasingly punitive after the 1970s
and so a to enforce those laws a lot of
it which happened in the context of cars
officers need probable cause and it's
becoming increasingly easier to meet
that standard of probable cause but in a
way officers don't even need to
particularly probable cause that there's
evidence of a crime because and this is
the early history picking back up again
there's all these traffic laws that
everybody's violating and so the police
can basically pull over anybody for a
traffic violation and in the nineteen
fifty in the 1950s you see stories or
there are stories in the n-double-a-cp
archives of the police using minor
traffic violations to harass and abuse
and double acp lawyers and activists
and when one famous story is how
Thurgood Marshall was pulled over for
protection stop right I'm Mr Luther King
was pulled over for a speeding ticket
and and there's all these stories in the
n-double-a-cp archives of people who
park right outside n-double-a-cp are in
double acp offices who are ticketed for
a minor traffic violation and so there's
there these stories about the stories of
traffic law enforcement and criminal law
enforcement are coming together pretty
early in the 20th century and so does
this I mean it it feels like the
this slippery slope I guess which was a
slippery slope I mean on some level that
the only thing that in some way seemed
to at least plateau it I guess was
really in many respects the advent of
cell phones and and perhaps you know it
seems like the case law has actually
probably continued down that slope a
little bit in terms of allowing police
these powers not the least of which is
is their ability to confiscate goods if
they suspect you involved in drugs in
some instances almost like a like like
like a pre punishment but there's also
it seems to me to be the problem that
this dynamic this principle in terms of
giving the police discretion cross is
outside of traffic and cars into just
policing more generally like when you
start to get like stop and frisk and
stuff like that is is that is that part
of the story it is and I talked about
some of the the new data privacy cases
in my Ethel log because I do see old
themes about the car popping up in these
new cases about smartphones and data
privacy of an interesting way and so for
example one of the themes of these
Fourth Amendment cases of the 20th
century about policing cars one of the
common themes is everyman or the law
abiding citizen right if the courts
allow the police to do this then that
means the court of M that means that the
police can also harass the everyman or
the law-abiding citizen and this was a
theme that was made by Carroll in 1925
his lawyer argued you know if you allow
the police to do this who else is going
to be harassed the rule postman the
milkman there you know that every man in
1949 justice Jackson also said we have
to treat the search of this bootlegger
as a search of every man and so there's
this because of the way that the car
democratized
mobility lurking behind these court
opinions is how house this court opinion
also been apply to everybody else and I
see that theme coming up again in the
smartphone cases where the courts
opinions point out so many other top
smartphones and the justices are
probably thinking I have one too
right and so in the one of the last
March own decisions Reilly versus
California the opinion points are like
ninety percent of Americans own a
smartphone so whatever we allow the
police to do in this case is going to
affect everybody at the best one of the
themes that that are coming up again the
other interesting theme that I see which
is kind of a deviation from the history
of policing cars is comes from one
argument that I make in my book that the
conventional story that we have been
told about the Fourth Amendment is a
story of progress and triumph where the
courts are in been in a position to
expand individual rights and protect
individuals from the police that was a
story I was told when I went to law
school and it's a story that really
focuses on the warrant court the Warren
Court was the court under the Chief
Justice Earl Warren mostly the 1960s was
the most liberal Court in US history
that that was the court that decided
brown v board of education that
eliminated or said of segregation in
public schools was unlawful or
unconstitutional and the Warren Court
was also the courts that started the due
process revolution my recall our
revolution because the court basically
started applying the US Constitution
which only applies to the federal
government they started applying it to
local police officers and so the US
Supreme Court started policing the
police it was a huge revolution and it's
a story of triumph basically that was a
story that I've had for
in law school and what I realized when I
went when I read all those cases those
landmark cases that we celebrate for
protecting individual rights all of
those cases don't have anything to do
with policing cars they're all about
protecting the home or the house which
is the most protected space in
constitutional law and when I started
looking at all the other Fourth
Amendment cases that even the Warren
Court decided about policing cars it's
the car cases where the court actually
expanded the police's discretionary
power so it's that I add my book kind of
revises a little bit the standard story
about what the Court did in terms of
developing the Fourth Amendment in the
twentieth century so I go into all of
this to say how the smartphone
jurisprudence is deviating from the
history of policing cars what the court
said in the last one of the last
smartphone cases is to say smartphones
is actually not like you know not my
car's usually anything that you could
put into a car is considered part of a
car search like if you you know have a
purse inside your car that can be
searched as part of the car search if
the one would think that a smartphone in
your car could be smart it could be
searched as you know it's found inside
the car but instead what the court said
was you know a smartphone is more like
your house because it contains books it
contain more bullets than a smart smart
phone has more books than when many
people have in their homes
it contains medical records but you
might well you might keep safeguard in
your home it has you know conversations
with friends in text but in
conversations that can happen in the
home so what the court did to take smart
are not like cars it's more like houses
and therefore we're going to require a
warrant if the police want to search
your smartphone and so that in that
metaphor of is it more like a car or is
it more like a House bill shape how the
court decides whether the Fourth
Amendment is going to apply to different
and new
technology fascinating the the book is
policing the open road how cars
transformed American freedom Sarah say
oh thank you so much for your time today
we'll put a link to the book on majority
dot F M thank you so much this was a
great pleasure to talk with you thank
you thank you Sarah I thought I did well
- are you familiar with the bee catch a
killer box great fun for you and your
family and most importantly you were
talking about screens no screens
traditional fun board game it's a board
game
all right folks we're gonna go to the
fun half where we will do we do play
sound give you some stories gonna give
you an update on what's going on in
Ecuador and some context around the
uprising there a obvious point but worth
making
how much romance and focus on the Hong
Kong protests in the u.s. protest in the
u.s. press and basically nuns are very
little in the Ecuadorian protests and
certainly not what it is covered covered
as a question of basic urgency for the
democratic and economic rights of as an
example the indigenous people of Ecuador
look up Chomsky alright so we'll do all
of that in the fun half become a member
of the majority report today a majority
dot F M slash become a member that's how
this whole thing happens your support is
vitally needed for all enterprises
solidarity with our friends at splinter
terrible news
and the real reminder about the
importance of independent media and your
role in it check out just coffee co-op
Feherty a fair trade tea coffee or a
chocolate on tuesdays michael brooks
show we had a really interesting debate
with sagar and jetty about china and the
difference between nationalism and
democratic socialism as a framework for
understanding the world heidi Sloane
DSA candidate in Texas is 25th we talked
about ending homelessness farming
medicare for all and I gave an intro to
the idea of hegemony Gramsci and what
that actually means for real political
work in the 21st century plus Ecuador
and a whole bunch else we really cover a
huge amount of ground next week instead
of Tuesday because there's going to be a
presidential debate we're gonna have a
Wednesday show and that will be pretty
heavy on the recap crystal ball is gonna
call in regular on our show from rising
we're gonna talk about it and then Ryan
Grimm is gonna join us in studio
patreon.com slash T MBA okay he of Jesse
Watters nightmares he of Jesse Watters
thank you we will probably spend 30
minutes recounting him stepping to the
extremely unfunny Jesse Watters and also
this weekend for patrons patreon.com
slash T MVS a primer and illicit history
of Narenda Modi and the Indian
authoritarian moment how it sells itself
globally Michael Brooks show on YouTube
also guys we're gonna bout to be a month
out from the Philadelphia live show and
that is usually for whatever reason
forty mb/s live shows there's a huge
spike out of the gate then there's like
a steady slow pace of like a couple a
day and then a lot of people seem to
like to wait to the last couple of weeks
and sometimes that actually does mean
like you know it's a tricky situation if
you come to the
door as an example so I would go click
on the link we have on the majority out
if I'm homepage and get your tickets the
World Cafe November 23rd Michael Brooks
show live Matt talk to us uh yeah folks
check out literary hangover all the
episodes are up on YouTube so subscribe
to that if you prefer that as your
medium how many subs you have on YouTube
now I think close to 3,000 slowly up
there means just the audio thing I am
going to do some I'm skeptical of twitch
I do want to get to twitch but I also
might do some streaming let's play style
oh my literary hangover YouTube page so
go check that out
subscribe awesome see you guys in the
fun half alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
this alpha males and the alpha males are
back back just
alpha males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are back back
back just want to degrade the white man
alpha males are back back I call a big
backlog alpha males are back back back
almost has one
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total can we bring back DJ
Tanner yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ dance well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough with a
break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are like
Oh almost says what what watch watch
watch watch watch
on the back
on the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
alpha males
about their doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadist keeping it 100 birthday
to meet you boy
expand tinfoil the alpha males are alpha
males
companies to pay the price requests we
around here I am a total
hey folks reminder this episode is
brought to you by blinking
the blink estab takes the key takeaways
from thousands of best-selling
non-fiction books and condenses them
down into just 15 minutes for you to
read or listen to 10 million people are
using blinking
right now has a massive and growing
library from self-help and business to
health and history books check it out
right now you as a majority report
listener can get twenty five percent off
your first year at blink estate blink
accom slash majority blink east comm
slash majority
hey folks just a reminder the show
sponsored by hunt to killer hunter
killer is the murder mystery
subscription box that immerses you in an
ongoing detective experience with every
delivery you're gonna sift through an
elaborate case file and evidence you'll
eliminate suspects until you crack the
case and catch the killer right now just
for our listeners you can go to hunt a
killer dot-com slash majority for 20%
off your first box hurry take advantage
of to offer embrace your inner detective
hunt a killer dot-com / majority for 20%
off your first box that's hunt a killer
dot-com / majority the fun half Michael
Brooks here who we somehow need to trick
Sam into reading an ad for the fish oil
supplement that that Gorka promotes
alright let's see and what it does is it
helps my back you're calling from a 308
area code who are you where you calling
from 308 who are you where you're
calling from
hey it's Kowalski from Nebraska Kowalski
from Nebraska how are you doing man oh
kind of under the weather not to mention
it's blowing 30 miles outside and it's
gotta be like 20 with the windchill
Jesus winter has come not good no but I
just wanted to call in and say I really
did appreciate TM vs last week you guys
mentioned the plight of farmers it's
pretty nice to hear people I said its
area talking about it so oh of course
absolutely it was pretty much Oh Oh
appreciate it you know believe it or not
like I grew up in a part of
Massachusetts where there are farmers
it's kind of funny like most parts of
the country have farmers you don't need
to really go like
could drive a couple hours at me well to
be kind of fair Nebraska is you know
larger as a bigger deal oh yes for sure
yeah and all of New England
sure larger in landmass not character
certainly not people yes
hey whoa whoa whoa fired
all right Kowalski rest up drink some
tea drink some maybe a little bit of
whiskey knock it out of your system
thanks for the call man appreciate it
and I definitely will be doing more that
kind of coverage god bless Lua god bless
Loula there we go I wouldn't see people
always he Michaels doing teaching at
college
Oh I thought when they're good I want to
just make a slight not apology but I
mean I didn't illustrate it but there's
a photo of the letter that all of us I
believe it's a play on queer I oh I've
seen this folks we were doing a I said
that I think everybody should get a
queer eye style makeover and to help
with alienation under our late
capitalist society right well that's
good but I'm holding the Lula photo and
not Michael I noticed that and it's a
great piece and it's so funny I'm like
truly confused I was so confused that I
was wondering if it wasn't Lula because
the artwork is so detailed that there's
an adidas stripe on my tux so this guy
seems like he's pretty informed about
the show but then Brendon I mean look
but I think Brendan loves Lula to know
for sure but I don't know if he'd be the
one to hold the photo I was wrong by
that about it but it was a great
illustration it was a great illustration
and and and it was a tremendous point I
want that gamer had to
all right let's play some sounds
this is Donald Trump echoing basically
what Turkey is threatening Turkey is
saying if you even use the rhetoric of
occupation which this 1,000% is if you
as the Europeans you use this rhetoric
we will open up we will basically turn
over three million Syrian refugees into
Europe now the story behind this is this
is a partnership of the Europeans cut a
deal with Turkey to absorb about 3.6
million Syrian refugees fleeing the
Syrian civil war now in Turkey number
one they're living in mostly very bad
conditions and their it but they've also
you know as communities do they've
proliferated across Turkey and Istanbul
and so on so there's a political
volatility to it and there is a rising
xenophobic sentiment toward Syrians in
Turkey as well this is a very classical
European move right like let's instigate
something have an incoherent but hawkish
policy then sort of diss curse
humanitarian concerns and then hopefully
outsource the problem somewhere else now
the migration situation overall in
Europe is different and in some ways
more complicated I think that would be
foolish to not acknowledge that however
there's a whole set of deals like this
and even if you look at the work with
Omar al-bashir the former Sudanese
leader who was one and internationally
for war crimes goes from being a pariah
of the sort of do-gooder international
community and rightfully so to somebody
that is being worked with closely to
terrorize African migrants and keep
migration flows from moving from Africa
through the Mediterranean
so air Dhawan is basically saying if you
even use rhetoric I don't like about the
slaughter that I'm commencing in in
northern Syria in the Kurdish areas and
again there's nothing I mean it's
happening right in front of your face
and in 2018 the same thing happened in
Efrain except it was the Russians that
sold out the Kurds instead of the
Americans now freeing the Kurds gave up
on more quickly because it was more
geographically isolated and they chose
to withdraw but they went in they
slaughtered civilians they brought
people out of their homes and the idea
was frankly to re-engineer the
population so it wasn't a
kurdish-dominated city and they cut a
deal with the Russians who had been
partnering with the Kurds in that area
the Russians sold the Kurds out and now
Donald Trump and the Americans sell the
Kurds out this is Donald Trump echoing
in his own way some of the same talking
points that air21 has except this is
with specifically with regards to Isis
captives Steve Isis fighters escape and
pose a threat elsewhere well they're
gonna be escaping to Europe that's where
they want to go they want to go back to
their homes but Europe didn't want them
from us we could have given it to them
they could have had trials they could
have done whatever they wanted but as
usual it's not reciprocal you know my
favorite word reciprocal that's all I
want I don't want an edge I just want
reciprocal and it's not reciprocal Steve
it's not a fair deal for the United
States and when President Obama took the
PK key you know what they when they
bring in PKK that's a tough deal because
that's been a mortal enemy of Turkey so
when you bring them in into a
partnership it's a tough situation
because it's tough for Turkey it's
probably tough for them that they
they've hated each other for many many
years for hundreds of years I mean it's
an amazing when you look at history and
you look at culture but you look at the
length of the time and the fighting for
so long
it's always clear this morons
Pataki on the phone with ya in that
thing about they've been fighting these
battles for millennium that is vintage
Iraq war like minimize the Iraq war
that's it well that's also that's the oh
man israeli-palestinian conflict
it's just intractable it's nobody's
fault the show there's just history
they're just living in history man oh
the Israelis just bombed the UN school I
mean no that's been going on going on
for two I remember yeah 2000 years ago
the Muslims bombed at UN school so you
know look again let's just do a little
bit of primer the Kurds are systemically
oppressed in Turkey they have been
historically in fact there was actually
some real reforms with both negotiating
with the PKK and introducing some basic
cultural autonomy and rights for the
Kurds in the first air DeWanna
administration's that abruptly started
to shift in 2015 because of another
piece of the story here the HDP which is
a social democratic party which
advocates not only for kurdish rights
but also really for social democracy and
labor and feminism and ecology in turkey
they performed very well in elections
since them they're their leaders have
been made political prisoners by the
air21 regime and they've been
criminalized as a party and there is no
meaningful opposition to this because
the other you know the traditional
Turkish parties everyone is not a
traditional Turkish leader he came from
the emergent Muslim wing which was
violently opposed by the ter the Turkish
secular Ataturk tradition but the
Ataturk tradition does not has has even
more deplorable policies towards the
Kurds in fact it was reported today that
every single former living Prime
Minister has called up or president wait
no prime minister everyone I believe is
the president now he had served as prime
minister that there's been some sort of
rejiggering of roles to expand his power
but former Turkish leaders have called
him
and affirm their support for these
operations there is a uniformity of
nationalism and brutality to the Kurds
and Turkish politics again has the PKK
going back in decades of struggle
engaged in what we could call terrorism
and I'll say really specifically
terrorism in my view is is a targeting
of civilian targets period and and and
we have to say that that is wrong just
as I mean we have to say that that is
wrong by the way period and that of
course implicates the United States as a
major global war criminal it certainly
implicates Israel it certainly
implicates Turkey it certainly
implicates India probably not a single
major nation-state and groups of people
resisting have an absolute right even
under international law if they're
dealing with a foreign occupier which I
guess in in the pka's case it would not
be but they certainly have a moral
legitimacy in fighting occupying armies
and engaging militarily and gorillas and
a subversion that way III have no
problem with that whatsoever and I think
if you're sitting in somewhere like the
United States and you're passing
judgment on that I think that that's you
know delusional and ridiculous targeting
specifically of civilians absolutely
needs to be condemned categorically no
matter who's doing it and the PKK has
done that at certain times however their
broader claim is correct the Kurds are
oppressed period and also the PKK and
the SDF are not precisely the same thing
there are as overlap there is shared
directional leadership from algalon by
the way is in prison so there is some
operational constraints on supposed
uniformity of this coalition here all
Jalan is in jail he is in a Turkish
prison in fact oddly enough he was
allowed to release a letter by air to
one a couple of months ago before the
mayoral elections in Istanbul but he is
not operationally in control he has let
his followers know that his Intel
actual his political ideology is shifted
radically because he read a
brooklyn-born Vermont living anarchist
named Murray Bookchin and one of the mo
and that has significantly changed the
experiment in ro Java and we can absorb
by the way I don't understand when
people you know this whole language of
perfection is crazy to me yes literally
nobody is first of all no thing is
perfect I guess like unless we're
talking about platonic forms or
something yeah okay our stuff yeah all
right
oh look at Big Shot Aristotle over here
they do yeah Plato said it was perfect
it was perfect so and you know do the
car the curd Savia PR have they made
mistakes you know you know do some
people over romanticize them obviously
but is this an enormous li positive
development in an experiment in the
overall grand scheme of Kurdish autonomy
and rights as well as political
innovation obviously I mean that's just
undeniable in terms of reality I mean
it's amazing when you look at history
that's what I'm saying
exactly so when you when you look at
history you know it's amazing a certain
sense so you know I think that it's very
important at the very least now to not
echo Turkish or Trump talking points
about what's happening well we are
literally mid slaughter now if people in
the United States who were supposedly
supportive of the Kurds in a genuine
sense and not just as partners against
Isis and people like Marco Rubio could
care less about the slaughter or the
political experiment it goes without
saying and and you know all of the
mainline Democrats and everything else
then yes as Marc Ames pointed out you
would have to look at supporting a
broader diplomatic process which almost
certainly would involve some type of
partnership with Assad again even as
Assad is a war criminal the reality of a
lot of these situations is that
agreements are going to be established
between people who have blood on their
hands that's what the former South
African president Thabo Mbeki said in
2012
at the outset he said you know the
international community comes in and
let's be real it is usually Europeans
demanding an arrest of primarily
Africans but in this case it is people
rightfully saying yes Assad is putting
down a rebellion he's committing crimes
against humanity he runs an
authoritarian regime all of these things
by the way are undeniable I I don't have
any time for uh you know trying to to
whitewash the nature of the Assad
government that's ridiculous but he also
has a serious coalition and constituency
behind and that has been endlessly
proven and some of the Opposition was
leftist and organic that was crushed and
smoked out and as well as the popular
uprising and then the classic pattern in
the CIA and the Gulf states end up
funding a huge amount of money to
far-right Muslim groups with a agenda
that certainly if you were religious
minority in Syria you'd be terrified of
and not just of Isis that's also reality
so an embeds
he was negotiating in back-channel
negotiations to end apartheid if the
international community came in and
arrested FW de Klerk and other apartheid
leaders would they be right to
definitionally if you had the apartheid
regime you're guilty of multiple crimes
against humanity but Szabo was like I
can't have them go there - oh she ating
partners this is a political process we
need to actually establish a deal here
and you know similarly in a real actual
situation that may be the only pivot
point and and you know and that was of
course would be blocked by the United
States because that's still u.s. policy
to have this regime change effort even
under trump even as that actually hasn't
even practically been the policy going
back to 2014 and 15 when all of the
military effort turned and focused on
Isis
so it's incoherent bottom line is is
that this is an act of Turkish
imperialism this is horrific on a
humanitarian level and we should have
solidarity with
the RO shava Kurtz this was pretty funny
Ellen's generous and I'm sorry I know
this is tough for Matt Matt's a big
Ellen fan so uh the great writing the
great writing on Ellen Show
controversial II and he can't defend
himself because he's not a Mike and I I
feel weird cuz I don't know Dorsey that
well but Dorsey said to me once I didn't
know about this recently until recently
but Dorsey said Ellen really proved that
the writing quality in the Writers Union
was overhyped when she fired her writers
guild writers and replaced them with
non-union writers because he said the
writing of the show is still so good
she's so funny
Doris he said that to me I was surprised
she even needed writer's a genius right
no I mean that's the thing you look at
the kind of talent that Ellen brings to
the table I mean you know what do you
need this like this is this Jordan needs
somebody else playing for him you know
that thing where you're like family with
their writing staff and then they go on
strike and you would join them for one
day and then the next day you come back
with an entirely new family Yeah right
like family exactly like a 1950's sales
guy who had another family another state
okay Ellen DeGeneres we talked about it
she had a selfie with George W Bush I
had plenty of thoughts on it I actually
unfortunately really hated that she did
this whole spiel about how we need to
build bridges with each other because I
actually there's some real truth to that
just I don't think any actual build
bridges need to be built between two
union-busting members to 1% I I think
they're already happily established even
if they have you know different policies
I mean shockingly enough I think it's
pretty clear that Ellen does not care
about you know the millions of deaths
caused by george w bush as a war
criminal but where she sees it as no
worse than wearing fur or something but
I mean she's even cool with overlooking
the fact that the guy campaigned on
writing her second-class status into the
Constitution so you
no okay I guess more power to her but
this was a brilliant remix of Ellen's
comments by a Raphael shim Univ on
Twitter and he posted this and then I
got DMC aid for copyright violation
which is sleepy s cuz this is a textbook
transformative use of work so it's
definitely covered by the First
Amendment although these companies don't
don't really care about that stuff
well of course that but yeah basically
we should just explain for people
listening that it he puts behind Ln
images from the Iraq war
this is powerful lemon but a lot of
people were mad and they did what people
do when they're mad they tweet and but
here's one tweet that I loved this
person says Ellen and George Bush
together makes me have faith in America
again
here's the thing I'm friends with George
Bush in fact I'm friends with a lot of
people who don't share the same beliefs
that I have we're all different and I
think that we've forgotten that that's
okay that we're all different for
instance I wish people wouldn't wear fur
I don't like it but but I'm friends with
people who wear fur and I'm friends with
people who are furry is and I think we
can pause it there I was yeah okay Abu
Ghraib yeah I mean it's it's a shame
because it distracts from again the
power of her writing staff she was
moving into some really primo furry
material tulsi DeGeneres 2020 Leafs age
Michael decades from now after living
the life of a scholar and taking on so
many important high-level ideas I think
it would be most appropriate to write in
your tombstone entering recovery mode
any thoughts
my sincere thought is I don't know I
want my tombstone to be a Dave but yeah
I might need to draw the line but or
Michael cares more about spirituality
than to do that - yeah you can't
youtuber - Steve yes you say that my
brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many high-level important
ideas do you even remember Ruben in the
Florida Ruben in the Bardo or well I
actually remember one time my my version
of no exit and and no offense to anybody
I loved John from San Antonio I love Sam
but no exit might be either John and
sannan-san talk about poles for eternity
again great for 20 minutes not eternity
or not great even for two minutes would
be could you imagine no exit with like
Sam Harris Dave Rubin Jordan Peterson
whoa like the IDW that is it's like
nightmare it's like you open up your
laptop and every single time it's
streaming some IDW content you're you're
right you are literally choosing to put
yourself and no exit contagious
chameleon fascinating interview
capitalist product capitalist products
negatively affects democracy and
generates a
least eight yep yeah water boat from
Kashmir no update from Kashmir today the
trans the chairperson of the collective
separatist parties had asked Kashmir EES
to do a number of things one of which
was to show solidarity with other
oppressed marginalized people in the
world from so from one oppressed people
the cash marries to another people
struggling for identity the Kurds
solidarity I truly hope that one day we
will see the Rising Sun that shines in
the tree and not and not the beat down
upon the oppressed yes
secret identity politics fantastic
interview it's my new year's resolution
to find something new I can blame cars
on everyday so thanks for that
yeah cars are really bad news folks yeah
Henry Ford killed the entire planet
folks Wow well looks like our first
patent nerd box I am of the day take a
deep breath get into it doctor chaos MD
does anyone honestly believe that the
Dallas PD that the Dallas does only wait
a second
I apologize dr. chaos I misread it I'm
totally misread I need to reset it yep
it's unbelievable if you look at history
my bad
this is actually really good I am sorry
dr. KS MD does anyone honestly believe
the Dallas PD on the murder of Joshua
Brown I literally misread it as like are
you honestly saying that the you know
yeah I literally I'm so again Mia culpa
mea culpa mea culpa not only is it
highly unlikely that the only person
that da could get to testify against guy
gark would be a drug dealer who pounds
of weed in his apartment and it is
highly convenient that he was murdered
before he would testify in a civilian
trial civil trial also how much do you
want to bet that the people who brought
that the people who Browns murderer is
being pinned um pinned on ends up giving
testimony through a plea deal which gets
them which gets used by Gregoire's legal
team to discredit Browns testimony and
throughout her conviction
and get her appeal on overturned on
appeal I Jesus also yeah also on a
different topic we encourage people
thanks troop for their service but I
think we should be apologizing to them
instead
we've sent soldiers to senseless Wars to
be killed and maimed and take care of
them well enough and don't take care of
them well enough when they come back we
betray all of the work all the people
they work on with the grounds keep them
safe it's truly shameful yeah I I
actually kind of like that with regards
to the Dallas PD and then the worst
cover-up ever but that that that was a
deeper take on it than I'd heard before
no that's really smart that was a
terrifying and very insightful take I
buy it and it's also worth noting where
there where ever there is a Trump Tower
there's likely oligarch money being
laundered and therefore leveraged on
Trump absolutely and there is in fact
the Trump Tower in Istanbul two of them
I think - usually it's the tower but
these are the towers
all right let's Oh we're we're a little
low on sound today guys let's uh we we
don't have enough sound let's let's
actually go to what is this what is
number nine okay this is a fascinating
take I you know I really wonder when
normal people watch this on fox news
lake setting aside that plenty of people
on Fox must you know who watch Fox
actually I think do you have pretty
relatively a high incomes this is just
this flies in the face of just
everything I mean we know all of the
actual trends about wages have been
stagnant for 40 years the disconnect
between wages and productivity
skyrocketing corporate and shareholder
profits then we know that there was a
global meltdown caused by Wall Street
Wall Street was bailed out millions of
people lost their homes and their wealth
we know
this but then even you you feel it you
know if you have a kid you most you
almost certainly experience them like oh
by the by the time I was their age I had
a house bla bla bla bla bla they can't
afford any of these things even if
they're working full-time that is the
vast majority of the experience for most
including like privileged people so you
know it's one thing to do the well
there's there's two moves there's you
know the libertarian fantasy world which
is we just have to keep going and make
things worse and worse and worse and
then somehow it will magically become
better and now and then there's the
smart move which is the Tucker Carlson
Holly move which is let's let's let's
start selling some and Trump move let's
start selling some fake populism then
there's the David Webb move which is
that if you're a worker we are already
living in that worker's paradise I went
through this released by team Warren by
Elizabeth Warren and read it it reads
like a pre-debate marketing piece of
selling to a base she's rising on Biden
she needs that support from SEIU and the
other various unions she highlights
something in there that actually says
more about what's happened in America
that's good
Union enrollment 35 now down to 10
percent in the country how did that
happen
the workplace has changed the fact is
that workers rights are codified in law
EEOC lots of protections across states
lots of protections in corporate policy
and yeah are there issues there always
will be issues but she can't fight
against the reality in the evolution of
the workplace in America of the work
environment so she has to do that in
cobble together I took one of the
paragraphs she highlighted I didn't have
time to look through for my copy of the
communist manifesto but it reads it
talks about removing supervisory
hierarchy in the workplace so workers
have more control sound amazingly
similar to Marx and angles this is
cobbled-together pre-debate you don't I
love about these guys as they say the
comment like the Communist Manifesto is
not the piece where he talks about his
ideas about how
in fact there's very few marks pieces
about how this would actually work
because capital is an economic and
history book and a critique Communist
Manifesto is like it's like a marketing
document I mean it's just hilarious also
what Elizabeth Warren has been talking
about which I think frankly is a lot
less interesting than the worker
cooperative model that Bernie's putting
forward unless Democratic but still
would be an improvement on the status
quo although workers would still get
over would still get outvoted in this
situation because they wouldn't have a
majority of seats but she she's talking
more of like a German model of like
things like board representation so I
look I guess if you think the way like
you know BMW is organized in North
Germany is the Communist Manifesto but
then again maybe he does because David
Webb is that's what's so clarifying
about this Hong Kong stuff which is like
even not even get into the politics of
what's going on between China and Hong
Kong you look at what's happening here
between a blizzard yesterday blizzard
employees walked out of work yesterday
over the company's decision to ban a pro
Hong Kong professional hearthstone
player right the only the reason for
management is not freedom it's for
authoritarian discipline by the
capitalists so they can make you do what
they want you to do so like Daryl more
and that's the thing with I mean we're
kind of getting on China a little bit
early but what good is the money if you
can't say what you want to say about
stuff like that it's like what's it for
at a certain point precisely and you
have like Adam silver trying to like
figure out how to you know walk both
those things but yeah I don't know like
that's what the the management is there
for authoritarian discipline not freedom
I mean clearly I mean look you know the
greatest lesson in this micro example of
the MBA and Blizzard and you know look I
mean there's literally tens of millions
examples of this I guess even just going
back to if you wanted to Chile in 1973
but like capitalism does not bring
democracy that is just endlessly as
opposed they are ant they're opposed
and you know and and the idea by the way
that people are so enthusiastic about
eliminating democracy in the workplace
would somehow be ultra enthusiastic
about it in the Civic sphere when they
think that a basically everything should
be run privately be there should be no
democracy in workplace see like how is
that kind of graft Han to some type of a
broader democratic view it's delusional
yeah whose merica kappa ttle ism is anti
democracy who's making history who's
making the decisions is it a democratic
body of workers or the are the common
people or is it a capitalist that's
that's all it is to it precisely
precisely I want to talk a little bit
about Bernie Sanders and I don't know if
we had a chance I don't think on this
show to play the best ad of the cycle so
far which was done in a grassroots
fashion for Bernie Sanders Bernie
Sanders again I I pointed this out
yesterday when he talks about slowing
his schedule down a little bit that
would mean he's going at about the same
pace as Camille Harris or bado
um he is doing four or five rallies a
day he has been a bigger leader on I
mean look no one has achieved more than
Bernie Sanders in the last several years
he's remade American politics to the
left he has done more to put Yemen I
mean look the Yemen war the Yemen
genocide the u.s. participates in every
day with the Saudis would have stopped
if it was not for a trump veto that's
his work Amazon has raised their workers
wages that's his work he's been in
solidarity everything from the Walmart
board to assembling a campaign of over a
million volunteers the largest
grassroots fundraising effort in history
and four or five rallies a day so if he
says he's gonna do two rally today that
does not mean that he is not a main
presidential contender and not of course
the obvious choice if you're on the
actual left and you have some
seriousness about labor power about a
green new deal if you care a whit about
foreign policy you will be supporting
this guy
and you know and he came out today and
he said and I'll quote now from NBC News
senator Bernie Sanders on Wednesday tamp
down rekha speculation that he would
slow his presidential campaign after he
suffered a heart attack last week saying
he plans to compete as vigorously as
ever for the 2020 nomination the Vermont
independent told NBC in an exclusive
interview airing Wednesday night on
nightly news and a Thursday today that
his health care has only strengthened
his resolved I misspoke the other day I
said a word I should not have said and
the media drives me a little bit nuts to
make a big deal about it say I just said
an interview along with his wife Jane
we're going to get back in the groove a
very vigorous campaign I love doing the
rallies and I love doing town meetings I
want to start off slower and build up
and build up and build up this also his
son his daughter-in-law has died in the
last couple of days she's only 46 years
old of cancer the media coverage of him
during this period has been absolutely
ghoulish and disgusting if you look at
Cindy embers just atrocious reporting in
the New York Times it's a great example
and of course it makes sense she's glass
enemy she's a rich kid that's it there's
no mystery here and this is why we can
pretend that there is an equal fear with
Warren and all of that and I'm not
saying that there might look Warren
Warren would certainly be an
inconvenience but this is a fundamental
structural threat and through a
democratic means and that's not an
opportunity to around with if
you're serious and I think what also
gets my passion about this is between
the equivocating and the lies and some
of the anti-semitism and just the
general weirdness and grotesqueness
around Sanders relative to what they are
actually trying to do and what they have
put on the table from medical debt
cancellation Medicare for all Green New
Deal pulling troops out of the Middle
East peace you know some actual steps
for recognizing Palestinian humanity
full student debt cancellation and the
list just goes on and on and on you had
any moral seriousness on the foreign
policy alone which they have the most
power
out of the gate the decision would
already be made but I think it's also
this dynamic that was captured in this
guy what's his name Matt Matt or foe
Leia just the disjuncture look you can
choose not to vote for Bernie Sanders
you're not obligated to like anybody but
really like this is the most decent
person in decades of us politics and
it's not I disagree because I don't want
to change things so much or I have more
of a belief in markets or whatever you
know it's a pathological and grotesque
hatred for him which is a representation
of hatred for America's working class as
a whole yeah and if you have what if you
send one bit of frankly campaign
propaganda to somebody you're trying to
sway to the Bernie side I think it
should be this video watch this and then
get on the phone bank is back getting
into the presidential race Democrats
like somebody new and that is not going
to be Bernie Sanders this time it's
really hard to imagine who the Bernie
Sanders voter is at this point Bernie
Sanders fall back please get away from
us thank you for doing this he has a you
know a kind of gruff curmudgeon e side
that is of course well known he doesn't
actually smile that much
it's almost like Bernie can't tell the
difference between kids and adults sorry
I think you're dumb
I think you dumb if you don't sit down
and learn how to read and write no you
were not once need to come here the only
way I think you're dumb I think when you
think you're dumb because you're not and
he also I think are disheveled you're
unlikable and you're pushy and I don't
think you should be leading anybody
positive I have no idea that person is I
mean my guess would be is she's some
trust-fund kid who's like you know doing
like horrifyingly bad open mikes and the
real question is is like why is she on
television who the hell is she and God
just what a what a what is what I just
sort of disgusting despicable display
their bad likable on you're pushy and I
don't think you should be leading
anybody
[Music]
[Applause]
how old is too old the issue is do you
seem like you're in the contemporary
world he's a socialist from the 1950s
yelling at people in the same screechy
voice without smiling without any kind
of personal connection
[Applause]
they look like the angry man in the
center of the stage and get off my lawn
[Music]
and I don't think that's a good look for
the Democratic Party watch it make calls
knock on doors this is an unparalleled
opportunity stop messing around let's do
it folks all right let's get back to the
calls you are calling from a 408 area
code who are you where you're calling
from 408 are you there you are calling
from a four one six area code who are
you where you calling from four one six
are you there sir problem system four
one six
hey hey Eric what's going on what's on
your mind hey yeah it's just that work
um love the show you guys are killing it
Michael great job going to the mat for
Bernie much respect much respect
thank you um yeah I just think it's
helpful that like you know the
disintegration of the labor movements
over the decades leaves people you know
I'm just not certain of just basic
fundamental concepts right like the
difference between proposing something
and advocating for something and yeah
and I think it's clear like we'd clarify
to kind of explain the difference and
it's not semantics if you give me like
30 seconds
sure go ahead sure and Noam Chomsky has
a lot more work on this way better than
I can articulate but like you know it's
great to propose things and you know
come up with ideals to fight towards but
when it comes to the political realm
have true no bullsh and advocating for
policies that we want to be enacted in
our present-day life requires like a
screa step-by-step concrete plan of
action people can take we get to from
point A to point B
and when and when proposing really uh
you know good faith goals that we can
work towards in the long term like open
borders or the abolishment of late wage
labor
those are great propositions and things
to get stoned in your eyes about but you
know true advocate like you know you do
extremely well with Bernie's policies is
you know much like really serious and I
think it's really important to
distinguish the differences and you do a
great job of it okay so yeah keep up the
good work
thanks man appreciate it have a good day
yeah take it easy
bet you're calling from a two eight one
area code who are you very calling from
hi yeah this is you what's your name
where you calling from
hey Rome I'm Tony and I'm from Illinois
sorry and I basically this your name I'm
from Illinois Tony Tony Tony from
Illinois okay Tony
what's on your mind yep so reference
here I remember not long ago you guys
played a video and I'm talking to a
journalist and I'm actually a local
journalist with a local news reporter
and just out of journalism school that
kind of thing so and I really just
wanted to talk about you know really the
the mechanism by which you know the way
that media is structured that makes
editorial independence really like
difficult and and that you do have to
push certain times for you know the
cover story that what otherwise not be
covered yeah I mean right now I'm
sitting on a story on a actual candidate
for Congress who former sex worker
medicare-for-all green new deal and it's
just been a horrible fight with my
editor about that you mean just the yeah
you know a Q&A with her and there's that
thing but you know there's sort of this
thing groaned
conservatism in a lot of newspapers and
a lot of music organization and you know
it's actually really sad to see some
pretty explainer and you know in the
place that it is now you know I mean I
think it's really fat on the way it is
oh it's terrible horse yeah yeah and
also I guess I saw your interview with a
partner from the hill TV Sagar and but
you saw it or you said you see that I'm
going to do it I'm sorry I know I call
the one that you think I am yes right
like very much I mean holdings of the
National with a couple times and I just
want to get your take on you know what
you think that photo new conservatism is
going to be in the comment I would say
he didn't give me stress right vibes
gave me stress right vibes I would not
have I mean whoever taught people the
word stress right should be drowned it's
like over an inappropriate use like look
you can disagree with Angela Nagle's
you're not a stressor right I mean that
the stress was a specific they were
literally leftists so-called left to
swear in who were actual building a fake
propaganda left flank of the actual Nazi
Party not not not a like literally
Hitler's Germany so I mean far be it for
me to say cuz I'm all about like you
know throwing around rhetoric at times
but like that is a Riesling and almost
always inappropriately used in a used
term but to answer your question yeah i
mean i think that saw sagar
look you know the friend of mine i
thought it was an interesting debate and
we have i think i mean i know we have
just system systemic and fundamental
massive differences in terms of i want a
multi
polar world he still wants an American
national state an American and imperial
order and I think that what was
interesting in the conversation for me
was when I brought up the example of the
Thomas Friedman and people should watch
it I'm sorry to get too much into this
but the point being that there was there
was this love in on CNBC between Thomas
Friedman and Steve ban and who represent
oh you know Thomas Friedman is a
globalist and you know Steve banner no
hard nationalists and all this nonsense
and they were both singing from the same
hymn book on getting tough on China and
Steve ban was talking about the u.s.
rules-based world and all this stuff
that's supposedly he and Trump are
uprooting and I actually think the
bottom line is is that the old the new
nationalism is a lot like the old
nationalism and it's and I think the
difference it has with the neoliberal
order is that in a amongst people who
are sincere which are very few I think
sagar is sincere there is a concern
about things like monopoly power and US
worker power which is laudable in an
area for cooperation in certain areas
but it's actually quite revealing that
internationally there is not a vision of
of a how you actually start to
practically build bonds internationally
to empower workers everywhere and you
really start to recognize that you know
it isn't Chinese capital versus American
its capital that's the yeah so I think
that those conversations are to me
they're interesting and clarifying and
they're also a more relevant debate than
you know been angling around Google
searches to try to like prove no silly
points that don't really matter what do
you think you know I have a plan on you
know but you know clearly there's
there's a problem there's you know we
need to get the money out of Google and
Facebook and all these things and Beth
but local journalism yeah but you know
what is a socialist sort of post you
know you know the destructive capital
journalism looked like hmm I guess well
you know I can pick that up call thanks
that's a super interesting question um
um I mean I actually do think it's
certainly not post capitalism but I
think it's like literally self-evidently
crowd supported peer-to-peer shows are a
part of it for sure because this is how
you get content like this I know that
that's part of the answer I don't know I
mean beyond that I mean there look I
think things like Pro Publica are
operating in that like very traditional
nonprofit foundation model and doing
really good investigative reporting but
honestly like you know how Matt says
like cancel your Washington Post sub
cancel your New York Times so like yeah
like do that and of course it would be
alive if we didn't say part of that sub
be nice if it came to shows like this
but you should start looking around at
independent journalists collectives at
you know local newspapers that are worth
their salt I mean I think that's the
kind of direction things need to start
going in if you look at the amount of
people employed in journalism versus PR
for the past like 30 years PR has just
dwarfed been just rising
precipitously well journalism has gone
the exact opposite way and that's
partially why the media environment now
is so hospitable to fascists I don't
know what the I guess you know we used
to do things in this country like we
still do obviously but like free postage
for newspapers or something like that
basically subsidies to journalism I
think we're at a phase now where the you
basically just have to make it easier to
hire and do things so like you have you
take care of health care at a federal
level you take away you D commodify more
things basically make living less
expensive for people I think yeah that's
right I mean if you D commodify more
things
that translates to more people doing
journalism that translates to somebody
leaving law school and doing public
interest law instead of working for a
corporation yeah I remember when I was
like in school reading an article about
a local journalist in LA who had moved
from journalism to PR basically saying
like I can't you know make the ends I
need to make to live my life doing this
and there's all like there's a whole
bunch of articles with that now with
that same headline and that's basically
a timeless thing to George Orwell's one
of his first and not very good books is
called keep the aspen Easter flying
which is about this guy who wants to be
a novelist but and say he writes
advertisements right and I mean it's the
timeless thing but it's who's paying for
you or is it is it and that's going to
determine what you write and I mean PRS
awful I mean not I mean I not no
disrespect to anybody in there because I
applied for those jobs too but right hey
Michael did you see Warren talking about
taking big donor money in the general
election then backtracking immediately
how can you take corporate money and
deliver systemic change simultaneously
in solidarity of striking workers and
Saskatchewan and the UAW well first of
all definitely solidarity with striking
workers I have to be honest I'm not um
as invested in the money and politics
conversation as other people are however
I will say this is another one where if
money in politics is your issue and it
is an important issue I just to me it's
like look money in politics is very
important but money in politics is not
gonna solve the systemic problem of
capital in this society and I think some
people really overshoot what can be
achieved with it but important things
can and should be achieved
Bernie's money in politics plan is the
plan you know like I mean we're on
several issues now we're you know
Sanders is just saying like hey
everything that people have been talking
about in podcasts and a nation articles
and saying wouldn't that be amazing if
for decades he's just saying like yes
okay
i-i've got you that's my plan so and yes
I think there and there is absolutely an
inherent tension and warrens approach it
might be a it might be a very savvy
approached tactically um and I think
when the rubber meets the road if she
actually gets to the White House which
obviously is a whole other question
challenge the idea that you are going to
triangulate between then let's again
let's be real not systemic change but I
would say even significant reform in
certain areas with a non movement based
politics that is also built around
[Music]
appeasing a lot of people in the same
structures that have set up all of these
systems uh
I actually do think we need to start
looking at how President Obama's first
couple of years went the whole terrain
of politics has shifted significantly to
the left so we're playing on a different
field but in but actually to be you know
I'm someone who always advocates being
fair to President Obama there there's a
lot of parallels there in terms of well
actually the movement parallels
different but we're gonna make peace
with a lot of institutions but then
we're also going to try to attacks a big
picture problems there's an inherent
tension there and you know and I think
even the mix you know there's mixed
reports out of wall street I have no
doubt that there's some wall street
people that are such I mean look they're
babies they they they didn't support
Obama's re-election because he said some
things that they didn't like okay like
let alone any type of tougher reform let
alone floating any type of wealth tax
right so there are some people that will
say like look unless you nominate Joe
Biden I'll support Trump because they're
babies and they're endlessly greedy but
there's also multiple stories coming out
of Wall Street learning to get used to
the idea of Warren there
was warned in Politico there's been
warning some of the business press and I
think part of it is because they're
always looking like her lobbying
proposal to me was just silly like we're
gonna put a tax on lobbyists well okay
either they'll find a workaround you
know some will be a lawyer for a firm
not a lobby you know there's all these
games people can play with those types
of things or worst case okay we'll just
factor it into our profits sure well
paying the tax bummer
not good go back to lobbying where is
the types of reforms and systemic change
that Sanders is putting on the table is
like it's the difference between a big
convoluted scheme versus like this
practice is done we're not doing that
anymore
done done and that is a fundamental
threat you know across the board I think
even including to a lot of professional
people's conceptions of themselves which
is why there's such a weird bizarre
hatred for him so I'm actually you know
I'm not gonna spend a huge amount of
time talking about Warren and campaign
contributions so I don't really spend a
huge amount of time talking about
anybody in their campaign contributions
and I don't particularly care frankly
and I actually think on the continuum I
think the last thing I'll say is like I
think specifically her
military-industrial complex record is
very bad and she's voted for all
military budget increases and she's been
a point person for Raytheon and she's
also been a point person for some local
healthcare industry interests in
Massachusetts but you will find her on
that spectrum of like one to one
campaign contributions equal legislation
and access she's gonna be well above the
average in terms of good so that's just
not you know but if that is your area
and that is your passion here's another
one where Bernie is giving you a hundred
percent what you want so I don't get the
whole equivocating about somebody who's
giving you 70% or 60% of what you want
it makes no sense yeah yeah I would just
echo what you're saying I think the
money in politics thing is good I think
it's a very limited indicator of what's
going on and people treat it like a
decoder ring too
I yeah I that's how I see it you're
calling from a four four seven area code
who are you where you calling from four
four seven are you there I guess not
four four seven I'm trying you one more
time out there not good you're calling
from a six five Oh area code who are you
worried calling from hey Michael this is
Garrett in Sacramento hey Garrett what's
going on it's calling about a
medicare-for-all to my girlfriend he
works over at the Kaiser that was a just
resolved their strike issues race you
guys talked about it about a week ago
yeah I'm just wondering uh like in
Bernie's plan for example what would for
the workers a transition into Medicare
for all look like what you mean people
who work at health care companies
exactly yeah um I don't know the answer
to that do you know the answer to that
what what is in the plan I know that
Bernie at least with regards the green
New Deal has incredible proposals on
everything from retraining to job
guarantee to early retirement if people
want it and so my assumption would be
that there would be I mean look first of
all I just want to say part of the
answer is he's proposing a federal jobs
guarantee which is like kind of another
stunningly amazing proposal which would
do a massive him I mean between green
New Deal's single-payer health care and
jobs guarantee and his labor plan you
would completely remake the American
economy which would benefit all workers
so one part of the answer would be in a
radical unparallel way of any proposal
or anything in modern politics
but I think one answer would be um the
federal job guarantee but I don't know
the specific answer on specific
retraining in that regard did the other
of you guys know about that well I mean
I think it depends on what the job is
within the healthcare industry right
right so if you're a manager of you know
people's Medicare and Medicaid accounts
or Part D like they're going to have to
build out a robust you know CMS system
that will be run through the federal
government and I think that a lot of
those workers at Kaiser at you know
emblem health at these like companies
that are already managing public
programs there will be opportunities for
those people now do I think like people
who are selling drugs to doctors offices
are going to have like great jobs moving
forward trying to push you know the next
oxy on the users probably not if your
girlfriends and oh my my - we'll
definitely doesn't go towards I mean
like the upper net like what you're
saying okay I'm shelling like some drugs
I'm more concerned with like the nurses
the nurses or you know de lis fine
nurses are a hundred percent fine or
anything I mean the radio the radio here
at the rate of thing the rate of growth
for things like nurses home health care
aides doctors is I mean the only way
that that's gonna decrease frankly and I
mean I'm sorry I know some people don't
like this but there is gonna need to be
some conversation of people like we do
want to practice a little bit more
prevention in terms of people's health
which will also be benefited by
single-payer because people get early
checkups but things including
environmental policies diet exercise
those things are also obviously going to
be really important but we're also an
aging population so there's gonna be a
growth in those jobs regardless of
whether or not we have power say
industries or not thanks for the call
man
appreciate it yeah I mean certainly
those jobs it's gonna be administrative
that's where the bloat is yeah right and
I think in that case I mean look this is
a classic example of the it's a
job so you know in what do you do when
you phase out both
two jobs you have abroad federal jobs
guarantee and then I think you also you
know what may I my guess if he's a lot
look I know people who are in the who
are in that industry they would be and I
don't like to speak on behalf of other
people but I could tell you this as like
a verbatim quote practically I would be
thrilled if somebody paid me to go to
college and change what I was doing okay
and for the two people in America that
Miss hounding people for their you know
checkup payments I guess it's just a
it's a crass we're gonna have to bear
you're calling from a 301 area code who
are you where you calling from
hey this is Connor from the DMV Connor
from the DMV what's up what's going on
come on guys I really appreciate
everything you guys do you inspired me a
lot thanks man
in the last couple months especially
when I found out about your program
thanks um looking forward to
Philadelphia next month since like I
said wouldn't even be not too far away
so sweet can make the trek awesome
question about well it's kind of
two-pronged so I found a lot of like I
thought it was really smart when you
guys were talking about not necessarily
trying to go too hard with convincing
new people but more I mean convincing
old people I guess who are like already
kind of stuck in a release not
necessarily old people just like people
who might have different opinions then
bringing in the new people because I was
kind of getting stuck there and was
extremely frustrating so now I've
started to go on the weekends to
different malls and shopping centers and
try to get people registered to vote on
Saturdays and Sundays cool but I do also
think there is some value in that and I
was wondering like what kind of
alternatives you may know about or if
you don't that's
- for like like like for exam and
parents like they consume a lot of news
but they're also caught like whenever I
like get into actual substance they're
always like very open to like what I'm
talking about although their first
instinct is like Bernie but then like
when I start talking about like oh
because they are really like New Deal
type Democrats oh no III don't I don't
think I think that you gotta talk to
people and and and persuade and this is
the this is the tricky thing I mean
because there's no one people call in
and ask questions and sometimes I feel
like people say like hey I've you know
I've got a neighbor who's like
practically in the Klan and we say like
yeah worried about like don't waste your
life on that person right that's that's
like the Warren people - well I disagree
look look I think I'll be really clear
about this and it depends on who you're
talking to and what you're talking about
and and look at you know again I I think
it's it's kind of funny like there's a
certain bluntness that I will have in a
public platform that I'm not gonna have
what I'm talking alike you know I don't
know one of my mom's friends or
something okay
but right right but you should I think
of course you should be persuading more
and people who vote for Sanders this is
really important it matters it has huge
implications for people's lives and
there's a radically better choice it's a
no-brainer in certain I mean obviously
if somebody's considering voting for
Biden or you know some other god forbid
candidate but or Jesus Christ Tulsi
Gabbard or you know I mean frankly but
to me I gotta be clear
Jesus Christ any of them I don't like I
don't make a I'm and I'll say this
before everybody wine
everybody will wine in both directions I
will support the Democrat in the general
election as a prevention of Trump period
full stop and in the primary it's Bernie
no messing around so I would say that if
you know look there's one answer which
is the only credible answer and there's
nothing to talk about
if somebody says the only thing that I'm
voting on is I want the first woman
president and you say okay I hear you
thanks for sharing you know let's but
how's whatever else you got to talk
about right that's it that's literally a
five-second conversation if you know and
then if somebody you know if they say
the plan thing I think it's very
important to make an argument going back
to actually the earlier caller well what
are we talking about here there's a
difference between advocacy and you know
just platonically putting forward plans
and now incidentally now that we both
have a bunch of plans on the dock
obviously and we all knew this was gonna
be the case of course Bernie's are
radically more progressive then I would
say and you know this is my bias but III
think it's appalling that people don't
consider foreign policy and really as
soon as you consider foreign policy the
conversations over it's done and and
actually even as I maintain that to
compare Warren you know to say that
she's like Clinton or Biden domestic
policy is inaccurate on on on some very
important areas on foreign policy she is
quite similar
she's totally within that consensus so
uh you know just push it forward that's
what I would do but then if okay yeah
that's what I would do appreciate the
call man um okay all right well the take
it easy and like I said I definitely
appreciate everything to do it's helped
me out a lot
awesome man have a great day take care
let's talk a little bit about what's
happening in Ecuador so there are
ongoing demonstrations there that have
been met with an extremely brutal
response by the Lenin Moreno government
these protests are led by indigenous
people but they also have a
representation and labor in ecology and
women's rights and all sorts of areas
that you would expect of a broad-based
organic left uprising we have some
footage that Camilla from Telus or
posted I follow her account and other
tell us or accounts for this sort of
thing
Lenin Moreno was the successor of Rafael
Correa and he was elected on the
center-left Democratic Socialist
center-left Democratic Socialist
platform in 2017 and has immediately
reversed course in an extreme way upon
taking government he's actually actively
trying to jail his predecessor Rafael
Correa who governed Ecuador at the heart
of the pink tide there's rumors that
he's taken direct bribes from you know
the United States we don't know really
why but his politics after winning on a
center-left successor ticket have taken
a sharp extreme right turn this is why
he kicked Julian Assange out of the
Ecuadorian Embassy as an example this is
why he's reconfigured the geostrategic
relationship in the United States into a
much more subservient one and in the
last couple of days he's unveiled a slew
of IMF backed austerity measures
including scrapping a fuel subsidy which
would of course as all of these IMF
plans do be enormous ly damaging to
Ecuador's underclass now Rafael Correa
lifted a lot of people out of poverty
and was incredibly brave in facing us
hegemony and was another one of these
dynamic leaders in the pink tide era
however his record on indigenous rights
was actually really quite bad in some
very key ways and he sided consistently
with mining interests over them there
was some change at points in his
administration and there's complexity to
this but there was real problems there
and so it's significant that this is an
indigenous led movement and Lenin Moreno
and typical right-wing paranoid fashion
is blaming Maduro and Korea or fomenting
a revolution even as the people that are
actually leading it are consistently
saying that they are not an instrument
of Korea and in fact sort of there's
pushback from his own political faction
you know sort of harnessing the movement
so
we'll keep falling what's happening in
Ecuador and this is a lot closer to less
than Hong Kong and much more implicated
by US policy and US companies like
Chevron and us mining companies have
caused an enormous amount of damage and
Ecuador why does this get so little
attention and why do most profiles
mention problems with Korea some which
might be real some of which are fake
don't necessarily emphasize in
significant accomplishments and almost
uniformly ignore the serious allegations
across the board about Lenin Moreno
hopefully he'll be gone you are calling
from a 504 area code who are you where
you're coming from
hey Jeff the Louisiana hey what's going
on Jeff what's on your mind yeah I just
want to do a shout out to like your like
your conversations about like China um I
watched your stuff that she did this
week and then before that I'd watched
her kind of stuff that she did with
Richard Wolff who was really interesting
Corina um I was kind of interested in
what do you think like what would like a
Sanders like administration like what
what could they do the you know I know
you have like some you know some
different opinions but just kind of you
know show some you know solidarity at
least with like the Hong Kong protesters
and stuff but what can they do
specifically maybe that kind of
administration I don't think there's
much that you could do specifically
about Hong Kong I mean I I think you
know you can discourse solidarity with
things like the labor movement in Hong
Kong which he should do and everybody
should do they can put out and emphasize
through diplomatic action things like
the things that are happening to the you
Gers which is absolutely appalling don't
let anybody kind of whitewash or spin
that but then on the other hand there
needs to be a lot of constructive areas
to work with China on that's also
reality you do not want some type of new
cold war with China
so the fact that Sanders green new deal
does talk about building significant
partnerships with China on rapidly
deploying green technology as an example
is super positive and very important so
you need to have a constructive
relationship with them and and even as
we don't whitewash China we can't also
fall into the same old arrogant
hegemonic sign of phobic attitudes about
it either and I actually think people
like Matt does have a very good handle
on that thanks for the call man and if
the f-35 wasn't such a disaster we'd
have another option on the table is it
is it 7-7 Matt because I'm not seeing it
okay
all right let's take one or two more
calls then we're out of here you are
calling from a 3 400 area code who are
you where you calling from ion still I
still got a room ready for you down
there okay all right in the Virgin
Islands or a Wisconsin yes no I was
saying is the room in the Virgin Islands
or Wisconsin because Virgin Islands all
right done I'm there all right what yeah
I know mark you like a huge pan of ice
and taking the healthcare systems and
not too many talked about often and it's
called subrogation and subrogation means
that if you are hurt at work if you're
hurt in a car accident if you fall in a
grocery store and any of those current
senses or workers comp or employers
decide or have to either pay for your
injuries for the medical care for
damages for pain and suffering there is
there are lives that
health insurances to get that money back
from people and so what that means is
that if you are in a car accident you
injure your neck and you get a three
thousand dollar settlement from the
client chance but you had an x-ray the
day of the accident and you had a CT
scan and you had to go checked out to
make sure that you want to get me
injured if that money is three thousand
dollars or even more we're going to have
to pay that back to your health but and
this is another reason why we need
Medicare for all people and these bigger
people on Medicaid people in Medicare
the state of Iowa had a particularly
disgusting feature for their Medicare
plans where if you do not respond to a
letter asking if your care or something
like that cost like that money backwards
they were cancel your Medicare coverage
your Medicaid preference and you know
these types of things are seriously
people and there is no reason why if you
were injured and a third party available
your health insurance should be paid
back and as much as there are laws that
allow them to do that
goodbyes are particularly disgusting
that is absolutely disgusting and I
didn't know anything about that although
now that I think about it I think I
might have known somebody who was
dealing with something along those lines
do you guys know about this I mean every
insurance has a recovery department in
the subrogation department and their job
is strictly to recover money from
workers comp insurances and car
insurances and oftentimes from people
who get settlements from these parties
because they have no right by the water
get paid back like it's disgusting
there are very few states that have
anti-sopa do some was New York is one of
the big ones but how a lot of people
it's tough because sometime
they are oftentimes in a situation where
there's a fifty thousand dollar
settlement but they have a hundred
thousand dollars in medical bills they
have thirty percent of that 50 thousand
dollar settlement already promised to
the attorney and yet somehow they're
supposed to be compensated for pain and
suffering that's impossible and it often
comes up in these people having to give
more of their money to an attorney
or quite possibly Kuster health
insurance if you do not sometimes pay
back your health insurance when you
cancel your coverage there are some
people who are on payment plans to their
health insurance companies because they
accepted a settlement without even
knowing they were going to have to pay
back their company and their health
insurance for the x-ray liquor and
emergency care that you know well that's
really disgusting and yet another of
that's like the argument 1 million of
why we need Medicare for all I really
appreciate the call ya know you're
welcome I think it takes for all the
great work my nickname for you Michael
is daddy I like I like a little bit
extra bite there I think it's very much
required in this atmosphere in this film
I appreciate that
all right have a great one thank you um
let's take a final call I'm sorry I'm
picking at random obviously and yeah
they really are locals crazy um let's
try to go local calling from a three
four seven area code who are you calling
from
yeah hi I leave from Astoria hey Olli
what's going on well I had two questions
by considering how much time we have I
was thick with one and then a slug okay
please
all right so considering what's
happening in California with PG&E well
Northern California is going to have
like six days and no electricity because
PG&E
invest in tree cuttings because it would
hurt the bottom line I was thinking of
that industry you guys had a couple
months ago where it's the the interview
he was talking about left us one wanting
to nationalize utilities and it seemed
like fam and the crew share the
sentiment that it wasn't a good idea no
no wrong wrong interpretation all right
yeah we didn't share that interpreter I
very I mean look I let me can I just say
this you can't you can't argue about
everything like look like so if there is
a guest as in particularly a guest
there's a guest as an example like I
thought the interview on merge left was
quite interesting and then the
conclusions he started to draw were like
what like I I thought there was right
like so you know it's it's dynamic and
you know what I say on T MBS is and I
you know and I don't assume that just
because we can't you know turn
everything into an additional debate or
diversion that we agree with everything
sometimes you just need to keep it
flowing I totally did not agree with
that view and in fact I have been
calling for that type of thing for a
while and I'm assuming that you yeah I
mean I appreciate the opportunity to
clarify that because yeah we don't agree
with that part of that interview it was
wrong and not the right deal okay fair
enough then my plug there's going to be
action against sales force and ice in
New York area people are going to gather
at the New York Public Library at 4:00
p.m. tomorrow to march on sales force
which is the software underwriting ice
to try to convince them to get out of
you know helping the processors
that are jailing children right now so
if you have anything to do tomorrow and
you're in New York area or you don't
have nothing to do tomorrow and you're
in New York area please come
it'll be great we're gonna March it and
it'll be fun
awesome what time is that at and where
again just give them a before 4 p.m.
we're going to gather a 4:00 p.m. in New
York Public Library the Salesforce
building is a pretty close to it so
we're gonna do a quick circuit around
there look there's gonna be some
speakers that organization so I closed
the camp's lying to code pink and
they're gonna have some great activists
speak for a bit and then we're just
gonna like go to the doors and try to
bother some some technocrats at work
awesome
oh yeah go there thank you ollie yes it
works Salesforce is a big company I
think when in the corporate world people
are familiar with it but yeah it's like
a platform for I don't know exactly how
to describe it some type of cloud
service yeah cloud base yeah they they
they they are a bit yeah they I don't
know how to explain it other but they
are a very big company they also have a
lot of branding Marc Benioff on things
like mindfulness and compassionate
leadership so additional questions to
draw CRM number relations management
there it is
my roommate used that phrase the other
that acronym the other day and said what
does that mean cuz I'm starting to like
as more and more media companies go out
of business I'm starting to you know try
and learn something
what CRM oh that's the actual like I
guess name that's also there Stock
Exchange yeah
there CRM on markets really so that's
actually like a real phrase that isn't
some like new I guess it's an air phrase
I just thought content like they took it
and you know Virginia progressive
Michael do you agree with Sam on the
strategy to draw out the impeachment
process I feel like the same mistakes
will be made with the two year Odyssey
that was the Moller report the Ukraine
calls are enough so why not make this a
layup
and win the court of public opinion
instead of drawing it out and letting
the sycophants on the right attack the
narrative I'm weary of the watching
generals effing things up
besides the 2020 election needs to be
about the climate crisis health care
student debt and non impeachment well no
I like the idea of drawing it out if you
mean drawing like which is what the
otherwise you just get it to the Senate
so then they can not do anything about
it and that's a victory for Trump that's
true I mean I I like the idea though of
drawing it out in a way which they've
already said they're not going to do
which is starting to put everything on
the table i daily hearings on the
terrorism at the border on his taxes on
a monuments on the Saudis I mean just
pound them right pound them take away
people's salaries play vicious play
ruthless um I generally agree with you
about what the elections about and I
think that you know the impeachment
thing is a wash I think it's gonna
motivate people who hate them and
motivate people like them um uh you know
and the Ukraine thing I don't I don't
know man I think if you build it they
will come to some extent the numbers
have been switching I don't know how
much salience it has for a lot of people
but it's you know they're doing it so I
hope it works I mean I have criticisms
of the focus on Russia but I think
people have massively over learned the
idea that it was some sort of
catastrophe Odyssey I just don't buy
that kind of language there or additives
for I don't think it was that big of a
deal either way frankly I think it was a
very big I think that I I disagree with
the idea that it didn't feed the
national security state for lack of a
better term and I think that is actually
a really big problem and you don't need
to go all the way up to saying it's
gonna lead to World War 3 or war with
Russia to recognize that that is a
really big problem and then on a
political level yet then making it made
made like no it was it was it was mainly
a waste of time and fairly embarrassing
and it you know I mean if you look at
cost-benefit you know the millions of
hours that were wasted on that that
could have been put into like pushing
something like Medicare for all you know
instead of signing up for Tom Styer
stupid
or something but none of those people
that put time in I think that's trained
about that we're gonna be pushing for -
that's why I mean even this current I I
totally I basically subscribe to Sam's
view on the impeachment thing but I also
think it's like as far as like it's it's
a it's a liberal laughing like that's
not a whole lot of room on the left to
be working that anyway like it's right
really our thing it's it like I hope it
goes well of course but I mean the stuff
that Brad Miller pointed out yesterday
that that's the important liberal loss
like that stuff actually matters right
stuff actually has implications for but
I wrought to see what I find myself in a
funny position of dealing the same
reason that I would read and share the
Brad Miller articles the same reason I
had read and share the Matt Taibbi
article because I'm concerned about
those systems writ large right and we
all know that the resistance and liberal
people don't actually care about it
because they're horrible and
whistleblowers and they trust the CIA
and they're you know and all of this I
mean not all of them chunk of them and
then we know that you know there's some
people with amazing and correct
critiques of the intelligence apparatus
who are you know at least seem fairly
allergic to going up aggressively
against the Trump administration even as
it literally says like now we're just
not going to cooperate so I actually in
some ways see it all as part of the same
continuum what I have a problem with but
hey I'm our crew I want to Kentucky
Fried camera hey I'm our crew I wanted
to message into the beta report let you
know that my debate with Jesse Lee
Peterson drops tomorrow it's a lot it's
amazing amazing that's hilarious
you have a open invitation to like the
left is best Cruz I think so alright the
final I am of the day
[Music]
those the themes Darwin Michael every
Turkish government since 1923 has been
terrible on the issue of ethnic
minorities whether Kurds Greeks Jews or
our minions or our circuit I'm gonna
tell I know I even know a group you're
talking about goddamnit
see I are see a SS I a n-s sarkeesian's
Circassian mr. Casey ins Greeks Jews or
Armenians what makes the AKP and our
Diwan uniquely toxic is the synthesis of
this religious nationalism of this
ethnic nationalism with right-wing
religious fundamentalism which makes it
like art a Turk on steroids I think
that's very astute thanks everybody see
you tomorrow in that to get
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
