so Steven you know in your book Big
Pharma big greed I think it you know
what one of the things that comes out of
this dynamic and I've heard this dynamic
a lot with with many lawyers tort
lawyers a what what is it I mean it's I
think it's hard let me put it this way
I think it's hard for laypeople for
people who just go to the the drugstore
and buy you know the pharmaceuticals get
prescriptions from doctors to not impart
to the makers of drugs like some measure
of social responsibility right and some
almost like authority because how could
is it possible that people who are
supplying medicine could be driven by by
greed
I mean how but what's the best way when
people sort of like question you like
you know this can't be true because that
would what that would say about the
people who are doing this would be just
almost unimaginable what what what is
your response to that well my response
is unfortunately that's our time our
time that we live in that greed has
subsumed the pharma industry to such an
extent that it's very difficult to trust
what they say and the trick a shoe on
the market now that you're using as a
consumer and you have to do major
research yourself just to be have a
modicum of safety because they
unfortunately just are often very
misleading in their advertising and all
too often haven't disclosed true
information important information which
is why you see so many thousands of
cases being filed against them that
result in big verdicts because they are
willing to willing all to willing to
take the risk of non-disclosure of
important information or
misleading information about some of
their drug products and you know from
everything from risperdal growing female
breasts on little boys which is we have
there's over 5,000 cases pending against
the company now that makes rispa doyle
and to baby powder with the asbestos in
it to hip implants that are
disintegrating to vaginal mesh which is
a major problem in the product and for
women because it leeches into their body
and it causes terrible terrible pain and
problems and it's endless and we just
can't trust the industry to monitor
itself and the FDA has developed what a
real problem it's so all right I want to
talk about the the sort of the
regulatory framework that allows for
something like this to happen before we
get there though just in a general sense
what is the dynamic with these medical
devices and these pharmaceuticals they
developed the product they're so much
sunk costs involved in this that I mean
theoretically right I mean nobody sets
out to my agenda is to poison people my
agenda is to get people hopelessly
addicted to something my agenda is to
you know to develop a dependency in a
patient on this I mean and it correct me
if I'm wrong my assumption is is like
they developed these products with good
intentions they realized somewhere along
the line that like wow
this isn't exactly what we thought it
was going to be but we've got so much
money invested in this we can't turn
back now well it's what's the in general
what is the dynamic or is it both those
things or something else it's the main
dynamic is they want to get a major
product out there and then and they have
a real problem with efficacy meanings
Alice
effective it is and they're often
looking to develop a product which
doesn't cost them much money to develop
to buy a product from another small
company or an inventor who came up with
something and then sell it for huge sums
of money that's their goal there I don't
think they want to intentionally cause
injuries unfortunately once they realize
there is a problem with the product they
don't like telling the true story about
what the problems are or not misleading
the public about the problems with their
product that is one of the major
problems we have today and the story
about it costing loads of money for
pharma to develop a product not just
there's a vast exaggeration a lot of
products just don't cost much at all to
develop others do it depends on the
product and there's no balance in
regulation in the regulations that
controls controls that in other words
yeah you may have a product that you
develop for a hundred dollars or a
thousand dollars and you have one that
you developed it of course the million
dollars but there's nobody telling you
you can't charge whatever you want for
that product even though it didn't cost
you much to develop or finding a way to
develop a product without excessive
charges one of the biggest problems we
have is that the government funds a lot
of the developments of the products the
universities do and in the companies
then take the position they get the
product they make all the money and lead
you to believe that they didn't get
government money for the to develop the
product but there is it just not true in
other words when you're raising money
for cancer as a public just an for a
public benefit you don't know whose
money was used to develop that product
maybe it was a fundraiser for cancer
our fundraiser for Parkinson's disease
there's a lot of money sloshing around
in there but you have no idea where it
came from it certainly didn't come from
Big Pharma in most in most of the
instances well that's fascinating
problems no regulation so okay so there
is and this is sort of maybe a a slight
derivation we have the government
providing no regulation in terms of cost
controls or profit controls you can
develop something for virtually no money
and you can sell it for as much as you
could theoretically gouge of people much
of these products are at least initially
developed and researched through a
government grants to colleges and
universities all right well I want to
take a break when we come back I want it
because I think most people assume that
not only do they assume that people who
develop and manufacture and market
prescription drugs and other types of
medical devices have you know some
higher calling I think people assume as
opposed to just profits but there's also
a presumption that the US government is
protecting us and I don't think that
most people have any clue not only as to
the enforcement mechanisms but even the
regulatory structure that that drugs do
or do not have to wind their way through
I think most people think it's a lot
more rigorous than it is we've got to
take a quick break I'm talking to
Stephen sheller about Big Pharma and
it's big greed we'll be right back after
this on ring of fire radio
