[Music]
Brad DeLong is a guy that I've been
aware of you know like online for an
extended period of time and I have
various times he's had blogs that I've
read to get his perspective on on some
of these things because it's interesting
to know who is advising the Democratic
establishment any given time and so he
was a guy who was I think Deputy
Assistant Secretary for the Treasury
under the Clinton administration he is a
self-described neoliberal Ruben ight he
wrote a piece I don't know where he
posted this but calls himself a Ruben
Democrat he speaking of Robert Rubin who
was the Treasury secretary under Clinton
and and then also had a lot of influence
under Obama as well he wrote a an op-ed
the other day basically saying we failed
politically and it is time for us to
hand over the baton to the left of the
Democratic Party and let me just read
some of this interview that he did with
Zack Beauchamp and Vox Beauchamp because
it's interesting but there's another
point I want to make here too that
starts with the baton rightly passes to
our colleagues on the Left we're still
here but it's not our time to lead the
core reason the long argues is
politically goes on to say when asked
what I move many identifies with its I
would say it's largely neoliberal market
oriented and market regulation in tuning
aimed at Social Democratic ends Rubin
Democrats believe you should prioritize
economic growth the idea being that we
can look to the market to provide the
material needs
of at the very least the those people
who are who are in the worst positions
economically in in the in the country
right so that's how we provide a safety
net and we raised all boats by you know
a rising tide and he goes on to say we
were 100% wrong on the politics
particularly in the context of the Obama
administration he says Barack Obama
rolls into office with Mitt Romney's
health care policy with John McCain's
climate policy with Bill Clinton's tax
policy and george w HW Bush's foreign
policy he's all these things not because
the technocrats and his administration
think they're the best policies possible
but because White House adviser David
Axelrod and companies say they poll well
and he says all of these would the idea
that you could then collect a broad
political coalition behind what is
indeed Romney's health care policy
McCain's climate policy HW Bush's
foreign policy and did George HW Bush
and Mitt Romney did John McCain say a
single good word about anything Barack
Obama ever did over the course of eight
solid years no they did not he
says no allegiance to the truth on
anything other than the belief that John
Bainer Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell are
the leaders of the Republican Party and
since they've decided on scorched earth
where we backed them to the hilt
this is a guy who learned the lesson
sadly not in real time but better late
than never
he will be show see the inside of a
gulag today there's literally nobody on
the right between those frenetic
frantically accommodating Donald Trump
on the one hand and to us on the other
except for our brave friends in exile
Nikaido Institute now trying to build
something and then he goes X is a good
line about that though later on I don't
know if it's that same point yes well
it's it's similar he goes on to say like
he says when you say
he's asked when you pass a passed the
baton to the left does that mean give up
on substantive policies meaning when you
meaning Ruben Democrats who disagree
with left and goes no it means argue
with them to the extent that their
policies are going to be wrong and
destructive but also accept there is no
political path to a coalition built from
the Rubin Center out instead we
accommodate ourselves to those to our
left bend the knee on some level he's
that's what he's saying to the extent
that they will not respond to our
concerns what they're proposing is a
hell of a lot better than the poke in
the eye with a sharp stick that's either
trumpets proposals or the current status
in other words he's saying you can have
an argument with the left to try and fix
their policy proposals but at the end of
the day know that the worst case
scenario in terms of capitulating to the
left is far better than anything that is
to the right of us and he goes on to say
that we need to reorient who our
coalition is and we need to accept the
policies that we think are sub optimal
because they are far more they are far
more acceptable than anything we would
get from the right and he goes until
something non rubbish is built in the
Republican Center what might be good
incremental policies just cannot be
successfully implemented in in America
as we know it today
we need Medicare for all funded by a
carbon tax with a whole bunch of you be
high rates for the poor in public
investment in green technologies that's
the best policy given the political
economic context if the political
economic context were distant were
different well I'm fundamentally a
neoliberal shill but he goes on to say
our current bunch of leftists as far as
our wonderful people as far as leftists
in the past are concerned they're social
democrats they're very strong believers
in democracy they're very strong
believers in fair distribution of wealth
he goes I can't help himself to be they
could use a little more education with
what likely to work and what's not but
they're people who
we're very very lucky to have on our
side
that's especially opposed to the people
on the other side who are very very
strange indeed
you listen to nevertrump conservatives
like Tom Nichols or Bruce Bartlett or
Bill Kristol
or David Frum talk about all the people
they had been in meetings with biting
their tongues over the past 25 years and
your reaction can only be why didn't you
run away screaming into the night long
ago that was right that was where he's
slightly renamed things so actor Cato
that is exactly what he's he's saying
you know I'll take as much neoliberal
scolding as he wants to dish out as long
as he's willing to bend the knee that's
exactly right and so this is an and be
clear here what he's saying is that our
politics failed and we have no better
options than then I don't think he would
say bend the knee but he you say we have
no better options than capitulating to
the left even again if their policies
are suboptimal and I without that I
would just add that my console from the
Roosevelt Institute jumped in on this
and said the failures of neoliberalism
are bigger than it's politics right in
other words it's not just that there was
a misunderstanding and misapprehension
and miss comprehension of what of what
partners they would find if they took
steps to the right of the the Rubin
Democrat the neoliberal perspective it's
not just that they failed to find
partners there because at the end of the
day John McCain was a was in it to win
it and didn't care about any policy Mitt
Romney also not a good faith actor
neither George Herbert Walker Bush or
any of them it's also because their
their policies failed and konso lays it
out like this he says there are two
basic premises
of the neoliberal policies one is that
these policies would create more growth
so that yes inequality might increase
but so would wages so economic growth
first redistribution and beefing up the
safety second net second and he says the
other premise of neoliberal policies was
if we get government out of corporations
way the market would become more dynamic
and competitive and innovative and he
goes on to say that the first premise
that neoliberal policies would create
more growth and this in turn all you
know all boats would rise was a total
failure the positive effects he says
consol says of more inequality never
happened starting in 1980 the growth
rate of the economy slowed while the
economy grew at 3.9 percent from 1950 to
1980 since 1980 it's only grown at a
rate of 2.6 and more problematic is the
rate of increase of relative mobility
the rate at which people would rise up
and down the economic ladder flattened
compared to that same period the the
great compression as they call it and he
said worse absolute income mobility
whether you're better off than your
parents has also fallen so the idea that
neoliberalism would create more growth
and that this growth would provide more
opportunities even if there was more
inequality every aspect of that fell
apart it didn't create more growth and
it certainly created less far less
opportunity and that was the core I mean
when people like Peter Mandelson and New
Labour said that we're intensely relaxed
about the rich getting super rich this
is the but it was always followed by as
long as everything's going I mean as
long as we're cutting poverty as long as
we're improving living standards then
the oligarchs can
go to the top the second was that if you
take the shackles off of business they
would innovate and grow out of social
problems so there was relaxation of
antitrust enforcement because it would
lead to more competition right we've
talked about this talked about the Bork
school of antitrust taking over in the
80s unions would no longer get in the
way of business and unleash financial
sector would fun didn't lead the entire
enterprise right all the innovation the
idea of market power concentration was
seen as laughable concept stacked
against the disciplining power of the
markets themselves well the story the
financial sector is quite obvious but he
also goes on to say there are two
broader things that happen alongside it
first at the end at the level of
individual firms is that firm diamond a
diamond dynamism has fallen dramatically
the rate of business startups has fallen
in turn this has shifted the age curve
of businesses further out with firms
over 11 years accounting for 70% of the
workers in 2000 but 75% of the workers
in 2014 this is where jobs are created
when new firms are created and I also
just want to remind people that this
kind of policy has not in practice been
a truly free market policy like they
have made many laws and measures to sort
of tinker with the market and prop it up
which is not generally what you
associate with the ER look neoliberalism
but is a very important part yes and but
I think like you know the regulations
that are in there are our target II he's
talking about the broad perspective of
neoliberalism which is basically get out
of the way of of antitrust being the
biggest single roadblock to the to
competition and dynamism in the markets
and none of that worked out
you had a decrease in the number of
firms that are created a decrease in the
number of jobs that are created you had
less labor market mobility
the politics of neoliberalism have
failed but show to have the policies
failed and it's probably the case on
some level that they're related although
that's probably another post at one
point but it's interesting to see when
you have folks like Brad DeLong stepping
up and basically saying let's give up
the ghost there is real value to this
there is real value to this because it
makes it that much harder
nevermind for Howard Schultz but it
makes it that much harder for those on
the right of the Democratic Party like
you know what is Joe Biden gonna say now
there was a there story by Zack Carter
about Joe Biden's being one of the the
Democratic architects of this new era of
antitrust that has been so disastrous
fighting Ted Kennedy on this thirty
years ago but even for folks like Booker
and Harris and clover char and others I
mean there's probably Gillibrand
Gillibrand Hickenlooper who can looper
but for these folks to lose the cover of
intellectuals in that movement at the
very least in terms of the politics it
was really problematic for them well and
also you're gonna divert you know more
base level just the the resentful
destructive Clinton apparatchik still
putting out the like oh the Clintons are
just really concerned that Bernie can't
be you know Trump which is like okay
guys I don't know if that's the people
we want to be listening to advice on how
to be Trump but more broadly like
there's the all intellectual edifice of
it right like this is this is the stuff
that's supposed to sustain all of the
pettiness these are the actual arguments
that are evaporating to be fair from his
perspective I should say to be fair but
to be clear-eyed about this where I
worried about where I him and I was
worried about a Bernie candidacy I would
be telling Booker in Harris you got a
position yourself too as far left as you
can get it right now oh definitely
oh of course you know cuz he's not out
there saying Bernie's the true I don't
know is definitely not saying that I'm
not I'm not putting that on to him at
all I just think that you know
particularly well I mean you're right
it's actually but this some ways but
this is dynamic we want this is exactly
the dynamic they're out there with
pitchforks right so you guys better be
doing something inside here to keep the
keep in it
