we just mentioned this dilemma that
Alexandria Acacio Cortez has she does
not draw a salary until she is
inaugurated apparently she's going to
have to stay in a hotel the night before
she's inaugurated because she cannot
afford to get an apartment in Washington
DC and you hear these stories like Chuck
Schumer and dick durbin used to like
they were roomies oh god what a misery
um it does seem absurd that there isn't
a that there isn't some type of like
housing allowance for members of
Congress I mean we should have housing
allowance for everybody
Scott Pruett got a sort of housing
allowance in a way yes he did and
actually here's a clip of two folks from
Fox News who sort of are just about to
suggest something like that something
equally as illegal look she can't use
her campaign funds to spend on herself
otherwise she would be like Duncan
Hunter and would need a Republican
district to get reelected after being
indicted for spending your campaign
money but here's Fox News people not
necessarily being aware that that's not
appropriate
Alexandria okay CEO Cortes she says that
she's having a hard time with something
Stanford do we have an hour should I
wait okay let me know when we have it so
Alexandria four okay so you're Cortez
says this I have two months without a
salary before I'm a member of Congress
so how do I get an apartment those
little things are very real she said
this to the New York Times I think of
that it's very LX Andrea Alexandra's kzo
cortez to say this I think her
supporters what does that mean like
honestly like how how tone-deaf like
this is totally like her to say this do
they think she's making it up
no the
just think that like it's just like so
I'm such a downer so it's such a core
brand proposition for her not to
actually be a millionaire it's really
annoying how poor she insists on being
how many millionaires are there in the
house like the percentage of I mean I
know in the Senate like it's something
like ninety three percent of senators
are millionaires in the house it's
probably not nearly as high but you're
talking about wealthy people how many
are in that studio and of course they're
I mean it's it's absurd you know the
obvious response to this is like this is
a real problem because a it's a real
problem in terms of that's what a lot of
people in the country experience in fact
the vast majority of them certainly none
I mean the percentage of people in this
country who could afford to maintain an
apartment in New York in Washington DC
is probably somewhere around four to
five percent right like maybe maybe that
would to have the cash dispose of the
cash to go and just like and the idea
that their response to this is to laugh
like it just expresses how tone-deaf
they are we pick it up from from her
quote our times I think of that Andrea
Sandro because you know Cortes to say
this I think her supporters like it this
is who she is comes from the Bronx she's
young youngest member of Congress it's
tough to get an apartment in DC I also
think she's not alone she might be the
only one talking about it but a lot of
congressmen in Washington DC say given
the cost of living there it's not
exactly one thing I enjoy about this is
that I can't stop but look at her
diamond earrings as she's talking as
she's saying this and she uses the most
gringo possible pronunciation of her
name right you know I mispronounce
everybody's no no I'm not gonna you know
hold anybody to account for that but the
other part is like this is a newsflash
Acacio Cortes
is not a congressman she's a woman and
so there's other Congress folks who
people in Congress Congress members of
Congress who are going through this you
should be or Congress person they should
be Congress person talking about it but
a lot of congressmen in Washington DC
say given the cost of living there it's
not exactly the Washington I think that
well it was preceded by a year and a
half ago I was tending bar in Brooklyn
which is true by the way
well that's playing a race but the fact
of the matter is Washington DC and the
greater metropolitan area is the most
expensive Cathy in America now so if I
think what she's talking about is all of
the money in Washington all of the
wealth in Washington all of the power
and a little simple person like her from
New York can find a place to live it is
a brilliant political line are you
telling her resume that shall we just
mentioned about being from the Bronx it
turns out when you read deeper she had a
lot more former of years in Westchester
County New York a little riskier than
the Bronx I'm from New York and I wanna
throw stones in any boroughs or counties
but she her resume I was always
mentioned some of those shoots during
the campaign she had these
multi-thousand dollar outfits that could
pay a month's rent in Washington DC
you're right well I live in Washington
it's very expensive but she's been all
over the map on some of this stuff
overall what a liar and this this
segment is literally buttoned by a woman
whose main contribution to life to to
American life is lying being like a
conduit for lies about WMDs in Iraq I
didn't even know that like we have a
segment first we're gonna trash her and
just mock people at low incomes
generally because why not and then it's
like oh yeah she's an idiot she's
playing to her base by the way she
doesn't keep those dresses here explain
to your base of Dick Cheney calling you
on a phone and lying to you about Iraq
intelligence then printing it and then
Dick Cheney going on Meet the Press and
saying well you know there's an
anonymous source that I just read about
in New York Times which was himself
literally laundering his own lies for
Ana
invasion and that woman is the one in
the segment Jesus yeah well if a
OC wanted an apartment she would have
done that stuff too she made her choice
she wasn't old enough to sleep a qaddafi
in lie about WMDs it is it is really
stunning their ability to ignore the
actual just simple reality of rather
than even saying Washington D is super
expensive most people the vast majority
of Americans do not have the ability to
put down the extra 1600 to 3,500
whatever it is is gonna be for a studio
apartment in Washington DC they don't
have that available just in their bank
account yeah I've been what she was
saying is true it is an effective
political line and just saying it with a
snarky tone of voice doesn't make it bad
right like that's a good thing that this
is her political line because low-income
people are not represented in our
government right now at all yeah they
say it in a tone of like that's not fair
that she gets to say she was a bartender
last year that's what is Abraham Lincoln
in a cabin she had she had a good
response tweet about it actually he
didn't chop down the cherry tree which
is a great political line she said there
is no reason to be ashamed or
embarrassed
mocking lower incomes is exactly how
those who benefit from and promote
wealth inequality the most keep every
day people silent about one of the worst
threats to American society that the
rich are getting richer and the poor
poorer boom and like I I've even dealt
with this in my own work in my own life
like writing about Millennials and
finances and housing and stuff like cuz
I I read in the first person a lot and
like in one of my guardian columns I'm
like should I not admit that I am a
broke millennial who spends more than
half of my income on housing I was like
no like that's not my fault like there's
nothing to be ashamed of well it also
you know I don't know if she was Ray
in Westchester and I don't I mean let's
mean I don't know where in Westchester
and I don't know the circumstances house
it's not a mansion but but the bottom
line is but even still yeah I mean she's
a grown woman and probably her parents
money - the way all right that's a big
part of her story is having to work to
basically help salvage a family home I
think because her father passed yeah if
you don't know the backstory sure like
the guy said if you look at it a bit
closer no looking a bit closer yeah look
at exactly take their word for it and
look at it a bit closer and incidentally
look at Judith Miller a bit closer
unrelated but I think I almost met her
at Politico know Brendan was she could
have had you're Henry Kissinger okay you
could have had your moment I did I
totally ignored her good because I
wasn't sure if it was her but I thought
if it's her I don't even want to
acknowledge her presence and I can't
remember who I was talking to but I
think he introduced her as Judy and I
was just like and just went did one of
these and that's when I started getting
like a little bit creeped out like I
can't even I don't even want to be I
need my security guy where's the bald
guy who needs I need I'm going to cure
it Amy from Judith Miller well I just
don't want like he's magic knowledge you
don't want the picture well it's not
just I'm not it's not like I'm afraid of
of being seen with her it's that I just
if I actually start talking to this lady
I'm I you know I don't want you know I
was saying I went to a viewing of this
vice this Adam McKay movie and it was a
good movie and it was interesting I mean
most of this stuff about Dick Cheney in
terms of what he did as vice president I
was aware of because this was an era
where I read you know every book that
came out and interviewed all the authors
of
the books about Dick Cheney there was a
lot of stuff I didn't know about his
life personally at all and it was and
it's interesting but I also like I don't
want this guy to be humanized in any way
because well but in you know like it's
inevitable if you make a film about
somebody of course you're gonna humanize
them right like you want a movie and you
want to capture like what drives them
what what you know what's their family
relationships like even if it shows that
the guy's a scumbag he's still being
humanized and a my feeling about this is
that it's dangerous to humanize these
figures because people didn't Dick
Cheney's relevance to history is not
what he did in his family life and I can
understand I can see the value of it
like in the context of a book like if
you want to seriously dive in and and
and and from an academic perspective
from a very thoughtful perspective
understand what makes some of these
psychos who seek power obsessively and
use that power to the detriment of
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
millions of people millions of people
I'm just thinking about the actual dead
which i think is probably a closer like
750 but and Counting probably be honest
but oh then it is in the millions of you
counting by what he unleashed right is
right and so in my mind it's like and I
can see it wouldn't be necessarily a
very good movie to just show everything
he did maybe as vice president and the
implications of it I think the movie
captured a lot of that I just am
uncomfortable with any humanization of
people like this and that's why I never
want to see them in person or any of
that because I'm sure they're human of
course they're human all humans are
human innocents but for us to under
and the implications of what they're
doing their humanity is wholly
irrelevant
they are figures on a political stage
using power and there's not if you're
going to think about the humanity of all
the people that were implicated by the
decisions that Dick Cheney made as vice
president you could live 4,000 years and
not have the time to contemplate his
humanity
the pain and suffering that this guy
caused on innocent people on children on
fathers on mothers and brothers and
sisters it is so enormous that to
contemplate his humanity is is an
injustice to these people
