CEDA the destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of India late
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
it is Monday September 23 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today robert
kuttner on the stakes 2020 and the
survival of American democracy also on
the program today Trump admits
soliciting Ukrainian election help but
it's okay meanwhile Nancy Pelosi
pretends like she might allow
impeachment to move forward Elizabeth
Warren takes the lead in an Iowa poll
Bernie in a dead heat in New Hampshire
are we nearing hey Joe Biden freefall
speaking of free-falling cory booker
announces he has 8 days to raise 2
million bucks I'll have to quit the race
un
looking to push for more climate action
as they get a lashing from a teenage
girl deserve it well done not my
daughter
and while Modi campaigns with Donald
Trump
meaning Kashmir can expect no help from
the United States also Tulsi says Mahalo
[Music]
Bureau of Land Management moves out of
DC and into the offices into offices
alongside oil and gas companies
literally made this one all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen first off allow me to
apologize there's something going on my
voice I'm not quite sure what it is I
don't know if I have like a cold the
nascent cold or I just slept on on my
face incorrectly at one point over the
weekend I'm not sure so forgive me we
are also skeleton crew today just Matt
and Brendan here with us but it's the
efficiency crew it is the efficiency
crew I would have to say that like if
they were gonna have a skeleton that's
the skeleton I would want I don't know
what parts of the skeleton are the most
important parts of the skeleton really
but that's a good thing so you're in
good hands
ladies and gentlemen another week this
one should be interesting there are
significant calls for the impeachment of
Donald Trump we have now about what is
it like a hundred and forty some odd
Democratic Congress people who have
signaled that they want to move forward
with impeachment of Donald Trump public
that is prior to all this stuff about
the whistleblower on Thursday the
Director of National Intelligence
McGuire acting I guess right they're all
acting will testify in front of the
House Intelligence Committee public
testimony and the question will be will
he hand over the whistleblower complaint
and allow for the whistleblower to come
and testify to Congress now remember the
donald trump appointed inspector general
of the directed of National Intelligence
has deemed this whistleblower complaint
to be valid enough to trigger the
statute that requires its reporting to
Congress there there is simply no
legitimate argument about this I mean
IIIi haven't seen a single legal scholar
who is named come out and say look well
no and and so there's no question here
that this type of stonewalling should in
and of itself be enough for impeachment
here is Donald Trump there's two clips
we have a DA drum which one which should
we play the other one first yeah now I
think this is at the UN and this is
where he discusses or I think it's at
the UN where he discusses and maybe both
of these are where he discusses this
phone call which The Wall Street Journal
Friday afternoon
reported there were eight times where
Trump asked the question for something
we should remind you that Donald Trump
well listen to this everybody knows it's
just a Democrat witch hunt here we go
again
they failed with Russia they failed with
recession they failed with everything
and now they're bringing this up the one
who's got the problem is Biden as you
look at what Biden did Biden did what
they would like to have me do except for
one problem I didn't do it
what Biden did is a disgrace what his
son did is a disgrace the son took money
from Ukraine the son took money from
China a lot of money from China okay so
there's a Donald Trump pivoting from it
was a nice conversation with the
president Ukraine and but what what I
did what they're accusing me of doing is
actually what Biden did last night
Donald Trump tweets out that it was a
nice call right I mean the fake news
media says I pressured the Ukrainian
president at least eight times during my
phone call with him now I don't know
what that means he pressured him eight
times it sounds like he specifically
asked a specific question I don't know
how you enumerate eight pressure points
be nice to see the transcript it would
be actually very helpful I think for the
president for us to see this this
supposedly comes from a so-called
whistleblower who they say doesn't even
have a first-hand account of what was
said more Democrat crooked media con
breaking news the Ukrainian government
just said they weren't pressured at all
during a nice call sleepy Joe Biden on
the other hand forced a tough prosecutor
out of investigating the sun's company
we'll talk about that a little bit later
that's the real story so that's it it
was just a nice call there was no
pressuring they just talked about nice
things you know like you're a good guy
be good good is good it's be appropriate
be appropriate watch it watch your
language and but the today at the United
Nations Trump seems to like sort of
pivot off that a little bit
[Music]
what we are doing is we want honesty and
if we deal with a country we want
honesty and I think with the new
president you're going to see much more
honesty into Ukraine and that's what
we're looking for we're supporting a
country we want to make sure that
country is honest it's very important to
talk about corruption if you don't talk
about corruption why would you give
money to a country that you think is
corrupt one of the reasons the new
President got elected is he was going to
stop the corruption so it's very
important that one occasion you speak to
somebody about corruption very okay now
I don't know how your nice phone calls
go but buried in that jibber-jabber was
an ultimatum if you're gonna want to see
if you're gonna support a country you
want them to be honest now on most of my
nice phone calls I don't question the
honesty of the people I'm talking to and
then to the extent that I am questioning
the honesty I don't necessarily say and
I'm not going to give you the support
that I have given you in the past
because I suspect you're dishonest I
just want you to root out corruption and
I'm gonna say that eight times and
deckle money in front of you
he almost admits he's like walking up to
the line what why this is what I surmise
is happening they are very concerned
that at one point this transcript is
gonna get out there by hook or crook and
what he is now already doing is trying
to reinterpret the transcript so when I
was saying you better do this or you're
not gonna get the money I was just
saying be honest now the problem that
Trump has is that everybody knows he's a
complete pathological liar the the one
possible saving grace he has is that the
one means of holding him to account and
by this I don't mean Donald Trump was
gonna be walked out of office that's not
going to happen
politically being held to account
in other words perhaps paying a price
politically for doing this the one thing
that could make that happen or that
could prevent that from happening is
Nancy Pelosi right now the difference
between the Democratic party not holding
him to account and the Republican party
not holding him to account if you don't
understand that dynamic I don't maybe I
can't explain it to you but it is so
massive and so obvious in the context of
a two-party political system heading
into a presidential election year
right now Donald Trump's criminal
behavior is on Nancy Pelosi because she
is next in line to respond to it nobody
else can she is the only one now who can
say we're gonna take the brakes off of
this impeachment stuff or we're gonna
keep the brakes on that's it there's no
one else
Mitch McConnell is not on the hook for
this until Nancy Pelosi does her job
that's just the reality of this politics
not to mention the idea that the Speaker
of the House is not going to give cover
to whomever is the Democratic nominee
and by cover I simply mean not to cover
up their their wrongdoing if there was
any wrongdoing and frankly I don't know
that there was but political cover we
can see what's going on the New York
Times is reporting this literally in the
first paragraph of their story on Joe
Biden is The Times has no evidence of
anything that was corrupt or any law
breaking and then it just goes on to
talk about to talk about it for
for paragraphs and but it's a it's a the
fact of the matter is it's it's a fairly
nuanced situation in which I think very
hard to say that there's no sort of
structural corruption here because there
is but it is it's not illegal and I'm
not apologizing for it at all I I'm and
frankly I think it if it was up to me it
would be disqualifying only because it
is a huge liability going into an
election like this and in the fact that
matters I think like with other
candidates if there was a similar
dynamic I don't think it would be as
problematic to be honest with you but
here's the here's the deal let's just
get this out of the way so Joe Biden's
son Hunter is being paid at one point
something like fifty grand a month to
sit on the board of a Ukrainian energy
company now I don't know what hunter
Biden's specialty is but I would be very
very hard pressed to believe that hunter
Biden had some type of like doctorate in
Ukrainian energy markets or supplies but
his father at the time was vice
president is that illegal
no is it corrupt in the way that our
government has become corrupted like
broadly yes does that mean that Joe
Biden did anything wrong no in fact it
appears it appears from the reporting
now that what joe biden was doing was
pushing out or helping to push out a
prosecutor whom other governments
including the US government felt was not
doing enough to pursue corruption in
fact this prosecutor had suspended the
investigation on the company that hunter
Biden was working for and Joe Biden was
pushing this guy out for a prosecutor
who would be more aggressive and going
after this corruption now the it's quite
possible that Joe Biden was doing this
with the knowledge of like I can I can
push for this we need less corruption
there and my son will be fine
you know the there was probably nothing
illicit about at all about him being
paid this money but we all know why it
was it was because they were hoping to
get influence that's the problem we have
with lobbying that's the problem that we
have with paid speeches that's the
problem we have with all this but it's
not nearly as illicit is what Donald
Trump has done and so the question is
like how do you if Joe Biden ends up
being the nominee how do you deal with
this and for Nancy Pelosi to be sitting
on her Duff protecting or what she
thinks is protecting some of these
frontline Democrats in the house which i
think is dubious particularly based upon
all the data is absurd it's absurd
playing this type of defense this
defensive posture there's four corners
that they're playing is is going to hurt
the Democrats and I mean if it was up to
me I would say Joe Biden drop out
because the reality is the media is not
fair this sucks
it was it's not a good look and this is
too important of an election and the
problem with Joe Biden has that is
unique to Joe Biden because if Bernie
Sanders son was getting paid by the same
company I think it would be far less of
a problem if Elizabeth Warren
if people judges husband it was being
paid by the same company in the same
fashion I think it would be less of a
problem pick whoever whatever candidate
it is the problem that Joe Biden has is
with what is Joe Biden running on I'm
not corrupt Donald Trump is corrupt
he's undercutting American values I'm
not going to do that
he is besmirching the office I will
restore its dignity the problem is Joe
Biden is running on his personal
attributes in character and his
integrity and this strikes to the heart
of that all the other candidates not all
but for the vast majority of them are
running on a series of policy platforms
some I like some I don't like whatever
their candidacy is not so contingent
upon who they are as individuals Trump
is gonna try and do it he's gonna try
and do it he's gonna say crazy Bernie or
he's gonna say you know Pocahontas or
he's gonna say you know what does he say
about Buddha judge like a little pea
little Pete or whatever it is that he's
going he's going to attack them as their
individual as individuals but the
problem he has with that is that these
people actually have policy sets and
they're basing their campaigns on that
Joe Biden's not that's why Joe Biden is
a has a liability that's unique to him
and Nancy Pelosi is exacerbating it this
is just incompetence by frankly a I want
to say a generation of Democrats but
it's really a generational mindset that
these two Democratic leaders are stuck
in and it's gonna screw us all frankly
good time to talk to robert kuttner
about the stakes in 2020 today before we
do
you know you spend 130 your life in your
sheets right I guess I'm not gonna make
any comments about others who do
sometimes it's more right don't you want
them to be insanely comfortable I do I
love my sheets and they've been named
the winner of the best online bedding
category by how good housekeeping but
guess what I don't need good
housekeeping to tell me this Brooklyn
and offers luxury sheets towels bedding
and more without the luxury markup I
just got a Brooklyn and hello to don't
mention that here but I got a pillow
over 20 plus colors and patterns you can
mix and match these sheets don't just
feel great they look great too it's true
my whole bedding game has been elevated
not just from a I can sleep better
perspective but it also looks better I
have but I've sheets that look like an
adult now and I've don't I'm not
terribly consistent with my washing but
I can mix and match with these things
they all seem to go together or at least
I think I did a fairly decent job of
picking a couple of different sets that
fit what nicely super comfortable
they're the most comfortable sheets I've
ever slept on high quality I got the
cool crisp classic cotton ones the
towels have turned my bathroom into a
spa my pillow it's hard to find a pillow
I like I love it couldn't recommend the
more friends family treating yourself to
an upgrade you deserve and now Brooklyn
and dot-com is giving an exclusive offer
just my listeners get 10% off and free
shipping when you use the promo code
majority of Brooklyn in Brooklyn is so
confident in their product that all
their sheets comforters towels come with
a lifetime warranty the only way to get
10% off and free shipping is to use
promo code majority at Brooklyn in calm
that's Brooklyn in BR oh okay Li n en
dot-com promo code majority Brooklyn
these are the best sheets ever all these
products I use today that's the thing is
that I've read
did I think for different advertisers
this past week some because it's just
industries that we won't do I won't I'm
not going to name any names but I'm not
going to do a chemical company that used
to belong to another chemical company
that has done some bad things to the
environment I'm not gonna do any
financial services or you know anything
to that ilk and then I have some like
retail things that like I've tried the
product I didn't like it and I don't
want to push it but these I use not only
do I sleep I eat and nutrition is on
everybody's minds people are trying to
eat better what when and how much they
eat it's a mess of conflicting
information it can confuse anybody
kettle bell kitchen knows that meal
planning isn't one-size-fits-all it's
why they offered a personalized solution
this is I feel like if something is also
like super millennial too it's the
convenience I really like about this too
kettle bells kitchen goal is to achieve
yours with meal plans that are tailored
to your needs you can sign up for a plan
or order a la carte no long-term
contracts required food is delivered to
your door twice a week all their meals
are dairy-free soy-free artificial
sweetener free and made from ingredients
that are naturally free of gluten
you can even filter your choices by
calorie by protein by fat by carb limit
so you get exactly the right food for
your unique needs so when I'm not with
the kids this is how I've been eating I
don't have time to make as much food I'm
not as dedicated when I'm with the kids
I make the food more but when I'm alone
I want to be able to eat a good meal I
don't have to worry about like I'm I'm
trying to get a little more fit
sometimes I fall off the wagon a little
bit with cookies in the studio button
kettle bell kitchen has been extremely
helpful and I think it's gonna be a much
bigger part of my diet going forward
they got stuff like you can get a waiver
ranch uh ranch house what do you call
that huevos Ranchero
and I had these wild salmon cakes they
give you greens they give you a wild
salmon cakes they got like chicken
Waldorf they got some vegetarian offers
if you want all and you can do it like a
like a keto meal or just a have a
protein meal you can completely
structure these things feed the champion
in you with kettle bell kitchen go to
kettle bell kitchen calm and to the code
majority for 50 bucks off your first two
orders for new customers that's $50 off
your first two orders at kettle bell
kitchen dot-com code majority as always
check out our podcast notes for links to
this and lastly this is a golden age of
television of podcasts everybody
understands the the value of a
compelling narrative cue hunter-killer
it's the murder mystery box that
immerses you in an ongoing experience
this is pretty awesome so you get in
each they call it seasons right because
it's sort of structured like a murder
mystery you get six episodes per season
and with each one you dive deeper into
like the the feeling of being a
detective they send you documents they
send you evidence Case Files you've got
to go through this and figure it out
you're not staring at a screen you can
build you know the the bulletin board
the investigation board with friends or
you can do it online if you need to but
you helped each other through every
challenge I'm doing it with my kid but
it's also I think something that like
people used to you know have like a
little parlor game type of situation you
get a little bit older maybe that's like
a Boomer thing I don't know I'm joking
plus part of the proceeds of every box
goes to the cold-case foundation to help
fund cold case investigations this is
it's a lot of fun it's nice to do like a
game that is really sort of compelling
and mile was like a big SB
you fan not SVU law-and-order just the
generic law-and-order
I was like he you into this she was
right now just for our listeners you can
go to hunter-killer dot-com slash
majority for 20% off your first box they
only accept 200 members per day so hard
to take advantage of this offer
that's hunt a killer dot-com / majority
for 20% off your first box head over to
the website you can see what this is all
about it's pretty self-explanatory hunt
a killer dot-com / majority all right
we're gonna take a quick break like I
say all of those we have links to all of
those ads in our in our podcast
description if you're a member of the
program you won't hear those ads but you
can go and check out the deals that we
have and then check out the web sites
you can become a member by going to join
the majority report com cut out the ads
we give you extra content every day join
the majority report comm you support the
free show and we give you extra bonuses
we're going to take a quick break when
we come back robert kuttner founder of
the American Prospect on the stakes 2020
in the survival of American democracy
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it is a pleasure to welcome to
the program co-founder and co-editor of
the American Prospect former columnist
for Businessweek Washington Post Boston
Globe the IDA and Meyer kirstine chair
at Brandeis University and author of his
latest the stakes 2020 in the survival
of American democracy robert kuttner
welcome back to the program thank you
for having me
so I think I think I hope that the this
audience perceives the stakes here at
least you know in the immediate sense
but just walk us through how you
perceive Donald Trump has I guess for
lack of a better term grown in this
office and why he is on a trajectory
that if reelected becomes that much more
you know what's really bizarre is that
on the one hand he's become more
psychiatrically impaired and on the
other hand he's become more competent at
subverting American democracy so for
instance for the first couple of years
he had minders he had mainstream minders
at the Justice Department as White House
chief of staff he had the three generals
who were at the Pentagon and at the
National Security Administration of
Homeland Security after after his first
two years in office he shook all of them
off
you know Steve Benton was worried that
the so-called deep state would constrain
Donald Trump well the deep state is not
doing that as effectively as it did the
the offsetting news of course is that
despite all the messing with democracy
the Democrats were able to flip 43
Republican House seats so at least you
now got one house that is able to
investigate Trump and he doesn't have
wall-to-wall control of the government
but there are so many things that he
could do in a second term that he hasn't
quite gotten around who yet he hasn't
figured out yet he's trying to get
control of the
police agencies the IRS the FBI the CIA
he's sorted done that he hasn't totally
done it he could launch an all-out war
against the pressed through prosecutions
under the 1917 Espionage Act where
reporters would be vulnerable for
prosecutions if they happen to refer to
classified material which they have a
perfect right to do if they haven't
signed a national security oath and I go
through all the stuff in the book that
he that he could do in a second he could
go off he could go after nonprofits he
could he could SiC the IRS on nonprofits
and get them caught up in in technical
violations and of course progressive
groups are much more dependent on
nonprofit status than conservative
groups who have all the corporate money
they need
so the alarmist part I don't I don't
think your listeners need a tutorial on
that I mean we all know all the things
to be alarmed about if Trump wins a
second term I think the more important
part of the book is the argument that in
order to win and to win big and to win
beyond the margin of theft the Democrats
need to nominate an economic progressive
because it's those issues where Trump
was able to steal the Democrats clause
in in 2016 and it's those issues where a
progressive Democrat can really draw a
distinction between what we stand for
and what he stands for and and win back
some of those voters who defected to
Trump
I'm social issues on identity issues on
issues where Hillary was correctly
perceived to be in bed with Wall Street
and voters just concluded that they're
all a bunch of scoundrels and I might as
well vote for somebody who's going to
blow it up and maybe I'll get some of
the pieces or or I think and maybe even
more substantial is those people who
said they're both scoundrels I'm staying
home or I'm gonna leave I'm gonna leave
the presidency blank there was a
tremendous matchup of votes in Wisconsin
but was way down right
before we get to that let's just go I
just want to go back like when we talk
about his
version of democracy like there's hi
where is the delineation between just
policy sets that are indicative of
what's been happening over the past 40
years and you know that are making our
country sort of like it I don't know how
to articulate this more more softly less
democratic right like just less
egalitarian I guess on some respect or
where the spoils of society are being
hoarded by few and where the costs and
responsibilities of society are being
dispersed specifically to those who are
not getting the spoils of society as it
were and they're well yeah I mean where
do you delineate like is ours all that
anti-democratic or are you talking about
like specific institutions when you talk
about he could be taking over the IRS or
he could be attacking specifically you
mean with them it's a it's a very
important distinction and my whole point
in this book is that there's a
connection between these two things so
on the one hand you know you have rule
of law to process courts as an
independent branch of government all
that stuff and we we know how Trump runs
roughshod over that on the other hand we
have all the stuff that's been going on
over the past 30 years where
concentrated economic power turns into
concentrated political power which gives
economic elites more power to rig the
rules against regular people so that
they get more and more the spoils and
ordinary people get less and less of a
reasonable share of the economy now
those things came together in 2016 and I
think they need to be attacked as a
common problem that's why I think it's
so important that we we nominate and
elect a progressive because if you can
run the economy in such a way that it's
not so highly concentrated that Wall
Street doesn't get to make all the rules
that regular people get more benefit
then you know people start believing in
democracy again it's it's no accident
that there was no support for
dictatorship
anywhere in the West in the 30 or 40
years after World War two because the
economy was delivering for regular
people and that in turn meant that the
political system had some legitimacy and
when the economy loses legitimacy the
political system loses legitimacy so you
got to take back both things at the same
time and turn what has been a vicious
circle back into a virtuous circle and
to be fair I mean we're also talking
post-world war two we're also talking
the the world had a fairly bad taste in
its mouth about dictators and
authoritarians and all so I think at
least in this country they're you know
not everybody was participating in this
great expansion this economic expansion
at least in terms of like you know
political participation and so what I
mean how much I mean before we go sort
of like forward as to what the solution
is how much responsibility do you
perceive Democrats in having a stake or
a role in what culminated with Donald
Trump I mean on some level the leap you
know Donald Trump wins by a razor-thin
almost impossibly thin margin I guess
maybe 2000 was also pretty razor thin
but the fact of the matter that it was
that close that you you you you have the
ability for a fluke like that to happen
is indicative of something really going
off the rails in American society I mean
you just mentioned the what what Trump
could do in terms of prosecuting
journalists the Obama administration
more or less did the same it seems to me
or pretty darn close and certainly set
the the table how much of the Democrats
up to this point have how much
responsibility do they bear in in what
has happened in the past I don't know 30
40 years yeah it's a very good question
so if you start with with Clinton really
or even to some extent with Carter who
was a big supporter of deregulation of
the economy
and did not do much of anything for
trade unions he had three presidencies
in a row
we're on civil rights issues Democrats
were pretty good but on economic issues
that were terrible they were there were
okay in the environment they were okay
on a few other issues but on the big
question of who governs capitalism Bill
Clinton was worse than either President
Bush in terms of taking the lead on
deregulating Wall Street which in turn
led to the collapse of 2008 which in
turn screwed more than 10 million
homeowners and and really came back to
haunt mrs. Clinton in 2016 and Obama who
really had an opportunity right he mean
he's elected president mainly because
the economy collapses on george w bush's
watch and you know the economy collapses
in September of 2008 and the Republican
nominee John McCain does a terrible job
of presenting himself as a persuasive
leader in an economic crisis and Obama
looks pretty good
so he gets elected and what does he do
he appoints Bill Clinton's team the same
guys who gave us deregulation Geithner
summers Bernanke to to fix it and what
do they do instead of breaking up the
banks they bail out the banks so on the
on the big economic issues that cost
Democrats credibility with ordinary
working people the Democrats were about
as bad as the as the Republicans and
what happened in in 2016 and Steve
Bannon was the master strategist there I
mean you you meld together economic
nationalism with resentment on the part
of working people that their economic
status has gone down the drain that's
all mixed together with with cultural
resentments about women about
african-americans and you package it so
that it's resentment against the status
quo and a lunatic like Trump can get
elected president and Hillary is
frosting on the cake
she's taking half a million dollar
speaking fees from Wall Street and
people say you know what the hell
they're all the same Democrats
Republicans let's vote for a complete
outsider so on the on the question of
economic concentration and ordinary
working people not getting a decent
shake Democrats are equally culpable on
the issue of whether you honor process
democracy I think the Republicans are a
lot worse I mean
Gingrich and then McConnell you know
they they ran the show so that there was
no legitimate role for the opposition
party they played much rougher on the
Supreme Court
they made much more abusive use of
emergency presidential power and so on
the process issues the Democrats were
better but unfortunately you don't get
elected as a process liberal you get
elected based on whether you're
perceived as delivering for ordinary
people and on that basis the Democrats
got into bed with Wall Street and Trump
was the result so my point is we better
not repeat that in in 2020 and when Joe
Biden says well Trump is an aberration
we got to return to normal the answer to
that is hey normal wasn't good enough
normal economically was what elected
Donald Trump so let's say I want to go
further into that that question as to
why is to you know how you see this
playing out with the election I mean
we're we're already starting to see some
abidance support start to you know I
guess drop as more and more people as
something that I think the latest I've
seen is 9% of Democratic voters have
made up their mind for sure so there's a
lot of fluidity in in where where people
are although it doesn't it seems to be
still sort of maintained around the top
three candidates well just play this out
for us I mean Joe Biden supposedly
appeals to these who get it we're told
anyways appeals to the Midwesterners who
abandoned the Democrats or who
who didn't show up for the Democrats we
also know that he has a certain amount
of Appeal amongst older african-american
voters which is substantial they're
obviously a major cohort in in terms of
supporting Democrats I mean what what
what is the formula here aside from just
sort of why are you know if what you're
saying is the case that people don't
want to return to normal
why is that not why are we not seeing
that quite yet well you are you are
really starting to see it so let's take
him one at a time I mean Biden you know
Biden barely holds it together
I mean Biden this kind of past is full
day leaving aside where he is on the
well right I mean that I think that is
actually sort of like a a let's put that
aside for a moment because I do think
that actually ultimately may be the most
important factor because even the people
who support Biden's issue sets I think
are starting to sort of say like this is
a guy who is I keep using this phrase
leaking oil that you know this is manat
be the best vehicle even for our you
know even for this specific issue set
but putting that aside well but stay on
that for a second because you really
can't put it aside I mean that the
candidate as a person becomes bundled
with the candidates right on the issues
and because he keeps tripping over
himself
it's not even clear where he stands on
some issues I also think you know this
this business with with Trump trying to
use the Ukrainians to investigate 100
Biden is really going to hurt Biden as
well as Trump because it's gonna it's
going to reinforce this notion that
they're all a bunch of scoundrels
you know Trump has kids who were corrupt
well maybe Biden has a kid who's corrupt
and they're all a bunch of scoundrels
and I think I think this is going to
hurt Biden independently of all the
other stuff that's going to hurt by the
other thing that's going on is that
Warren is really very interesting I mean
it de Moines Register poll came out on
Sunday and it shows the first choice of
Iowa voters likely to vote in the
precinct caucuses a 22-4 war in 24 Biden
11 for Sanders and there's this
mysterious quality called momentum and
Warren seems to have it and the other
two don't seem to have it and just let
me also speak to the question of older
african-american voters you know you
take it a lot of this is the Obama halo
effect and then you start taking a
closer look at Obama's record on race
whether it's school integration or
whether it's strong prison long prison
sentences or whether it's tactically
getting into bed with some pretty nasty
Republican senators the more and more
that comes to light I think the more his
support among African Americans was
going to dwindle there was a policeman
at times I think yesterday about younger
African Americans trying to persuade
their parents and their grandparents
that widening so great and as more and
more attention is focused on the on the
election I think you're going to see
more and more of that happening Warren
is interesting in this regard because
you know for 15 years she has been
fighting the banks on the whole question
of fair mortgages for african-americans
and the the kind of second tier
leadership in the black community is
very very aware of that so I think the
expectations are so high for the
southern primaries on Super Tuesday
we're about 60% of the electorate in the
Democratic parties african-american that
if Biden underperforms there that's
going to be devastating and I think the
expectations are so high that I don't
see how he can possibly meet them to me
the thing I'm most worried about is the
point at which Bernie Sanders realizes
that his nemesis is a little bit warrant
and then what happens because both of
them can't get nominated and then how
ugly and nasty does it get I mean
Democrats you know are famous for doing
each other in and screwing up a sure
thing
and we've never had a situation where we
had an embarrassment of riches on the
progressive side so now we got two
frontrunners were both progressives and
how does that play out I mean it seems
to me that that Elizabeth Warren without
Bernie Sanders in the race and it's
quite conceivable right that Elizabeth
Warren could find that Bernie Sanders is
her nemesis as well at one point they
cancel each other out that's right they
cancel each other but they also protect
each other it seems to me because if it
was just if it was just Warren and Biden
right now in the race or just to Sanders
and Biden in the race I think that that
they would they would be under constant
assault I agree with you and and it's
almost like a prisoner's dilemma which
one of them defects first and starts you
know having their surrogates snipe but
the other one this this happened last
week when when Sanders was asleep at the
switch and Warren won the Working
Families Party endorsement and there was
a lot of sniping in the Twittersphere
and a lot of sniping in the left-wing
press that this endorsement was somehow
underhandedly stolen from from Sanders
because the Working Families Party did
endorse Sanders last time so you're
gonna the more if in fact Warren
continues to overtake Sanders and
there's every evidence that that could
well happen you know you're going to see
more and more of this sniping but but
they do protect each other in the
following sense I mean even though
Warren chooses not to call herself a
socialist she's every bit as radical on
the whole question of how you reform
American capitalism and what you do
about it as Sanders is and in some
respects she's better at it because
she's a closer student of it you know
Bernie's kind of a socialist from 30,000
feet
whereas Warren has spent the last 20
years really looking at the details of
American capitalism up close and
personal which is why she's got all
these highly detailed plans on what to
do and you it's very funny some people
kind of on the center-left who I talked
to sort of say well at least at least at
least Warren isn't isn't as bad if
Sanders well just between us and your
listeners
if you were goldman sachs warren is
every bit as bad as sanders and probably
a lot more effective let me I mean I
think that's true in the context of
Goldman Sachs but but let me ask you
that I mean this was this this is a nice
segue into a question that I have and I
think there's a lot of folks who would
say it is the case that that that Warren
is for a lot of reform extreme reform
and regulation antitrust is I think it
was a big part of that and diminishing
the power of capital by by making them
you know providing more competition
amongst them what do you say to those
people who say that Sanders
fundamentally is is for a greater
restructuring of I mean a greater
assault on the structures that
inevitably keep bringing us back to this
place I mean because if let's say you
know a piketty's argument is that rather
than us straying from where we were in
during the great compression that you
know the those years that the great
compression was actually an anomaly that
under the context of capitalism as were
currently structured that it is
inevitable that we're gonna go back to
society that you can undo regulations a
bill we just talked about Bill Clinton
deregulating the banks that we certainly
saw the the the regulatory framework of
Obama being unraveled that you know that
that it's that it you need to have much
bigger bolder programs that are
sustainable and that Sanders approach is
a little bit more Universal in the way
that he configures these programs let me
address both parts of the question
so I think if you look at the details of
warns strategy for restructuring how
corporations are organized and what they
have to do if you look at her plan for
cutting private equity off at the knees
if you look at what each of them would
do for trade unions if you look at what
each of them would do to break up
economic concentration warren is every
bit as radical as Sanders and probably a
lot better on the details but let me
come back to this Thomas Piketty
question
he's a very good statistical historian
he's a lousy political economist and he
leaves out politics you know the reason
that the income distribution got more
equal between Roosevelt and LBJ was for
one simple reason
working people were mobilized and
progressives were the dominant tendency
in American politics now the Vietnam War
screwed that up I mean it sort of broke
the New Deal Great Society Coalition
into hardhats and hippies and then a
little bit later you had backlash
against the effort by Johnson to pass
civil rights legislation but the whole
story of the post-war boom in Europe and
the u.s. is that when the working class
is mobilized you can fight capitalism to
a draw you can regulate the hell out of
it you can have strongly empowered trade
unions you can have a lot of social
income and and lo and behold you can
keep capitalism in its box where
entrepreneurship creates innovation but
the financial elites don't run the whole
political economy so I I think the the
hope here is that you mobilize regular
people you get them to appreciate that
they have common class interests which
transcend racial divisions so that Trump
and Bannon can't play their their game
of racial division and you take back the
politics and then you take back the
economy that's the hope it's not easy
but it's possible but if you get to that
point why
would you allow I mean if you look at
capitalism's power like a balloon right
where you're basically saying like you
know that you under the right
circumstances if people garner enough
and generated enough political strength
they can they can they can match
capitalism to a draw but but isn't that
the isn't that really one half of the
argument as to why you should actually
have more structural change because yeah
that you if you have that ability at
that moment why not instead of deflating
the tire why not just put a big hole in
it and not allow that tire to reflate
well look I mean people like me are in
favor of a good deal of direct public
ownership right there's a wonderful book
that I recommend by Ganesh Tudor Amin
who's one of Warren's chief advisors
called public options where Ganesh says
okay let's have public banking let's
have public banking through the post
office let's have public Medicare
let's have public this let's have public
that and by having more and more of the
economy offering public options to
compete with private options you know
that's a kind of socialism I mean
Roosevelt was for this Roosevelt was for
public power Roosevelt was for public
role in banking so I'm not saying that
we shouldn't include some socialistic
aspects of this but you know unless you
want the government to take over the
whole economy which I don't think is
what most Americans want I do think it's
possible to have an economy that has a
lot of public ownership a lot of public
regulation and and the single most
important part of this is strongly
empowered workers because that's where
you get your political majority and we
have a historic record that this can
actually work but you need your people
mobilize politically all
of the time because if the economy is
even partly capitalistic that you know
the capitalists clawback a lot of power
and that's the story the last 40 years
so you're right but but you know I'm not
sure where your tire metaphor goes you
need to really limit their political
power you need to constrain what they
can do economically you need to counter
veil it with public institutions but you
know I'm not a Bolshevik I mean I don't
think you you put the private sector out
of business and I don't really even
think Bernie Sanders thinks back no I
would agree I mean I think you know I
mean I guess it's more about places
where you you know questions that you
know the I think one point Warren was
asked the question about climate change
and it was it was framed in the question
of climate change which i think is it's
sort of less relevant but about
nationalizing the power distribution in
this country and and that is an example
of me you know to me my mind I agree
with you and I not only would I be
against it I don't think Bernie Sanders
is even as close to saying that there
shouldn't be markets or you know you
nationalize everything but it's a
question of like which power centers
which things that generate the
ultimately what becomes a plutocracy do
you do say like this is how we're going
to pull the the hole on that tire we're
not going to allow you to accumulate
this much power and we're going to do it
in such a way that you know we that is
that is more structural that you know
Robert Bork 2.0 can't come back in and
redefine what antitrust means and
therefore with the this is not going to
be so easily reversible well public
public public power is a very good
example I mean public power is more
efficient than private power it's also
more environment friendly so I'm all in
favor of expanding public power and
reducing privately-owned power companies
but but the way the way to keep Robert
Bork 2.0 from coming back in is to make
sure that you
don't elect presidents who are going to
appoint guys like pork and there's
another case by the way where the
Democrats wear every bit as bad as the
Republicans I mean antitrust was
euthanized under under Democrats as well
as Republicans it's another case of both
parties getting into bed with Wall
Street so I think you know there are
there are some things you need to do
structurally to put capitalism back in
its box the way you do that is to get
elected and the way you get elected is
to motivate and mobilize people that
you're going to make a constructive
difference in their lives
and I should just say we had ganesha
city ramen on the program back in 2017
we're talking about the crisis of the
middle class Constitution but maybe we
should have done for this that's latest
book because it sounds fantastic all
right well let me sue so with that said
and I think you know I think the this
country would be so much better off it
would be such a massive upgrade in my
mind whether it's Bernie or Warren as
the president and the prospect this week
has come out with a an extended edition
on on what can be done on literally on
day one in terms of executive action and
we're gonna be talking to David day and
on Wednesday about that all right but
let me ask you this - since we're you
know this is so oriented towards the
2020 election I think we're on the same
page in terms of our concern about Biden
and our hopes for the someone from the
progressive wing of the party to win the
nomination and ultimately the presidency
where do you see impeachment fitting in
in this like how problematic or maybe
you don't think it is at all that Nancy
Pelosi is basically as far as I can tell
trying to play like a four corners game
you know starting almost before
half-time yeah I think everything
changed this weekend I have said for a
long time that I think bring it on I
mean I think impeachment is a good thing
to do because it keeps it keeps Trump on
the defensive and it puts all of his
various sins into the spotlight and then
it puts the Senate
on the Republican Senate on the
defensive calling into an election how
can you possibly be defending this guy
now Pelosi I think because the more
centrist Democrats were nervous about
this was trying to keep peace in the
caucus but I think this weekend the
evidence that came out of Trump using a
foreign government not only using a
foreign government but threatening a
foreign government with with the
withholding of aid unless they went
after one of his political opponents
that has to push Pelosi over the line
and one by one in the last 24 hours
you've had more centrist Democrats
saying I'm sorry this this this is too
much and I will be amazed if this
doesn't turn into a full-blown
impeachment investigation with Pelosi
support yeah she had a betray and
screaming but I think now she's going to
be on board with that and I think that's
nothing but good because I think it when
Trump is seriously on the defensive he
does crazier and crazier stuff and I
think it puts Republicans in a real box
when when they're asked how can you
possibly defend this guy and you know
this this was exactly the trajectory
that watergate followed that for the
first two years of people who who
favored impeachment were thought of his
fringe and then it gradually became
mainstream and then it became inevitable
let me ask you this because you may you
know you've been watching this stuff and
you've been closer to it i think over
the years than most well where is where
is Chuck Schumer I mean and maybe I'm
letting by my bias to show a little bit
but I mean is it I is it possible that
Nancy Pelosi I mean one of the things
that we saw during the the the
immigration funding that happened a
couple of months ago that Pelosi had a
bill it went to the Senate it got
shattered and then came back and she had
to accept what came from the Senate and
it caused a pretty big rift between her
and
some of the squad and others to what
extent do you think Nancy Pelosi is just
concerned that Chuck Schumer can't
deliver the the majority or enough of a
majority of his own caucus in the Senate
I mean nobody expects Mitch McConnell to
do anything but if Mitch McConnell holds
a vote and five or six Democrats and I
don't know who they would be but you
know decide to vote with the Republicans
against Tim Peter I mean is it possible
that Nancy Pelosi is just afraid to
Chuck Schumer can't do his job well as
Pelosi is a better progressive there's
two parts in this she's a better
progressive then then Schumer is and she
happens to be the speaker in the chamber
that has a Democratic majority so that
her job is somewhat easier Schumer is
more of a wall street Democrat than
Pelosi and he's got a minority and he
can't hold his caucus so you know on a
bad day you've got as many as 13 or 14
centrist Democrats in the Senate who
will vote with Republicans there there
was an amendment last year to weaken the
dodd-frank act and 14 Democrats in the
Senate defected voted with the
Republicans why because they thought
that this was inside baseball that their
constituents really didn't care about
you know the detailed regulations and
they could get away with this vote and
satisfy their donors so this is tough
stuff on the other hand if Trump is
really on the ropes they revert to
partisan Democrats and they would like
to be the my judgment majority and if
the Republicans suffer a serious defeat
in 2020 it's more likely that the the
Democrats take majority control of the
Senate there are now 11 Republican held
seats that are considered vulnerable in
play in 2020 there's only one democratic
seat the Alabama seat and even that seed
may be okay if Roy Moore gets the
Republican nomination again so even
though Schumer is something of a Wall
Street guy doesn't totally control his
own caucus he would much rather be
Majority Leader than be Minority Leader
and I think that partisan
impulse comes to the fore once the house
actually votes impeachment and then it's
up to the Senate why is this generation
of Democrats so why is that partisan
impulse so dead inside them it seems to
me like I mean the ideologically the you
know someone like AOC is I think at
least it appears to the left of them
but what really strikes me is that she's
also much more ferociously aggressive in
terms of partisanship I don't I don't
think it's just generational I mean
sherrod Brown who's I think 66 is among
the most progressive Democrats in the
Senate Elizabeth Warren is 70 Bernie is
going to be 78 so yeah to some extent a
new generation the aoc generation can
rediscover a kind of grassroots
radicalism and that's great I think the
the so many of the Democrats in the
Senate are basically corporate Democrats
and it's a reflection of all the power
that Wall Street has and the relative
destruction of the labor movement but
you you get you know you get people
mobilized you can elect progressive
Democrats look at look at Montana I mean
some very unlikely places have been able
to send progressives to the Senate but
when when Wall Street has so much power
in a lot of states the Democrat you know
will try and raise a lot of corporate
money and then if you raise a lot of
corporate money you can't be all that
left-wing and then you've got a centrist
faction that pulls down the Democrats as
a progressive party that's that's why
you get a majority leader like Chuck
Schumer who's Wall Street's guy in
Washington well robert kuttner
the stakes 2020 in the survival of
American democracy I guess we'll have a
better notion within a couple of months
as to what the trajectory I think of
this race is lastly let me just ask you
this what do you think the chances are
for a brokered convention I mean this
this comes up every year but it sort of
feels like to me
that I can imagine a Joe Biden saying I
I'm not gonna drop out Bernie Sanders I
don't know why he would drop out he
seems like he's going to have donors all
the way through I imagine that Elizabeth
Warren will as well and certainly from I
can understand you know I mean Biden
seems to be sort of somewhat rigid
in his thinking Warren could
theoretically be extremely well
positioned and Sanders could be thinking
like at the end of the day I need to I'm
building a movement and so this is you
know I'm not just running for president
I'm building a movement still what do
you think the chances are for a brokered
convention well first of all I think but
by March or April there's probably only
gonna be about five people still in it
and with the with the 15 percent rule
you got to win 15 percent of the vote in
a given state to have any delegates at
all so maybe they're gonna be five
people with delegates if blue to judge
stays moderately strong and if camallo
stays moderately strong so then the
question is what is the horse trading
look like and who's the front-runner so
if Elizabeth Warren is the front-runner
and I think she will be I mean I I would
bet that she'll have more delegates than
anybody else even if she comes into the
convention without a majority so then
then how does this play out I mean what
what could you offer blue edges what
could you offer Harris what for that
matter could you offer Bernie and and
can you imagine any scenario I mean
let's say I'm making this up but let's
say Warren has 40 percent of the
delegates and Biden has 30 and Bernie
has 25 so everybody else is to the right
of Bernie I can't imagine a scenario
where where he's the nominee I certainly
can't imagine a scenario or biden's the
nominee because everybody else is to the
left to him so you just get a lot of
horse trading I mean maybe there's
somebody who has enough delegates that
Warren puts that person on the ticket as
vice president and that gives her 50
plus one but whether whether it's a
brokered convention meaning we get
through the first
allit and nobody has a majority and then
the horse-trading starts for real I
think an awful lot of the horse training
is going to happen after the last
primary but before the convention I
would still think the odds are we will
know who the nominee is on day one of
the convention but that might not happen
I think I think there's a better chance
that we won't know and it does go more
than one ballot that then at any time in
the last 50 years last time this
happened was 1952 I mean we we sweet we
thought this was going to happen in in
60 but Kennedy got to the W's book
before he had a majority so you got to
go back to 52 before you had a
convention that went more than one
ballot the stakes 2020 in the survival
of American democracy robert kuttner
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thanks for having
me cheers bike fight there it is folks
we got to turn the air conditioning back
on a little rough
get in there they'll be interesting
it'll be interesting to see it's it
seems to me it's quite possible Sanders
also might have more delegates going
into that going into that convention
just turned out the air conditioner and
there was a very strange rickety noise
in there I think that fan is getting
there went away the last time yeah I'll
just wait for it to work itself out but
there you have it there III I have yet
to meet anybody who is not nervous about
Joe Biden I mean granted Kutner comes
from you know the more progressive side
of the party but it's hard to meet
people really in any place in the party
who are not worried about Joe Biden it
seems like conventional wisdom it seems
like yeah it honestly it's not quite
conventional wisdom because nobody's
saying it out loud nobody wants to be
the first one I think who are sort of
like in the centrist clique to say
a Joe Biden has lost a step and this is
not to say and I you know what one when
I was comparing the squad to the
Democratic leadership what I really
talking about is not necessarily just a
function of age this is separate from
Biden but it's a function of like when
people attained power the fact of the
matter is Bernie Warren sherrod Brown
they have not been power players in the
Senate for the vast majority of their
careers I mean Warren you know coming in
it's just not they haven't been in that
position more recently I think you know
all of them have been ascendant but and
so there's a there's a there's a
generational problem in terms of the
leadership in the Democratic Party I
think without a doubt and with Biden I
think it's like look you can be I don't
know how old Biden is 70 7876 seventies
you could be 78 and be spry 76 he turned
77 on November 20th yeah I think like I
think Bernie's actually older than him
and I just don't think that anybody
could look could could sit down with
those two guys regardless of what you
think of their politics and say they're
aging at the same rate it's just not
it's not the case and well you know
first order for me is Joe Biden's
policies in terms of who I would prefer
his ability which i think is now unique
amongst Democrats to lose in the general
election
his is becoming more and more prominent
in my in the things that are keeping me
up at night that said folks you don't
need to know all the things that keep me
up at night you really don't want to you
don't want to know one of those is how
to fashion a better appeal to join the
majority report should I say just join
the majority report
or go to join the majority report comm
and join the majority report just
pennies a day you support the free part
of this program and then we give you
extra content every day and we throw in
you know every now and then when we
remember we got to get our systems in
place more to do the archive deep
archive thing maybe David are our
majority report of fellow can just
remind everybody about that yeah who I
don't think we introduced last week when
he was here his first day but well we'll
soft-launched for that fellowship
well Easter egg if you want to go back
and watch last week's episode there you
go
join the majori report.com all sorts of
member benefits as well as supporting
this free show also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority we have a logo
or we've just about landed on our a.m.
quickie logo which means that we're so
close to launching on the other on on
its own a feed and when we do you got to
sign up for that because I don't know I
guess it would you know sign up a for it
on like stitcher or whatever your
podcast app is so that we can push it up
to the top I don't know if iTunes is
still doing their podcast ratings
anymore they seem to be all messed up
that's a ghost town over there also
hunter-killer
is the murder mystery box that immerses
you in an ongoing experience with every
delivery or episode as they call it you
dive deeper into what it's like to being
a detective without all the hassle from
your family like you know what are you
doing why are you locking yourself in
the room like because it's not you're
not really a detective but you're
sifting through piles of documents
evidence Case Files until you crack the
case it's like that situation is where
people start smoking cigarettes so they
just come in there right now you just uh
just for our listeners you can go to
hunt to killer comm slash majority for
twenty percent off your first box
they only accept two hundred members per
day so hard to take advantage of this
offer that's hunt to killer dot-com
slash majority for twenty percent off
your first box Hunter Killer calm
/ majority tomorrow is Tuesday
check out T MBS its YouTube channel or
wherever your podcasts are served also
peut-etre available on patreon.com slash
the anti Fattah and coming up on
literary hangover soon let Cornel West
introduce the next figure we're talking
is not really a matter of just pointing
out white supremacy of course white
supremacy is fundamental foundation in
part of the country it's not the only
foundation because you got resistance to
white supremacy lydia maria child she
wrote a book in 1834 called an appeal
but that class of Americans called
Africans it was deeply influenced by one
of the greatest works ever written at
that time by David Walker appealed the
colored citizens of the world she's a
wife sister she is as vanilla as Doris
Day in the 1830 fundamental part of the
black freedom movement right but you see
those folks need to be lifted up because
what does that do that exposes our
humanity in terms of the choices we make
not yeah so I'll be talking about Lydia
Maria child she was born in Medford mass
and other author from the Massachusetts
areas wait and she wrote a book called
hub amok which is sort of scandalous but
because it involves an interracial
marriage between a colonial woman and a
Native American and they have a child
and then the English man the woman
actually originally loved comes back and
the Native American gives up her son and
his son and walks West so it's still
problematic but she was an early sjw
people might say and she was rather
important so I talked about her or at
least her early life in the next episode
dude had to give up the child yeah he's
like she's still like prays for you in
her sleep so I'm just gonna go head off
and he says with the red men in the West
and it's it's very the inevitable sort
of like cultural genocide myths were
even among the
brillz back then hey great
so he wasn't a lie and she got better
over time that was she wrote that when
she was about like 23 so that's pretty
good there was not even people forget
that the abolitionists even the
abolitionists like a huge percentage of
the abolition it's probably the majority
of the abolitionists they weren't
necessarily for black rights yeah they
started off a lot of them like let's get
them into Liberia right we can send them
away or did this not as clearly we can't
you know coexistent right these things
take time
I guess quick break fun half Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you're
idiots we're just going to get rid of
you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now win-win it's a
win-win oh yeah now listen to me two
three point five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 Wow don't you
see everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Paul moves to my repertoire
[Music]
yes this is a perfect all right take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber silastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our houses it's a free
speech issue if you don't like me thank
you for calling into the majority report
them we'll be with you shortly we're
back ladies and gentlemen we're back
we're gonna put a link up in the on the
blog I was on the in the hill on the
hills show today with crystal ball this
morning with a crystal ball and I can't
remember his name but he's a good guy
too
he seemed very nice I only know crystal
balls name because you know I knew her
from MSNBC it's also easy to remember
it's also easy to remember so we'll put
that link on on the site majority Gotham
will put in the in the podcast the
description as well all right let's just
touch on this on this Ukraine phone call
because Thursday like I said the acting
head of the Acting Director of National
Intelligence will be in front of the
house Intel committee for a public
hearing they will ask him who's the
whistleblower he will say I can't tell
you they will say are you prepared to
hand over the the complaint
maybe we're still looking at that
question is that's what I would guess
right they're not gonna say no they're
gonna say we need more time to think
about it and they're gonna reference the
Justice Department as well and they're
Ruth and their ruling on this oh did the
OLC come out with something not the OLC
but direction given by the Justice
Department is
that this is above board for Macquarie
to release the whistleblower identity it
sits above board what do you mean it's
not the he that he's not obligated to
yes okay and and then supposedly this is
when we're going to see that you know
the Democrats and here's what sort of
suspicious to me about the whole thing
why I just I'm sorry I don't trust Nancy
Pelosi on this we have been told time
and time again they're already starting
it
don't you understand Nancy Pelosi is
this like 14 dimension chess we've been
told right impeachment proceedings are
starting although then she went into a
meeting as reported by Politico the
other day and said you guys are going
too fast on this and she writes a Dear
Colleague letter to all members on the
whistleblower complaint we're gonna
expect Joseph Maguire to turn over the
whistleblowers full complaint to the
committee we also expect he will
establish a path the whistleblower to
speak directly to the House and Senate
intelligence committees as required by
law she notes that the ICS
Inspector General who is appointed by
Trump has determined the complaint is
both of quote urgent concern incredible
and its disclosure relates to quit as a
quote to one of the most significant
important of the Director of National
Intelligence responsibilities to the
American people she cites a federal
statute which unequivocally states the
DNA shall DNI shall provide Congress
this information we must be sure the
president and his administration are
always conducting our national security
and foreign policy in the best interest
of the American people not the
president's personal or political
interest feels like that ship may have
already sailed
which closes if the administration
persists in blocking this whistleblower
from disclosing to Congress a serious
profit breach of constitutional duties
by the president they will be entering a
grave new chapter of lawlessness which
will take us into quote
whole new stage of investigation what
what is the whole new stage I thought we
were already there why and if we're not
there why have we not been there I mean
this is where she's basically conceding
I've been Stan I've been stepping on the
brakes and again it's conditional look
it's enough that they haven't handed
this over it's enough that they've said
to Congress multiple times over and over
again we're not going to provide you the
information that you need for oversight
not just the Muller investigation
everything the EPA the Bureau of Land
Management the USDA when all of it stuff
that you we don't even talk about
because it's all been sat on by the
Democrats it's it's infuriating
and every day we just watch them attempt
to spend this stuff and conflate it with
other things let's start with clip
number two we're gonna play clip number
one again but we're gonna play clip
number two first this is where Donald
Trump is saying on Sunday Trump I don't
know he was trying to audition as an
extra in the Chernobyl series I guess
here but he admits that he asked
ukrainian president zelanski to look
into Joe Biden very odd thing to ask in
the context of a nice conversation they
realized that we abide we've been
spending a lot of time on the biden case
we had a great conversation
conversation I had was largely
congratulatory was largely corrupt in
all of the corruption taking play
with largely the fact that we don't want
our people like Vice President Biden is
done
corruption already in the Ukraine and
Ukraine your brains got a lot of
problems the new president is saying
that he's going to be able
the country of corruption that I said
that would be a great thing we had a
great conversation we had a conversation
on many things in fact I believe Ukraine
put out a statement yesterday saying
that we covered many different topics it
was a warm and friendly conversation we
fact I back Ukraine from the beginning
okay so he admits that he talked about
Biden raised Biden up because of all the
massive corruption that the Biden family
has been involved in in Ukraine
according to him right that's been
that's been me when people talk about
Ukrainian corruption as opposed to
talking about Biden's corruption let's
say people always bring up by I'm being
facetious hunter Biden I don't know why
he was sitting on that board but I can
tell you if that was the most corrupt
thing about Ukraine in terms of the way
they'd be doing all right
and Rudy Giuliani also slowly losing his
mind is adamant adamant that the
president did not threaten to cut off
aid to Ukraine and by adamant I mean
them in a totally adamant did the
president threatened to cut off aid to
the Ukraine no that was a false story
100% well I can't tell you in astray
ssin did delay US aid to Ukraine Wall
Street also fails in its false article
today it fails to point out on the
headlines on Saturday in the Ukraine but
the Ukrainian version of this story
Ukraine says no pressure right no
pressure no collusion none of that
remember no pressure so there you go
almost a 100 percent did not threaten to
cut off aid to Ukraine I bring you back
to the clip that we started with at the
beginning of the show this is Trump
today correct now to be fair it's a full
24 hours later sometimes I wonder if
Trump just wants to make drew Giuliani
look like an ass because here he is
admitting that indeed he did threaten to
cut off he
gave an ultimatum listen carefully well
given to see because what we are doing
is we want honesty and we deal with a
country we want honesty and I think with
the new president you're going to see
much more honesty into Ukraine and
that's what we're looking for we're
supporting a country we want to make
sure that that country is honest it's
very important to talk about corruption
if you don't talk about corruption why
would you give money to a country that
you think is for up that's it right
there folks he couldn't help himself and
the reason is is he's afraid that the
the transcript is gonna come out so he's
trying to reinterpret the way it's gonna
sound to us when he says if you do not
go after Biden who is corrupt we're not
gonna give you money to nothink your
corrupt and then I'll think you're
corrupt and not nice and so he may have
said something like so you're gonna go
after Biden right if you want the money
and he probably said that about eight
times if it took eight times they
assumed that even the Prime Minister is
like yeah you mean you know we have
protocols that we're going to follow it
something non-committal like that or it
could be one of those situations where
Trump keeps saying it in the in the the
prime minister just says something
different like you're gonna go after
Biden right if you want the money and
the prime minister says how's Melania
she's wonderful but you're gonna go
after Biden right if you want the money
tell me something about your your club
in Miami can anybody join but you're
gonna go after Biden right cuz he's
corrupt if you want the money what was
Trump accorded asain to Comey like I
hope we can see this see this through
see past this right there's always like
this type of stuff but I think they seem
to be a little bit nervous about this
but who knows certainly Rudy Giuliani is
doing the old I guarantee it
100% well not one
100% but the point remains and here's
Mehdi Hasan talking about this the poins
everything that that the doll job is
doing it goes from being on Donald Trump
and I've said this for a week I finally
tweeted it out somebody was like woo
it's about time you tweeted it cuz you
said it a day and a half I'm gonna say
it every day now
the founders contemplated someone like
Donald Trump which is why they put
impeachment in there but they also
assumed that resummoned different from
Nancy Pelosi who would actually attempt
to hold the president to account with
the tools that they have provided and
when you do not do that you own it and
until Nancy Pelosi gets her caucus to
vote for impeachment
until that time Mitch McConnell and the
Republicans will not own it when she
does they will then own it and they may
say we're just we don't care it's BS but
at least then it's on them and that's
what you start to run against them
Donald Trump there was a poll out today
NBC poll see if we can pull this here
I'll send you the it's NBC News poll and
it basically shows oh how much you know
what policies Democratic voters want and
what policies here it is
it's an NBC News poll and Wall Street
Journal a record share of voters just
like Trump personally there's they also
sort of don't like his policies gives a
breakdown of what policies people like
will put this up there's a nice graph
that that shows you the difference
between Democratic primary voters and
all registered voters
dreamers staying in the United States
eighty-nine percent versus sixty-seven
percent across the board Medicare buy-in
seventy-eight percent for those under 65
again 67 percent there's a lot of keep
going down a little more you'll see it
right here there's a lot of Democratic
there's a lot of very progressive
policies you get down to Medicare for
all 63% of Democrats like it 41 percent
of American public but it says
eliminating all private insurance I
think if you were to put making private
insurance obsolete
there it might change those numbers but
I would also add that building a wall
gets around 43 percent and Donald Trump
seems to do pretty well running on that
so but the other thing that came out of
this is essentially the Democrats want
to make this a referendum on Trump and
Trump wants to make it a choice between
two bad options which is basically what
we've been saying here for a long time
Trump is going to try and depress the
vote by making the alternative seem
tainted as well and so that people go
screw it the Democrats have one perfect
way to nationalize every single house
election every single Senate election in
the country and they can do it and
nationalize it and by making it about
Donald Trump they can make every single
election about Donald Trump whether
you're running for Congress in East a
bum place in Montana or in you know
downtown Houston or upstate New York it
doesn't matter and that is to push
impeachment and make every single one of
them either vote on it or make a
statement about it
and then it all becomes about Trump and
Trump is the most disliked president
that we have had in decades and decades
and decades and the presidential
elections will run the present you know
there's that's a different calculus
can't just run against Trump because you
have to make sure that you are building
a force field around yourself
essentially as the presidential
candidate but if you're in Congress and
urine Senate you can run against Trump
and you can make the Republicans own it
if if you vote to impeach in the house
there's Mehdi Hasan making a point about
the Democrats is simply not doing their
job I mean you have to admire the
brazenness of the hypocrisy when it
comes to Donald Trump's attacks on his
opponents for this president of all
presidents to attack the child of a
rival I mean which should we talk about
Ivanka Trump and her Chinese trademarks
and should we talk about Don junior and
Eric and the Trump Organization and the
non-existent Chinese war between them
and the guy in the Oval Office I mean
it's the irony beyond irony but the
Republicans are good at this stuff
they're shameless they're brazen they
take advantage of the whole media both
sides ISM and therefore they're going to
continue doing this and I think Trump's
gonna carry on doing this stuff because
joy one thing that's missing from your
timeline that you showed at the start
for me a very crucial date July 25 Jahre
25th of the day he made the call to the
Ukrainian president allegedly eight
times pressured him to investigate
Biden's son what I will enjoy 24 the day
before Robert Muller testifies in
Congress saying this president has not
been exonerated this president could
still be indicted after he leaves office
and what happens nothing no change in
the Democratic leadership position on
impeachment so if you're Donald Trump
and you see where I mean I can get away
with 2016 why wouldn't you do it again
in 2020 yeah there it is you basically
said like I guess what I did was legal I
might as well do it again it worked so
well the first time
second there are implications I've been
aside from the what you leave on the
table in terms of the politics if you do
not pursue impeachment
there's also implications that you're
basically saying to the guy there's
nothing you can do that will get you
impeached nothing nothing I know what to
do with that information holy cow this
is a total open door policy they sent
out Steve minuchin this guy should be in
prison this guy should be just getting
out of prison it seems to me for what he
did in the foreclosure crisis he's not
largely because Carla Harris ignored
recommendations from people in her
office maybe there was nothing there
this whole thing is like this whole
administration in many respects is like
that part was Saving Private Ryan which
I did not like frankly but the idea that
like they should have killed that German
soldier because he came back and shot
one of the I can't remember who it was
that was not I didn't particularly like
that movie I thought the Thin Red Line
was a lot better and said what it was
then Malick had a a movie out at the
same time a Saving Private Ryan doesn't
matter but the point is is that Steve
minuchin when you do not hold these
people to account at the time that they
commit a crime or a civil violation a
lot of times these guys come back they
don't just go like oh I got away with
one I'm gonna go home and count my money
it's I am completely untouchable that
means I can go forward and take more I
can steal more that's why we have Steve
minuchin as the Treasury secretary out
there trying to argue that yeah I mean
it's not a lot of money to us why would
it make a difference to Ukraine is do
you know if the if why the aid was
delayed and did it have a connection to
the Ukrainian president's decision not
to work with her judo well that I can
tell you that there was no connection I
have been involved with secretary Pompeo
and others on the national security team
on the issue of you know how do you know
for sure I know you you can is there do
you know a hundred percent well what I
know is I've been in discussions when we
discussed that and that issue never came
up during your meetings absolutely with
the president and can you explain how
all of a sudden when the egg got
released more money showed up where
where did that money come from there was
250 million enemy and they got an
additional I think 140 million that they
didn't expect what did that do you have
any any idea where surprised he was
appropriated money that came through the
State Department so they that was there
they didn't know they were getting this
money is there any indication why they
got the money when they did I I'm not
sure it's correct for you to say they
didn't know they they got the money
president said he was surprised to get
it the president of Ukraine said he was
surprised to get in an additional
hundred forty million dollars he said it
was a pleasant surprise but that he was
surprised I think I think he was
referring to his expectations as opposed
to necessarily a surprise but you're
getting into details again these are
foreign policy issues they've been
discussed at the National Security
Council the principal's level these were
not connected issues but you have any
problem with Congress looking into any
of this what I have a problem with is
Congress asking for a transcript between
world leaders I think that those are
confidential discussions and that's a
difficult precedent okay but it does the
president have any he says he said
nothing inappropriate so why not
released the transcript because again I
think that these are confidential
discussions between world leaders and
world leaders expect that they're going
to be kept confidential it has nothing
to do with this call per se no it's just
the precedent that they're concerned
about
I love precedent I was concerned about
the president's folks so Stephen Newton
sang with a hundred percent assuredness
that when Donald Trump came in and said
- did the
told me to delay the money he didn't say
it's because they won't give me dirt on
Biden see no collusion no losers never
said it even never said never said it
never said it's because of what they're
doing would be I'd never said it I never
said it but you mean there's a chance he
even was that explicit about it there's
a slight chance but it's probably more
like like we're not giving money to
we're not playing ball they're not
playing ball they're not on our team
they're not good people they're bad
people and that nice I mean that would
have been the that would have been the
the question for Chuck Todd to ask right
Steve Nugent like okay that never came
up
the Biden thing why did you delay it but
what were the reasons
what were the geopolitical reasons that
you delayed it and then ended up coming
back with 50% more money than they
anticipated I think he answered that
when he said it came through the State
Department well it came through the
State Department yeah I did but what was
the reasoning that I mean that would be
the question that I would ask like
what's the reasoning you say it's not
because of Joe Biden okay so when he
came in there what reason did he give
you I don't like their flag I don't like
the colors in the flag we need a better
press and opposition party wasn't he
saying he'd what they weren't gonna give
it to him because of their history of
corruption and they just weren't sure
that he was corrupt or if he wouldn't be
corrupt until he had the conversation I
mean I don't know maybe that's what it
was in fact he was so convinced 'iv
couldn't convincing that he was not
corrupt
we gave him a 50 percent tip he wanted
240 million we gave him again like 380
he would see just came off as like a
really not corrupt guy if I get an extra
like 140 million dollars I would be
gushing about that phone call
to how it was a nice Funko yeah nice I
wonder what that money was for
that is a very Trump way of doing
diplomatic endeavors where you're like
man this guy was such a great server at
the restaurant at Cipriani's I just gave
him a 50% tip you guys a good guy
loose lips right sometimes sometimes you
have so much extra money you can't talk
Greta thunderbird tune berg was at the
United Nations and it was nice she
crapped all over these people on some
level and I think they're more of this
is necessary
this is like an under darkness at Davos
but right better how old is she 16
I think it's nuts I like how everybody
laughs at first and then she just like
drives drives a stake through their
hearts essentially my message is that
we'll be watching you
oh so cute cute little girl so cute this
is all wrong
I shouldn't be up here I should be back
in school on the other side of the ocean
yet you all come to us young people for
hope how dare you you have stolen my
dreams in my childhood with your empty
words yet I'm one of the lucky ones
people are suffering people are dying
entire ecosystems are collapsing we are
in the beginning of a mass extinction
and all you can talk about is money and
fairy tales of eternal economic growth
how dare you
[Applause]
for more than 30 years the science has
been crystal-clear how dare you continue
to look away and come here saying that
you're doing enough when the politics
and solutions needle are still nowhere
in sight you say you hear us and that
you understand the urgency but no matter
how sad and angry I am I do not want to
believe that because if you really
understood the situation and still kept
on failing to act then you would be evil
and that I refuse to believe she came
back here's another segment from that
same same talk with today's emissions
levels that remaining co2 budgets will
be entirely gone within less than eight
and a half years there will not be any
solutions or plans presented in line
with these figures here today because
these numbers are too uncomfortable and
you are still not mature enough to tell
it like it is you are failing us but the
young people are starting to understand
your betrayal the ice of all future
generations are upon you
and if you choose to fail us I say we
will never forgive you
I don't know how you can go in front of
those people and do better than that in
terms of inspiring them I don't know
what it will take to get societies to
respond to this type of thing I really
don't know but at the very least
history's gonna look back and say like
just about every possible means in which
to communicate this to the world
was employed it's a question of whether
politicians and people just broadly
speaking answered the call of course on
one hand where you have this sixteen
year old young woman Greta Tim Berg who
is addressing the United Nations in the
world in a way that you would imagine
would would inspire people and scare
people and shame them there's also a
whole cohort of people in the world who
not only can't get motivated to do
something about it
actively profit on the idea that it's
all a hoax
I don't know how dark your soul has to
be to be one of the four people sitting
on this couch this morning it's Fox and
Friends every day we laugh at Steve
Doocy and Brian Kilmeade about how
stupid they are and then sort of get
amazed at how stupid at what Ainsley
Earhardt is this guy Marc Morano who's
the executive editor of climate depot
calm which of course is literally set up
and financed to deny reality now maybe
the guy is really really stupid or maybe
he's just incredibly Craven but he's so
stupid that it reaches a level of Craven
'us here he is talking about how
dangerous Greta tunberg is because of
what she's doing to the children did
those interviews what is it about her
that has interested so many young people
well she sells
fear Gretta Thornburg started in Sweden
every Friday outside the Swedish
parliament and it spread to skip school
in order to have a future in other words
she's actually said - and she's
addressed the EU the United States
Congress testified that why should kids
go to school if they have a future that
will be no more unless government passes
laws like the green new deal more UN
treaties etc so this message is working
in Sweden it worked in Sweden it's
working in Europe and now it's come to
the US the message of fear sells there's
reports now in Europe where kids are
getting anti-anxiety medication they
believe they're gonna die she is the
Greta effect she's causing and
instilling fear in millions of kids
around the world
it actually has them believing that
government can legislate our climate in
other words if we pass the green New
Deal in America these kids can all go
back to school mark a lot you know like
when I watch a clip like this I I'm I I
spend the entire time not just during
the clip but after the clip and
anticipation of playing the clip on the
show thinking should I really like
address this on like an argumentative
terms like should I try and refute the
idea that kids all around the world are
taking anti-anxiety medication because
of Greta Thornburg I should I should I
try and just pick apart this guy from
climate Depot his argument that she is
just like trying to exploit fear I guess
presumably so she doesn't have to go to
school like this tremendous amount of
effort to play hooky but she's engaged
in or is it more interesting and
valuable just to go like what how just
empty and decrepit do you have to be
inside of you like I feel like if we
were to cut that guy open it would just
be like dust inside do you want some
biographical information essay so he
previously was the environmental
communications director for a guess
which Senator James Inhofe nailed it
and climate Depot calm is a website for
the comitia for a constructive tomorrow
which is taking Exxon and Scafe II money
they better than that top donors or
donors trust from dark money of with
over eight million dollars in donations
Charles G Koch foundation donors capital
fund and a bunch of Charles Koch
Institute so we're all the bosses so
many things that you could do for money
if you had absolutely no scruples or
morals whatsoever and this one still
seems like it would be like at the
bottom of that list like everything else
like everything else on that list
can I be in charge of putting the lead
in the candy because that feels a little
bit at least not I don't have to show my
face yeah if it pays well to go out
there and sell this stuff on television
does he have is he like a see like an
orphan did he grow up with knowing no
human beings was he raised in the woods
and he doesn't have any contact with any
human beings and therefore he doesn't
feel any shame whatsoever that's the
thing like I could I don't even know
what to argue with this guy the idea
that that that she's selling fear who's
what whoa what it was how is she
profiting off of this what is she
selling it's stunning it really is
stunning my friend Mark also worked for
uh Rush Limbaugh in the 90s I mean it
all makes it much more clear I'm just
been very proud wow he has been going in
about Greta thumb Tomb Berg's autism
apparently called her an autistic
prophet so that's the kind of scumbag
we're doing with you there you go he's
raising the bar Wow yeah and at George
Mason University graduate we should
point out Oh is he going on tour with uh
Dave Rubin didn't didn't didn't room and
get some funding from George Mason's
like Liberty project or something like
that
that's all Koch money mm-hmm all right
lastly credit in Berg was in front of
Congress they brought in some other kid
to be the anti Greta and he was okay
just sort of defended like we don't want
to ruin our way of life to protect our
way of life the fifteen-year-old that
wants is primarily concerned about the
economy right exactly I'm super worried
about what the where the markets gonna
be in 25 years because so here is Garret
graves he is a congressman from
Louisiana
I think he gets a lot of oil money I
would bet a lot of refineries down there
so here at Garret graves trying to both
be sort of like jocular he realizes he's
dealing with a teenage girl young woman
he doesn't look like too much of a jerk
but he also gets it handed to him on a
platter I should say hurry he is
returned on a platter by Thornburg here
he is trying to make her understand like
here's a I have an analogy for you that
she basically says your analogy is wrong
here's the right one mr. doumergue let
me ask you a question if you're sailing
across the ocean and you're picking up
trash along the way and for every one
piece of trash that you pick up there's
a boat right next to you dumping out
five pieces how would that make you feel
first of all we were going so fast there
wasn't alright well if you were a slow
sailor like me how would that make you
feel well first of all if you use that
logic than I am also dumping a lot of
trash in the ocean and then I would I
would stop dumping
my trash in the ocean and tell the other
boat to stop dumping their trash in the
ocean as well and and and and that's
that's the important point here is we
need to be focusing on the countries
that are dumping trash in the ocean of
course that's a metaphor right the fact
it's a China
she answered your metaphor and she said
well if your metaphor is to be accurate
we're both dumping trash in the ocean
there is no boat that is sailing across
the ocean just picking up trash there is
no country in the world that has a net
negative carbon footprint and in fact
when we talk about our boat in his
metaphor we're dumping trash to China
maybe dumping more trash than we are but
as she says I would stop dumping trash
in the ocean and then I would ask them
to stop dumping trash too and then I
would share anti trash dumping
technologies with the other boats indeed
he goes on to he just goes on to claim
that it's basically all China's fault
and we're not gonna doesn't do anything
if we do anything so about five or six
minutes later she addresses him again
not necessarily by name but addresses
this this stupid analogy of his by
saying we have it
Driss is this stupid analogy which is
incorrect and she immediately just picks
it out like oh your I see what your
analogy is that's very clever zephyr
does not correspond to the real world
there are no boats that are just picking
up trash there are boats that are
dumping less trash and trying to dump
less trash and should be dumping no
trash and then other boats to whom we
should say do the same as we're doing so
later in that same hearing she gets a
little bit more explicit because
a little more tangible for Garret graves
thing just look at the u.s. they say so
just so you know go back go back she's
gonna make the point here that like you
can say that compared to China the u.s.
is not dumping a lot of trash in the
ocean as it were but I got some bad news
for you there's other countries not just
the US I think I don't need to add
anything but just another perspective I
am from Sweden it's a small country and
there it is the same argument why should
we do anything just look at the US they
say so just so you know that's that it's
being used against you as well yeah
she's looking out for him right why
should we do anything because China is
dumping more than us and she says well I
Got News for you in Sweden we say the
same thing why should we do anything cuz
US is dumping more trash I've been
exposed to this elementary argument
before yes this is I mean it's fun to
watch a 16 year old run circles around
these Congress people because she just
doesn't have the same sort of like
notion of like am I supposed to be
polite enough to not point out how
stupid they are really is amazing
meanwhile let's just turn to 2020 we got
a couple of clips here is this was at
the robert kuttner brought up the the
point that there is a nascent nascent
movement among young black people to
tell their parents essentially like look
joe biden isn't necessarily the the best
choice and
I think if you are in any way mystified
and it is the case that Bernie Sanders
has a very diverse base of support
racially diverse socially diverse
economically I mean its diverse but you
know it's it is it is true that
Elizabeth Warren dominates in terms of
the the audience for progressive ideals
she dominates in the more educated
wealthier folks which is not to say that
it's billionaires a millionaire's type
of thing but Bernie Sanders has a
broader coalition of working-class
people now Nate silver points out but
it's not impressive because his numbers
are not as big as they were during the
2016 election and that the only reason
why he has diverse numbers is because
there are less numbers of white people
who are following him so he attained
diversity by losing white voters
relative to where he was in 2016 now
this is a unique way of measuring
diversity because in some respects you
could make that argument about the
Democratic Party the only reason why the
Democratic Party looks so diverse is
because less than 50% of white people
vote for them but if all white people
voted for Democrats - there'd be less
representation of black people in their
coalition percentage-wise it's a very
odd perspective to take it's I think
it's it's like technically accurate but
it's
it's a very odd perspective to take so
if you are confused as to why Bernie
Sanders would have a diverse following
and a strong following of young black
activists in particular but but young
people more broadly speaking this clip
of kianga Yamata Taylor at the afro
socialist DSA event is I think sort of
on point possibility not bitterness and
despair
it is hope it is the possibility of a
better life it is the possibility of a
better world we are not called to this
movement based on the things that we
don't want or based on the people that
we don't want to vote for for the first
time in any of our lifetimes we have a
candidate for whom we can proudly vote
for who has an actual chance to win we
have an opportunity to vote for the
things that we want and not just vote
against the things that we don't want
universal
[Applause]
you
housing parole a national strategy to
confront the climate crisis jobs with
living wages and union protections
[Applause]
campaign despite the slights
and derision has attracted a broad
audience of ordinary black youth and
young black workers they are attracted
to the campaign for the simple reason
that capitalism has failed the vast
majority of poor and working-class
African Americans many of us have come
to the realization and it's so-called
market economy has never work it didn't
work it hasn't worked with in fact there
is no golden age that we can point to
and say benefit from the name of the
system to us I mean it is pretty hard to
argue with that construction I think you
could argue that slavery was I don't
know could you argue that it was pre
capitalist not really no I mean it was
you're obviously exploiting labor here
that exploitation sort of like some
people say it sort of was the central
exploitation to launching capital in
this contract early known yeah it's
very hard to imagine a well yeah I don't
think you could have slavery in the
context of a socialist society could you
on some level I mean I suppose you could
have an authoritarian if you had an
authoritarian but a genuinely socialist
society now part of the problem is is
that it's hard to achieve but it's a
very hard argument to refute now I mean
you could say like well this time we're
gonna get right with capitalism well
that's where tea I jumped on Candice
Owens exactly named an era that you can
go back to the make America great again
for black people but there it is I've
turned on the I M machine people can I
am me I don't think we're gonna have
time for calls today I don't want to
have people hang it on there maybe we'll
take maybe we'll take one one call oh
I'll call into the system but we're
gonna take some IMS Oh hot in here today
it sounds seasonably warm in New York
City just do this here take some IMS boy
it's a little tricky Jordan Peterson
pharmacist do you have any questions
today about your prescription I do have
to point out there are 12 interaction
notices on this medication but the first
is that under no circumstances while
taking this medicine should you ever
concern consume apple cider doing so can
lead to overwhelming feelings of
impending doom and possible death pyjama
boy dave rubin doesn't do coke no more
just he just blazes gabe formerly from
chicago i've been following the Israeli
election it's such a mess I have been
trying to if Lieberman won't back
Netanyahu or Gantz then neither will be
able to create a 61 Sikh coalition
Gant's will still have more seats but
that doesn't mean
he can create a government also I'm not
sure if he needs Balad to back and
they're not Paul mentoree politics is
confusing it's unclear I've seen like
three or four different sort of like
potential scenarios it's their wheeling
and dealing and their seeing you know
but it's like there's a lot of people
like I won't sit with this person and I
want sit with that person it's like it's
like a like a Thanksgiving with like
multiple divorces and people don't want
to sit next to each other water boat
from Kashmir honestly Kashmir ease don't
expect help from trump but we hope that
the world meaning people are informed
and consistently bring up repression and
justice and atrocities in Kashmir in
short we hope for solidarity this would
be enough to put eternal pressure in
India and stave off an armed insurgents
which is becoming more and more likely
as news coverage disappears and Kashmir
is lose hope in unarmed resistance send
us any type of links or anything where
we could get more information coming out
doe link you can watch UN TV online 24/7
watch today's climate summit google it
for the website attorney Andrew
questions for the group and a comment
went on the Dave Roberts interview he
said that the times call for someone who
can make deals and work behind the
scenes and he sees Warren is that person
what evidence supports that sentiment to
me it seems based entirely on a
reputation as a walk in a liberal
fetishization with balance and assume
viability not on a history of political
acumen Warren could not even make the
Obama administration put her in charge
of the agency she envisioned and created
the CFPB all this to say Warren has a
movement has to have a movement to get
anything done um I would cite the WFP
endorsement on ironically I would I
think that's absolutely right I think
there was a lot of political
machinations involved there I think the
agency she envisioned and created you've
answered your own question she created
an agency that was self-sustaining it
was the first agency of its kind in an
extended period of time I don't know if
there was any you know I mean that that
itself was a significant feat the way
that she moved away that she ended up
becoming senator after I mean I think
there is a lot
for someone to be able to go into that I
just I can tell you that prior to this
election to the extent that anybody I
know has reported on her that is the one
thing that they would say is that she
knows how to work and to to deal with
that inside game now you could argue
that that well that's not what we need
now or that it's a bad skill set to have
I agree with you that to me well that
agency what's he's asking what's that
agency doing now a lot less worse stuff
than the EPA let's put it that way
they've had they've shut it down but
they haven't been able to in any way
materially pull it apart because of the
way that it was structured they have
been able to reverse the way that it
gets its funding it's gonna be one of
the agencies that is going to be able to
sort of ramp back up pretty quickly
everything is under assault under the
trump administration but it was a lot
more immune to this and say that than
the other standard agencies and and I
mean when was the last time we saw a
full-blown agency like this created it's
not easy I just think that like there's
a lot of things to critique warrant on
but I think that one is the the weakest
argument now I think I think there's a
very good argument that she needs a
movement behind her to support what
she's doing and I don't know why I mean
if I was her and I was elected president
or if I was me and I was elected
president I would make sure that I would
keep Bernie close because I personally
like I mean I asked Bernie like what are
you gonna do with this if you don't win
he's not gonna stop I don't think her
policy set I don't think they go as far
as Bernie in some instances
but they're not inconsistent with what
he wants they're not there you know
there I would imagine that a outside
movement is going to push a warrant and
I would imagine she's gonna be largely
happy to have it I mean I may be wrong
but I mean that's that would be my
answer to that that is what I always
read when people say Warren has a
movement I think what they're really
saying is she'll be able to use Bernie's
and and I would be shocked if that
hasn't occurred to Bernie as well yeah I
mean I asked him outright that was the
one relevant question I felt like I had
is like what and his response was as
emphatic as anything else he said come
from a seven one six area code who's
this where you come from seven one six
we have him let's try it again here come
from a 308 area code who's this we come
from maybe it's my problem
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report please use no speakerphone and
give your one comment or question ready
listen for Sam to call out your area
code Sam will be with you shortly
so we get it we go to work on this it's
not showing up the interim interface
it's not coming up here here we go all
right let's try this one more time if I
can find that
personally we dumped come from a 347
area code who's this where he come from
hi this is Lee from the story alley
what's going on how are you what's on
your mind oh nothing much
I just I just wanted to say that you
guys have been killing it last week with
the focus on Nancy Pelosi and the
Landowski hearings which was
ridiculously bad I I was shocked by how
badly the Democrats did at just asking
questions
it was just saved by that one staff
attorney well yeah and but that's why
you have a staff attorney because I
think they realize like we're not good
at this and I give I give people points
for knowing their limitations next time
they should put that guy out front I
think well I mean they have there's a
reason behind it they don't but what's
gonna happen with the hearing itself
they just want sound bites that they can
bring back their own districts I mean
that's what I'm thinking anyways it's
possible but that that is a that is a
great argument as to why there should be
more of these hearings because they all
think that it's going to help them get
elected and so have they have the staff
attorney in there I mean look it's not
it's hard to ask questions I mean if you
really break down the way that staff
attorney was kept going after him this
is a guy who was a very practiced at
cross-examining witnesses and and that
makes a big difference I mean it's a
skill that's why that's why he does what
he does and they do what they do I
suppose I mean it just made me think
about what happened at Nora oh wait
Virginia them I mean North kind of
Democrats voting for Jack you break it
up a little bit yeah with the house I'm
sorry it just makes me think about what
happened in the North Carolina dams
floating for there
gerrymandering Republican gerrymandering
the Democratic Party seems to be focused
on individuals rather than the party as
a whole look I think that alike I think
that is a problem in certain situations
but I mean have you ever watched the
Republicans ask questions I mean
honestly I mean honestly I mean the fact
of the matter is you don't need to be a
genius to get into Congress there's a
reason why on day one
AOC gets in there and she is asking
better questions than 90% of the
Democrats on these caucuses is because
they're just I mean on these committees
it's just they're not they're not suited
to this and someone who's very smart
who's willing to do the homework and go
in can do well five minutes per person
is still like like a like a structural
obstacle to achieving it so I mean I
agree with you in the North Carolina
situation I don't think it's some
function of like selfish fit selfishness
I think this is a competence question
and and so you know if it was
selfishness they wouldn't have voted to
give that guy half hour they would say
well we all want six minutes instead of
five but I appreciate the call well I
mean fraud save America roses are red
the right is a mess but Pelosi sucks
peanuts at four do four-dimensional
checkers Philadelphia girlfriend how
come no one ever mentions that Ben
Carson is clearly a drunk
is that true I've never seen clear
evidence of that I think there would be
other stuff going on Vick Mulvaney we're
all talking like Trump will leave office
when he loses in 2020 what are the odds
of that um I don't know you could ask
bill Barr
also we it's not like we've like you
know we usually turn the page on this
sort of thing so it's not like he has
anything to worry about I mean maybe he
does but maybe Erik Weinstein's brain
what's the opposite of recovery mode
firing on all cylinders up here
developing new high-level important
ideas to discuss exclusively with fellow
geniuses hollow the we're vegan Sam why
are you so reluctant to promote veganism
being a priority in regards to
environmental issues if we can't take
people's trucks and their bacon we might
as well let them keep their assault
weapons
well veganism isn't just necessarily a
function of trucks
I think factory farming is a real
problem I'm not a hundred percent
convinced that all the answers are going
to be solved by by veganism to be honest
with you and since it's something that
we cannot mandate and there's certainly
I mean if we reach a couple hundred
thousand people you know a month on this
show let's say them all going vegan is
not going to necessarily do it I think
that's just a I mean I think we've
talked about the role of veganism in in
the context of climate change I know
there's supposedly some controversy
about it but I haven't looked into that
but nevertheless that's why the priority
in terms of environmental issues is
having governmental action I mean I
think things like I think there's a very
strong argument that what we need to do
is not subsidize corn so much and
soybeans and factory farming big AG that
way the price of meat is passed on to
society and we start to regulate our
behavior in in accordance to that and I
I'm sensitive to the fact that that
there's some class issues in terms of
that but I also think that frankly we
can also promote other vegan options at
the higher end of the income spectrum I
don't know I would be interested to see
like what where are most vegans in terms
of class yeah
but like I said the other day I had one
of those impossible burgers and I can't
imagine and I had one at a barbecue too
maybe it was beyond be beyond meat at a
barbecue and an impossible burger at a
restaurant I'm never gonna eat another
burger again never gonna like actively
choose I'm not it the taste if you did
it if I didn't know I would have said
this is a good tasting burger and the
texture is spot-on
and it's like why bother at that point
like why bother I don't know that it's
actually even healthier for you those
things there's a very sodium heavy I
think there yeah but you know Minh
actually do something positive that
doesn't that I don't that isn't that
isn't taking much effort why wouldn't
you do it
that's like it should be like the bottom
line Muller she wrote Sam have you
mentioned George Takei's new graphic
novel titled they call this enemy it's
good easy to digest summary the Japanese
internment and draws clear parallels to
things happening today a good teaching
tool for our youth that as soon as you
said that I was like I gotta get that
from milah our house is on fire do you
have friends who don't believe in the
climate crisis if so how do you maintain
that relationship I want to cut them off
because they're convincing them as a
lost cause it fall into the in same
column sold on fox news propaganda to be
honest with you I don't think I do I
mean I ran into a lot of people like
I've checked out of politics it just
seems so strode and then I just lose it
and then I'm just like I yeah and this
is the way I start off with that like oh
yeah I know I get that so totally I
totally get that and then it's just like
I'm like yeah I cuz I could and then
like within five minutes I'm yelling at
them like I try like every fiber in my
body is going like either just be cool
don't be a jerk try not to be so such a
pederast about this
and and then like four and a half
minutes into it I find that I'm just
yelling this happened to me on two
separate occasions over the past four
days since working here I've found
myself in situations like that where I'm
like oh no I'm I'm to acting like Sam
right yep hey now I will say this like
that's why it was so much worse during
the Bush years because that was every
single interaction with people now at
least you know in certain circles like
everybody agrees yeah it's a crap show
and we have to stay involved then we
have to but back in the day Brock from
VA the myth that mass shootings are
being driven by SSRIs and
antidepressants comes from an old
article by a group called CCHR which was
started in his run by the Church of
Scientology Scientology is hostile to
the entire field of psychology and gun
nuts ran with their theory during the
Obama presidency after Sandy Hook to
push back against gun law talks I've
heard I've heard both right I don't know
I don't know didn't someone come on the
show recently say something to that
effect yeah I think so hi that was
ringing in my head too I can't remember
Dan guns do you think someone called it
about that yeah yeah a square I don't
know and I don't know how you would find
that information I don't know how that
would be legal from for us to know
because even after death right I mean
it's like you can't necessarily that I
don't know a square Sam already dreading
an SNL skit I'm biding Ukraine issue and
also a skit on that that brave young
woman addressing power Dave from Chicago
dinesh d'souza has a seriously garbage
tweet about Greta I saw that did you see
that one yeah it's you know what like I
was gonna I was gonna uh I was gonna go
after him when I was like this guy is
just trolling no like he's just he's
just looking too much there's no
argument there
Michael Bennett is still in the 2020
race he thinks that he is like he thinks
that he's like General Sherman I think
right I was in like Sherman's march to
the sea right wasn't the waiter winning
this and I wish this out I don't quite
think he's bringing that energy to this
it's more like I don't know what's
living off the land
that's more like Manson but didn't but
didn't Sherman at one point like they
they had like supply line problems and
so that they had to it's unclear I I
don't know enough about the military
history of the Civil War yet here's
Michael Bennet he's got his 25 people
with signs I presume he's in Iowa that's
where everybody's been he's still in the
race folks
Cory Booker says he's gonna have to get
out if he doesn't raise eight to ten
million dollars I think he's gonna make
it at least in the short run or maybe he
needs two or three million dollars in
the eight to ten days they've been
dusting to see that ultimatum and then
get a register of all the call logs that
Corey's making right but here is Michael
Bennett taken the campaign by storm and
as he says it sounds like he's eating
bugs to continue to go forward and what
does your campaign look like over these
next we're living off the land
you know and my old friend John McCain
was able to do that when he was running
when he was given up for dead and the
polls and I think we're we're gonna keep
pushing here we're gonna keep going I'm
on TV here in Iowa you know all day long
I've been meeting people who's been
watching the ads and and they feel good
about it and I feel
so we'll see what happens so John McCain
in 2008 was basically his campaign had
virtually no money his people had left
him and then they realized like we have
no opportunity to win here we need
someone who is the least Republican at
least in terms of image of anybody in
the Republican Party because the
Republican Party in 2007 was Dart and so
they got John McCain and he came out of
the ashes I do not think it is the exact
same situation for Michael Bennett it
may be closer to Sherman's march though
even if it was why is that the second
thing you're talking about like John
McCain who is this appealing to well he
that's the thing is he's so inside
baseball that he isn't he realized like
hey man we're giving you an opportunity
to speak to voters and all you're doing
is talking to donors right now all he's
doing is talking to donors he is not
arguing the American public doesn't know
what the hell he's saying the Democratic
primary voter doesn't go like oh he's
like John McCain well in that case I'm
gonna support him he is trying to make
the argument to the establishment of the
party hey you can you can give me money
I'm not dead yet but I have some bad
news for Michael Bennett he's dead
alright couple more Iams take one more
phone call that's it five six one come
from a 561 area code who's this where
you come from oh my god hi this is Alexa
I'm calling from Jersey but I've been
following you and other independent
progressive media for a while like TYT
and David Pakman and I think what you
guys do is great but as a person of
color I find
difficult to find progressive
independent media from the perspective
of people of color and especially queer
people of color so I want to know what
your thoughts are that are and it's no
any independent progressive individuals
as people of color I agree I mean I
agree i I mean I look for it all the
time
honestly like the you know everybody
hears sort of chuckling because that is
we're always looking for folks like that
Ben Dixon has a show he's straight he's
male I don't I don't know now to be fair
I don't spend a lot of time consuming
media I can you know I know Pakman I
mean I know him personally I I can't say
that I watch his show very much at all
same with kolinsky even with TYT i III
don't I don't I don't I don't know there
used to be a network I guess called twig
and lon gosh his name escaped me I'm old
right now
he had a network that had a couple of
shows but yeah it's a problem it's a
real problem and I can tell you Alexa
that I III mean I look for this because
I'm aware of this shows lack of
diversity and so I'm always on the
lookout I'm always on the lookout and I
don't know I don't know why you know
it's not like there isn't there isn't
stuff to be said I don't know why why
that is you know you can do a show like
this one from your desk and it's not
gonna look as good as this but this did
not look as good as their I mean you go
back and look at what this show looked
like eight nine years ago and I was
already you know coming from you know
radio I I'm just in front of a
of a white wall with a tiny computer
printout you know a printer print out of
the majority poor logo which you know my
friend Dorsey made mm-hmm I have another
quick question since I asked this
because I'm actually thinking of doing
my own YouTube channel to help
incentivize people my age to be into
social politics and be socially
politically aware but my biggest
question is I mean you produce content
every single day you're on at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern every day and I am wondering how
do you just start because obviously it's
a one-man job I'm doing right now so I'm
not doing this everyday like you are but
I really want to produce content to make
it digestible for people my age and I
just don't know where to start I guess
send me an email a majority reporters at
gmail.com okay thank you so much Wow I'm
actually really surprised that you my
call and I was waiting and it's really
great to hear that you answer your
colleagues especially I called other
other shows and I've been like really
degraded since I'm only 19 but I really
appreciate your honesty
especially in even viewing your own crew
with with the lack of diversity because
I really am trying to find this to help
all my friends and people that I talked
to who are people of color be into
progressive independent media yeah I
mean to a large extent to be honest with
you you know a big part of my you know
personal project is to try and grow more
of this type of media and it's hard we
don't have you know huge resources to do
it I try and I try and do it to it to
the extent that we can you know but yes
I am I am if I want to say first of all
you should email us at majority
reporters at gmail.com and and and happy
to talk to you about this stuff and more
but I would just say to anybody out
there too if you know of shows that you
think that we should be aware of and we
can help promote in some fashion
email us you
like there are some shows that I think
are not not good not just in terms of
like I'm not so worried about sort of
the production style the you know the
performance but just in terms of like
the messaging I don't think is good and
I won't necessarily promote those but
I'm pretty open and anyway we can help
people we will do it so you send us an
email but other people you know feel
free majority reporters at gmail.com if
you think their shows I should check out
by all means please yeah add me at
Twitter too and I would just say to
anybody generally thanks Alexa on the
production side of stuff right yeah just
start doing stuff because you're not
gonna get like you're not gonna get the
production down to your satisfaction
until you're you've done it for like a
year probably I
broadly speaking out even outside of the
political realm just in any type of
project any type of business I have come
to the conclusion that doing it is
better than doing it right you can do it
in in in in the world that we live in
now you know I'm pretty conservative
with this stuff not ideologically but in
terms of like how quickly I'll grow I I
had a PowerPoint presentation on how to
go out and raise money for this and I
was just very reluctant I just for
whatever my own psychological issues I
don't feel comfortable doing that and
you launch and if you are thoughtful and
you work hard at it and you focus on the
things that are important over time you
will get the resources that allow you to
put it back into the business and to you
know up your production value and the
important thing is just you go and you
do it and then you start making it
better doesn't have to be perfect on day
one I I know too many people who are
held back because they question it's not
even just endeavours like this is like
any small you know entrepreneurial
endeavor sometimes you just gotta jump
into it and go like I don't I don't know
what the temperature of the pool is it
may be shocking
I get in there but I'll get used to it
and then if I don't like it I'll get out
that's that's that's gonna be the name
of my book my business book if I don't
like what the pool feels like I'll get
out that's it for phone calls folks
sorry apologies if you've been holding
tried to not have people hold for very
long okay I feel like maybe we gotta do
like a whole show of just phone calls
one point I'm gonna do uh about eight
more items and we'll get out of here I
love Sarah Palin I hope these Democratic
primary voters taking notice about this
whole Trump Ukraine thing I don't know
if I would agree that the primary voters
pay more attention to the political
media landscape than a general election
voter Trump Fox News and the rest of the
right-wing media telegraphing part of
their strategy on Biden throw out
conspiracy theories like they did with
Hillary uranium one whom Abidine being
part of the Muslim Brotherhood Benghazi
then pound doubt into people's head
until they are so confused they don't
show up the Ukraine thing is just the
tip of the iceberg and when he proposes
policy in the debate stage with Trump
Trump is just gonna keep saying you're
in the Senate for 30 years why didn't
you do it already
Trump's general election strategy isn't
gonna be convincing voters it's gonna be
disempowering people who might vote for
Democrat Mehdi Hassan that that's
exactly right I mean that's what we've
been saying right it's not a persuasion
election it's a mobilisation election
Trump's agenda is going to be to depress
the Democratic vote and the Democratic
and that is why that is my point about
when you run on the playing field the
Donald Trump wants you to run on and
that is you say you're a good guy I say
I'm a good guy you're gonna have a
problem because he's just gonna spend
all the time saying you're a bad guy you
can say I'm a bad guy but unfortunately
for you when a liberal says that about
conservatives more conservative show up
to vote when a conservative says it
about liberals liberals actually
listening maybe they stay home that's
that's why we're better people I'm
saying you know
broadly left and right and I'm being a
little bit facetious but I think people
are more sensitive on the left
I mean look they convinced 87% of
evangelical Christians to vote for a guy
who is by all accounts very unchristian
but they thought he could deliver and
not deliver on being a good person or
this and that but a material benefit to
them which was a Supreme Court justice
or two or three the Democrat who runs
against Donald Trump needs to lead with
policy needs to lead with stuff and by
policy I'm very I'm speaking very
broadly doesn't have to be like very
narrow and technocratic and complicated
and hard to sell they have to lead with
ideas that are outside of them they have
to lead they have to in by lead I don't
even mean like leading people I mean
start with the primary thing that has to
be out there is you make Donald Trump
box not with you you make a box with
ideas I don't mean to sound Dave Rubin
about this but like make him box with
Medicare for all make him go out there
and make the case as to why Americans
don't want to lose their private health
insurance it may be easy for people to
judge to say that but it's not easy for
Donald Trump to do that on a sustained
basis I'm sorry how many of those things
do you think he can remember but he does
know how to go out there and say no he's
a bad guy though he says he's a good guy
I say he's a bad guy it's just like how
would you win a debate with a
six-year-old honestly how would you win
a debate with a six-year-old you would
start talking about stuff that the
six-year-old doesn't understand because
they get disoriented
whenever Saul is misbehaving I just
start talking to him like I would talk
to a guest on the show and he gets you
he doesn't know what the hell is going
on and he stops freezes he locks up
what's he gonna do
can't argue this stuff he actually when
he's mad at me he says you're the worst
dad ever
you're worse than Donald Trump yep and
then I say stuff like I say are you
suggesting that I would I would force
California to have lower emission
standards for their cars it's got
nothing he's got nothing
he just looks at me like he doesn't know
what I'm talking about because he
doesn't bebe teach how much of China's
trash is making for us to consume
indeed Ben does Michael have permission
to skip work at least once a week
unreliable co-hosts that was actually
yeah that was a conversation this
morning - I did Chris from Taiwan
Bernie's plans are simpler more straight
for that straightforward than Warren's
but if you actually read them they're no
less specific or detailed I think Warren
is widely perceived as being more
specific with their plans is that she
chooses to emphasize the wonky details
whereas Bernie chooses to emphasize the
broader values and vision behind his
campaign yes and I think part of the
reason why Warren's been effective with
it is that I do think that there is a
very strong hunger right now for
competence that a big thing that people
feel about Trump when they are not
ideological people is that he doesn't
know what he's doing and so somebody
comes in and says I know what I'm doing
I think gives them comfort
Jonathan Armstead years ago I saw a meme
online that said slavery was socialism
as it promised jobs housing and
healthcare to all the slaves I literally
couldn't even also thank you for Sam for
saying that Saving Private Ryan
Dunc also I've saved up your crystal
ball interview to watch it after the
show what do you think of her she had a
turn in 2015 where she was very adamant
that that Hillary Clinton was
problematic and I was very surprised by
that I could not follow what that was
and I think that I don't know if she was
but now I think she's great
I mean I think like you know to have
someone who's presenting a left voice on
a platform like that is great all in
favor of it all in favor of it I mean I
don't you know I can't i can't i'm not
gonna claim that i know all our
positions on stuff but broadly speaking
i think it's it's good swear Dafa
do you think that warrants rise in the
polls is a reflection of her debate
performance I'd like Bernie but he
doesn't seem to be as good at this stuff
as she is I think she's hit her stride
to a certain extent I mean Bernie's you
know in New Hampshire Bernie is
statistically tied for first and I think
Biden is uh falling in Nevada Bernie is
in first place in California Bernie is
very close to soot Abidin I think
there's a perception that Warren has
this momentum because Bernie's been more
or less static or slowly creeping up but
I think that's a perception enhanced by
the fact that a lot of times like you're
just not hearing much about Bernie in
the mainstream media now I gotta be
honest with you I think like the bottom
line is gonna be to see if Bernie's
strategy of organizing on the ground
with you know sort of like it's almost
like social justice unionism like
building relationships with communities
that are tangential to the presidential
election if they they come back and
deliver that's gonna be the test I think
we're gonna see this in Iowa right now
it looks like Iowa that Bernie's in
third that Budaj edge is right on his
heels it may be the case it also may be
the case that in a
state when we have a different dynamic
with the electorate 2014 to 2018 you
double the amount of college students
that came out that's just unheard of if
a similar dynamic is happening on the
ground polls wouldn't necessarily catch
it it could also be the case that the
polls are exactly right and people who
judge is a favorite of second pick for a
lot of people and people just come in
second in Iowa I mean who knows I don't
know we'll know a lot more after Iowa in
New Hampshire I think Spock oh did the
Pentagon gave the Kingdom a 10% discount
for paying cash for the protection
contract that the Saudis put out RFP for
their protection contracted Blackwater
bid was our military low bid does Trump
expect we'll make money on the backend
with coffee overruns and extensions did
anyone check to see how much money the
kingdom paying for the protection
contract yeah I mean these are all I
have no idea what kind of oversight
we're getting these days Nick in
Pittsburgh Nate Silver said a little bit
more than that y'all he called the
people Sanders has with him the residue
left behind because if the white
liberals who went to warn the others he
specifically said one think we shouldn't
leave out what he called the diversity
of Sanders base residue which is
incredibly disgusting
yeah it's he's gotten super creepy
wonderful Nate's on an all meat diet too
it's a little bit creepy Deacon Feld hey
Sam I saw my first Andrew yang bumper
sticker today right next to the don't
tread on me flag and the reddit alien
and the final I am of the day
[Music]
[Applause]
mark monk TV mark monkey TV mu and KY
hey guys it's letting you know I'll be
streaming live from one of the sites of
the uaw strikes in Flint I will ask them
about a fund for helping with cut
benefits tune in at 10:00 a.m. Eastern
to watch twitch.tv slash mark M AR C mu
and K monkey kak why thank you all left
is best
and solidarity forever appreciate it
alright folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
I'm going
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
