[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex
the majority report with sam cedar it's
Thursday January 10th 2019 my name is
Michael Brooks on the first Michael
Thursday and this is the of the year
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report were broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program Steven a cook senior fellow at
the Council on Foreign Relations co-host
of the great Amen Corner podcast we're
talking about the air21 Bolton beef
trump's pullout future of Kurdish
autonomous zones and Kurdish rights as
well as why general Sisi is worse than
Mubarak in Egypt as we continue the
global authoritarian mapping and
authoritarian and incompetence mapping
Donald Trump's stormed out of the
meeting with Chuck and Nancy said it was
a total waste of time
he's heading to Texas to make his case
for the border wall meanwhile the
government shutdown drags on and it's
going to affect those who rely on food
stamps soon and also routine food
inspections have been halted by the
government shutdown it's okay you know
competition midstate
Pompeyo seeks to reassure our allies
despite a u.s. exit as he continues to
support authoritarianism z' return in
Latin America Trump's team definitely
had some very heavy Russia flirting we
don't know how high the contact went but
apparently now it's Vanessa stablished
there have been over a hundred contacts
with Russian link officials by the Trump
campaign la teachers are gonna wait to
decide whether they should strike
putting it now until the 14th as they
fight against charter schools for a pay
raise and more resources against the
neoliberal leadership of LA's public
schools Steve Manon then only want to
sell fascism he also wanted to sell
jewels but was rejected vape pens vape
pens have angelical groups this is nice
they wanted gays removed from an
anti-lynching bill but we have some
plans for them err Diwan freaks out
about Bolton we'll get to that as well
as continuing to imprison leaders of
Kerdi of the Kurdish social democratic
opposition inside Turkey Brazilian
political prisoner the most prominent
political prisoner in the world today
Lula da Silva tells his vidual that he
won't lose hope if they don't lose hope
as rallies and resistance continues the
first week of the fascist Bolton ro
regime backed by the United States has
stripped gay rights and is moving
forward with plans to destroy the Amazon
all that and more on today's majority
report Donald Trump had a sort of
non-event address to the nation I think
about 8 million people saw it cleaned up
in the ratings and he didn't say
anything it I mean of course he lied
fear monger he tried to work people up
into a lather
with demagoguery and dishonesty about
immigration and undocumented people but
he didn't move forward with some of the
more extravagantly crazy plans that
we've been hearing he might move forward
with still might still by never know but
this shutdown continues and again this
shutdown was essentially and some
respects came out of nowhere I mean the
Senate unanimously passed a bill to keep
government going Trump was all set to
sign it and then apparently word from
people like Rush Limbaugh and Ann
Coulter the other core leaders of the
Republican Party got to trump about you
know where's the wall and so Trump all
of a sudden threw a tantrum and sure
we've been for about thirty days and of
course it's affected some real people's
lives like government workers and it
will start to seriously broadly affect
people's lives and implicates essential
programs like food stamps which of
course Republicans are always trying to
gut regardless but you know this is a
time where obviously Trump is going into
overdrive with lies and bloviating he's
really boring when he's scripted which
is one of the reasons that his address
even though it was fun we live streamed
it on T MBS made fun of it you can check
it out on our youtube channel as well as
Bernie's response which was good but it
was boring
Trump is definitely boring it's boring
you've been boring
Trump's particular form of being an
 is much better off the cuff here
he is yesterday we don't have barriers
walls call them what you want but if we
don't have very strong barriers where
people can not any longer drive right
across there unbelievable vehicles they
make a lot of money they have the best
vehicles you can buy them stronger
bigger and faster vehicles that are
police happen and ice has and then
Border Patrol has so they're pretty good
at that they have areas that they go to
it's like a highway and we have to close
them up and we don't close them up
you're all kidding yourself
Wow you know what this is mind-blowing
because I might have to issue a mockery
retraction here but I that acts
was sort of like a pathetically
steamrolling over the truth there
because his heart really wasn't in it
now matt has a theory about this which
involves a good piece of pop culture
Matt so can clip and Steen everyone
knows him at TYT does a lot of a freedom
of information yes great journalist he's
not the only one in this sort of circle
that does couldn't do freedom of
information stuff so I was able to find
the dossier Stephen Miller prepared for
Trump to help him to help influence his
decision in this and we have a little
bit of it here right so groundbreaking
reporting here from Matt luck from the
EM our team go ahead
so who's the Trump saw this he was like
oh my god I had no idea it was so bad
Trump if they showed this to Trump and
all that this was happening at the
border he would literally be hiding
under the Oval Office desk he does such
an extreme panic attack you get general
mattis to come back in general mattis
cut that please I'm sorry I was so rude
I'm sorry that I told him that his
daughter looked fat
please somebody protect me please oh my
god there are really those moments we
just like this guy there aren't how many
world leaders are there right now that
are you know there's plenty that are is
you know I mean they're all in the same
vein I mean I don't know bolsa Nara was
kind of dumb in some ways but I'm not
talking about morality or politics right
I mean err Diwan is authoritarian
fascist he's an enemy but he's smart you
know he knows how to operate how many
other are there other people that are
just analogous in terms of really just
and I'm sorry to go donut Twitter here
but I mean a guy she really as he's
I mean look at other Republican
presidents there's w obviously also not
as ridiculous Ronald Reagan may have
been influenced by first encounters or
what does that movie think counters of
yeah counters nurse Encounters of the
Third Kind it's weird yeah yeah but he
was also influenced by I think was the
Day the Earth Stood Still which is why
all of a sudden he became really great
arms control yeah that's dumb yeah it's
super dumb reason to be dumb but like it
would be cool Trump watch like Space Jam
or something it's supported civil rights
after it that would be like the analogy
now aliens
there's still a lian's in there to any
answer to be funny in their talent
everybody use Trump or Trump watch like
I don't know like like some like eco
video that Michael Jackson put out in
the early 90s there's no gonna do
systematic deforestation of the monkeys
the forest folks I just saw Coco and let
me tell you they're good people I had
almost cried almost cried it was bad
stuff I mean that was what Reagan
watched Day the Earth Stood Still and
he's like can't Mikhail Gorbachev on the
phone that looks super bad and also Ares
is a sentient Nancy tells me so if we
don't do something the whole balance of
the Cosmo lose could be put into
question all right folks I like to
always throw a little bit of content
content there that uh imagine somebody
it like the the Council on Foreign
Relations being like Steve you're really
friends with that horrible leftist we'll
be right back with our friend Steven a
kook of the senior fellow at the Council
on Foreign Relations co-host of unmanned
corner we're talking about Turkey and
Bolton
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Steven a cook he's a senior fellow at
the Council on Foreign Relations he's
also like anybody worth their salt in
2019 a podcaster and he co-hosts are
very good very funny very smart podcast
with his and also my friend Brad the
podcast is called the ahmen corner and
soon in addition of course being able to
find it in all the places where you can
find podcasts iTunes stitcher and so on
it's going to be hosted on a website I'd
not heard of I understand that it's
funded by the Saudi government so long
calm is that true going it's going good
man when when does it when does it
arrive on solanum and Corner what we're
gonna do we're gonna do one episode
that's on what's called the J caste
network will stay on the J caste network
and we'll be on our still on iTunes and
stitcher and all those places and then
salons gonna host it every Sunday they
you know they're very interested in it
they want to give it a you know a
broader audience and they figured if you
know Sunday's kind of a light day for
them anyway but they have traffic and
they did they said they wanted to
feature it so we're pretty excited about
that
boss slowly but surely so know it's and
it's a really I mean it's another it's
another really great I really enjoy it
well how would you I said last time it's
a bars meets Public Enemy but how do you
summarize it I think it's a pretty good
one you know it really comes out of you
know two guys in there in their late 40s
having a scream fest about you know
everything from national politics
International Affairs Van Halen the New
York Yankees what it's like to be you
know a father like how is it that I'm
responsible for the lives of two people
I haven't barely responsible for myself
and and Brad Rothschild my
Podcast host who's uh who's a
documentary filmmaker in New York we
have this ongoing dialogue about about
all of these things and believe it or
not you know we people actually seem to
care about what we have to say well a
lot of good podcasts on some level I
think are driven by actual friendships
among the host right and right and so
you guys have that going and then it's I
mean it goes a lot of places but even
like as an example I mean actually in
some ways we might be closer on on
Israel as an example then someone might
think but it's just it's just this very
specific like even that that's such an
interesting conversation like it's a
first of all even just like the
difference between being in your late
40s versus 70s versus 21 and how you
relate to Israel and being like an
in-between point and then also being in
New York and then you know Brad's a
filmmaker and there's that perspective
you're a policy analyst and a historian
and then there's like your personal
relationship to it and it brings up a
lot it like I would I would love to be a
guy I guess some time just like well the
answer about like the personality of a
hood homework or something well you know
so we you are you know we we do have to
start having some some other voices on
with us and and Michael Brooks is at the
top of the list boom and one of the it
you know besides the fact that you know
we appreciate your perspective on a
variety things you do excellent
impressions and like you know just the
just that impression of Sebastian Gorka
I mean the fact that he's kind of fond
of oh we mustn't radars good it's so
disappointing because you do such a good
what we need to go do a field trip or we
see him like you know give some like
nine-year-olds and like Palm Beach and
anxiety attack or some it's like was
like terrorism seminars for like it's
like when you've done with the fields of
realize Hezbollah could be here right
now congressman in the eastern end of
Long Island Sheldon Sheldon I think
Michael I think he he launched his
reelection campaign for this cycle
with a very special guest in his very
special guest was acting Gorka mean
[Laughter]
someday I would like to do a show with
you about that type of because there
were these like hucksters all over de
and I actually could you we have other
stuff talk about that but give us
actually like a couple of minutes
because it struck me like the other day
uh you know the dumbest man on YouTube
Dave Rubin had this guy on from
Australia I forget his name but he's
almost like I mean I don't know his
level of fraudulence but he's like an
Australian Imam quote-unquote and at the
very least he doesn't have all of the
credentials he says he has and his whole
shtick is he's like I'm an imam who just
is like you know yeah Islam and Muslims
are absolutely horrible but I have like
a Middle Eastern accent and the garb on
and Dave room is like who oh they can be
kidding they die so well right and and
then we're laughing about it and we're
like right like we laugh but if Trump
gets reelected this guy I probably be
put in charge of like you know like
roving ambassador for Middle Eastern
affairs so it's a joke but it's actually
kind of an you know how do these
hucksters like how do these types of
people get a foothold in in the in DC
you know they there's really two two
ways that it has happened you know this
hucksterism has been around for a long
time on the Middle East and you know
going back to the Iranian Revolution and
there was this kind of desperate effort
to sort of figure out what was going on
there and and and because that was you
know truly a surprise to people and so
that began began this kind of industry
this cottage industry of people who
purport to know things about the region
but that is just wildly distorted in a
way that it advances a retrograde
political agenda and so what's happened
is two things over the course of you
know 35 years a lot of money has been
invested in this worldview and that has
provided and it is
people have been promoted Gorka is
someone who is you know promoted by
people who had money and view the world
in in this similar kind of way and have
a political agenda and then of course
you know the the the the the
double-edged of the democratization of
media so whereas previously used people
kind of toiled on the periphery and
there was really no audience for them
because you had you know for better or
worse you had gatekeepers who understood
what was hucksterism versus what wasn't
then you had the democratization of
media and people could you know
establish websites and programs and so
on and so forth and promote the work the
quote-unquote work of people like
Sebastien Corcoran a variety a variety
of others who are deeply influential
with this administration you know you
can you can trace a lot of what is
happening on the Middle East and what's
happening on immigration and so on and
so forth to to to people like Sebastian
Gorkha Pamela Geller what's that guy the
other Spencer from little green
footballs
what's her name what's her name Gabriel
these are you know regime Gabrielle yeah
who is also you know and I should say
I'm you know date the dummy Dave gave
her but also I think Bill Maher gave her
a platter oh sure yeah yeah yeah but our
favorite good more right um okay all
right okay right so Maher is a is an
example of something that's totally
mainstream right you know he pulls in
lots or ratings makes a lot of money for
what is it HBO yeah
and you know I don't think he's gone so
far as having someone like Gore kahan
but others yeah right so that's where
ease but it's I mean we could we could
have a long kind of discussion about
about the Nexus of money political
agendas and people who pretend that they
know about the Middle East right great
well no but that's a good little intro
primer okay so a couple of weeks ago
Donald Trump announced that we're
pulling forces out of Syria he actually
followed up with
pull forces out of Afghanistan
supposedly which I do think is a very
good idea right I generally kind of a
sort of terrifyingly beyond it's the
obvious would date idea you know okay
and and so you know the the basic sort
of premise of pulling out of Syria
obviously makes a lot of sense and what
exactly we were doing in Syria and
hoping to achieve never seemed clear to
me could you kind of you know what does
that actually entail we're gonna get to
the Kurds specifically but do you see
this withdrawal as a sort of impulsive
and very just sort of Turkey centric
conversation basically like he's
literally he's talking with air21 and he
kind of has this impulse to do this
anyways and air21 maybe he's saying hey
I'll stop putting the Saudis through the
ringer through the for the khashoggi
murder we know how much you like the
Saudis and what can we do for each other
here maybe there's an arms deal here and
in exchange can you just get out which
you've kind of intimated you want to do
anyways I think it's I think it's a that
is close to what I think actually
happened look the president campaigned
against open-ended military deployments
in the Middle East he used that as as a
way to attack the establishment attack
the you know the bushes and the
establishment so on and so forth and I
think that that's a I think that there
is an argument to be made that our
presence in Syria once the fight against
the Islamic state is winding down or has
been one requires a reexamination and
the principles within the administration
we're making arguments about well where
they are for because now that the
Islamic state is on the verge of defeat
we're gonna be there because we need to
counter Iran and we need to have
leverage but the Russians and so no sort
and you know the deployment there
doesn't actually legally you can't do
those things not that that really mad
to anybody and add to it the fact that
he had these conversations with everyone
and he had two conversations in 10 days
around this announcement now we were
leaving but he had a previous
conversation with with air21 about a
month before in which the president and
this really speaks to kind of how these
kinds of things happen
it was unaware that the Turkish
government regards the Syrian Kurdish
fighting force though known as the YPG
the people's protection units he was
unaware that the Turks consider the YPG
to be a terrorist organization that is
just an extension of this group the PKK
that has been fighting turkey since 1984
he had no idea so then that leads aired
want to make the argument to the
president well you're working with this
YPG this terrorist group to defeat the
Islamic state well the Islamic state is
done it's been defeated
you should yet you should sever your
relationship with them and leave and
that makes sense to the Trump in this
kind of in this world in which he he
knows a little bit about a few things as
he along the way but is not obviously a
student doesn't read isn't really
terribly interested in these issues so
he says yeah and my base wants to get
out and I can rely on people to make the
case as to why we should get out and so
as a result we have a tweet on December
19th saying we're getting out of serious
immediately so yeah and and I think okay
so in some respects it's it's less
important to sort of relitigate in some
ways why we're there and I think that
you know US policy starting with Obama
in the initial phases of the uprising
against Assad that started you know in
2011 at this point and was more sort of
synchronized with the you know the
resistance movements across the Middle
East that occurred in that time when
people called the Arab Spring that was
right up against you know essentially
you know dictators and us-supported you
know autocrats and and so on and then
you know and then there's this vicious
crackdown by Assad and but
and it gets complicated because you know
saw Assad is committing all these
atrocities but a lot of the fighting
forces that the Gulf and the CIA and the
backing are you know he's extremist
almost like you know Salafist Khmer
Rouge style groups and it's you don't
forget the Turks were involved in this
as well right and that's what I want to
get you to in in actually maybe that's
great
before we get to the Kurds then that's
the other piece of this right it's not
just that the Kurds are in jeopardy and
there's already incredible brutal
atrocities that the Turks committed in a
freeing in a similar situation but it's
also that I you know even this supposed
concern about Isis specifically and
again we can argue about I I don't think
it was a compelling reason for the
United States to be in Syria and we
certainly have caused plenty of our own
problems and killed their own civilians
there that being said you know I mean
Isis is obviously is at the very least
they you know horrific the disgusting
atrocity producing group and
theoretically that's actually the one
that theoretically everybody there from
jamaat al nusra to Assad to Iran to the
United States to the Russians that
everybody to the Kurds obviously is
saying Isis is the enemy Isis is a
problem we need to protect everybody
from their genocide Allah Genda except
for probably for being real too you know
certainly some patrons in places like
the Saudis and the Emirates but then
also the Turks the Turks have a
tremendously shoddy record on this and
the other thing is that in addition to
the Kurdish spin air Diwan is telling
Trump don't worry we'll keep going on
Isis but what does Turkey actually done
with Isis right so so here's that is
that's really the rub and that's really
a problem been a problem in u.s. turkey
relations is that you know we want to
fight Isis and we when we went to the
Turks in 2014 and we said hey you don't
like Isis we don't like Isis Isis is on
your doorstep in Syria help us out they
said you know what Isis is a problem and
we don't share
the ideology of Isis but we perceive
Kurdish nationalism and the possibility
of the emergence of some sort of Kurdish
autonomous entity in northern
northeastern Syria to be an existential
threat to us so then when you go to the
fall of 2014 and Isis is besieging the
Syrian Kurdish town kobani which is
within you know you can see it from the
Turkish border Turkish forces which were
lined up on that border did nothing and
it was it was shocking that the Turks
didn't do this given the fact that Isis
really is a genuine threat to them
um because of their priority being
snuffing out Kurdish nationalism in
Syria and in Turkey there was another
problem that the Turks confronted which
is that after begging the Obama
administration to intervene in Syria and
bring down the Assad regime there their
answer was you know the only way that
this situation gets resolved as if the
United States marches an army on
Damascus and Obama obviously de Muir
the Turks turned a blind eye to
extremists using their territory to make
jihad on on the Syrian regime and along
in Turkey is particularly along its
southern border an extremist Network and
an infrastructure developed so the Turks
were quite frightened that if they took
on Isis or other extremists directly
that there would be blowback in Turkish
cities and you do see some of that in
December of 2015 I think that there were
if I'm remembering correctly there were
four terrorist attacks in Turkey in the
course of four weeks in December 2015 or
believe use 2015 - which were
perpetrated by either the PKK or an
offshoot of the PKK and this is this
Turkish Kurdish a terrorist group that
has been attacking Turkey and - were
conducted in the name of the Islamic
state and I think the Turks are
really were they do roll-up Isis
networks and cells but from what I
understand they then kind of look the
other way and they release them because
they're quite frightened of what might
happen in in Turkish cities by dint of
their own I think irresponsible policies
when it came to when it came to Syria
and they align with with Isis on this
question of Kurds yes and I mean I'll
spell I mean aligning on the question of
Kurds between Turkey and Isis no no I
just know you didn't at all but I mean
that means massive repression and ethnic
cleansing you know across the board
they're they're synchronized on that but
before then actually then there's one
other big thing that we need to I think
actually helps us set the table here I
remember when I studied in Turkey I
remember reading an essay by a Turkish a
very important figure in Turkish Foreign
Policy under air21 da Vitolo and it was
called no problems foreign policy and an
argument was was that Turkey was and
this is about 2007 it's totally uniquely
positions it can be Islamic and Western
its east and west north and south it can
it can be friends with George Bush or
Barack Obama as well as akhmad II Nejad
it can do business in Africa it can
partner with China and it can
reintroduce you know the Gulf back into
Turkey point being and and have and
again very specifically whether it's
Syria whether it's the caucuses whether
it's Armenia whether it's the eurozone
or Iran have zero problems now how did
that turn into we want we have problems
with everybody we want the United States
to invade the Mascis how did that happen
well you know one of my one of my
Turkish friends who was a member of the
Justice and Development Party and is now
no longer a member of the Justice and
Development Party when the more liberal
elements of the
of the party were purged he was part of
that group that was pushed out and what
he said was and and you know looked at
the no problems with its neighbors was
you know something that at Madaba told
oh who was that foreign minister and
prime minister of turkey he was he was
ridiculed for but from where you sat in
Ankara and you envisioned Turkey as
being this great power in the region
particularly in the Muslim world and
keep in mind that the party valorizes
the Ottoman period they don't have a
conception of how other parts of the
Ottoman Empire perceived the exercise of
Turkish power and yet in the Empire um
it looked like a really good policy and
there were aspects of it early on that
were I think constructed the Turks held
themselves out as problem solvers in the
arab-israeli arena they did the tragedy
of what's happening now is that it was
the Justice and Development Party that
when he came to power was intent on and
well-placed to resolve what's referred
to as the Kurdish problem in Turkey and
yet you've had this turn and what my
friend who's this former member of the
Justice and Development Party said the
middle in the reality of the Middle East
smacked us in the face we didn't really
understand the region as well as we
thought we did so you know as this as
the uprisings unfolded the Turks for all
of their bravado about leading the
region misread much of what was going on
and in their own effort to bring down
Bashar al Assad who or no one had once
invited to take part in his family
vacation a beach vacation the Assad's
are the erred ones together right um in
their effort to punish Assad for first
driving millions of Syrians into Turkish
territory which the Turks saw saw as
being destabilizing but also the
atrocities I mean there was a real there
was a principled feeling of outrage on
the part of the Turks when this happened
but their response to it was
irresponsible which was once it was
became clear that the United States
wasn't going to march
and Damascus they were gonna enable
extremists to wage war against Assad
then you know the whole thing the whole
zero problem saying the whole strategic
position of Turkey really collapsed
beginning just at the zenith just at
that moment in 2011 where everybody in
Washington was kind of enough for all
the idea that Turkey complained its
leading role it's a model for the region
and exactly that moment was when Turkey
was embarking on a series of policies
that would really collapse its position
in the region and we've gotten to this
this moment where they have you know
they're in involved militarily in Syria
in pretty terrible ways and they have
bad relations with every route every
important country in the Middle East
with the exception of the caught
theories and some you know countries in
North Africa but it's it's it's a clap
not that these regimes are so great but
it's it's really been a collapse of a
turkey in a region okay so let me let me
I'm gonna do it a touch of editorial and
then ask a specific question about this
so with the Kurds look I it's no secret
I'm a big supporter in many ways of the
Syrian Kurds and it seems that there's
three beta mean obviously look I'm on
the Left they're doing some very
important experiments and some actually
really positive things in terms of you
know democratic experimentation in
ecological rights and so on I would say
it's also interesting to me it's a topic
for another day but in in in a very
different context inside Turkey you know
the HDP whose leadership have been
politically imprisoned by air Dewan in a
just gross violation gene Basler and I
have a piece on this and the Jacobin may
had actually turned the HDP from a just
sort of more narrow party focused on
Kurdish rights in in Turkey which is an
important issue by the by now they
actually and when they really started
gaining traction they were basically set
up kind of really a more analogous to
like you know a European social
democratic party and it's her if you're
a liberal in Turkey you voted for HDB
hundred percent right and they and they
certainly I mean
the charges of them fomenting violence
and so on are you know almost entirely
universally rejected so so there is a
point being is obviously there's a very
big context for a repression of Kurds
and there is a lot of aspects of Kurdish
politics which were incredibly important
and admirable in the Middle East whether
you have a leftist perspective or a
liberal perspective or you're concerned
about you know pluralism or LGBTQ or the
environment and so on from the most
radical to the electoral it is Kurdish
forces that are bringing these to the
fore now specifically though when we
talk and obviously there's no doubt
whether or not we call the PKK a
terrorist group it's an objective
reality that the PKK has absolutely
killed Turkish civilians they've
absolutely engaged in violence and they
absolutely have times have presented a
totally you know the answer there their
claims are are justified and the answer
by the Turkish state oftentimes is
obviously brutal and repressive right
and but the specific you know it's like
there's conditions in context but then
there's certain tactics that we just
have to say are unacceptable and the PKK
no doubt is engaged in those tactics
just like you know the IRA or so on so
before we okay and I and I want to get
to that more specifically in a second
but I mean first of all before it how
close it how much do you buy this notion
they're certainly connected but are the
PKK and the Syrian Kurds somewhat
different things and very specifically
even just this notion that like the
Syrian Kurds if they can hold on to this
territory that they have and carve some
autonomy it would seem to me that
between fighting Isis making sure that
Assad doesn't regroup and take them out
balancing the United States Russia and
Iran don't they have enough on their
plate besides like this air21 fantasy of
like projecting revolution back in
Turkey yeah this is kind of an this is a
national trauma in in Turkey from the I
want to get to your question but yeah
yeah go to a little bit of please yeah
for for you know Turks who
have you know the real confronted the
reality of PKK violence over the course
of many years added to it you know a
fair amount of state propaganda about
PKK and Kurds you know the the total
obliteration of the idea of Kurds in the
Republic and that you know they're
really just Mountain Turks and they're
separatists and you know from there from
if you're if you're Turkish and the YPG
is what the Turkish state and them kind
of mainstream narrative in Turkey is
about you are terrified of what it means
for the YPG to be not only accumulating
political power in northeastern Syria
but also territory and the fact that the
United States is perceived as being
uniquely helpful in this is the
nightmare scenario it's everything that
you know Turks have been concerned about
since World War one when Great Powers
sought to divide up Anatolia so there is
something kind of rational if you climb
into you know a Turkish body and you
look at the world from from that
perspective getting back to what you're
saying about about the Kurds is there
what is the what is the kind of
connection between the PKK and the YPG
certainly the political elements of the
Kurdish political power parties in
Kurdish political power these are things
that pre-existed uprisings in Syria and
around around the region but when it
came to the uprising and the
militarization of the uprising in Syria
the PKK did help set up the YPG the
argument being you're gonna get rolled
over it by someone long and the Kurds
need to protect themselves so there is a
there is a linkage there are accusations
that I've heard haven't been
independently verified but I think has
become kind of a truth among observers
of this is that you have you have
fighters who are PKK
and ypg uh and but that is you know a
function of though the the conflict so
but I think you're quite right in
pointing out that we refer to the PKK as
a terrorist organization there is a
tremendous push on the part of the Turks
to lobby the United States to see the
YPG that way and to sever our relations
with it there is the United States has
bowed to Turkish pressure to and share
the information actionable information
on the PKK but there's also you know
there's there is also a discussion in
Washington is about the PKK is it you
know is it a terrorist organization in
the same kind of way that you know Isis
is or or you know al Qaeda and I have to
just say like of course not
right of course like that's just an
obvious claim to reject right and I
think that that and I think that is what
the discussion is about Washington is
that the Turkish representation of these
groups is they are no different from
al-qaeda they are no different from Isis
they are part of this radical extremist
worldview that we see in a number of
different contexts and I think people
are starting to question it and I think
they were even starting to question it
before the rillette military
relationship with the YPG for you know
many there's there's a certain
romanticism about Kurds in Washington
and then you do see people on the ground
you know it's it's sort of foreign to
American political thinking and
political culture but you do see YPG and
its affiliated part of the PYD doing
some innovative things on the ground
very mom yeah really and so you know for
if you're military guy you're out there
in the field these guys are fighting for
you with you and then they seem to have
a political program and you're
confronted with threats from your NATO
ally the Turks and you're confronted
with threats from al Qaeda from Isis the
Kurds actually look pretty good in that
context I think there's no
that's the thing it's like if you look
at all of the big context of everybody's
involved in Syria from you know the Gulf
to their proxies the Pentagon and the
CIA support I mean we have reports of at
times groups - funded by the Pentagon
and the CIA fighting each other
right I mean the Turks the Russians
Assad this whole vetting thing was a
total fantasy right and then we have one
group who you know is defeating Isis
delivering rights and and actually is a
completely updated politics and of
course but even I have to say even where
there's documented failings and abuses
by the Kurds and I'm not trying maybe
it's the you know the soft bigotry of
low expectations but I have to say it's
like okay they had people leave a you
know a village before there was fighting
very disruptive potentially very abusive
now every single other group we're
talking about here from the air forces
of Russia in the United States that are
killing plenty of civilians - you know
obviously groups like Isis I mean
they're you know they'll wipe out a
village and they're not having people
move they'll kill everybody you know so
just the so it's it's very obvious who
one would support here in and this is
where you know to me it is an
interesting synergy because I have you
know I think there's some of us who have
a left internationalist perspective and
we really would you know would like to
see and need to see far less military
intervention in general for variety
reasons but I don't want to pull out
some observers and some forces they're
backing these fighters for a variety of
reasons and then I also think you know
it's not usually my view of the world
but I totally it seems very valid why a
military person would say what a
precedent to set that you just you know
we fight with these guys everybody's
blood and sweat is in this and then we
just sell them out to be rolled over at
the earliest signs of any kind of deal
that doesn't work in terms of I mean any
kind of credibility I know that word
gets thrown around by people
who you know are very hawkish but uh and
some people get triggered by even using
that word at all but I'm sorry in terms
of reality their credibility is the
thing in statecraft even for good things
like diplomatic agreements and just you
know bailing is I mean it's trash it's
not good for credibility either in my
view yeah it's you there and I think to
kind of wrap this whole thing around
there's no one in this conflict I mean
this isn't deadly horrific conflict who
has you know conducted themselves in a
way that is is admirable but the Kurds
the differences here is that the Kurds
have genuinely been protecting
themselves from these other forces right
and we I think we certainly have a
responsibility because they you know
they're essentially doing a lot of our
bidding you know you're you have YPG
fighters yeah certainly they're afraid
of they're afraid of Isis but they could
have cut deals with the Assad regime and
the Russians with whom they have but
essentially they are there so American
soldiers don't have to do this kind of
thing and I think you're absolutely
right that there's there's a there's a
responsibility there's a responsibility
to our allies and it really does damage
our credibility and I think either take
it one step further the announcement
that we are leaving and be subsequent
chaos that it has produced not just in
the not not just in the Cass and you
know everybody woke up in the Pentagon
that morning was like we're leaving what
and it throws the whole thing but the
the chaos of the president saying well
we're not leaving and contradicting
himself and then getting on the phone
with everyone and promising certain
things all of this does is it sends a
message to actors in the region that the
United States is leaving the region and
we can do whatever it is that you want
because there's there's no one there
that sounds like a and I can I can
anticipate the critique from the left
right well we should be it but what it
does is it gives license to all of these
bad actors look we the perception was in
Saudi Arabia that the United States was
leaving the region and leaving them high
and dry and what did the Saudis do they
rewrote their defense doctrine and as
soon as they were done rewriting the
defense doctrine they started bombing
Yemen so there are consequences to these
things that I think you can demonstrate
a certain amount of leadership and
credibility in the region without
leaving people with the impression that
they're on their own and we don't give
up we don't give it what is that what's
that beep into the background in this
hotel and there's beeping that's going
on and off I don't know I'm not there's
a fire please leave it's really always
not want you to have to jump out of a
window I'm not that important so I'm on
a low floor so I'm fairly confident if I
have to go out the window up there okay
cool let's proceed I so yeah and I think
yeah that's okay so then um yeah I would
I would just say in general I mean as
somebody who absolutely supports a
project of a very big us wind down
across the board and maybe yeah I guess
we'll finish this up in a minute because
that button is very the beeping is quite
annoying but is it broadcast here well
we're trying to figure out how to do it
but I just think like you know some of
these things some of them you could just
say full stop stop interfering in you
know a sovereign country in Latin
America because you don't like the
government you know stop ferment right
like these things are really obvious but
there's other places where you know in
like the Korean Peninsula's an example
or how you deal with Taiwan some of
these things are gonna require a really
calibrated smart wind down and
restructuring so you don't just leave
people an alert right because this is
all just a one-dimensional thing like
sometimes like in this case the United
States softlight presence that is what's
blocking a much more you know in that
context vicious and cruel imperialism
that will come like immediately from
Turkey you know so and maybe in another
context frankly it's you know a Chinese
presence that's stopping the u.s. from
doing that role in which case I would
support the Chinese presence frankly but
you got to think a little bit more you
know subtly than that exactly I think
that's I think that's the issue that
they folks like myself who you know look
at the world and say our you know
open-ended interventions in a variety
places have have not done us or anybody
very good but there are contexts where
this is just upping and leaving for you
know presidential whim or or or whatever
it is deeply irresponsible and as you
point out there is a real concern that
the the the up and leaving of American
forces in a way in which the president
has proposed even you know his more
deliberate one you see that it's running
into problems because there's they're
trying to backfill and say oh but we're
gonna protect the Kurds and and the
Turks are like what are you talking
about what are you talking about you're
gonna protect the Kurds
near terrorists which just reveals
precisely what Turkish intentions are as
soon as the last American soldier has
left Syrian territory right oh so Aaron
wants tantrum about Bolton that shows
the cards the plan I just go in there
and destroy these people and a lot of
innocent people are gonna die and
whether you're you know a leftist and
you're looking for you know a model and
an ally the Kurds are or even just more
broadly if you're saying hey is that
really the group that you know valiantly
fought Isis I mean you really just want
to just bail and let them be you know
wiped out by you know this brutality I
it's
beyond me frankly yeah and it if we did
that it would be perfectly in keeping
with the way in which we've dealt with
Kurds over many many years giving them
up to Saddam you know in the late 1970s
leaving them high and dry after the
after Operation Desert Storm in 1991
these are these my sense is though that
the sentiment in Washington with regard
to Kurds and that history is turning
part of it has to do with the fact that
the relationship between the United
States and Turkey has deteriorated so
dramatically and because of that and
because of the Kurdish decision to be
you know uniquely helpful in the fight
against the Islamic state is is is
changing the viewer thinks that though
is cold comfort because you know
President Trump seems intent on doing
this when when bullying was
contradicting the president in Ankara
and president everyone was having a
hissy fit about it I was wondering how
long it was gonna be before Bolton is
gone now that's not a brief I don't have
a brief for John Bolton but it strikes
me that the president is intent on I'm
getting out of Syria it was one of those
moments when and it's so Amman yet so
this is kind of mind-blowing because you
know John Bolton's one of the great just
awful villains of our time every way
shape and form but what was funny oh
yeah just I mean everything that can be
wrong with somebody is wrong with him
but what was funny was like it was like
I saw another and then but but I had to
restrain myself for more than one of
those moments I can clip enstein who we
mentioned earlier tweeted out historian
said it's hard not to like Trump for
this and the story was basically like
Bolton and Trump are so distant and
Trump can barely Bolton's name the idea
Trump just totally I mean there's
something Trump's only public value
in life is emasculating evil Republicans
just amazing at it and it's very funny
let's do five minutes if you can can you
do five minutes on Egypt yeah I can do
five hours any okay great okay you have
a few more we don't have well I know
well I know I don't know my bird yeah
okay so what is going on just just
remind us I mean Morsi obviously I'm
excuse me Morsi was deposed by CC and a
coup general Sisi has you know there's
been positive signals for him from
Donald Trump from a freelancing Tony
Blair from a freelancing tulsi gabbard
but I mean this guy is a is a tremendous
vicious you know autocrat I guess I'm
sure that the Israelis feel more
comfortable with him being in power but
you're saying that now this isn't a
return to Mubarak this is worse than
Mubarak why yeah well there's you know I
could kind of give you statistics about
CC's Egypt that would suggest just a
kind of base level how bad things have
gotten for people and of course
supporters of CC will say whoa he's so
brave he's implementing all these
political reforms but I look at it in
somewhat non-political forms I meant
economic reforms but I think the
difference between Mubarak and Sisi is
on Mubarak for all of his faults and
problems understood something I think
very very important about Egypt Egypt is
in many ways governor more and so that
for Mubarak it was a problem to be
managed
Sisi in the kind of bravado of a you
know guy who you know undertook this
coup led this coup and then you know the
state apparatus kind of coalesced around
him and there was this idea that Cece
was the savior of the country and that
now there was going to be a new day
looks at Egypt's multi-layered myriad
problems and through sheer force of will
and it's very important and the sheer
force of will means full
can solve egypt's problems so going back
to this question of economic reform the
Egyptians get a lot of credit from the
IMF for undertaking these kind of
neoliberal economic reforms subsidy
removing subsidies but the only way that
you can do that in Egypt's context is
through the application of tremendous
amount of force so your average
Egyptians are suffering massively as a
result anybody who would speak up I'm
not just talking about the Muslim
Brotherhood but anybody who would speak
up and articulate the difference between
what Sisi was saying about life in Egypt
and what how life in Egypt is going to
be as a result of these reforms and what
objective reality is or objective
reality is likely to be he confronts the
very very significant power of the
Egyptian state Jibson state can't do
much other than apply force on its own
population and that is something it does
efficiently and ruthlessly so what and
that's so right and that seemed to me
like if you took the three pillars of
what took down Mubarak right and I like
that you you know cuz to me and of
course to me there's obviously the world
over authoritarianism and neoliberalism
go hand in hand he's right right and
that was demand that was definitely a
major part of the failing of Mubarak so
people and it's interesting because you
know and the the coverage here obviously
focused if you were sort of trying to
cast aspersions on it it was all that
you know this is just a Muslim
Brotherhood movement but then people who
were supportive were excited by you know
the youth and the social media
especially you know back in the time
when people idealized Silicon Valley
things have changed a little bit now
right and then but but also you know
what was paid less attention to but I
know people like you pointed out was um
you know in Alexandria the the factory
workers are walking out going on strike
and the big context for this as it is in
so many places including in those
original uprisings was like yes people
are sick of the you know this very
ruthless state repression but they're
also tired of like high Gini
coefficients and huge inequality and
stagnation because of all these
policies that work very well and you
know satisfying the IMF and Western
investors but also just concentrating
wealth in the same rhino autocrats hands
so what does that mean I mean I get that
he's unbelievably you know effective at
repression but it also seems to me that
you know if you really have a system
where basically you just keep doing what
the IMF wants you're gonna have a hell
of a lot of pissed-off people that
aren't necessarily religious they aren't
necessarily young and educated they're
just tired of being beaten down and it
seems to me if you don't have enough
resources to buy off those people's
loyalty and there isn't a compelling
counter threat to point them to as maybe
there isn't Syria what do you do it
might collapse at some point again right
I think that that is the that is what
you've just said it encapsulate the view
of many who are looking at Egypt and
saying it's really only a matter of time
before you have yet another explosion of
popular anger at the leader but it may
be even bigger this time because it's
you know broadly society is suffering my
own view is first you know these
uprisings there beyond prediction you
have no idea no idea why a fruit
vegetable vendor in South Central
Tunisia why his suicide kicked off you
know an uprising in Tunisia that then
spread throughout their spread
throughout the region but obviously
there are problems and contradictions in
agent that would lend itself to what I
what I wonder about however is one the
massive amount of repression that has
been used in Egypt has actually
succeeded in frightening a lot of people
so you have you know the through are the
revolutionaries who they're hunkering
down if they haven't been arrested
they're hunkering down waiting for the
opportunity but they feel that it's too
dangerous now to to demonstrate or to be
even be politically active then you have
liberals genuine liberals a small
handful of them
who worried about another uprising
because they they feel as if each time
something like this happens whether it
was January 25th or the coup against
Morsi which many liberals you know
despite themselves saw as a way of
saving themselves from the
authoritarianism of the Brotherhood they
fear that every time there's an uprising
the country becomes less liberal and so
they don't want to risk yet again like
what would come next I mean you know
full-on fascism or Sonny that's that's
that's the way they articulate it and
then you have you know it's not like
every it's not like anybody loves Sisi
but there is there is a kind of
agreement among those who really wield
power
the presidency he's CC's in the
presidency so the centers of power in
Egypt the military general intelligence
the judiciary that this is better than
what been the aberration of post-mubarak
period up through the coup so they don't
want so so resetting the political
system in which the military has their
delegate at the presidency and that the
system that came into being in the 1950s
is essentially reflected in the politics
of Egypt that's better that is the
natural order of things and if they were
to defect from Sisi even as problematic
as he is there's the fear that this
system for better or worse but for these
people it's better with would collapse
that's the problem so those are those
are things that are mitigating against
an uprising but of course as I said
they're totally unpredictable and and
just final you know thirty Seconds on
this I yeah I'm obviously we're not
Muslim brother I mean you know look it's
right-wing politics politics that's not
my bag but it seems to me that I'm but
you know the repression of them has been
unbelievably vicious and what I wonder
is probably as in you know there
probably was some portion of the
Brotherhood that really was like we
essentially
to be like you know Muslim Christian
Democrats we don't want to cancel
elections we do want some basic rights
but we want to you know be a socially
conservative religious democratic party
again never anything I would vote for
but fair enough it's certainly something
that represents a perspective in the
Middle East as it does elsewhere in the
world right and then I'm sure they were
also definitely people in the Muslim
Brotherhood and this doesn't justify the
coup at all whoo right you know in the
same way people on the alt-right in the
United States or in the same way that
you know plenty of other far-right
actors are willing to use the tools of
democracy but then basically cancel
democracy once they have power you know
they were inauthentic and so what I
wonder is where do those two splits go
as the group has cracked down on after
the coup and do some of the ones who are
already thinking these democratic terms
they you know move towards some type of
potential future coalition of a politics
that you know hopefully maybe in the
future we haven't even seen before in
Egypt and then on the other hand does
the fake not real terrorism problem
basically that Sisi goes on about turn
into like an actual terrorism problem as
people go well you know what if you're
gonna give us the death penalty for you
know having a certain type of belief
system and maybe we ought to go and look
in an al-qaeda or an Isis model and get
to it so the latter there's evidence
that the latter is already happening
okay people have said with each
encounter repressive encounter the state
there's no hope of the redress of my
grievances through any kind of
institutions that are fair so I my only
recourse is through violence that's the
repression radicalization dynamic and
then as far as the politics of it goes
the Brotherhood really is in disarray
it's leaderless it's in disarray
I still support for it obviously I mean
this is a an organization that has you
know real grassroots support but there's
no and it's quite hierarchical there's
no group within has emerged to
articulate
kokujin for the organization going
forward part of that is figure and part
of it is the fact that the the the
organization has been so been subject to
so much repression there really has had
an opportunity for it on the outside in
Istanbul in Doha in London there's there
are discussion as there are internal
debates but it hasn't manifested itself
in anything that's really innovative it
really is a recitation of the same
principles that you had in in 2000 in
2011 which either have no credibility
with people who have moved on or are
subject to a kind of international
campaign to criminalize to criminalize
these news Stephen a kook brilliant as
always senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations most importantly I
think a lot of people would argue
co-host of the ahmen corner two people
would argue that too and hey can't even
get your wife on board with that no no
no no she thinks were ridiculous okay
she listens but she thinks were
ridiculous sounds about right so on Van
corner soon to be on salon.com and of
course the author of many important
books on Turkey on Egypt and the broader
Middle East and frankly a great guy and
everybody says so Steve thanks so much
hey it's my pleasure Michael you take it
easy take care man beets in black all
right folks
I really like those conversations I
guess at some level I'm definitely still
just uh I are nerd those are definitely
my favorite classes undergrad that and
problem of evil that was a dope
philosophy class problem of evil and the
ir classes I still remember my 18th
century philosophy class where we did
Hegel and then Marx and the Nietzsche
that sounds like a good class and I
hadn't read either any of those guys and
obviously Marx was my favorite of those
and it was very strange cuz heavy hit a
yaks Lola strange well it's just it was
a very different time like it seemed
weary was like is presented as sort of
dead ideas right and like right we're
still in like the sort of and this is
like mm this is around the recession
when I went into college but we still
hadn't like turned the corner that I
think we've definitely turned since
that's interesting because even yeah
that's interesting even during the risk
I remember I read marks in college I
took a class with professor bill Corr
lap it was a great professor at Bates it
was called
reading something like reading Marx and
Marxism and the first half of the class
was capital and that was brutal but
important and then maybe that was might
even like the first two-thirds and then
it was like a sewer survey after that
you know we read lukács and I'm a
Goldman and Gramsci and David Harvey and
um and it was really weird because this
was a couple years before the recession
and it was like it was very it was like
it was and coral lots of Marxist but it
was like oh these are definitely not
dead ideas actually you can apply all of
this stuff to seeing even like the
enclosure of digital Commons with
Silicon Valley this is very alive but
then it was like okay but I don't know
get Obama elected president like there
was still there it was like it's alive
but it's just the the gulf between that
and anything that's happening in the
world was just like like just a chasm
yeah also I meant a 19th century
philosophy Oh what did you say I said
18th oh we all make mistakes all right
et that what the hell what is this
well we undo our plugs oh we do it well
we want to do our plugs but I think
actually we'll do this story really
quick to set up our plugs
so Tom Steyer
who is I think he's a billionaire oh
yeah hedge fund guy environmentalist if
he was if the if the Democrats have to
have like an oligarch who doesn't like
Trump in the primary I would definitely
pick steyr over Bloomberg Bloomberg is
awful absolute menace and steyr it just
seems to me like I would dig it maybe
dig more into his record and I think I'm
sure the way he made money has just
fundamental problems with it that have
nothing to do with who he is as a person
but just the industry and obviously as
matt says I think quoting somebody else
but I know the quote through you that
every billionaire is a policy failure oh
that's a new a OSI staffer I can't
remember his name because that's the
name he has as his prose user names well
correct sentiment a OSI staffer every
billionaire has a policy failure so with
that being stipulated Tom Styer if you
ran for president I don't think it would
go anywhere I think it would make a
handful of consultants very rich but I
would prefer a billionaire who seems
like kind of a nice California guy who's
really into the environment and Mike
Bloomberg being like I'm a proud
Democrat oh no a poor third persons in
my eyeline so uh Tom Steyer those
announced that he's not gonna be running
for president but he's gonna dump I
think about forty million dollars into
impeachment efforts in the coming year
now look I have been an impeachment
skeptic I was persuaded by the Rashidah
to lib and peach the
argument that brought me on the side
being in favor of impeaching the
 but this is well again
it'll make some consultants rich it's a
massive misallocation of resources and
if I can humbly suggest tom you could
put 40 million dollars into structural
efforts whether they be you could
literally you could fund tens of
thousands of grassroots activists doing
incredible work across the states on
health care on criminal justice reform
on in fact elections voting rights uh
the
actual mechanics and substance of
democracy and you also need citizens
that are prepared to think critically
engage in democracy which is of course
the other reason why Tom dude why are
you not a member of the majority report
why are you not a at least a couple
hundred dollar-a-month patron of the
Michael Brooke show why have you not
joined literary hangover at the maximum
level why have you not joined the anti
Fattah at the maximum level actually
basically we should have a list of like
I don't know the top 50 independent
left-wing YouTube shows in podcast and
he should just kick each of us a grand a
month just for starters
in addition to funding organizing
efforts on the state level imagine if
Tom Styer said I'm getting a Larry
krasner da is gonna get elected across
every district in the country now I
don't know if he would do that maybe
Thomson I don't really know Tom Steyer
his politics to be honest I know he's
said some pretty good things about the
environment and I know that he sports
impeaching Trump so he could overall
have trash politics which wouldn't be
surprising and I'm feeling it simple but
yeah keep it simple Tom voting rights
left-wing podcasts progressive DA's and
then I don't know spend a couple million
to do insulting ads that will annoy
Trump but uh infrastructure no bumps in
the road that guy is even a billionaire
infrastructure no bumps in the road at
timeshare mogul timeshare have people
that look like extras and showgirls
on CNBC offer them huge slights offer
them free flights keep it simple take a
picture with Cory Booker that reminds
everybody of how totally lame Cory
Booker's cape it simple become a patron
of the Michael Brooks show today go over
the Michael Brooks show YouTube channel
to get our full public shows as well as
clips our live country our live coverage
of Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders
from just the other night this weekend
elicit history with ago Chavez the
boulevard on revolution with former ago
Chavez attorney and advisor Ava
Bollinger plus just a whole massive slew
of histories primers discord and theory
reading patreon.com slash TMDs there's
still tickets available to see us
February 1st the Michael Brooks show
live show with Matt lek David Griscom
alone amid coughs ki Bosh Carson Cara
Trevor Beaulieu and now Mike Racine it's
gonna be incredibly funny it's gonna be
it's gonna be great now like sketches
are being recorded now like things are
actually happening we know what the show
is gonna look like and you don't want to
miss it get your show February 1st
Friday at the Bell House we'll see you
there Matt uh yeah literary hangover I
plug that for a while I have a new
project though I have a new twitter
twitter page i started called the jerk
encirclement now jerk encirclement is
one character too long for twitter names
so take out the last Ian's encirclement
so MNT but my inaugural post Steve King
recently said some really racist things
if you can believe it no really that's
representative from Iowa and so Ben
Shapiro I went through ben shapiro stuff
and this is him in 2017 say media cues
representative steve king of racism
there lion readers readers actual words
here's a picture of Steve King and ben
shapiro and then this article has been
updated because here's what shapiro
wrote on the top of his article on
January 10 2019 representative Steve
King reportedly said white nationalist
white supremacist Western civilization
how did that language become offensive
in light of those statements this
article gave far too generous
interpretation of Kings words as I say
in the article there were two ways to
interpret his statements his later open
embrace of terms white nationalists and
white supremacist suggest the first
interpret suggests that the first
interpretation described below was not
as implausible as it seemed at the time
so mamiraua right it's it's really tough
when things like that happen when you're
just trying to you know
engage in the marketplace of ideas and
these caveat emptor some of these ideas
it turns out they're like racist who
knew some of those 80s tune it to be
racist okay so new new yeah you weren't
being racist when you said that Mexicans
are subhuman right you just need evening
you maybe you there's two ways to take
that right he's dead right I mean the
thing is it's kind of crazy people that
left say being subhuman is bad but I
thought they're supposed to be open to
all humans
it's another hypocrisy you've left one
of the things that we're doing for the
live show is recording meditations in
dave rubin and ben shapiro guided
meditations to mock the sam harris
guided meditations i think we're gonna
do with sam harris guide and medication
and meditation to where it's like and
then you're taken out of context it's
just like devolves into him whining and
doing like it's like open your
imagination thousands of people will say
you're racist i'm going to put them over
to one side breathe out breathe out and
i want you now picture in your mind's
eye a nuke going off over mecca remember
this is a thought experiment if you
notice yourself getting an erection
don't go with it
focus on the image okay folks we will
see you of course also wait the anti
Fattah check it out that's Jamie's
podcast a lot of good stuff over there
is something recently on the insurgency
in the Philippines and become a member
of the majority report today as well as
going just coffee co-op fair trade fair
trade tea coffee or chocolate we'll see
you in the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
just wanna degrade the white man alpha
males alpha males
almost says
like I am a total can we bring back
DJ's Anarchy song
yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ den well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough of a
break that's Hawkins's and the alpha
males all psych
all boss says what what
[Music]
on the back on the back
a lot of black
a lot of bang
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
that's birthday - made you boy I have an
onyx benefit for you the alpha males of
black
our veils
oh my god
oh I forgot to say everybody tonight
seven o'clock no Mickey Const is having
a fundraiser in at the hold on I
actually have to just look it up I'm
sorry I should have mentioned this
before it's my mistake I'll be there
I guess giving a little like campaign
sort of speech what is this for this is
my looking for the fire music I think
it's better than the game show music we
use it's just some slow German I like it
better than the game show music I know
the game show music is a little I think
it's you should only be used for comedic
purposes
chelsey music all at 7:00 p.m. tonight
407 West 15th Street crush Club is gonna
be there
there's gonna be a lot of great
musicians DJs and the suggested donation
is $27 you can go up to 250 and what's
amazing of course is because of the New
York City
matching fund system you're $27 becomes
two hundred and fifty dollars no Mickey
is taking zero money from the real
estate industry and we got to make her
New York City public advocate so and
even if you don't live in New York City
you can come your donation is still
accepted which is usually helpful for
the campaign it's just there won't be
the the matching you have to be a New
York City resident for it to be a match
but if you want you know you live over
in New Jersey or in Long Island or
something you want to take a train in
you know have a great event contribute
some money to having some for real no
 good progressive leadership in
an important position in New York City
which in fact I mean has a global effect
on the world come on by okay let's get
to some sounds Donald Trump oh
I'm about to do a Sam I've never done
this before you ready for it
where's my sound sheet oh it's right
here I
I waited to do that till I could do the
whole process because it's never where's
my sound sheet I actually don't have it
can somebody got me a new one it's
always weights my sheet oh it's right
here
so my sound sheet is in fact right here
Donald Trump of course as we pointed out
He gave His life illed but sedated
nonsense national propaganda broadcast
the other night and he didn't declare a
state of emergency he didn't try to push
the authoritarian envelope but here is
wow it must have been really windy out
because he's wearing one of his silly
ball caps which looks it looks very
presidential I'm gonna Kanye I'm wearing
my hat in 2019 that guy just like yay
just like yay here is Donald Trump
reminding everybody that he's still
thinking about the broader
implementation of clown fascism in the
United States I have the absolute right
to declare a national emergency the
lawyers have so advised me I'm not
prepared to do that yet but if I have to
I will I have no doubt about it I will I
have the absolute right to declare this
was passed by Congress so when you say
what's it passed by Congress it was
other presidents have used it some
fairly often I have the absolute right
to declare a national emergency I
haven't done it yet I may do it if this
doesn't work out probably I will do it I
would almost say definitely imagine
Lincoln Vinick I have the absolute right
to declare emancipation if this doesn't
work out I'm gonna do it I haven't done
it yet but if I want to I can do it I
noticed that right wing people still do
a lot of bitching when we do segments
where we play Trump or somebody like
that saying something this ridiculous
and we just laugh at it and they say
well you haven't actually responded to
the argument sir and the answer is is
like look sometimes actually we do
respond to the arguments and we make Joe
and you're just too sensitive and too
distracted by the jokes to understand or
look at where we responded to the
arguments but there are other times
where it's like what do you want me to
say to this I mean almost every actual
legal expert in the country says he
certainly does not have the authority to
unilaterally deploy the military to
construct a wall at the Mexican border
in a massive act of eminent domain that
would kick connie's of people out of
their houses it would destroy local
ecology it would be perceived of
accurately as an aggressive move towards
a you know an important neighboring
state
there's Congress didn't pass this as we
already can see because the government
shut down because they haven't passed
this right and on top of it look if you
want to have a serious conversation
I think if FDR was president he might
declare a state of emergency in Ohio and
demand a nationalized GM to save
people's jobs I'm actually quite
receptive to an argument like that to be
honest with you I think when FDR tried
to go in to save people's jobs back in
his time I think that was a good thing I
think at some point and other people
have pointed this out there's basically
I mean conservative nerds have said oh
well if Trump uses this a state of
emergency to get around Congress and use
eminent domain to build a wall you know
a liberal president will do this for
climate change and I think the only part
of their statement that is is
questionable I don't I think very few
Democratic presidents would actually do
that even still but the reality is we
actually are again climate and ecology
is an actual not make-believe state of
emergency and I don't like eminent
domain and I don't like that kind of
move frankly I'm very wary of it and
it's used in very regressive ways and I
actually think there's some real innate
problems to it when it has to do with
you know not companies all major
companies and industries like oil or
like GM if they're getting rid of
people's job
as far as I'm concerned should be
immediately nationalized and brought
into some type of more collective
corporatized leadership corporatized in
a Swedish or German sense but you know
there are going to need to be radical
measures to deal with climate for sure
now those measures need to be focused on
companies and not on people's homes
obviously but you know short of that
what do you want me to say the guy is a
jackass I mean the syntax is funny and
it's hilarious but he's rambling
nonsense on the White House lawn saying
that he has extra judicial extra you
know dictatorial powers thank god
they're so incompetent and stupid that
they probably can't pull something like
this off so I gave you a little bit of
substance but if you actually think
there's a serious argument here I don't
know I guess read somebody with a legal
opinion that isn't Alan Dershowitz or a
Trump advisor and we're then we're gonna
laugh at it because the only good thing
about it is that it's funny and
speaking of funny total props
here Nancy Pelosi I really like Alex
Perrine's take that with you know
obviously we have the rising millennial
politicians we have great people like
AOC who are articulating a serious
robust class politics and revitalizing
that tradition then the only viable
political tradition that we have and
then you have people obviously people
like Bernie Sanders who are great and
carried the flame but even people who
you know unfortunately have not always
carried the flame by a long shot like
Nancy Pelosi but they still actually
have a memory uh you know
institutionally even of like well there
was a time when it really was being a
Democrat for all of its flaws and
compromises there really was an element
of like this does mean that you actually
fight and you look out for people who
have real actual ground
that concerns and that's why in an
environment like this that that and
Perrine's point was that it leaves the
gen-x politicians really flat-footed
because they both are too young to have
any real understanding and commitment to
that political tradition and they grew
up in a context of boomers embracing you
know neoliberal politics so they don't
have either the sort of instinctive
sense of it and nor the you know just
the material and social conditions that
of course driven so many Millennials to
the left but the Boomer ones like Nancy
Pelosi in the in this context is the
reason she quoted Justice Brandeis it's
a difference why there's a huge amount
of work to be done in a lot of failures
but clearly progressives are starting to
throw their weight around in the house a
little bit and she's someone that can be
worked with at times for sure and it
also leads to born like this this is I
mean this is as close as you know
anybody that isn't Bernie Sanders or AOC
o or maybe sherrod Brown or maybe I or
the Lizabeth warrant or sherrod Brown
I'll put those in a four separate
category or Rashida to live obviously
but most of the Democrats that we talk
about obviously not Chuck Schumer but
you know not dick Durbin not any of
these kinds of people they usually are
pretty flat-footed in dealing with Trump
this Nancy Pelosi burned at this she's
at the White House this is after Trump
threw his tantrum he said are you gonna
fund the wall they said no he walked out
he then he went intent on Twitter and
whines now you recall I think was
yesterday we played a clip of Trump or
maybe Friday basically saying like well
you know it's tough if you're a
government worker but you know people
figure things out
you know the the the both policy
position of the Republican Party that
wants to increase poverty and gut
people's chances and increase human
suffering so the literal like you will
figure it out as we kick you out of your
home make sure you don't have health
care and increase poverty and suffering
in this country but also the perspective
of the you know spoiled ridiculous trust
fund baby who all of his businesses were
bailed out and his whole trust fund was
set up by daddy which is of course Trump
Nancy Pelosi nailed this let's check it
out few days many people federal workers
will not
their paychecks and what that means in
their lives is tragic in terms of their
credit rating paying their mortgage bang
their rent paying their car payment
paying their children's tuition and the
rest the president seems to be
insensitive to that he thinks maybe they
could just ask their father for more
money but they can't boom that was
 Buick all props to Nancy Pelosi
on that I put out a request for somebody
to do a thug life video thank you so
Desmond sugah I think so yeah we're
gonna try this here let's check it out
the president seems to be insensitive to
that he thinks maybe they could just ask
their father for more money but they
can't maybe we also want to touch on
this this is no not to give Nancy Pelosi
props like don't do this which is what
the daily Coast did what do they do they
decided they wanted to do so it's they
this is a marcos road but before we get
to poo flinging both internal and
external let's do something nice for
once we're going to take a page from
some previous community efforts and
welcome Nancy Pelosi with thousands of
roses so they gave 7,000 they delivered
7,000 roses to Pelosi's office and then
like a remaining like 18,000 to Walter
Reed Hospital okay that's that's a
little weird
they didn't Marcus wasn't he the one who
said it was so great that all the Bernie
bros were flaming out because and
because he was just like a personality
that people loved and that people were
going to hung up on it he's been pretty
yeah yeah he's I know that he's you know
I mean I don't know he's totally
obviously I only thing I know about
Marcos in a current iteration is how
stupid he is on Bernie I don't think I
mean I know that that sight still has
you know some energy and that's great
but I haven't read it in a long time I
haven't read it like literally since
like before 2012 yeah it was
me it seems like it was of the bush-era
there's another guy who writes for him I
see Armando saying stupid things online
often too yeah I don't I don't
understand these people are so fixated
on hating Burnie bizarre according to
Melissa she conducted an interview with
Pelosi after this which raises a
question how exactly do you conduct a
fair and honest interview with someone
you just gave thousands of roses to like
alright now let's out of the way let's
talk about Pago Pago yeah like how they
smell is there any place you'd like us
to put this alright now let's talk
committee assignments brother from
Brooklyn you know Reuben is bad when he
criticizes Trump much less than Shapiro
does also it's classic Shapiro to
denounce Steve King on a show and have
Heather McDonald on his Sunday special
this week I don't know Heather McDonald
is but I will she lives matter ok what's
your sense of what's happening in India
with 200 million person strike I'm Way
behind it I mean need to read it let me
about that but no I will tell you that
it's interesting to me laddie laddie do
you need is yoga and he doesn't like
this JW's so but yes actually I will
there it right now it's pretty TM yes
specific but I'm in the process of
planning a lot more India related
content on both the things I'm emanating
out of there cuz there's a lot of strike
conditions and meals a lot of it has to
do with women's rights but of course
like everywhere else there's a you know
labor uprisings and definitely parties
compromised across the board by
neoliberalism and austerity both the you
know the far-right that governs as well
as the Congress party as well as also
historically like the Communist Party in
Kerala produced like incredible social
achievements so short answer no slightly
longer answer I'm set in the stage to do
more on India assume as well as Pakistan
gleason if she ran where would you rank
Stacey Abrams for 2020 between Bernie
and Warren or behind Warren but ahead of
the other
big names I mean look I guess I was
really I'm adamant that as long as
there's like a talk about bado there
should be a talk about Stacey Abrams
especially because she actually won her
election but frankly like I don't know I
mean I'm not I don't I don't even I'm
actually getting I don't even think
Beto's really gonna run I'm starting to
question that and and there's and the
difference is that from bado it was
clearly coming from him Stacey Abrams
has not put out any signals that she
would run for president because it
matters more for her like which I'll she
signals with regards like
medicare-for-all in the green new deal
that's what I love board for stuff like
that
hell yeah yeah that's the bottom line
that's exactly if she came out and she
said she was a hundred percent Medicare
for all green new deal then she would be
right up there and I would say I you
know I think you know if I'm just
painting the picture I want a Sanders
Abrams ticket is pretty up there as far
as what I would like to see so I don't
think she's running for president I'm
sure she'd be I mean look and also again
I'm not I'm not biessing people a burnin
runs I'm supporting them that's my pick
you know and then if he doesn't run it
will be it I mean yeah and this is
assuming that Abram I guess okay if
Abrams ran and Bernie didn't run and I
would be looking at Abrams Warren and
sherrod Brown and and also you know I
have to say the other thing too is not
only what I I think
after Bernie there's no I'll probably
play more of that role that people sort
of claim they want people like us to
play they never actually mean it cuz
most people when they say like oh why
don't you just like focus on issues they
just mean like don't criticize their
preferred candidate which is very
annoyingly disingenuous but at any rate
if Bernie doesn't run I would imagine
that I will end up voting for Elizabeth
Warren and the New York primary but I
think I would play more of a you know a
little bit more of a sort of like
refferal that makes sense and of course
if you know Bernie messes up I'm
people forget people who are whining
about Bernie forget that we were known
like to the extent people know these
things and it was a little bit less in
2016 but it was people were aware of us
we were the show all three of us at the
time on the show is Sam myself and Matt
bender check out doomed we all we all
were a hundred percent supported Bernie
you know advocated for him all were
clear that we were gonna vote for him
and we also until you know the dynamics
of it change later on but the first
couple of times in particularly Netroots
when he got protested by black lives
matter we were like this is a good thing
this will make him a better candidate
and this is one of the most important
issues and things that we face in the
country day and this is great so you
know the same principle apply any valid
criticism of Bernie that's based in any
type of discernible empirical reality I
will respond to and push him in the
campaign on but he's still if you have
the politics I have he's you know he's
just head and shoulders above I've never
heard anybody else talk about you know
the imprisonment of Lula I haven't heard
anybody else make you know these broad
categorical universal program arguments
and I haven't seen anybody else frankly
do what he's done even the last year on
Yemen which is the you know one of the
greatest crimes in the world today I
mean playing people voted the right way
but Bernie the leader on it this is he
was you know leader on Medicare for all
just see the leader on and equality you
know so any rape but Bernie and Stacey
Abrams would be great ticket JB we need
a steer to move about 800,000 left east
of Wyoming
III don't yeah I mean I get that idea
but I think much more we need steyr to
dump we need i we could give him a list
of local grassroots activists i mean
every single just talking about georgia
I mean why not give money to the people
who organized black votes matter in
Georgia for restoration of democracy in
Georgia
monitoring the camp administration who
not only stole that election but already
has serious ethics and corruption
questions you know surrounding it get it
to real people
Metsu so one thing actually all kidding
aside like we've never gotten any Soros
money but I think one of the reasons
that they hate and were so freaked out
by Soros is that it points in his career
he actually gave money to grassroots
contexts occasionally you know not just
to collect consultants and high-end
efforts which have to happen too but
that's not as structurally important
yeah I mean Soros I mean sometimes like
data in society for instance yeah I
think he gives to that no that's what
I'm saying good that's what it should be
way way more of that because way we're
so flooded and that's why the culture is
right-wing it's not because the people
are necessarily right-wing there's like
a lot of this stuff is funded from the
top up exactly was it donut God Sam
Harris could never be right or wrong
only taken out of context I can be right
okay
let's see let's take a call you're
calling from a two six seven area code
who are you where you're calling from
two six seven are you there - six seven
going once
all right no - six seven you're calling
from an eight four seven area code who
are you where you calling from hi this
is max from Chicago
hey max is going on oh well you actually
touched on the subject I was calling
about which is potential running mate
should Bernie Sanders be the nominee and
I heard Abraham's brought up and that
bet is someone but I wondered if there
were any other people you thought would
be compatible because this is someone
who like should he have to step down
someone would need to really take his
mantle and run with it
right um well it's so far ahead but I
don't know Stacy Abrams Andrew Gilliam
see I don't know I don't know age
requirements I would look at people like
Rashida to live on an AOC but they might
I know AOC is too young she literally
legally can't I don't know how old I
mean maybe someone like right I don't
know I really that's it that's a hard
one baby uh barbara Lee maybe yeah but
then and then there's also just the
reality to that like there might be
people I don't think they will but like
if Kamala Harris runs and she over put
like I would say like just just as a
political reality not my pick if you had
a primary where Bernie Sanders and
commonly Harris as an example went down
to the wire I think you'd you know if
she wanted that she would be the running
mate yeah you know like there's gonna be
like contingencies that happen like that
yeah it really is gonna depend on the
election at the campaign because that's
what I'm with Trump I feel like a lot
too I mean not necessarily with pants
but legal issues know right but like
sessions was in there early in sessions
got a spot on his in his cabinet so it
might it depends ankle probably some
people might show they're different
colors because if if Bernie especially
bro performs really well sorry
yeah that's uh okay um okay thanks for
the call man thanks you're calling from
a four one three area code who are you
where you calling from
hey this is me yes this is you Oh
fantastic um this is jann to world uh I
do that a portrait of you this week
Oh last week well thank you and also one
of Santa Thank You those were great work
are you from yeah yeah are you calling
from Western Mass I sure am I figured
you'd recognize it so I didn't even like
shut it out because you know the wilder
Western Mass here will you tell us your
name again one more time it does a
Andrew world J Andrew world well thank
you for the portraits really liked my
portrait and what is on your mind J oh
no I just wanted to uh oh man I totally
had something and I completely forgot
because I got distracted cuz I'm
actually on the phone cuz uh no um what
was it yeah I did forget I was gonna
mention too I was uh I was going to do a
Jamie's uh portrait next week
okay cool do you want to spit ball
anything before we go do you have
anything that you want to hit real quick
because it's not we should I totally did
but I just completely blanked on thank
you so man well that sucks you don't
want to you don't want to at least
things say like Trump or something
anyways alright thank you oh yeah
absolutely Trump okay there you go
yeah okay thanks to the call Jay
appreciate it you're calling from a
three four seven area code who are you
where you calling from uh yeah it's
lefty you know from Virginia can you
hear me yes I can lefty how you doing
then good to hear you I'm doing alright
I said to Matt earlier and this is about
that clip that you played in which Trump
was about nonsense about cartels having
better cars and whatnot and
that's definitely out of fast and
furious for where they're literally
driving through tunnels for Mexico to
the United States so either he watched
that movie or somebody explained that
clot clot the bike I'm sure that
somebody did say something about like
you know like these guys like cuz
there's there are like they do have
sophisticated tunnel systems and also
like there's been like cartels
submarines and stuff so I'm sure oh wait
we got the we got this alright thanks
for the call Lefty we're gonna play this
thanks for the call man all right got it
peace yep this is what Trump saw I think
this seems I like fury road mathematics
yeah Mexico's laughing at us this is
what
there's nitrous oxide that's hilarious
and we mentioned before that Trump had a
tantrum when Chuck and Nancy said they
weren't going to fund this wall but Mike
Pence wanted everybody to know about
what really happened now I just wanted
to remember remind everybody I don't
know if we I'm just thinking the spur of
the moment so we don't have a clip of it
but it's very easy to find do you
remember or I don't know if it actually
happened it might have been something
that Trump said but apparently at a
summit he threw candy at Angela Merkel
in like a really disrespectful way and
said don't say if it didn't do it I
never did anything for you in his sort
of usual sort of bratty way so Mike
Pence is gonna say this is a nice
gesture Mike Pence still clearly
recovering from the sort of roller
coaster that was swearing in Christian
cinema contested three times yeah but we
don't know when you say Trump gave them
candy it wasn't necessarily nice as my
point but here is uh Mike Pence oh so
are we any closer than you think to
having a national emergency declared hit
the meets are going like this there so
well the president walked into the room
passed out candy okay so and then like a
couple of minutes later he stormed out
it was with the this demonstrates less
than nothing yeah I mean this could be
interpreted as dumb more like Kitsch or
some like that but I think it really is
just malicious like they're showing
especially federal employees like yeah
look how much we don't give a at
all that's exactly right
and speaking of but here's somebody who
does give a about federal employees
this is Iona Presley part of the new
dynamic energy in Congress she
represents the seventh District in
Massachusetts there was some snowflake
Ariha about this on the Republican side
but she's speaking to people's real
needs because while this tantrum goes on
and while this extremism runs the course
I mean look there's workers now that are
in trouble
and that's bad and horrible enough and
then of course now the food isn't being
expected inspected and it could start to
impact food stamps which is of course
one of the most important successful
programs in the country that Republicans
are always trying to undermine so they
can work on their project of a poorer
sick or dumber America here's Iona
Presley fighting back Mr Speaker I rise
today in opposition to the occupant of
the White House mr. Trump you took an
oath just as I did five days ago
to protect and defend the Constitution
and the American people sir you dishonor
that oath you devalue the life of the
immigrant the worker and the survivor I
see right through you and so do the
American people this has nothing to do
with border security you're shut down
another Trump generated crisis has
brought a tsunami of hurt to the
American people so today I rise to lift
the voices of the unheard I rise today
on behalf of the families concerned
about feeding their children because
their WIC benefits will run dry I rise
today in solidarity with the thousands
of workers with calloused hands and
broken spirits working for no pay I rise
today in support of the survivor fleeing
violent hands seeking safety only to
find the shelter door locked because of
your shutdown
I rise today in support of the American
people who believe in the promise of
this nation and ask for honest pay for
an honest day's work today I rise as one
and I stand as thousands thank you and I
yield back
members are reminded to refrain from
engaging in personalities toward the
president if you want to hear that
sultry voice was that was a GK
Butterfield GK Butterfield it sounds
like a made-up fast conservative name
but he's a Democrat he's a Democrat yeah
well that's you see I was wearing cuz
the he would I think it would be a
Democrat presiding over this because
they were on the house now but I think
also like he didn't have much he just a
reminder to not talk about the dumb
while you're on the floor thank you
engaging in personalities is a weird it
sounds like ID w's gonna get ahold mad
white now I can't debate you because
you're engaging in personality and
personalities it's really unfair when
you said that I was in mole and
mind-blowing ly stupid for advocating a
pan a a ethnic cleansing mass murder
fascist government in Brazil that
questioned my integrity my intelligence
and you bad personality but you're
engaging in personalities who can't do
it but that was great and I I
appreciated her III didn't really
perceive that I thought that was more of
a engagement and all of the people who
are harmed by this catastrophic
ridiculous
White House speaking and wall this goes
on there is a part of government that is
very active and that of course is US
Empire as presided over by you know an
extreme far-right secretary of state a
guy used to represent a congressional
district in Kansas a guy who was one of
the prime sort of conduits for an
unmitigated Koch brothers agenda in the
Congress congressman from Koch the
congressman from Koch and this had to do
with everything from I mean this guy had
worries about him on legislation I
believe it was like sort of making it
easier for insurance companies to
discriminate against you based off of
information from apps as an example of
course everything to do with
environmental deregulation spoiling the
environment destroying any remnants of
workers rights all the usual stuff as
well as of course tax redistribution to
the wealthy but also I mean very
specific stuff on behalf of you know
soft drinks and I mean just this guy
actually in his own low-key way has one
of the most extreme records and then of
course we talked about the anti Islam
charlatan industry the Mike Pompeo his
congressional office was a major conduit
for that it became head of the CIA he
threatened an invasion of Venezuela
I'm presided over quietly and
efficiently of course you know another
extreme far-right lurch and foreign
policy let's be really clear too that
things like the drone program which have
accelerated under Trump and claimed far
more civilian lives as well as of sort
of lifting on even any sort of
rudimentary process for monitoring the
civilian death tolls of the kinetic
warfare that the United States engages
in and Yemen Pakistan and Somali all out
the window under the leadership of Trump
and Pompeyo and Pompeyo apparently knows
how to play with Trump's ego and knows
how to sort of solidify his ground here
he's also been you know the destruction
of the Iran deal is one of the greatest
catastrophes of the world it was an
incredible success that controlled what
was not frankly developed but some
degree of proliferation and brought us
all diplomatically closer together so
this has been a program of corporate
enrichment civilian death tolls
indulging the bloodlust of the Saudi
monarchy in exchange for oil and arms
deals and now is the intention of course
turns Latin America Mike Pompeo went to
the inauguration of bolson ro
yes Clinton and Kerry and Obama
definitely their DOJ backed law fair
which led to the politically motivated
prison man of Lula it led to Democratic
reversals across Latin America and
there's a bipartisan consensus of
supporting government's that support
Western and American corporates and
investors and undermine and harms human
beings across the world there's no doubt
about it but this acceleration under
Trump and under Pompeo is stunning and
there's another way of putting this
which is as Mike Pompeo said the days of
American shame are over he's saying this
by the way in Cairo where the United
States is actively supporting the
inefficient brutal dictatorship of
general Sisi who Steve cook talked about
earlier our eagerness to address only
Muslims and not Nations ignored the rich
diversity of the Middle East and frayed
old bonds and undermined the concept of
the nation-state the building block of
international stability and our desire
for peace at any cost led us to strike a
deal with Iran our common enemy so today
what did we learn from all of this we
learned that when America retreats chaos
often follows when we neglect our
friends resentment builds and when we
partner with our enemies they advance
the good news the good news is this the
age of self-inflicted American shame is
over and so are the policies that
produce so much needless suffering now
comes the real new beginning in just 24
months actually less than two years the
United States under President Trump has
reasserted its traditional role as a
force for good in this region we've
learned from our mistakes we've
rediscovered our voice we've rebuilt our
relationships we've rejected false
overtures
from our enemies and look at what we've
accomplished look at what we've
accomplished together under new
leadership America has confronted the
ugly reality of radical Islamism so you
know this is this is pretty
extraordinary because they've achieved
literally nothing and even by their own
metrics so what have they achieved
there's a blockade on Qatar which is
still ongoing by its Gulf neighbors at
first Trump signaled support of it
because I think because of basically a
personal grievance by Kushner but also
because the Saudis can work the Trump
administration incredibly easily
supposedly MBS bragged once that Jared
Kushner was in his pocket they destroyed
the Iran deal which every single agency
responsible signed off on down to the
fact that it was certified by the
administration in the beginning and
clearly one of the reasons they pulled
out of it was that Trump was having
temper tantrums about having to
certified the success of the Obama or on
deal pulling out of that deal has done
nothing but disgust the Europeans and
totally degrade our standing because we
blew up a agreement that was
extraordinarily successful and nobody
who was in any way sane questioned
objectively and empirically and opened
by the way if you're concerned about it
this from a geopolitics there will be
trade relationships and some type of
preservation with Iran and that's going
to happen through China so even if
you're very interested in that sort of
like global geo balance it's another
opportunity for China to assert a role
and for the United States to decline in
a self-destructive stupid fanatical way
of course no movement on Israel just the
sort of official sanctioning of endless
occupation and discrimination and death
of Palestinians and then the prime
action out of a Saudi couple of cosmetic
reforms but actually an unstable
murderous prince who you know
chorus khashoggi caught everybody's
attention but with our support has
generated a mass murder and a human
rights crisis in Yemen that is even
worse than Syria of which we have solved
nothing in fact the only point there
where he talks about you know the plan
is to bail out on the Kurds who actually
had forms an incredibly effective
fighting force against Isis which is
what he claims to care about and of
course achieve big social goods which of
course the Trump administration is well
he doesn't care about but it I would say
is just by default opposed to because
they're bad people who don't support any
form of human well-being so that speech
is you know it if somebody came out and
gave that speech and the policy was
following through that would be a major
problem from the perspective of human
well-being which it is but it's also
just incredible that it has nothing to
do with anything
it's it is trumpian because it's it's
it's failed by its own measures and even
if he's referring to the bulk of sort of
Isis those reversals were already well
in place by the time Trump took office
and if he's referring to you know other
Muslim organizations the reality is is
that al Qaeda was heavily disrupted by
Obama there was all sorts of side
problems that were created through the
supporting of various dictatorships and
secret police and civilian casualties
from the drone program and then which
are long term structural problems which
of course trump has only made worse and
then besides that you still have you
know the projection of far-right and
dangerous policy from Saudi and from
Turkey and basically yes some withdrawal
from Afghanistan which is good but just
no plan with regards to Afghanistan and
let alone India and Pakistan which still
remains right after North Korea the most
likely part of the world to actually
have a nuke exchange so these people are
I mean I don't usually care about the
incompetence argument and of course I
wish Trump was on vacation all the
and it would be great if they just
tweeted and gave stupid speeches but
this is the type of thing we're of
course in addition to the literal
massive harm that they've engaged in
through covert actions and killing
civilians and backing MBS and Paulsen
are oh and pulling out of global
environmental agreements and promoting
corruption and pollution abuse across
the world they're just basic inability
on very structural levels too as an
example what what do you think the
diplomatic relation what is the state of
us-pakistan relations right now I mean I
and I'm telling you asking this like I
don't know right I know Emraan Kahn is
is is in charge there now I know the
military still basically runs that
country and I know that India also has a
very extreme leadership right now and I
know that there actually have almost
been nuclear exchanges between India and
Pakistan you really think that these
guys can handle that the only thing
they've done in arms control is actually
pull out of it with regards to success
as some successes Obama had with Russia
and are talking catastrophic ly about
upgrading our arsenal and then gutted
the Iran agreement which was a huge
economic diplomatic achievement and I
think the phrase of like we're not
ashamed anymore really shows that how
even in the most important areas of our
of our lives and policy the stuff that
you know could just liquidate human life
and has to do with you know the the real
mechanics of our world a lot of this
stuff just still comes back to some
perception that like oh are you know we
they made us impotent but now we're
getting real again and it's like yeah
real destructive real
stupid and real non strategic
and again a perfect example of all of
them nikki Haley across the board was a
conduit for this catastrophe set
as ambassador at the UN 100% all right I
think all of us in this office or
angling for seats on the view and as I
always say and this is I so much
information comes in I can't cite people
all the time because I honestly just
forget like especially if it's a tweet I
have no memory of who said it I just
know that I just want to generically say
I didn't come up with this but I don't
remember who did but somebody said they
cannot wait to watch Meghan McCain when
a OC redistributes her unearned wealth
and I cannot wait either Meghan McCain
right up there with Trump for most
useless annoying entitled trust fund
baby on the planet and just bad at
television like it's incredible like
she's stupid she's entitled she offers
nothing she's last name I mean that last
name is literally doing every single
piece of work there is I guess unless
there's some type of like Q rating for
being airheaded and petulant so here is
Meghan McCain she has on Kamala Harris
on the view and she is really concerned
about social left Dems and AOC because
of course you know this might mean that
at some point that her inheritance that
she didn't earn and all of the things
that's been handed to her in her life
even though I mean look if Meghan McCain
and I let's not even go extreme here
let's not say like if her debt cuz if
her dad was like a gas station attendant
she would be like in grinding poverty
but let's just say like let's even go
like what if her dad was like a surgeon
she would be I don't know I mean
honestly what would she be one of an
office manager or something what I mean
there there's a lot of women like I mean
a lot of anybody who comes from like
that level of but I'm just saying a
bourgeois but like but like a surgeon
but I'm saying like I'm trying to say
like a family that didn't have them
and didn't actually have the power to
hand somebody of complete life that is
very rare that is not you can run into
plenty of people who grow up with a lot
of privilege but they don't get handed a
show in the view even though they don't
have any talent for it so I don't know
what it would be but I don't know maybe
she would be like in I don't know like
an assistant brand manager or something
so anyways here she is she and that must
be part of what drives her inside
anxiety is she knows on some level that
she totally doesn't belong anyplace she
is including as a matter of fact
grilling a state senator that's
definitely one thing that she does not
belong doing here she is continuing her
a OC anxiety let's watch how calmly
Harris responds wanted to ask you
Alexandria Castillo Cortez new darling
of the party she officially has more
Twitter followers than Nancy Pelosi
which was on 60 minutes this weekend
proudly calling herself a radical and
she's promoting policies like saying
that every single carbon emission in the
country every car should be eliminated
within the next 11 years everything from
a 70 to 80 percent tax rate do you agree
that she could possibly in this ideology
of the Socialist Left could splinter
your party no you know I think that she
is challenging the status quo I think
that's fantastic you know I used to
teach before especially before in the
last few years and the thing that I
always loved about teaching was when you
teach it requires you to defend the
premise and it requires you to
re-examine the premise positive like a
magnet McCain's like I do not like the
sound of any of this any time a
professor's said anything like this to
me in college that knew that I I knew I
could not use my dad's last name for a
b-minus and Meghan McCain is gonna call
Charlie cook me we just put Kamala on
yeah right she's sweating bullets right
now just even hearing this terminology
and it requires you to re-examine the
premise and question is it still
relevant is it is it is it does it have
impact does it have meaning and I think
that she is introducing bold ideas
that that should be discussed and I
think it's good for the party if I could
think it's good for the country let's
look at the bold ideas and and and I'm
eager that we have those discussions and
when we are able to defend the status
quo then do it and if there is you know
if there's not merit to that then let's
explore new ideas okay look let me give
you let me give you an olive branch and
a reality okay so I think there's
actually a lot that's commendable about
how common law Harris responded there
and I think it already is a step in the
quote-unquote conversation that somebody
who's on you know the centrist part of
the party is saying you know what no
these are actually viable ideas they're
being brought forward obviously by I
mean she didn't say this but in arguably
the most dynamic and interesting and
relevant young leader in the United
States that's indisputable and we need
to be talking about these things and we
need to be taking them seriously okay
that's correct that's a right step I
like how she responded there now and I I
want to shout out a Brendon Sutton who
has a great podcast called the discourse
I have him on tea and BS sometimes and
just a real and he's also a pretty bad
lefty on Twitter he's a really smart guy
and he was saying this was actually in
regards to another conversation but he
was saying he was basically saying
signifying on social issues we can
debate the merit the value of right like
we can debate and again this is separate
from policy but this is where a lot of
you know this is where the Clinton
campaign was and so on but like what is
the value outside of like okay everybody
knows the value of like actually I'm
gonna adopt like the black lives matter
platform on you know policing and
prisons okay boom that's tangible that's
real that's where we need to go versus
arm signifying that you use a word like
intersectional or you understand a
certain nuance of a conversation right
and and again that's there's a big
debate because a lot of these political
figures use that kind of rhetoric to
obscure real issues and distract us and
that's a real problem but then on the
other hand actually a part of politics
isn't
frankly social signifying cultural
people called people who occupy places
in the culture to shine light and have
bully pulpits on certain values and
ideas and problems and so on right and
so we were saying there's a complexity
to that debate now when it comes to the
environment Brendon went on to say when
it comes to climate change when it comes
to ecology no no it really doesn't like
if you as a politician have an
energy-efficient house and drive a Prius
so what
and in fact all of the problems that
exist in the signifying debate in terms
of going on about cultural issues that
obscure real policy are double a problem
on the environment because it is pure
distraction so some of the things and
and I say this specifically because look
first of all she mentioned the tax rate
and I would only problem there is it
should be 90 percent versus 70 or 80
percent maybe even 95 percent maybe I
would argue a hundred percent frankly
money after five million dollars 100
percent 99 percent okay um that's my
moderate position other than just
reclaiming all of these companies
completely but that being said when it
comes to the ecological dimension of
what we have to do and the range of
policy changes and urban planning and
transportation that the word this isn't
have a conversation
this isn't entertain new ideas and I'm
glad that she's introducing blah blah
blah the ecology issues are the weird
synchronized issue where the positions
and the advocacy that is that is most
quote-unquote not politically or
economically quote-unquote tenable is
what is required period full stop so in
all these other issues we know where we
need to go on justice okay but there
isn't and and we know we need to go
because it's right and it's correct and
it's absolutely achievable if we're
willing to reorder power but the ecology
dimension does have an objective
dimension to it it has a you know it has
a two plus two equals four dimension
life on planet Earth is not going to be
tenable in the way it has been if we
continue on that red line and it's
becoming faster and faster not just
global warming species extinction right
and some people you know you can do a
Steve Pinker bedtime story about somehow
magically science will solve all of our
problems but actually the reality
perspective is that science and
technology are going to of course
they're gonna be part of this along with
literally everything else if you don't
want a complete catastrophe political
economic urban design scientific I would
actually absolutely add morale and
pathetic I mean everything is on the
table so when I hear that from something
from somebody like Carla Harris it's
like it
first I recoil just in like the broad
sense of politics because what AOC is
actually advocating is moderate and
obvious and should be the mainstream
stance of the Democratic Party it's not
there's nothing radical about 70% on
over 10 million a year to fund
healthcare this is this is like
kindergarten basic obvious stuff here
but particularly when you add an
ecological dimension this sense of like
well let's have a conversation we can't
the conversation point is absolutely
over and the only action steps available
are radical and everybody needs to get
on board with that including people that
are more moderate and from a different
political tradition and obviously
Connell Harris is smart enough and
Android enough to understand that right
so then the question dart does start to
become okay here's somebody who has
shown some good leadership on some
important issues in the Senate and is
very talented but then here's also the
person that chose to not prosecute Steve
minuchin so that's obviously a trend ISM
and as a you know was a note as it known
as a particularly harsh prosecutor so
those are incredibly serious question
marks so if we're just having a
conversation about monk amongst
ourselves about rhetoric that's a nice
little improvement there
but you know the real answer is look
Megan if you need to go you know sit in
a quiet place somewhere and and deal
with like inheriting you know one house
instead of nine great like go breathe
into a brown paper bag but the rest of
us actually have to deal with some real
 problems should be the actual
answer to that how many private jet
shootings Betsy DeVos has three nope are
we including other forms of air
transportation as well well we can yeah
okay
how many Jets and how many helicopters
do you think Betsy devout Oh eight
you're too low on too low Brendan Eich
and I can read it yeah so she has 12
Jetson four helicopters where she is and
she uses those as well as your tax
dollars do try to destroy your life with
student loan debt and promote the
interests of scam private colleges the
only barely even have time to
cover her the only kind of means testing
I'm really interested in is immune
system that would specifically go after
ultra like luxury owner like like sort
of products they own so like anybody who
is caught with like two yachts you're
gonna be talking to the IRS basically on
a weekly basis to figure out how we can
you know remedy the situation then
that's after we take your yachts those
are just like being on probation yeah we
got some media yeah good after the rest
array and then we're just gonna follow
up conversations like what the is
the wrong with you if you know how dense
Miller wanted to have case officers for
everybody on welfare we're gonna have
case officers for everybody making over
with over like say like a million
dollars naturally you're calling from a
703 area code who are you where you're
calling from
this means Nathan from Virginia Nathan
it's you from Virginia what's on your
minds well I first first and foremost
right off the top got to be honest with
you
I'm a Republican I know I'm
a moment I also voted for Boyce Co in
the last election we had here a couple
days ago because I like um of the mind
that you know Jesus Jesus H these are a
bunch of you know unrepentant morons
that we can't let anywhere near the
levels of power you know we're obviously
seeing the fallout from Neil douche bag
than that right now and you know I'd say
again off the top half of my foreign
policy is informed by Eisenhower and the
other half is informed by Frank Herbert
just some degree and you know I'm with
you man like it's I think issue number
one is the environment because we have
to protect the biosphere you know if
we're ever gonna carry this you know
American experiment forward and the
second thing we got to do is nuclear
disarmament because those weapons again
pose an existential threat to the
species and you know I don't want to
take up too much of your time I just I
just want to say for the record there
are some of us here with the are next to
our names who have been watching the
last 15 to 20 years of you know it just
egregious mistake after egregious
mistake and we're building slowly a sort
of I don't want to say alright but you
know a new sort of right well I wouldn't
say all right you know because then
we're definitely worth a pot on that
what about what about a Republican DSA
caucus what about that yeah you know
like I'm I I got a to be honest I've
read Marx to you know I in terms of
philosophy or more of a Sartre guy um
and you know I I think that the the the
guy I blame for all this the the patient
zero was that notion back in the
eighties you know what government is the
problem
and when you think about it for a moment
like that's well government's the
problem man why are you in government in
fact why do we have a government Sam
says I'm really really resonated with me
a couple days ago it's like well if the
the smallest form of gun
men is the best well why don't we just
govern at the state well at the county
at the house you know like black alright
it did it's just a lot of you don't
sound like a Republican for you man yeah
run for office yeah you should run for
office as a Republican
we will boost your signal boost your
campaign I miss na and I really could be
I'm being honest with you guys right now
I'm from New York originally New York
City Staten Island Oh make fun of me I'm
there but it you guys is really over the
past couple of years you know listen to
you listen to Sam and kind of broadening
my horizons I was a current and
Republican by the age of 13 and I just
over time you know thank you for you
know having a conversation that you guys
do and having the voices on I love the
discussion earlier today in American
foreign policy yeah like we're we're
working on it
hopefully real soon we'll be able to go
back to having more rational discussions
on 16 informs of air travel
why how well we'll see about that
good we'll see about that what keeps you
in the paper yeah well yeah a question
what why do you still like what I mean
unless you're about to drop on us
something really abominable
seriously go I'm with you guys in other
besides you know like women should
basically be enslaved like what
unless it's something like that like
what keeps you is it just like a you is
it like a Kevin Phillips like it's like
a thing where you never vote for
Republicans anymore you're the political
opponent of all these people but you
feel like you mentioned Eisenhower I
have huge problems with Eisenhower but
you know fair enough it's not well not
I'll just put you I mean if somebody
says they admire Eisenhower that's not
the same as saying that my Reagan or
even you know or Nixon for that matter
and certainly Trump but what keeps you
in this party is it just because of a
philosophical commitment to something
that doesn't exist anymore or is there
really something still in this party
that you actually resonate with because
it doesn't sound like it
no it's a cosmic it's a philosophical
you know commitment and way way back I
had the chance to expatriate and I
didn't because it's sappy I know put on
the put on the audio over this but I
believe in the and the military
Eisenhower and the reason I love
Eisenhower you know his farewell address
the military-industrial complex it like
that is this is the guy who was at the
helm of you know probably one of the
greatest war machines ever created right
a concerted global effort and at the end
of all that coming back home to you know
democracy after washing the world get
ravaged as dude understood that holy
hell like we've got a real you know
three-headed beast on our hands and it's
that confluence of where private
industry coupled with you know
government oversight and can be
channeled to do great things and also
great destructive so I got a job I got a
jump real quick I hear you I wish
Eisenhower done something about that
earlier and also not supported like the
coos and Guatemala and things like that
which I would read up on breed uh Steve
Kinser book on the Dulles brothers
that's really good book but um but just
give me one name I'm assuming you're not
you're gonna vote against Trump in 2020
right I'm assuming court so as a
Republican who will be voting for a
Democrat who would be your Democratic
pick just give me don't even explain it
just give me one word we won't even
respond already just okay Bernie Bernie
Bernie you've got my vote
all right thanks for the call brother
there you go more Republicans should be
like that guy people ask me Republicans
that I'm willing to work and dialogue
with there you go anyone who claims this
moment is the start of the problem yeah
here we go
yep present crisis government is not the
solution to our problem government is
the problem there you go you're calling
from a 509 area code who are you where
you calling from Ronald Reagan Ronald
Reagan thanks for calling well I'm
hosting man what
your minds yeah well I just wanted to
say Eisenhower is totally overrated so
everything I know about the military I
learned from movies and you watch Saving
Private Ryan d-day they you know roll
their boats up drop the thing and
there's a wall there and the Germans
just shoot the ball and that doesn't
seem like a great plan to me what a
bombed their oil refineries like Trump
suggested and take their oil did you
stand its my eyes didn't take that well
I think search it was trying to get on
that actually put I don't know Churchill
Churchill was kind of like oh very smart
witty Trump like if Trump if they always
why does he read books like I think you
kind of have an example of like what he
would sort of be like if he read books
like he'd still be like basically
genocide all towards Africans and
Indians racist you know kind of a
jackass but very very savvy and and and
really I mean Trump is already good with
the burns being like essentially
illiterate and you know Churchill was
very good I think that that might be the
sort of proximate guy of like what would
Trump be like if he wasn't a might
be Churchill yeah I think all the time
about the DNC and how the Democrats
decided their approach to Trump should
be to wheel out Bloomberg to talk about
how Trump was actually not a real rich
guy and how how diametrically opposed
that that was with the actual with what
they should have done and which with
what they did for example with Romney
who you know they were able to pain him
as how to touch rich guy and then four
years later they were like look at
trampy thinks he's a billionaire but he
doesn't have what it takes yeah which
only makes them more relatable to I mean
not that anyone voted for him because of
his relatability but you know just
going up what you guys are saying about
a very very progressive tax I think most
people are for that and you know so but
just such a horrible calculation on
their part I mean I don't know what I
guess the the idea there was to make him
seem like a liar well I think the idea
was and I'm embarrassed to say I think
Sam and I sort of defend well we didn't
defend like we if obviously if it's our
choice Bloomberg isn't there but I think
like I literally think the thinking at
that time got so myopic even among us at
some point that it was literally just
like oh well this will freak Trump out
and make him offended because it was
sort of like I think the theory was you
know especially I mean the whole
Democratic convention was ridiculous and
substance free and it was like and yet
Leon Panetta with the woke CIA I mean it
was a disaster and I actually think like
Harry Reid if I recall like Harry Reid
had one line where he was just like I
don't know anything I'm sexist I'm
racist I inherited money
what party should I join that was like
my favorite line of the whole convention
but I think like it was just sort of
like basically like you'll have all
these people come up there talking about
what a horrible person he is and since
obviously of course we're not going to
run like a systemic case and we're not
gonna do what Obama did to Romney which
would be the right options at the very
least if you have like Bloomberg will
upset him right like the the Khan family
like spoke to normal people like oh my
God look at this like nice family from
you know Pakistan who emigrated to
Virginia their son died in Iraq Trump is
such an but that has you know
Trump doesn't care and his base doesn't
care but the theory was if Bloomberg was
like he didn't make any money that Trump
would you know freaked out a little bit
and it would be funny and I think you
know so but it was obviously incredibly
my not myopic and this is the thing like
every time you know when that one that
sort of dumb dumb argument gets
relitigated it's like look you know
because of Bernie and because of other
primary played out we already know it's
like
hilary ended up going into campaign with
the most progressive modern democratic
platform and on the same time where you
know where it the argument just doesn't
hold any water is like yes and she never
campaigned on it and she didn't and she
ain't talking about it and the DNC was
essentially just like you know I'm a CIA
director I'm out Oleg Ark we all agree
that Donald Trump is rude and it was a
disaster yeah I do think for these
people done well oh go ahead
I think it's intuitive to people on the
local am tacos I hate listen to every
morning on my way to work
they've been railing against tab fees
and and there's a new proposal to cap
tab fees at $30 which you know is
actually a good thing even though it's a
big revenue revenue stream for like the
local city and everything because high
tab fees is a highly regressive
Jack's right high tower tab yeah yeah
but the the same host of the show used
to be on the City Council and they
passed a local ordinance which says that
in order to raise taxes at all you need
like a 60% majority vote of the town
which makes it literally impossible for
example to raise taxes on properties
worth more than five hundred thousand
dollars or something like that so I do
think there's there's the space opening
up for us to come forward and agree on
certain things and then also to show
like because these same people complain
about the state of the city and the
conditions of the roads and all these
things like that you know the money has
to come from somewhere and these people
are just simply in the best position to
do that but anyways yeah thanks a
million sorry folks I should have said
before that is the wrong ring is the
last call today I guess it's just the
new reality that we just don't get to
anywhere near all call though yeah sorry
guys sorry I didn't like five thousand
listeners live now you're close but
anyway regarding that those rules about
raising taxes that's exactly what James
Buchanan a sort of George Mason and
Virginia School of Economics people that
Nancy McLain talks about in democracy
and chains that's all that's why they
went down to Chile right like let's
figure out how we can keep this this
financial power locked in against
Democratic will for as long as possible
that's exactly it all right it was so
Epping wrong who backs gonna give his
money to this time around he's he's not
gonna bite it you're trying to call by
it in every snow in Biden Gillibrand
Booker
he's probably another I like what Bay
dos a Rockette Nathan John those
Instagram videos I'm pretty good he did
an Instagram live video that's what
people need keep it simple sign a
consent form
Greg from Oklahoma hey Michael I know
you listen to Joe Budden podcast if you
ever noticed that he talks negatively
about capitalism do you think he's a
socialist just like comrade ja Rule well
I don't know about ja Rule I do kind of
like what he gave it the fire festival I
don't know if I don't think Joe Barton
is a socialist I don't know how identify
himself but he is very very savvy about
the music industry and commercialization
in general and the one thing I that is a
distinct thing about Joe Budden actually
as like a he's a really there's a lot of
very you know smart fun pop culture
commentators but I have noticed that I
don't think he's a socialist but he does
actually say just capitalism when other
people would use like a lot of standing
words like consumerism or you know
you're being commercial or whatever like
he will sometimes just be like put you
know that bullshit's capitalism man
which is interesting to me um so I don't
want to oversell it but I have noticed
that and Joe bond
Joe Budden shows good Fran from
Philadelphia in case you don't get my
call I have to plug if you don't mind I
I know that we had I think that area
code but that person wasn't there but
who knows if you don't mind inspired by
comrades Harvey JK and distant and
present and in celebration of the
publication date 1776 of Thomas Paine's
public of Thomas Paine's Common Sense
I'll be reading and discussing common
sense tonight at 11 p.m.
eet's EST on the first stream of 2009 19
at left at left flank gam 1 ng on team F
Lincoln what's one accept with an I I'm
sorry gaming accepted the want with a 1
instead of an eye left flank
gaming on Twitch cool find me on Twitter
at left flank gaming 1 stead of an eye
for my twitch and YouTube pages and at
me to join discord like-minded lefty
gamers marks left is best thank you for
an Nate from Casey
Missouri governor and Republican
Statehouse are making their intentions
known to repeal the clean Missouri
Amendment was passed by 62% to fight GOP
gerrymandering furthermore they're
looking to make the petition process
more difficult to get issues on
statewide ballot war on democracy and
underway and I already feel exhausted
helpless 2019 already sucks and we
haven't even gotten to Joe Biden yet
well look um Democrats run the house
there's a lot of I mean you know take
the good with the bad but look again we
know this the Republicans oppose
democracy we're in the this is it
there's nothing new exactly president
not Trump president nutjob no Mickey
Kant's was on Fox News the Corey
Lewandowski and totally embarrassed him
she talked about raising taxes on the
riches after a commentator whined about
taxes she proclaimed womp-womp that's
 awesome dude I didn't know that
I gotta go congratulate her when I see
her tonight that's awesome go if you
can't make it tonight get online and
give a contribution it would really be
great she is the only person running for
New York City public advocate who's
taking zero real estate money that alone
in addition to many many other reasons
but honestly that alone
is a great reason to get out there
petition contribute and of course vote
for a no Miki Mehta flight Pelosi can
deliver a good burn because she's too
old to even be a boomer yeah you know is
that true I don't know there's a picture
of her like I guess Brennan said she's
in her teens she looks like she's in her
20s but maybe that's just a dress in the
50s or 60s but she's with JFK and yeah
they look like colleagues USA Canuck
Churchill's first wife was a Churchill's
wife was American not sure what that
says about Churchill but I thought I'd
share know Churchill's mother was an
American sir I don't know the accuracy
of those things yeah that's true that's
part of the special relationship and the
final call of the day excuse me the
final I am of the day goes to mo brains
hey Michaels there a possibility of
getting professor Harvey K on mrt MBS to
promote his upcoming publications of in
4-0 books radical as best so no of
course not
dude I have Harvey first of all Harvey K
comes on TBS anytime he's in New York I
think you'll be on em are but he much
prefers doing like actual in-person
stuff so but we'll see I'm very excited
of course I'm doing a book with zero
books super excited that Harvey is also
being published them everybody should
check out Harvey JK's book on Thomas
Paine as well as his book on the four
freedoms thanks everybody we're back
live tomorrow in that
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
takes yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
