[Music]
in Honduras a lot of the propaganda that
is used against Venezuela says Venezuela
narco-state
I don't there absolutely are elements of
the Venezuelan military is an example
that are involved in cartel business it
just so happens that cocaine generates a
huge amount of revenue and cocaine has
been something that the CIA and US
foreign policy have been intimately
involved with through their proxies in
Latin America death squads right wing
hunters and everything else and today in
Honduras several years after a coup that
the Obama administration backed in 2009
that removed Manuel Zelaya from office
you cannot understand the migrant crisis
going back several years to the extent
and when I say crisis let me be very
clear it's not a crisis of people that
can't come to this country and be helped
that's easy and no problem we would do
it if we were humane and not racist but
there is a crisis going back to 2013
2012 of a situation that is so bad in
Honduras where you had children as young
as five years old walking by themselves
thousands of miles to a border that is a
crisis and that crisis flows out of the
coup that the United States backed and
the current government it supports of of
President of Orlando Hernandez thousands
of people are in the streets demanding
he stepped down because of his far-right
policies and because of his close
connections to the cartel trade us
Southern District Court in New York in
and filed documents have said that
Hernandez has received proceeds of over
1.5 m has received 1.5 million in
proceeds drug proceeds that were used to
bribe local officials in exchange for
protection and completion of public
works projects and I'm quote one more
quote from tell us or a conservative
ally of the United States Honduras has
come under increasing pressure since his
younger brother Tony was arrested in
Miami in November and drug trafficking
charges this is some footage of
thousands of people protesting that
narco must go joh must go in Tegucigalpa
and hond or
as trump administration's tight with
this government the US has backed
right-wing coup governments under Obama
and Trump and this is another major
issue that needs to be addressed all
solidarity with the people of Honduras
it just played I'll stop talking there
you have it
