so Heather we talked about this briefly
on the other side of the break but
Senator Mike Lee has been trying to
draft a piece of legislation that will
sort of swage those people who are
nervous about voting to give Donald
Trump or not voting to stop Donald
Trump's power grab in stealing money
from variously appropriated budgets to
build a massive wall on the border and
Mike Lee is trying to do an end run and
I gotta say the media is not doing a
particularly good job it strikes me the
corporate media of saying this is the
Republicans trying to do a one-off you
get your wall but no future presidents
will have this power and it's
reprehensible well it's reminiscent you
know you said that this was read this
was emblematic of the Trumpy right it's
actually this is something that the
first thing I thought of when I saw it
was Bush versus gore gore mm yes where
the conservative majority said you know
well this ruling only applies in this
situation we get our man in but don't
think you can ever do this you can use
this equal protection argument for
anytime someone like you know one of
your people get stuck in this situation
I mean this is what this is what they do
you know I mean and obviously this is
just a face-saving this is a face-saving
you know action for Trump so that he can
get his wall or get his emergency order
it's also a face-saving operation for
themselves where they can say as you say
it'll make them feel more comfortable
they can pat themselves on the back go
well we're not for all this presidential
power it's really win-win for them they
get to you know pretend like they care
and of course you know on some level I
think they're assuming that a Democrat
is going to beat Trump in 2020 or at
least they're they're making a bet that
it's you know probable or possible and
they want to make sure that they're you
know that no Democrat can do anything
like this and maybe even a few of them
might be saying well maybe we ought to
stop Trump he's getting a little out of
hand but you know to let him get away
with this and to do this and I agree
with you that the press is not
presenting this properly
there's
saying well you know pence and the
Republicans they've come to an agreement
they're negotiating you know they're
just like it sounds like it's a it's
kind of a valid compromise I'm sorry
it's completely invalid it's the worst
of all possible world
it gives them what he wants and lets
them off the hook with people who think
maybe the president you know shouldn't
be a dictator and he they can go around
pretending like they they're actually oh
we stood up for congressional
prerogatives well it's ridiculous I mean
they should you know I don't have any
problem with this law I mean to the
extent that if they decide to pass a law
where they you know resume congressional
prerogative on principle I agree with
that I mean the president it was we've
seen nothing else in the Trump era we've
seen that the president has way too much
power and that this is a ridiculous you
know situation we've gotten ourselves in
over many many years and of course most
of its in foreign policy which is
something that really should be clawed
back but you know nonetheless the idea
that they're doing it under these
circumstances is ridiculous and and of
course you know that imagine you know
it's Trump really what's he going to do
I mean it all this does is just sort of
prove once again that the Republican
Party is nothing more than a bunch of
you know boot looking henchmen for
Donald Trump and they are basically just
doing everything they can to ensure they
don't care what he does don't care who
he is they don't care what a criminal he
is all they can I guess you know what's
it come down to Sam you tell me judges
said it is that all they care about I
mean well I think they care about judges
but I think they also each care about
their own base I mean this is a the
Donald Trump has near ninety percent
approval from the Republican Party and
so they are just acting on their own
self-interest this they are representing
the lunatics that they represent and
that's what's going on here and in the
meantime what's also striking in terms
of like legislation that was brought up
by in this case Michael Eady again and
Joni Ernst is a proposal for paid family
leave and but doing it
without without the government providing
any paid family leave and the way that
they would do this is they would let
people borrow against their social
security fund and essentially when you
borrow you would just maybe stave off
and work longer years to pay this off
this is insanity
it is it is insanity it is an attack on
Social Security it is a failure to join
the rest of industrialized countries in
paying not borrowing against yourself I
mean this is essentially mortgaging
against your retirement it is so
dangerous and it is the reason frankly
why the 401ks have failed because so
many people have the ability to pull the
money out when they go through hard
times that the 401k has been a at least
partly because of that reason the other
the other part because it's just you
know the problems with a defined
contribution program has utterly failed
to provide for the retirement insurance
that that people anticipated it might
and so this is this is grotesque I mean
honestly the media is not nearly jaded
enough by these Republicans and that's
what's so disturbing about it right like
he's doing this by the way I mean I
don't know about Ernst I don't know what
her her motivation is here but Mike Lee
and he said he's a sneaky devil and he's
really he's got a strong libertarian
bent and he would these this is
basically and it's an assault on Social
Security I really believe that he
doesn't care about oh yeah I mean it's
not this is just another way to try to
dig into Social Security and make it you
know vulnerable that's that and the
people mistrust it you know I mean you
can imagine people taking this this
benefit this so-called benefit you know
logically you got a baby you want to be
able to you know stay home and take care
of it for a while and then coming to the
end you know and coyote thought you know
my retirement dwindled and I got you
know I got half of what I thought I was
going to get from Social Security I mean
this is completely and not to mention
that the the funding that goes into it
right I mean I don't know how they were
going to
accommodate that you keep paying into
Social Security or were they going to
allow you to not I mean I don't even
know what they were going to do there
but whatever it is it's it's definitely
just another they will never give up
they've been doing this since 1938 and
they're not going to quit so anybody who
thinks that Social Security is truly
secure really need to think again listen
we just got a minute left so I want to
just a shout out to Elizabeth Warren and
her her proposal to break up Facebook
and Google and some of these bigger
companies Facebook even sort of proved
her right by pulling down the ads that
she wrote about her proposal on Facebook
also we should mention your governor in
Gallup California has put a moratorium
on the death penalty in California which
gives reprise to over 730 inmates I
think it's close to 7:40 in fact of
course we also had Donald Trump release
his budget which you know talking about
cutting social security called for cuts
in Social Security cut cuts in Medicare
cuts in Medicaid cuts in all sorts of
domestic social welfare programs food
stamps I mean it cuts major cuts in the
EPA cuts in the Commerce Department in
terms of the census I mean it goes on
and on I'm fascinated by how vulnerable
science programs research studies I am
I'm fascinated by how short-sighted this
is by Donald Trump in terms of the 2020
election but there is that quality it
feels like that
some of the more right-wing people in
the White House are I don't know just
trying to get their last licks in in
some way I mean this isn't a budget
that's gonna be that's gonna be
instituted but in minutes it's bad and
we're gonna hear more about it on the
20/20 campaign trail I certainly i haha
I mean it would be would be pretty bad
malpractice to
to not push that
