[Music]
this first clip from William Bar today
in announcing the the rapport rod
Rosenstein looks like he has been shot
with embalming fluid standing behind him
let's play this in assessing the
president's actions discussed in the
report it is important to bear in mind
the context president Trump faced an
unprecedented situation as he entered
into a Hassan I'm sorry just to be clear
here this is his response on obstruction
now the obstruction is going to be
extremely controversial because when I
read to you the part in the report when
they talk about obstruction it is quite
clear that robert muller anticipated the
question of obstruction heading to
congress but here is a bar talking about
apparently intent and I'm not quite sure
how bar in divined intent because we
know that Muller never had an
opportunity to interview the president
and he in the report says the questions
were were were not sufficient that were
written questions were not sufficient
but go in assessing the president's
actions discussed in the report it is
important to bear in mind the context
president Trump faced an unprecedented
situation as he entered into office and
sought to perform his responsibilities
as president federal agents and
prosecutors were scrutinizing his
conduct before and after taking office
and the conduct of some of his
associates at the same time there was
relentless speculation in the news media
about the president's personal
culpability yet as he said from the
beginning there was in fact no collusion
and as the special counsels report
acknowledges there is substantial
evidence to show that the president was
frustrated and angered by his sincere
belief that the investigation was
undermining his prayer
agency propelled by his political
opponents and fueled by illegal leaks
nonetheless the White House fully
cooperated with the special counsels
investigation providing unfettered
access to campaign and White House
documents directing scenes a I just want
to be clear here he's not reading from
the report he is just basically
functioning as a political commentator
he is deciding that the White House
fully complied but Muller does not say
that they did not sit down for an
interview this sounds like it was
written by Sarah Huckabee honestly this
is like the way in which Trump's
language gets into everything even like
the most well-spoken
amongst them relentlessly speculated the
no collusion I'll read you what it says
about collusion here in evaluating
whether evidence about collective action
of multiple individuals constituted a
crime we applied the framework of
conspiracy law not the concept of
collusion and so doing the office
recognize that the word collude was used
in communications with the acting
Attorney General confirming certain
aspects of the investigation scope and
that the term has been frequently
invoked in public reporting about the
investigation but collusion is not a
specific offense or theory of liability
found in the United States code nor is a
determined federal criminal law there's
no reason why the debated the Attorney
General should be using this word for
those reasons the office this is the
special of a special counsel focus in
analyzing questions to joint criminal
liability on the Kazan conspiracy as
defined in federal law continue the
white house fully cooperated with the
special counsels investigation providing
unfettered access to campaign and white
house documents directing senior aides
to testify freely and asserting no
privilege claims and at the same time
the president took no act that in fact
deprived the special counsel of the
documents and witnesses necessary to
complete his investigation posit the
president maligned those people in
public
like who were cooperating with special
counsel rats rats man affords a brave
guy for lying to the special counsel
pretending to be a cooperating witness
well complete his investigation apart
from whether the acts were obstructive
this evidence of non corrupt motives
weighs heavily against any allegation
that the President had a corrupt intent
to obstruct the investigation there is
no official mechanism in which bill Barr
determined there were non corrupt
motives in this obstruction there is not
a single document there is not a single
written word there is not a single
report from an interview that would
suggest that bill Barr has any official
way of knowing there were no non corrupt
motives about obstruction that's just a
lie that's just a lie that's just
made-up whole cloth let's talk about
obstruction the office learned that some
of the individuals we interviewed or
whose conduct we investigated including
some associated with the Trump campaign
deleted relevant communications or
communicated during the relevant period
using applications that feature
encryption or do not provide for long
term retention of data or communications
records in such cases the office was not
able to corroborate witness statements
through comparison to contemporaneous
communications or fully question
witnesses about statements that appeared
inconsistent with other known facts
accordingly while this report embodies
factual and legal determinations that
the office of believes to be accurate
and complete to the greatest extent
possible given these identified gaps the
office cannot rule out the possibility
that unavailable information would shed
additional light on or cast in a new
light
the events described in the
there's not enough information because
people hid their tracks continue alright
let's go to the next one where he talks
about that he wanted you to make the
decision or that it should be left for
Congress and also how do you respond to
criticism you ever seen receiving from
congressional Democrats that you're
acting more as a Attorney for president
rather than as the Special Counsel moer
did not indicate that his purpose was to
leave the decision to Congress I hope
that was not his view since we don't
convene grand juries and conduct
criminal investigations for that purpose
he did not I didn't talk to him directly
about the fact that we were making the
decision but I am told that his reaction
to that was that it was my my
prerogative his Attorney General to make
that decision
that's that never came up from the
report and do we have that thing where
he says like this is not why you go to
you have at one point Barr says this is
not why we we have we don't send this to
Congress this is not why we have grand
juries and what not but you have the
Moller report saying first a traditional
prosecution or declination decision
entails a binary determination to
initiate or decline a prosecution but we
determined not to make a traditional
prosecutorial judgment the office of
legal counsel found that the indictment
or criminal prosecution of a sitting
president in the capacity of the
executive branch to perform its
constitutionally assigned functions in
violation of the constitutional
separation of powers in other words okay
so the special counsel mawla did not
indicate his purpose was to leave that I
hope this was
his view because we don't convene he
says this I hope that was not his view
because we don't convene grand juries
and conduct criminal investigations for
that purpose however in the report
itself it says given the role of special
counsel as an attorney in the Department
of Justice and the framework of the
special counsel regulations this office
accepted the au Elsie's legal conclusion
for the purpose of exercising
prosecutorial jurisdiction and apart
from the au Elsie's constitutional view
we recognize that a federal criminal
accusation against a sitting president
would place burdens on the president's
capacity to govern and potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential conduct okay in
other words we did not bring an
obstruction charge because we accept the
au Elsie's view the office of legal
counsel view that a criminal accusation
against the sitting president would
place burdens on the president's
capacity to govern and potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct what
is the constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct it is
Congress investigating and deciding
whether they're going to impeach so I
mean this is the part that's really
gonna nail bar that's really going to be
highly problematic because the report
absolutely says it doesn't say the words
because we're giving this to Congress it
says we're not going to bring a criminal
charge because it could potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct I
mean I don't know what else to tell you
that's going to be rather damning
