[Music]
- area code who are you where he calling
from hey Michael this is Aaron from
Texas Aaron what's going on what's on
your minds uh well there was two
potential things I wanted to talk about
depending on how comfortable you were
discussing Burnie going on Rogen I don't
wanna I mean I I'm good I'm glad he did
it it's a good thing do you have
anything else yeah yeah we can talk
about something else so my dad actually
is a or was a trump supporter he voted
for Trump in 2016 right and he's always
identified with the Republicans I'm
sorry go ahead
no I said I I hear you yep go ahead
sorry okay but so throughout his first
term I've managed to convince him to
support Bernie Sanders a couple times
great but it seems like he always kind
of revert back to the these right-wing
tendencies and he buys into framing of
like Fox News and the Republicans and
he's he's kind of back in there and
therefore all or whatever but and I I
guess I was just curious is there like a
futility and trying to convince certain
people well I mean it's your pops so of
assuming you you're gonna be talking
with your dad so you might as well talk
to your dad I mean I would ask us you
find it too you know unless you get
disheartened why not
who else does he talk about politics
with yeah well that's a good question I
don't think he actually talks about with
anyone but me and maybe people at his
work that's always the thing because
like people workplaces have a bit large
like right-wing email culture and things
like that that really I already report
yeah yeah I so I'm like hey Brendan can
you set every time every time Sam says
something Brendan so it's just nonsense
Michael let me hit you with this cue in
on stuff later but that's where that and
Brendan and I have a secret right-wing
cell that's who are a lot of stuff
coming
post a lot of Obama's Jeff Jamie I had
no idea for someone who's constantly
talking about being you know no borders
or whatever Jamie's extremely concerned
about where Obama was born so I'll say
yeah it's weird I mean like email email
groups and email forwards are sort of
the advanced the advanced for the right
the fascist takeover really because like
FoxNews couldn't be talking about like
or like bordering on birth or stuff
that's the ground wasn't right for and
it is all through that because that's
really powerful involved all your
co-workers are sharing this stuff like
Obama wasn't born here or like Democrats
are what would it lose California if it
wasn't if we had voter ID like right
that is that's I mean what more do you
need that's where you're getting your
money and now that's where you're
getting your ideas from we don't know
that that's what's going on right we
don't know that but that's my I would
say that's where I would start to look
if he keeps reverting I mean I think
this is evidence of how effective and
evil the Fox media empire really is like
I have a friend who had a similar
experience with her dad in rural Rhode
Island who you know is not a rich person
his material class interests align much
more with Bernie Sanders but he and and
he showed some signs of going that way
but then he watches Fox News 24/7 and it
completely blots out any chances of
progress that you know I don't know how
receptive your dad is but the stories
that I've heard like this where and I
you know where there's been a little bit
of an ease up it starts with like the
conversations you're having and then it
seems to are they willing to do
something like listen to the majority
report right because I think partially
you just need to have like a what Fox
does is Fox organizes the information of
your worldview so and all and all media
does this right and so the that's the
question of this like pure objective
thing is a fantasy it's just a question
of which ones are doing it to better
effect for more people and how honest
they're being why they do it but I I
think part of the reason that you can't
persuade somebody with like an argument
here and there is that is that it won
first and foremost that's social I agree
with that Matt and I think secondly your
having your whole your whole like
intellectual infrastructure organized in
a certain way and you know just even
like as an example like when you because
some of it is just like what topics you
use to cover you choose to cover right
like that you saw us a lot with like you
know the part of the reason like some of
the you know right-wing people on the
Internet they could find they could
always find like examples of like some
left-wing people supposedly being
left-wing and you know being ridiculous
and it's like okay sure or like you
could spend that all day doing that and
part and then it's like if you spend all
day actually listening to you know
economists and labor organizers talking
about wage stagnation that will give you
a different baseline for how the process
information so I I would say that maybe
if your dad is open you might suggest
some other you know what you think you
might like in terms of it probably
actually watching the Joe Rogan
interview might not be a bad idea for
your dad for what it's worth it's
something that's like a broader
induction into a worldview versus just
like you know some sort of points here
and there that's what I think is is
probably the most effective thing at
least from what I've heard yeah there
are so few platforms anymore that are
not completely polarized in terms of
their viewership and that are seen as
actual neutral platforms whether that's
really true or not and I think that is
one value that Joe Rogan has like Bernie
reached a lot of people whom he wouldn't
have otherwise via going on the Joe
Rogan show and that's valuable of course
absolutely thanks for the call man yeah
appreciate it no appreciate it
