[Music]
Donald Trump as you know is in like we
said is in is in Britain and Jeremy
Corbyn perhaps in response was this in
direct response to this comment by
Donald Trump that the NHS is on the
table or just in response to the idea
that peeps a V people understand that
this is one of the dynamics that's going
to be used right you always blame will
always need somebody to blame and and if
it's Trump demanding NHS be cut then
that's what some of these you know Boris
Johnson's gonna have to do in the event
that he's the Prime Minister but here is
Jeremy Corbyn basically telling Donald
Trump kiss-off we're in the debates
about the future of our relationship
between Britain and Europe and the rest
of the world the basis of that debate
should surely be that we encourage the
protection of jobs and living standards
and public services and reach out to
people all across the world but it
should not be it should not be a debate
about how we go forward with no deal at
the same time as offering up offering up
aa precious wonderful national health
service to private American companies to
come in and take it over we will not
stand for that we will fight with every
last breath of our body to defend the
principle of a health care system free
at the point of need for everybody as a
human right there you go good for them
it's nice to see it coming from a
distance gives you a little more time to
react
