[Music]
the European Union is having elections
today and this is a major test for the
future of the European Union which is
obviously under tremendous stress
facilitated by the catastrophe of
austerity after the eurozone crisis and
now there's a real rise I mean you know
the extreme right is polling very well
we have Yanis farah Fox's project the
new york times of course calling them
all populist parties without making any
meaningful distinction as David Adler
pointed out many many SADS but this is
Jeremy Corbyn who still leading the
British UK Labour Party still person who
may very well become Prime Minister soon
and address the multiple crises not just
the brexit crisis but the inequality
crisis the UK and he's telling people to
get out to vote and what these elections
are going to be about from the labour
perspective well the propaganda be put
out by the far-right in this European
election where they're blaming Muslims
for all the ills of our society change
that language the language that was used
in Germany in the 1920s and 30s where
they tried to blame Jewish people for
all the ills of society then you begin
to see where this leads to
in these European elections if they stay
home and the far-right go out to vote
you're actually giving support to the
far-right because you're straight stick
their position in order to gain somebody
being elected
this country has become economically the
most divided country in Europe when
children go to school and have to bake
the teacher for something to eat when a
head teacher in Leeds describes a child
following another to pick up the apple
core out of the pin to eat the remains
of the Apple the first child haven't
quite finished
that's it modern Britain the fifth
richest country in the world
something is very badly wrong are we to
be the generation that cascaded poverty
from one generation to the other or are
we to be the generation that challenged
the injustice the inequality
[Applause]
we absolutely need him to become the UK
Prime Minister and we absolutely need a
good election result in the European
elections just briefly from David Adler
okay and right he's great from data
Adler writing in The New Republic well
the radical right break the EU he wrote
in the cry if the crisis of the early
1970s created the conditions for
European integration for eight for
Europe's economic integration the crisis
of 2008 did so for its political
integration
until 2008 the impressive march of
European legislation had been an elite
affair conducted almost exclusively by
high-ranking officials far from public
view politics even as Europe's economies
grew ever closer remained national a
context between domestic coalition's
left and right rich and poor north and
south the financial crisis suddenly
revealed to citizens across the
continent that the extent to which their
countries have been bound together
stripping away the language of peace and
prosperity to expose an economic
architecture that serves some against
others instigating mass political
movements to reconstruct it but of
course and that's true but the main
story out of 2008 has been Germany
demanding ruthless austerity on the
southern zone which is destroyed and
gutted Greece the pressure on even the
core on their social models and then the
growth of the far-right harnessing that
to his advantage and one other thing I
just want to keep in mind unfortunately
I didn't get it in the packet which is
my mistake but there was a tweet from
another European another British Labour
MP who just basically said he's like
look definitionally the far-right can
never be working-class because the
working-class is multi identity so they
don't represent it period we represent
all of it every single background and
that is that synthesis of a socialist
cosmopolitan position which you need to
pursue and I would add along with the
types of clarity that I do think people
like Sanders and corbin have in their
speech it's not charisma and this sort
of like
airbrushed sense but
it's no it's direct it's clear
and it speaks to people's experience so
please go out and vote for labor and
other actual left parties in these
European elections it's very important
that's such a good point I'm gonna use
that next time I'm arguing with somebody
on the battle place of ideas the right
is the one doing identity politics
because they're the ones keeping people
out based on their identity contrary to
popular belief the left does not hate
white this men because white says men
are part of the working class
