you will hear today if you turn on the
cable news that Amy Klobuchar and
Peabody judge have really they just
shined and now look obviously if you've
listened to this program for more than
five minutes over the course of the past
nine years you will know that all of us
here would receive that information with
great skepticism
we watched the debate Amy Klobuchar the
only thing I can tell you that really
stuck out for me was that she had a sort
of like a comedy hook on every one of
her responses and and by comedy I mean
something that's not funny
she had just some it was like really
Michael Scott energy there that's what I
was exactly meant working for her and in
addition to air like you've just been
forced to shave her legs okay now you
got a laugh of the jokes I don't think
that she I don't think that the jokes
are hers like I don't think they'll Mars
no but I know Mars but I don't it's not
just that I don't think the jokes are
hers I don't think she jokes that way in
real life because what it clearly is is
a way they they have internal polling
this is my guest that says that she's
not that she comes off as too harsh and
and uptight and the stories about her
being a bad boss we need to show that
you are a happy warrior and so they come
up honestly because these are your I
can't I think you're right that this is
so deliberate like it's not one of those
let's let Amy be Amy it's like let's
manufacture Amy because and here's the
thing she should ask for her money back
she should ask for her money back
because she's not going anywhere
anywhere she's not going anywhere and
she's dancing I mean it's not I'm having
so much fun yes look at me I'm
signalling fun you don't think that
that's authentic oh no that's a me being
a me bro
Buddha judge Buddha judge actually I
think sort of also just a lot of pablum
I do think that's who pad Buddha judges
though I had a hunch he is a walking
McKinsey chart and one of those Russian
dolls it's just the same doll all the
way down to the bottom and then there's
nothing exactly but I will say this I do
think Buddha judge may and you know his
numbers have been D I think this is a
guy who could do well in Iowa could I
don't think it's I don't I wouldn't I
wouldn't say it's a 50% chance but I
would I would say it's in the 40s he
could do well in Iowa which could have
implications on the race going forward
but beyond that I don't think the debate
is going to change anything the the top
line here
Bernie looked strong which was important
and basically won the debate by
announcing the endorsements before the
debate was over and he was fantastic
I mean honestly well that was important
yes this is the best debate I've seen
Bernie deliver in his whole presidential
career yes we're gonna play some clips
important for him to come out and show
that the the the heart attack was not in
any way impacting his ability to
campaign Warren took a lot more heat
than she has in the past but it also on
some level probably helps her insofar as
it it drew a distinction between her and
people like Buddha judge and Klobuchar
and Kamala Harris to some extent and
we're going to play this key difference
between the two of them in a moment
Biden stars
- well it's a function Abidin star I'm
following and there's a perception that
she's the front leader and they're going
after her Biden also had probably what
was his best night and part of that I
think what it shows is that Joe Biden
chokes under pressure and that is
something to be very concerned about
because I mean he did well last night
but nobody challenged him and to the
extent that he was challenged was the
one time that he was incoherent and so
this is indicative I think of a problem
that Joe Biden has but now let's get to
the clips I don't think there was
anything else really of great merit oh
the other thing just just to put two
button hold this little a digest of the
debate one fun fact
Tom Styer was on stage Tom Steyer has
raised 48 million dollars in this
campaign which is pretty impressive but
if you go to the next level of
understanding his fundraising you find
out he actually raised what was it three
million dollars and put in forty five of
his own and oh I'm and and here's the
thing I'm sorry yeah he had forty nine
million dollars
he has spent 47 million dollars on this
campaign and maybe we need a solution to
it that risks the imagination of a new
kind of possibility 47 million dollars
to get on that stage most of you did not
even know he was running most of you did
not know he was eligible I would say 85%
of the people watching that debate
we're not even aware that he was gonna
show up that day it cost him $37,000 per
word that he spoke in that debate but I
just want you to contemplate something
we heard a lot during that debate about
whether billionaires should exist I
don't know if there is a more perfect
example of how wasteful and stupid a
billionaire could be then someone who
spends 48 million dollars presumably in
pursuit of promoting politics that have
nothing to do with him but are to save
the country as he said and all it
amounts to is $37,000 per word that he
gets to speak on that debate stage and
for the life of me I can't remember one
single word he said it was a completely
useless endeavor and how do you spent
that 48 million dollars on state houses
in Colorado and Arizona Virginia and I
don't know half a dozen other states
yeah you know a dropping 48 million
dollars into into state Senate races
state Senate races not federal Senate
you could literally change the outcome
in multiple states across the country
you could save abortion rights for women
in multiple states across the country
you could change redistricting you could
change representation in the house I
mean you could do so much with that
money for the presume it gold that
you're up there talking about you could
give a ubi to 48,000 people you could do
that and that would be a waste of money
too but you could have had a genuine
genuine political impact and the idea
that I mean frankly when Bernie was
asked do you think that billionaires
should be existed
he should have just gone like this look
at that guy do you know he spent 47
billion dollars to get on this stage 47
million Bernie is too nice
I'm always people are always saying that
all right let's get to the clips I just
the more I think about it the more
enraged I get I mean it's just sort of
it's it's grotesque to see that type of
I mean I it's grotesque to see that type
of money that that just that level of
incompetence it's pure narcissism it's
pure narcissism but it's so incompetent
to like you know yeah I could totally
get being a narcissist great but why not
just be the guy who like walk around
like you could be the guy who walks
around and says like oh yeah I changed
the outcome a four-state dude you always
say it yourself he's literally
expressing himself it is it is a man his
own supply sure I mean it's one thing
yes like oh I'm the power behind throne
or whatever but this is pure unmitigated
like I always want to do since I was a
kid and I'm gonna do it join a local
theater company
really
