[Music]
hey speaking of disingenuous hard pivot
Mark Sanford was on Morning Joe I just
read a really amusing piece about how
Mark Halperin apparently got into a
fight with with Phil Griffin over at
MSNBC because the Morning Joe people
wanted to have a some type of like
relaunch of Mark Halperin career on a
sort of like a internet channel and he
said no Griffin said no and then Mark
Halperin was like you're the worst you
know I don't mind being judged by
perfect people
I'll let perfect people judge me says
Mark Halperin how about you just let
people who didn't essentially you know
show off their erection to people that
work for them how about they judge you
how about sort of like just basic human
decency with the people you work for in
some measure of respect and not a
decision that you don't have to respect
somebody because they're a woman how
about you let those people judge you
unbelievable I'm just there's so many
aspects of that story that I really
appreciate it
but here's another and this is you know
look this is not the same thing this is
not the same thing as rehabilitating the
career of a serial sexual harasser but
the dynamic is similar because what
you're doing is you're just creating a
bunch of BS to promote a perspective
that is also full of BS and you're
honest and simply doing it you know for
a good reason what I'm talking about is
Mark Sanford announcing his primary run
against Donald Trump on on Morning Joe
as if the problem was not the Republican
Party and here's Mark Sanford talking
about what he's gonna run on which is
also just absurd it's such a you know
like a lie it's it's unbelievable here
it is when we got to Congress everybody
was saying we could never balance the
budget and balance the budget for the
first
I'm in a generation we balance at four
years in a row for the first time in a
century we passed welfare reform we cut
taxes we actually reformed Medicare
extended its life by seven years by
making some difficult choices that's
what I always thought conservatives did
that's what I always thought the
Republican Party stood for and yet
you're running against a Republican
president who's given us the biggest
deficits ever it certainly in an
expansive economy the biggest federal
debt ever the biggest spending budget
ever a a budget that even Rand Paul said
a couple of months ago was the biggest
boondoggle
in the history of the Republic and he's
get because he's a protectionist because
he doesn't believe in free markets free
trade he's got this 16 billion dollar
socialist scheme to pay off the biggest
agricultural interest industrial
interests in America like how do you run
against a guy like that when 75 80
percent of Republicans support that the
party has changed markets well I would
say this that's the central premise of
the campaign the thousands of
conversations that I had over 25 years
both there's two terms in the
governorship and twelve years in the
House of Representatives the thousands
of conversations I had with folks
whether it's a small business level
where they were trying to make it or
whether you talk to folks around the
kitchen counter and they're talking
about the struggle they had with
finances I believe that those people
have not disappeared I think that they
haven't been talked to they haven't been
appealed to but I don't think they've
disappeared now if I'm wrong on that my
campaign will be short-lived but if I'm
right I think that this campaign will
have legs short-lived
excuse me not only will be short-lived
the delusion involved in this
conversation is stunning and and it's if
I give them if I give them credit
for being deluded it is I am literally
giving them credit I'm giving them
credit for not completely disingenuous
are they lying to everyone who was an
earshot of what they were saying there
may be thousands of people that Mark
Sanford has you know seen on the
Appalachian Trail as it were and has
talked to him about the deficit but when
you talk about conservatives and the
deficit and debt and I don't have the
issues with deficits and debts that they
do but I don't pretend that I do Ronald
Reagan increase the debt by a hundred
and eighty six percent it was the third
largest increase the other two I should
say this biggest in terms of percentage
way wise was during the Great Depression
because obviously revenues died and
during Woodrow Wilson's presidency
having to pay for World War one so right
in peacetime to the extent that we can
say that or non depression eras Ronald
Reagan coming in a fourth George W Bush
then Barack Obama who came in under a
massive recession again where revenues
were completely cut conservatives don't
care anymore about the deficit or debt
maybe less than others until it becomes
a means in which to prevent the
government from inhibiting in any way
their malfeasance or for providing for
people who don't vote for them and I
will remind you the people who vote for
the Republican Party nine out of ten
times you could put them behind a
curtain I can guess what race they are
nine out of ten in a different direction
with that one what's that
nothing curtain well
it's just unbelievable what a sack of
horse manure
is involved in all of that that they're
pretending they're also like the phrase
I've had a thousand conversations on the
deficit I don't know what that supports
other than you've wasted a lot of time
right indeed they do that people are
sitting around their kitchen tables
talking about the deficit as the means
to help them out of their economic
anxiety is just insane
