[Music]
one of the things that came out of the
debate that I think was a big deal for
people on the left was to see Elizabeth
Warren raise her hand when it's would
you be comfortable signing on to a
medicare-for-all and abolishing private
insurance now it has been my position
that the idea of abolishing private
insurance like I think that question is
even loaded the idea is you want a
program that everybody has to sign up
for because and participate in because
you want to have the biggest risk pool
possible so everybody pays their
premiums you can call them premiums the
premiums are gonna be less than most
people pay for private insurance we're
gonna call them taxes and the benefit of
this program is that not only your
premiums gonna be lower or taxes special
special medicare for all taxes but at
the point of service it's not gonna cost
you anything and you're not gonna deal
with out of network in network
everybody's gonna be in network but I
love spending time on my insurance
company's website I have like I can't
even tell you what are you Ezra Klein
what it's like what it's like wait till
as your client has two kids and he's got
to deal with all the crap that comes
with like I like all the different
things no it's even more interesting now
I have kids too right yes it's honestly
it's honestly like a legit part-time job
do you I think that is such the sales
job of of making it that like government
bureaucracy is somehow an evil but it's
fun to deal with corporate bureaucracy
is one of the greatest scam I've ever
been put in my dream or and I think you
could say the same thing about fraud and
everything else and corruption and
overpaying and all that but because
that's that's just institutions but so
Elizabeth Warren
raised her hand so didn't Kamala Harris
but apparently when calmly Harris did it
here's the here's that moment I want you
to listen to Lester Holt carefully cuz ,
Harris has walked back her holding her
hand up and it's I think for maybe I
don't know you decide listen to Lester
Holt carefully to the words he uses and
he's directing it to the candidates you
know we're gonna do it again now many
people watching at home have health
insurance of their employer who here
would abolish their private health
insurance in favor of a government-run
plan now posit who here would abolish
their private insurance in favor of a
government plan I'm asking you guys who
here would abolish their private
insurance in favor of a government
health care plan my hand is raised
everybody raised their hand of course
but what if the there which we all
assumed at that moment applied to the
premise of his question I don't know
it's confusing and certainly apparently
Kamala Harris was confused
senator another defining moment in the
debate was when every candidate was
asked to raise their hand if they would
abolish private insurance in that moment
you raised your hand but afterwards her
campaign says actually that's not your
position so what is your position on
private insurance so the question was
would you be willing to give up your
private insurance that's not how it was
such a plan and that's what you heard
right okay yeah that's certainly what I
heard and in terms of the items it's
supportive of Medicare for all and under
Medicare for all policy private
insurance would certainly exist and for
supplemental coverage but under Medicare
for all and my vision of it we would
actually extend benefits so for example
vision care dental care hearing aids
which currently are not
and anyone you know who's a senior can
tell you they're extremely expensive and
people have to come out of pocket to pay
for them included in my perspective on
the issue of private insurance is this
and I told the story last night look any
night in America there is some parent
who's got a child who has a fever that's
out of control and going to the
emergency room to get help in the middle
of the night and then looking at those
sliding glass doors as they're in their
car in the parking lot concerned that if
they walk through those sliding glass
doors they're gonna be out-of-pocket
$5,000 because of the deductible they've
got insurance out of pocket five
thousand dollars we're gonna have to
leave it there so you know 91 percent
and I'll just add 91 percent of the
doctors in America today are getting
Medicare alright so there you have it
and I personally the way that she
articulated her plan I think is is good
I think the idea of abolishing of
private insurance is it's just it's not
helpful and necessary the idea is that
everybody has to belong and and I'm
quite convinced that the reason why the
question is asked in that manner is
basically a red herring I I think that
that's true I just think the bigger
thing they have to ask what somebody
like Kamala Harris is honestly whether
or not she will be actually committed to
following through on this should she be
in the position I think that's the
bigger question just in the same way
that she would mean she just said what
she's supported if you say like are you
serious about it though not talking
about that I'm talking about looking up
her record her you know previous policy
positions campaign donors the obvious
you trust it right that's just a weird
way to phrase that question right to say
who would abolish their health insurance
like you don't abolish something that
belongs only to you right like wow I
really abolished that egg and cheese
sandwich earlier like it's a word you
use for stuff on a policy level so even
before you get to the red herring of
abolishing private health insurance in
general which is another I agree with
you it's a bad way to frame it and
they're doing it on purpose like the
word they're there makes it really weird
I mean the simple point
you know it's not about making private
insurance abolish it's about making it
irrelevant
great do you support creating a single
pool of national insurance for every
single person in the United States so
but there it is I mean I whether she's
genuinely committed to that idea of
single-payer health insurance is another
question but at least her the idea of
abolishing insurance is just I don't
know I didn't even say that either would
you just make insurance illegal they
didn't like a ball of doesn't make
any sense
nobody would a ball you would never say
like I'm gonna abolish private insurance
except for supplemental you know
abolishing anything you're just
basically saying we're gonna limit it
you don't abolish like footpaths because
you're building interstates
it's just weird but that's the way that
they wanted to frame it the frankly if
everybody pays into the system and
doctors must respect the system if they
want to work within certain parameters
Harris said right there ninety one
percent take Medicare it's a smaller
number that take Medicaid and really
this Medicare for all program is really
closer to a Medicaid for all but
expanded but I will tell you this I know
people in Medicaid and if they have
access to doctors which is big if but it
tends to be in bigger cities you do they
love it they love it the question is do
you get access to doctors and that is
something that we can do by regulation
another question that people have and
they have been asking this quite a bit
and intuitively I think I've known this
but I've done some research on it what's
gonna happen to all these jobs there's a
half a million people who work in the
insurance industry the private insurance
industry as adjusters as all of it the
vast majority of them will find a job in
the expanded Medicare your
ah cracy it's not like these people who
are doing these jobs to implement
private insurance are making off like
bandits that's not where the skimming is
happening the skimming is happening with
the billions of dollars of profits that
go into the hands of CEOs board of
directors and other shareholders that's
the part that's gonna get lopped off
there will be a fairly sizable group of
people maybe big enough to fit into like
a Marriott conference hall who are
executives of medical insurance
companies who will be out of work but as
you know they make the big bucks for a
reason so I'm sure they will find new
work well they can always you know build
some infrastructure as part of our
Federal jobs guarantee there you go they
can be part of the next industries we
have to uh but quazy about the vast
majority of people who work in the
insurance industry because as it works
now private insurance companies are
contracted by the government not just
for Medicare Advantage to implement
Medicaid and so you could easily do that
it's just they would not be companies
that set the parameters they would be
like almost like permanent temp
companies but with actually with
benefits and whatnot they are just
coming in and they're they're executing
the program but the program itself would
be government-run the funding for it
would be government-run so the the
massive job losses that would happen
there are just really another red
herring let's go to
