[Music]
of redistricting bring this up a state
Superior Court in in North Carolina a
week ago invalidated the state lines
there I think in part because they
realized that the more information was
coming out from this godfather of the
the gerrymandering this guy Hofstetter
who had all the documents on his hard
drives that his his daughter had
basically revealed and it was quite
clear that these districts were not only
extremely partisan gerrymandered but
they were done so based on race and so
these were gonna be struck down the
Republicans have not fought it instead
what they've done and I don't think this
looks as this is as nefarious as it
looks they apparently ran a hundred or a
thousand different potential plans
through a computer they got the top five
Democrats do have an issue with some of
the algorithms that there was used to
determine this but here in the North
Carolina Senate is how they picked which
of the five they were gonna do they
brought in their lottery machine go
ahead run this
so this is they have five plans five
falls and this is how they're you want
to know how they're gonna there it is
and that's how they're going to pick
their Maps at least in the Senate but
here is Dan bishop and he is this is
what I was saying about you have
polarization you have hyper partisanship
you can either participate in it or Lose
I think that's the only two choices when
they do it it has to be met because
anybody who is not attracted to this is
attracted to voting against Donald Trump
and so you've got to sell that hard and
I don't think Macready quite did but
here is Bishop we've all watched as the
Democratic Party
[Applause]
the socialist Democrat Party had to get
in the Democrats seats the president's
destruction every day we've seen a
dishonest media
[Applause]
he's laughing he shouldn't believe
they're allies in that mission we've
watched as the greatest fighter ever to
occupy the White House has touched the
ball
I mean I mean the bottom line is if
you're a Trump fan if you're in any way
offended by you know the the attack on
Donald Trump you're gonna vote for that
guy so you've got to go after your
people by saying we're gonna go after
Trump and I don't know that that
happened as much as it should have you
know what I would love to see is
Democrats pay for a mailer that goes to
Republicans with a quote of Nancy Pelosi
saying we are not a socialist party it's
not gonna but that's how it is and
that's just the way it is but that is
but that is their theory is that somehow
that's going to move Republican voters
and it's not right they're just gonna go
like well I'm still gonna go and vote
like it's it's a complete miss Reid of
it really gets down to the difference
between being a persuasion election
versus a mobilization election although
I do think that there is something
clicking with an older you know older
voters I don't know if I necessarily
totally agree on this because I have
family in Arizona and they're they hate
Trump they hate Trump and they they
identify as like you know independent
Republicans like McCain there's a lot of
that in Arizona right and my one of my
family members called me up recently and
and she's a Democrat and she's in family
Republicans and she says I just don't
know what to think about aoc I'm
listening to all my friends and they
think that she is bringing communism to
America and I go do you know what
communism is and then and and I do think
that there's an era of voters that do
turnout in these primaries and do
turnout in special elections that are
the Fox News viewers that are not our
Democratic base that are not you know in
Brooklyn and the Bronx and want
impeachment right away and and they
really are scared of socialism I mean
it's I hear I'm NPR with hosts on NPR
bring this up no I mean I agree III I
agree with that that concept that
they're afraid and and I and I do think
that that is you know it's a tough hill
to climb like I'm not sure I would have
chosen to sort of like make that dds a
speech that
Burnie did at the beginning yes a member
and I don't know if I agree with that
either
yeah I mean I I don't know if that would
have been my agenda I think it you know
like to educate the populace on this at
that point is it's a hard road I'm much
more interested in the policies I don't
care what you call it
and and I think they're the right has a
machine and is much better like you just
look at the polling more Republicans
know who a OC is than Democrats they
have been very successful in the fire
that's why you know you're you have
relatives in Arizona who are like she's
a communist because I saw it on Fox News
and I hear it on every and particularly
as you get into the center of the
country that's dominated by conservative
media and what's the class position of
these relatives and Arizona would you
say yeah mixed but I would say that you
know probably Arizona so middle-class
Arizona okay cuz they're working
middle-class yeah cuz there are some
people who are scared of the word
because they grew up in the Cold War era
and then there are some people who are
scared of the word and policies because
it will involve paying more in taxes I
don't think they're that sophisticated
in their analysis I mean it was
basically it was and I'm also looking at
their Facebook whilst you I don't block
your family members who are Republicans
because to me it is fascinating to see
the fights on on their walls and where
their their lines are because there are
some Republicans that are anti Trump or
critical don't like the way it don't
like a style but will still vote for him
I want to know exactly what that
spectrum is cuz those are the people I
think that we can move just as if you
know they're moving are those the people
like I mean
but can we though I mean because when
you because there's a cost associated
with trying to move them yes my uncle is
a Republican who hates Trump and is
gonna vote for a Democrat doesn't matter
who it is he told me goes get your party
together like he you know sophisticated
DNC analysis that he is he's like get
your party together because there's too
many candidates and you're all gonna eat
each other alive and Trump is taking
advantage of that right all right so
that guy's off the I mean he's off the
board he's gonna vote for the Democrat
but I'm saying like the and he's gonna
do it because he
hates trunk right so he's a Trump hater
I'm put aside like you know with the the
the idea is like you don't have to
persuade that guy anything you do like
anything that you do to attempt to
persuade that guy is gonna cut against
the other end of your party and I just
don't think that those people are
persuadable as much as like there are
some there and there are some not and
the return on investment in using
persuasion is less it seems to me than
the return on investment in getting
people who are already basically agree
with you but but don't necessarily feel
moved and that is a very broad you know
that's a very broad category you know
what it takes to move people for some I
think it's just sort of like visceral
stuff for others it might be more policy
oriented for some I think it's just sort
of like we're gonna impeach the guy
we're gonna put them in Chains like you
could go out there and we're just gonna
put them in Chains afterwards and that
might motivate people I mean I think but
whatever moves them on some type of
visceral level it's really less about
persuading them of what side of the
divide they're on and more persuading
them of the stakes that are involved in
that vote
