Helen of tyranny Trump walked back troop
withdrawal from Iraq on Sundays Face the
Nation should make everybody where he is
citing Iran as a reason and saying all I
want to do is be able to watch this is
how it starts just ask Jared about how
much he regrets not being more prudent
when Trump first of all that all he
wanted to do was why that's a really
good point and I'll be covering that a
lot more on mRNA yes clip where do we
get really took it in a better direction
the clip from we had that yesterday
right the the Iraq one of the guys you
know of Trump on Sunday this is Donald
Trump arguing that he is completely for
withdrawal except for when it actually
happens in Iraq it was a big mistake to
go one of the greatest mistakes going
into the Middle East that our country
has ever made one of the greatest
mistakes that we've ever made but you
want to once a chosen well we spent a
fortune on building this incredible base
we might as well keep it and one of the
reasons I want to came in is because I
want to be looking a little bit at I ran
because Iran is a real problem
whoa that's news you're keeping troops
in Iraq because you want to be able to
strike in Iran no because I want to be
able to watch Iran all I want to do is
be able to watch we have an unbelievable
an expensive military base built in Iraq
it's perfectly situated for looking at
all over different parts of the troubled
Middle East rather than pulling up and
this is what a lot of people don't
understand we're going to keep watching
and we're going to keep seeing and if
there's trouble if somebody's looking to
do nuclear weapons or other things we're
going to know it before they do so
you're gonna trust the intelligence that
you receive I am going to trust the
intelligence that I'm putting there but
I will say this
my intelligence people that Iran is a
wonderful kindergarten I disagree with
them a hundred percent it is a vicious
country that kills many people when you
talk about torture and so many other
things was it so get the straight one if
anybody was curious we have a huge
surveillance system out of our base in
Iraq so just just in case you were
wondering what is the focal point of our
surveillance of Iran it is that base now
maybe they already do this maybe they
don't but also cut it to right we can't
me just clear that up at all the
interviews I mean he clearly just got
briefed on the surveillance capacity
that is coming out that is unique to our
embassy in Iraq right like he just got
briefed on that and he just basically
told the world hey be he's also just
said despite the fact that we have
intelligence there I'm not going to
listen to them unless they tell me what
I believe is true exactly
and see he thinks that kindergardens are
super benign and maybe they'll come back
the country is getting absolutely when I
ended the horrible Iran nuclear deal it
was a horrible deal done by President
Obama and John Kerry that didn't know
what the hell he was doing when I ended
that deal Margaret all of a sudden Iran
became a different country they became
very rapidly right now they're a country
that's a big financial trouble let's see
what happens I want to move on here but
I should say your Intel Chiefs do say
Iran's abiding by that nuclear deal I
know you think it's a disagreement by
the way you just tell people that
doesn't mean I have to agree yeah so I
just think like you know whatever it's
Trump and it doesn't matter and frankly
this is an area where there would be no
difference Marco Rubio would have done
exactly the same thing in terms of
ruining this and getting this close to
the war come and this is the you know
establishment position of the Republic
party and of the Israeli and Saudi and
Gulf lobbies that sort of push against
it but I mean there is a very logical
case just in terms of narrow
self-interest as to why Iran would want
to have a weapons capacity just purely
based on the fact that they're
surrounded by a ring of US troop
presence in Afghanistan and Iraq the
fact that Israel has that capacity and
threatens Iran and the amount of work
that they actually did effectively not
just Obama and Kerry but actually Wendy
Sherman who was like the point person on
that to assure them that there's another
way to do this was actually like it's
the most successful piece of modern
diplomacy that any of us have ever seen
and lived through I don't write exactly
I don't believe they from my own
measured experience in foreign policy
negotiations no but on the other hand I
host Qaddafi an event once I get news
for so think about it they're not
kidding to garden they're not
kindergarteners and also you know it
like I actually think it's really
healthy for the world system but the
fact that the eurozone has actually
created like an alternative backup
finance mechanism so that they can keep
the agreement going with Iran if you're
like in it some you know a nationalist
American prestige mode very bad oh
you're American right the way that
overlaps with the way the Europeans have
been getting involved with the belt and
road initiative the way the fact that
the Chinese and the Indians are already
totally under Russian Tzar a hundred and
on board with this Iran's making inroads
in Africa like this is even by that
really narrow like of course I supported
to peace and blah blah blah but it's a
disaster for US influence this is the
this is the nightmare for all those
people want the us hegemony right what
is like we're the only system of finance
in the in the world
