let's talk about what's going on in the
White House because Mike Pence was awful
quiet during that meeting this guy
doesn't want to stick out or you know
remind people that he's there but he
wants the President to feel like he's in
his corner
but that according to what you've
written it doesn't look like that's
working well it doesn't it's interesting
I mean everybody was making fun of pence
we've never seen him be quite as much of
a sort of a you know a frozen wax figure
from method two sews as he was during
that meeting he sat there next to the
president literally didn't move a muscle
barely sort of moving his eyes back and
forth that most never changed expression
it really was as if he was paralyzed or
say off in some other place and I
thought that was particularly
interesting because I had read this this
you know little piece maybe a week or so
ago from Gabriel Sherman in Vanity Fair
who had said that recently Trump had a
meeting with his various political
advisors from the party around the hill
and in the White House who came in and
offered up all the polling and
everything that showed what getting
ready for 2020 and one of the things
that the polling showed was that Mike
Pence brings nothing to the ticket and
the reason for that is is because it's
turned out that at the time pence was
chosen it was assumed that he did Trump
needed shoring up with evangelicals
because of his libertine ways right that
they were not going to reject somebody
that they somebody with his past and all
the womanizing and the various you know
sort of screwed you know I'd rather you
know non-religious behaviors over the
years and and so you know Pence was
brought on to shore up that side of the
party as it turned out though that is
Trump's base is the evangelicals and
this was borne out by this by a recent
poll that was done well actually what it
was was some unreleased data from me
from the exit polls in 2018 midterms and
the fact is is that Trump has lost vast
numbers of white working-class non
evangelical women and quite a few white
working-class non
angelical men what that translates to is
that his base isn't white working-class
it is white working-class evangelicals
period and by the way a number of white
college-educated evangelicals that's
Trump's cult is that group of people
this faith-based group that apparently
just loves him no matter what whereas
others within this group that I think
everyone assumed was sort of Trump's
pace the white working-class
particularly women who get ignored in
that white working-class formulation I
mean they work in you know they're
waitresses they work in factories they
but they also work in retail space right
I mean they work at the mall they've got
all those kind of jobs and they're under
tremendous stress you know in this in
this allegedly great economy so you know
without the evangelical overlay
apparently people you know they're being
told that Donald Trump is their Savior
those people are falling away from him
so that was very interesting and that
tracks with this report that Gabriel
Sherman had that they looked at these
numbers and saw that basically that the
evangelical base is there for Trump they
love and it doesn't matter what he does
or says they're with him but they have
this problem with women extends beyond
the suburban Republican you know a
problem that they had in the last
election and which appears to be
something you know very serious problem
for Republicans in general and so the
talk is that they're going to replace
pence on the ticket with nikki Haley now
to me that makes perfect sense I could a
smart you know they would think of doing
that who wouldn't right and under those
circumstances you look at those numbers
well you have to assume that pence heard
this you know that White House leaks to
the press is certainly the gossip gets
around so it made me wonder if maybe
this issue where you know Trump thought
that he had Nick Ayers in the bag
Pence's chief of staff and fair-haired
boy and you know Ayers was Pence's guy
right that he was going to become
Trump's chief of staff and Trump trying
to distract from all the bad news that
he had last week just sort of a bro
we announced Kelly's departure
prematurely they hadn't actually you
know had the whole thing and that maybe
Aires reluctance to take that job has
something to do with all this stuff
that's going on with pens interesting
that is fascinating all right well look
let's take a break I want to talk a
little bit more about that and then
we've got to start to turn our attention
to what we've learned in the past week
about Trump's criminality and and also
the criminality of those around him and
how many years in jail some of them are
gonna spend i'm sam cedar this is ring
of fire radio be right back
