[Music]
welcome back to the program the now
executive editor of the American
Prospect and I can't encourage everyone
everyone and anyone more to go over
there and get a subscription to The
American Prospect I am so excited to see
what's going to happen going forward
with this you know and I the prospect
I've read you know for years and and
David day and welcome to the program I
was just you know talking about you that
I'm gonna let you do that
well I mean I'll let you keep doing that
I've been reading the prospect for years
and it was you know sometimes great
sometimes not not so interesting to me
there's a bunch of interesting pieces
over the years obviously and we've had
guests on from there but I am so excited
to have you this have this be your new
job not only have you you way overdue
for a job like this but frankly I'm very
excited to see where this goes
I mean I I interviewed bill Lausanne ik
on a piece that he wrote the other day
about the you know we've been talking to
billa's on ik for years on this program
about what's happened with CEOs and
their executive pay and the way that
they get paid and the shareholder
buybacks and he tied it into the 737
stuff and it's fascinating and own down
the American Prospect yeah that was a
good piece you know we're excited about
the way forward prospect obviously has
been around for 30 years has a really
rich legacy there you could probably
name any major media site in journalism
and someone if not multiple people from
the prospect and their past have have
worked there whether you're talking
about Ezra Klein or mad at Glacia
surgeon Mel Bowie
your atom sir where my compass or a or
whoever and we're looking to continue
that legacy and move it forward and you
know we're looking at hiring new writers
we're looking at this can be a redesign
of the website there's going to be you
know I think an increased focus on the
kinds of things that I write about
regularly which are really power
dynamics whether you're talking about
politics or you're talking about
business talking about the economy and
you know I'm I'm really excited to build
something that I think will will make a
contribution great well let's talk about
a couple of pieces that you that you
actually wrote about in the prospect
this past week and both of which you
know we talked about on the program
early this week to a certain extent not
as in depth as you covered here and I
want to also touch on on Biden's
reversal and what you make of that as
well but you were out at the California
Democratic convention and yes and
basically wrote about how almost
everyone there on some level or another
was distinguishing themselves from Joe
Biden who seems to like feel like the
strategy to win the nomination and maybe
the presidency is to run like it's 1995
I'd say more like 1900 you know William
McKinley did his famous front porch
campaign where he never left his front
porch and well wishers came to him and
that that was the sum total of his
campaigning this and you know obviously
in 1900 might have been a little harder
to traverse the country but Biden
apparently
doesn't know the existence of planes or
large halls where you could speak
one-on-one to candidates there there is
very little campaigning going on in the
first couple months and it seems like
Biden wants to what get out of his own
way and and not not screw it up and and
really if you look at this week that's
probably a good bet right I mean he
comes out for the Hyde Amendment and and
then has to backtrack and and so you
know staying out of the public eye is
probably a good idea for for Joe Biden
given his history with presidential
campaign well isn't this gonna be a
problem for him I mean this is what I've
been and I want to get your sense of
this and I am and because maybe I'm
completely off-base but this is gonna
catch up with him like I mean to a
certain extent there was a little bit of
this that Clinton tried to do early on
in her campaign I think the the DNC
scheduling all the debates in 2016 on
the weekends was also a function of this
on some level right I mean and that they
wanted to sort of basically you know run
like an incumbents race on some level
but Joe Biden I mean I and and by the
way that that's it's not like it's
breaking new ground or anything this is
what most frontrunners do they try to
limit their exposure because if you're
winning the only thing that they can
happen is is to the downside so you know
why why wouldn't you uh to in certain
extent but I I don't think it's
sustainable I mean you know Biden's not
going to skip these debates right and
and that's going to be sort of the most
high-profile thing we're going to see
those and in just a matter of weeks here
and that you know there are going to be
plenty of moments that that can change
this dynamic and it's it's certainly not
sustainable for him to just sort of you
know stay out of the public eye for the
rest of this campaign on the you know
20/20 did the California Convention
it seems to me marked the in some ways
the beginning of
the the ray I don't want to say the race
as much as but like the idea that like
okay we're running against Joe Biden
here yeah I think it's absolutely
correct I mean except for a couple like
you know Hickenlooper and Delaney trying
to run again socialism or whatever but
for the most part this was the kickoff I
feel like of the campaign now there's
another one this week there's a cattle
call in Iowa but there were fourteen
candidates over in San Francisco and the
ones with a real shot to win did it set
up this this arguments particularly
around not just Biden but I've been
calling it Biden ISM you know this and
and it's not limited to him but this
sort of establishment idea that what we
need is a restoration prep presidency we
need a return to normalcy as Warren
Harding ran on in nineteen twenty we we
just need to get Trump out of there and
and everything will be all right and we
all can go back to brunch and and what
the argument that and and not limited to
just sort of the candidates on the
progressive side but versions of this
were said by Booker and footage in
addition to Warren Sanders that that's
not going to be enough that the the
history of the recent history within our
country uh an economy that doesn't lift
it up that's a you know a climate crisis
uh and and all of these various things
that are pushing up inequality and and
giving the middle class less
opportunities to make it are those
things were existed before Donald Trump
and they're going to exist after them
and we need to structurally make some
changes in order to remedy that because
it's it's the clear challenge facing the
country and a ghost slow you know try to
make compromise you know don't don't
fight too hard kind of approach is is
not what we need at this time I mean
Warren had that great line when she said
if someone a politician is telling you
that you you know don't make waves uh
you can't do everything at once it goes
slow what they're really telling you is
they're they're not going to fight for
you right when you're when the chips are
down and and and and that's really the
argument that that's the argument that
was set up and that's the argument I
think you're going to see on display in
a few weeks in these presidential
debates do you think we're gonna see
more I mean I've been sort of surprised
and I haven't seen any reactions to
Biden's flip here and you know I think
look I I don't think it's any secret
that Biden is my least favorite
candidate in this race although I you
know maybe maybe John Delaney and
there's a couple others there but I mean
I mean does he rise to the level of
being a favorite or not John Delaney or
John Hickenlooper I mean right it was so
funny to see you know nobody was paying
attention to those speeches when they
were being made until the word socialism
came up it was almost like a wake word
like like an Alexa socialism was said
and then people you know turn their
heads up the the the only thing worse
than getting booed is not being paid
attention to at all and that's what was
happening prior to that and I suspect
that's what will continue to happen
after you know Delaney and Hickel if
there's 15 minutes of being booed do you
think that's why they did it do you
think that's yeah I mean I I think I
think it's absolutely why Hickenlooper
did it he he ran ads about it afterwards
he he went on a little tour of the media
afterwards at Dulaney might just be cool
I don't really know but Hickenlooper was
a considered strategy and and one that
we've seen in California in 1990 Dianne
Feinstein was running for governor
actually and she was in a primary and
she came out in favor of the death
penalty very strongly at a California
Democratic Party convention was lustily
booed and then she used that footage in
an ad uh during the campaign she
actually ended up losing should not
become California Governor and later on
she became senator but this this is a
strategy I mean you know he can called
sister soldier or whatever of course
Clinton did that after the nomination
was locked up now he was trying to get
Democratic votes so I I don't think it's
a successful strategy alright so getting
but here's my question about about Biden
are we gonna see some of these
candidates or is it too early for this
to start to hit Biden like on this there
seems to me to be two things right that
Biden is vulnerable to one is the idea
that he inevitably can win and the other
is that he he needs to be on some level
cleaved
from from his association with Barack
Obama and that's difficult for some of
the candidates who are were critical
about some of Obama's thing and I bomb
as policies and I imagine that they
don't want to you know be too you know
the the way that they would cleave these
guys is is you know is tricky but Joe
Biden came out you know weeks ago and
said I I'm going to be able to after
Donald Trump is gone I'm going to be
able to I'm gonna be able to deal with
the Republicans and isn't sort of like
the implication there that Barack Obama
couldn't do it but I can I mean if I
wanted to cleave Joe Biden from Barack
Obama I would say I would pose the
question why does why does Joe Biden
think that he is able to do what Barack
Obama couldn't do and that's one way to
do it I think the other way to do it is
just to say open your eyes Joe
I mean look look at what the blockade
that we've seen and and going back even
before Obama right going to the Clinton
administration or you know since the
Reagan Revolution what in in that
history is something that you think you
can find common ground on I mean that
this is this is insane
and that that's you know ultimately
going to be a dynamic that is not going
to get the the American public to a
place where they need to be I I think
that's probably a better way of putting
it to a Democratic audience I mean I
think I think we get a little caught up
too much in you know Obama's role in all
of this you know clearly that you know
Biden is running on that affinity I mean
he's running on that affiliation with
with Obama
I mean it's notable that Obama aides
aren't really running with him there
there are plenty of not just fundraising
support but but actual formula aides who
are looking at other candidates but what
I would say is that that you can just
sort of look at the reality of where the
Republican Party has gone over the last
40 years and and just look incredulous
Liat anyone thinking that there's
there's some some place of common ground
that you can find what do we know about
how they're going to be picking the
who's on which stage during these
debates because that seems to me to be
us how pretty lottery as far as I know
it's a luck of the draw situation and
that's that's pretty important I mean at
least for this first one now you know
later debates are going to have less
members in it the DNC has come out and
said that they're raising the bar for
whether you can participate in these
debates in the future and so eventually
there will be a debate with the top
candidates taking the stage Biden and
Warren and Harris and Sanders and and
footages this one is all luck of the
draw so you know Biden could get in
there with a bunch of people pulling a
2% or less
I mean it's entirely possible there is
no I mean maybe the DNC will put their
thumb on the scale in some way I don't
know I don't know if this is a public
process of drawing lots or anything but
it's certainly unpredictable and if you
don't have Biden and Warren in the same
debates then there's going to be a
different dynamic if you don't have
Biden and Sanders in the same debate I
think we should be starting a call right
now to have that be a public process you
know something like you know the way
they do the lottery numbers on the you
know channel 5 or whatever it is every
year they pull it out of a like the NBA
Draft Lottery yeah that's that's done in
a back room and the next end of a
Patrick Ewing why wouldn't you do that
if you were the DNC that would that
would that would be a brilliant I think
social media strategy unless of course
you really wanted to make sure that Joe
Biden didn't end up on the stage but
anybody who's going to challenge him in
a in a sort of a material form of peer
rating standpoint you'd think that they
would want to do the opposite that they
would want to get all their there their
big names in the same debate but they've
been pretty adamant that they didn't
want to do a kiddy table kind of debate
like the Republicans did in 2016 I think
that's fair enough I mean I think that's
fair enough at least at the beginning as
you say but I mean mix you know mix it
up a little bit but let's talk a little
bit also about this question of jay
Inslee he wrote a piece about jay Inslee
and he is has basically branded his
campaign as one that is
focused like a laser beam on climate
change he has certainly you know pushed
the limit as it were I don't know the
limit but within the limits of I guess
American politics in terms of Washington
state with climate tell us a little bit
about that and then we'll go into the
sort of the dynamics in the campaign
regarding that yeah yeah so I mean we've
seen this before a little bit of people
running sort of single issue
presidential campaigns designed to
elevate a particular issue that they
find existential and we haven't seen it
on climate in in a Democratic primary
before Inslee is really the first one to
try this and and you know there's been
some sort of fortuitous circumstances
around that most notably this
disattention page of the green new deal
and the the work of the sunrise movement
and people like that that has given sort
of a path for for Inslee to make this
stand and and you know usually the
single issue kind of candidates aren't
necessarily running to be President
although I think in Inslee has certain
qualifications in that regard they're
running to make sure that issue is a
priority that its front and center
within the context of the party that
they're trying to influence and I think
Inslee is doing a pretty good job of
that he's setting sort of a gold
standard in terms of his policies he has
successfully I believe connected a
climate to all of these other challenges
that we face whether it's the declining
share of the labor movement because
there's a labor component to his climate
change policy the the state of the
economy of GREENman
factoring of you know economic growth
and returning the the country to a
dominant position in certain certain
industries he's connected it to
immigration with this concept of climate
migrants and how you know our foreign
policy might be better served by helping
these countries be sustainable and
successful on their own right rather
than getting millions of their people at
our border like we're seeing
particularly in Guatemala where harvests
are dying rapidly and climate migrants
are coming to the United States because
they have simply no other option so you
see it in immigration context and also
in a sort of international relations
context he's talked about trade deals
meeting environmental components at the
forefront he's talked about
international cooperation on the climate
crisis so you know the ability to sort
of connect to that this this fundamental
challenge to these other issues I think
is is very important because it really
centers climate at the core and you know
I think he's been pretty successful in
getting other other candidates within
this primary race to move in his
direction much like we're seeing in a
dynamic with with Elizabeth Warren sort
of more generally where she's put out
these plans and now everybody is
scrambling to put out their own plans in
a in a climate context that is the
dynamic that Inslee is facilitating and
I think that's that's a really good role
above and beyond the fact that he does
have a pretty decent record on a number
of issues so what he wanted this debate
the DNC said no it seems to me like
there's a potential here and I don't
know I haven't I mean I have not been
paying attention to that sort of
discourse around there but
it seems to me like we're - you know
marginally - candidates who are in the
middle of the pack could just basically
say we're gonna do this and the DNC
would then be in a position of basically
bumping those people from future debates
because they want to go on and talk
about climate change that seems like a
fairly I think this is an organizing
opportunity and I think I think Inslee
and his campaign sees it that way and
they're not going to stop the two
candidates that sort of jumped aboard in
reiterating that there should be a
climate debate were Elizabeth Warren and
better--or work so two of the candidates
in in the upper tiers I I would put one
the top tier and better just below that
at this point but you know if there's a
coalition that can be built a larger one
of ten candidates twelve candidates that
say we're just going to go ahead and do
this that puts a lot of pressure on the
DNC that that would make it very
difficult for the DNC to sort of
continue this stance that because their
position is that if you do an outside
debate we're going to disqualify you
from any DMC debates we're not going to
invite you anymore and I should say that
that's a new rule that there isn't some
sort of iron law that the DNC gets to
manage what candidates can say in in
large formats televised formats and in
debates we saw plenty of debates in 2008
that were not sanctioned by the DNC I
remember going to one at yearly coast
which is now right Netroots nation 2007
this was something that Debbie
wasserman-schultz
implemented in 2016 right uh this idea
that you can't do outside debates and
it's a bit silly I mean it's it's really
a micromanagement kind of situation
where you're trying to manage the the
the access and of these candidates in
ways that I don't really understand so
you know I think there's I think it's
right for challenge I think if you get
an
enough you know a tipping point of
candidates to participate in the debate
of that kind particularly to get the
front-runner Joe Biden who put out a
climate policy this week that got some
generally good a little bit mixed
reviews and was certainly closer to an
Inslee type of although it wasn't at
that level it was closer to it than the
sort of middle ground that he was
looking for in in published reports with
with members of his staff so you know if
you can get a good number of people I
think you can sort of call the bluff of
the DNC on them I feel like if if if
Warren beto Sanders Inslee in Harris all
said we're going to do this I mean what
are they going to do not let those
people on the debate stage I mean that's
good just seems it seems crazy that that
would be the outcome and uh you know
that would that would sort of be the the
end of that so as I said I think it's an
organizing opportunity for for Inslee
and then an opportunity for him to
continue into this this area let's talk
a little bit I want to just change
topics a little bit because the other
thing this week that you know and and
part of that is our own myopia here on
some level but there was on Twitter as
an extension of YouTube a controversy
that was a function of Carlos maca is
that it is innate I keep maza is a Vox
youtuber and he does these explainers
I've seen one or tendrán think about
what you would have said it if someone
said to you ten years ago 15 years ago
he's a Vox youtuber right and that's a
job that you can have well that's the
weird thing about this I mean because
you know like on some level I'm quite
convinced that this is in some fashion
or another the the future I don't know
if it's going to be YouTube
it's gonna be Vaux but it's gonna be two
other words that we can't even imagine
what they mean from ten years from now
but it's gonna be some measure this or
or or not I mean because you know part
of it is that in 2004 there was no
YouTube kicked in I think you know later
that year or something and now it is a
dominant platform the steven crowder
would address these explainers and
always make a point about the fact that
maza was gay and mexican and you know
basically just gay bash Crowder has a
lot of other things that I find
ridiculous and stupid about him but this
is the I think the one that sort of
certainly runs contrary to YouTube's
Terms of Service and so maza complained
to YouTube and they basically said to
steven crowder we're no longer
monetizing your channel until you get
rid of all the gay bashing which to me
seems fairly appropriate I think there's
other problems with YouTube from a an
antitrust perspective and from the yeah
I mean I did let me just jump in i i
think steven crowder is now seeing the
problems with a narrow distribution
channel where there's only one way to
get your communication out the the
problem here seems to be that if there
was an environment where you had all
sorts of opportunities to distribute
video content uh then there would be a
the market would sort of figure out what
where people go and
and and this this D monetization sort of
I don't know threat hanging over the
heads of every single youtuber would be
neutralized but in this case that that's
not the the landscape that we have and
YouTube has this tremendous amount of
power at their own whim to decide
whether or not to cut off the livelihood
of individuals now you know I don't
agree with steven crowder I don't even
know Steven crafter until you told me we
were going to be talking about this an
hour so in terms what I do know is that
that should an organization like like
YouTube have the power to turn on or off
the potential livelihood of individuals
based on a amount of lobbying they get
from from the outside or based on their
own particular political or public
relations whim no and and that's the I
think the major problem here you know
I'm not clued in necessarily to this
debate but what I would say is that this
this is this is a problem of a
concentrated distribution network right
and and the it seems to me I mean
obviously YouTube is not in a position
to diversify you know and to break
themselves up so you've been looking
into this for a long time what like how
would that work right like like what
would be and I know there's there's
plans out there but I think people have
a hard time sort of like conceiving of
this because look there are you could
you could put your videos on Vimeo there
are other platforms for video content
there's other ways to monetize YouTube
stuff we had an ad Apocalypse
about a year year and a half ago and a
lot of youtubers basically said support
the show on patreon in some position and
it was perfectly effective for them a
you know but the idea here's what I
would say um so it this is this is
obviously part of a larger thing because
when we're talking about YouTube we're
talking about Google that Google bought
YouTube way back in 2006 or seven or
something and Google Eric Schmidt the
former executive chairman of Google has
said in the past that Google would make
an acquisition per week of other
applications other potential rivals
things like that so the easiest way to
sort of go about this is just reverse a
lot of that and and with Google maybe
you're talking about YouTube but you're
probably definitely talking about
double-click which is the ad serving
software that they this this is what is
enabled Google to not just be an ad
destination but an advertising supplier
and facilitator so it's it's it's you
know bring forth an ad exchange an
actual market to put advertisers and
users together while also competing with
them so so this is this is sort of a
bigger problem when you're talking about
Amazon maybe you're talking about
splitting Zappos which was an emerging
site into Amazon Botham or or splitting
it from Amazon Web Services which is
sort of the firmaments the this cloud
network that undergirds a giant portion
of the Internet
when you're talking about Facebook it's
the the direct competitors of them
they've bought Instagram and whatsapp so
just reversing those mergers number one
would decentralize the power to a
certain extent so what zouk so as far as
for YouTube just give me an example so
alright so we weed
but we separate YouTube from Google we
separate YouTube from Adsense and and
then what happens it becomes just well I
mean the fundamental point here is that
Google's ownership of YouTube has been a
driving force in moving users looking
for videos into YouTube right and and
and if you sever that relationship then
maybe if you're searching you're not
necessarily only getting Google a
resetting YouTube's responses to your
queries on Google so so that that's one
way in which this can manifest you know
the the other way is that it is the role
of the competition authorities to make
sure that we can provide some of that
and and maybe there's a role for public
facing network or you know fostering
some sort of competition within there
and then the third thing would be a
regulatory impact so I mean the the the
problem with Google and it's come up
this week is that their algorithm which
requires or prefers I should say a
certain amount of engagement has
inevitably sends people down these
rabbit holes of conspiracy and makes it
easy for pedophiles to find certain bits
of contents and and that algorithmic
problem is one that in my view could be
regulated so that Google can be or
YouTube can be a network that isn't
promoting hatred or promoting the
Early's moving people into that
direction but my general thought is that
the more competition there is you know
you fight speech with more speech and
everybody can sort of you
find their level and and in and we could
also from a regulatory standpoint
assuming that the industry that we're
regulating wasn't so massive and
powerful as to essentially own the
regulatory agencies we could also say
something to the effect of like hey if
you're gonna be in that that algorithms
can only be relied upon so much in the
context of this type of industry or that
type of Industry right I mean they're
you know part of the problem right that
we that that Google has with maintaining
the its own Terms of Service is that
they don't want to deploy the number of
people that is necessary to actually
look at this stuff and get it right so
you get rid of you D monetize steven
crowder but you're also d monetizing
somebody who does you know historical
analysis of speeches of Hitler as
opposed to like you know putting a
Hitler on there and praising him you
know and and how these things are
mediated makes a difference I mean
context right man I mean I I mean I
think with First Amendment being what it
is that that really you know going into
this and and and putting it on a YouTube
a private government to regulate its own
speech I think is problematic but what I
would say is that the the in my view the
the way to really deal with all this is
you ban targeted ads and what that would
do and I think there is is a clear path
to be able to do that and I don't think
it does actually call up First Amendment
problems is you just say that that you
can't track and surveil somebody around
the web and then serve them very
specific in particular quote-unquote
relevant advertising at every step of
the way and what that would do is that
YouTube wouldn't like not have an ad
business under that form it could it
still has a big audience it still could
do research on that audio
some know generally what that audience
is and then tell advertisers well we
have a lot of people who you know are in
this age range or grab this certain
interest but then everybody would get to
do that and so the The Wall Street
Journal which has a very high
concentration of you know decision
makers and businesses could go to their
advertisers and say this is this is what
our market is rather than now where
Google and and Facebook steal this
market share by putting by being able to
geo target those those individuals very
specifically giving no reason for you to
build up an audience of any kind of
specialness and and and be able to serve
that the ads within that community so if
you have that all right let me just see
if I can restate that to you so that to
make sure that I understand what you're
saying that there is an unfair advantage
that a Facebook and a Google has in the
advertising market that basically makes
it impossible for anybody you know
content creators for you know let's use
a rather vulgar term for people you know
doing journalism or whatever it is for
content creators to compete with these
outlets so that I can't go to an
advertiser and say hey I I you know I
have whatever I mean if I was to do a
survey and say okay I I have I have
people from 25 to 55 who you know make
anywhere from thirty five thousand to a
hundred thousand dollars a year and
they're interested in you know that's
that's the depth of the data that I can
get they're interested in rock climbing
yeah I mean yeah but YouTube or I should
say Google and Facebook can go like oh
we can not only tell you we can tell you
the zip code they live in we can tell
you the magazines they buy what their
search terms are and if you won a
universe of fifty thousand people who
like rock climbing we can give you those
fifty thousand people like you know like
rock climbing because we read their
email with a one
Oh yield as opposed to what Sam cedar
can do or the Washington Post can do or
anybody else
blimey magazine right so you know it has
ruined sort of the uniqueness of these
these particular universes these
demographic markets within uh you know
content creators prefer to use your word
and so if you eliminated that if you
just said look for privacy reasons we're
not going to let you surveil us anymore
then everybody's on a more level playing
field and this this whole you know D
monetization thing might become less of
an issue if you can build up an audience
and say hey I have an audience that that
is is pretty good for advertisers and
advertisers might want to come in
because the monetization is wrong ads
right I mean it's that's that's what it
is it's you have an audience such that
you can you can acquire ads on YouTube
well if you if you can sort of acquire
ads on your own through your own
separate service that isn't connected to
Google and you can make it survive
because Google isn't essentially
stealing the uniqueness of your market
right well then then you have a
different ecosystem you have a different
environment and and and one that I think
is better for individuals it's it's
fascinating dynamic and I in a
conversation I think it's one we're
gonna hear more of right I mean do you
have it that sense like hey let me ask
you this then it just as a final
question there was an announcement this
week that what is it
Cicilline from Rhode Island is is going
to start hearings on this in the house
but there was also an announcement this
week that the DOJ and the FTC had
basically resolved who was going to be
looking into this in terms of Google and
Facebook and other big tech companies
how for reals do you think that is
it's it's it's hard to know I mean III
think that the investigation from a
congressional side is is real right
we know that Lena Kahn who as risen to
some manner of prominence who wrote this
this great Law Review paper about Amazon
and antitrust now works in in Sicily
knees office and and it's going to be
very involved with this investigation
which my view is it should be more
wide-ranging Tek France III think that
if if we broke up Google Facebook and
Amazon today we'd still have a terrible
concentration problem in America and and
maybe it will go in that direction but I
think I I think there's there's a
tremendous opportunity there to do
something like a Pecora Commission for
economic concentration or a temporary
National Economic Committee which was
this thing in FDR era that actually
looked at a comic concentration and and
and really fomented a lot of really good
law and and moves by the antitrust
authorities as for the FTC and the
Justice Department it seems like they
they worked out some jurisdictional
issues we have this weird situation in
in America where we have two agencies
that do antitrust enforcement and there
are no clear lines between who does what
it's just sort of thrown into one bucket
after another and there isn't this great
coordination around it and so the fact
that they actually said okay you take
this and we'll take that it signals that
you know they wouldn't do that if they
weren't planning to do something right
but what that's going to be I mean
honestly after seeing this group in
place at the FTC and the Justice
Department in the Trump era you're just
going to have to show me before I'm
convinced that you're interested in
rooting out anti-competitive behavior
and and and really getting something
done
but I you know in the event that there
is a Democratic administration that is
amenable this you know to changing the
the sort of the Chicago School Robert
Bork Astra regime of of antitrust and
return to one that is sort of broader in
its perspective it's nice to have that
started there I guess right and I think
that's why the Cicilline committee is
important because that role is going to
be to raise awareness to identify these
these issues within the economy to talk
about the implications to put lay out a
fact pattern of the role of in this case
these tech companies these digital
platforms in our everyday lives and to
do that in a high-profile way and that's
going to you know simply have resonance
with the next Democratic administration
for you know particularly if it comes in
in in 2020 and after 2020 election that
that's why I think that is is that that
will be an enduring set of facts about
the state of the economy today that can
then be used by the enforcement agencies
and we've seen that done before we've
seen it in the context particularly
banks I'm thinking about Carl Levin's
great reports from the permanent
Subcommittee on investigations about
Goldman Sachs and about HSBC this was
you know right after the crisis and then
informed not just some of the
enforcement priorities but it also
informed the the actual policymaking in
Washington around dodd-frank so uh you
know I am hopeful more for the
committee's work and giving Congress a
role again in economic policymaking I'm
not so optimistic
about Trump's FTC and Trump's Antitrust
Division of the Justice Department but
we'll see
David Dan always a pleasure
folks should head over right now to what
is it what is the URS Becker org
prospect org sign up subscribe to the
prospect support David Dan's work and
the team that he's assembling over there
David always a pleasure thanks so much
thank you thank you for having me and
we'll have a lot more to say on the
prospect in coming weeks
great all right folks David day in
ladies and gentlemen an American
treasure how many years have I been
saying that
