I think all of us in this office or
angling for seats on the view and as I
always say and this is I so much
information comes in I can't cite people
all the time because I honestly just
forget like especially if it's a tweet I
have no memory who said it I just know
that I just want to generically say I
didn't come up with this but I don't
remember who did but somebody said they
cannot wait to watch Meghan McCain when
a OC redistributes her honor and wealth
and I cannot wait either Meghan McCain
right up there with Trump for most
useless annoying entitled trust fund
baby on the planet and just dad a
television like it's incredible like
she's stupid she's entitled she offers
nothing she's last name I mean that last
name is literally doing every single
piece of work there is I guess unless
there's some type of like Q rating for
being airheaded and petulant so here is
Meghan McCain she has on Kamala Harris
on the view and she is really concerned
about social left Dems and AOC because
of course you know this might mean that
at some point that her inheritance that
she didn't earn and all of the things
that's been handed to her in her life
even though I mean look if Meghan McCain
and I let's not even go extreme here
let's not say like if her debt cuz if
her dad was like a gas station attendant
she would be like in grinding poverty
but let's just say like let's even go
like what if her dad was like a surgeon
she would be I don't know I mean
honestly what would she be one of an
office manager or something what I mean
there there's a lot of women like I mean
a lot of anybody who comes from like
that level of but I'm just saying a
bourgeois but like but like a surgeon
but I'm saying like I'm trying to say
like a family that didn't have them
money and didn't actually have the power
to hand somebody of complete life that
is very rare that is not you can run
into plenty of people who grow up with a
lot of privilege but they don't get
handed a show on the view even though
they don't have any talent for it so I
don't know what it would be but I don't
know maybe she would be like Anna I
don't know like an assistant brand
manager or something
so anyways here she is she and that must
be part of what drives her insight
anxiety is she knows on some level that
she totally doesn't belong anyplace she
is including as a matter of fact
grilling a state senator that's
definitely one thing that she does not
belong doing here she is continuing her
a OC anxiety let's watch how calmly
Harris responds wanted to ask you
Alexandria kzo Cortez new darling of the
party she officially has more Twitter
followers than Nancy Pelosi which was on
60 minutes this weekend proudly calling
herself a radical and she's promoting
policies like saying that every single
carbon emission in the country every car
should be eliminated within the next 11
years everything from a 70 to 80 percent
tax rate do you agree that she could
possibly in this ideology of the
Socialist Left could splinter your party
no you know I think that she is
challenging the status quo I think
that's fantastic
you know I used to teach before
especially before like in the last few
years and the thing that I always loved
about teaching was when you teach it
requires you to defend the premise and
it requires you to re-examine the
premise pause it like a magnet mccain's
like I do not like the sound of any of
this any time a professor said anything
like this to me in college that knew
that I I knew I could not use my dad's
last name for a B - and Meghan McCain is
gonna call Charlie cook neat we just put
Kamala on ya right she's sweating
bullets right now just even hearing this
terminology and it requires you to
re-examine the premise and question is
it still relevant is it is it is it does
it have impact does it have meaning and
I think that she is introducing bold
ideas that that should be discussed and
I think it's good for the party if I
could think it's good for the country
let's look at the bold ideas and and and
I'm eager that we have those discussions
and when we are able to defend the
status quo then do it and if there is
you know if there's not merit to that
then let's explore new ideas okay look
let me give you let me give you an olive
branch and a reality okay so I think
there's actually a lot that's
commendable about how a common law
Harris responded there and I think it
already is a step in the quote-unquote
conversation that somebody who's on you
know the centrist part of the party is
saying you know what no these are
actually viable ideas they're being
brought forward obviously by I mean she
didn't say this but in arguably the most
dynamic and interesting and relevant
young leader in the United States that's
indisputable and we need to be talking
about these things and we need to be
taking them seriously
okay that's correct that's the right
step I like how she responded there now
and I I want to shout out a Brendon
Sutton who has a great podcast called
the discourse I have him on TPMS
sometimes and just a real and he's also
a pretty bad lefty on Twitter he's a
really smart guy and he was saying this
was actually in regards to another
conversation but he was saying he was
basically
saying signifying on social issues we
can debate the merit the value of right
like we can debate and again this is
separate from policy but this is where a
lot of you know this is where the
Clinton campaign was and so on but like
what is the value outside of like okay
everybody knows the value of like
actually I'm gonna adopt like the black
lives matter platform on you know
policing and prisons okay boom that's
tangible that's real that's where we
need to go versus um signifying that you
use a word like intersectional or you
understand a certain nuance of a
conversation right and and again that's
there's a big debate because a lot of
these political figures use that kind of
rhetoric to obscure real issues and
distract us and that's a real problem
but then on the other hand actually a
part of politics is in fact frankly
social signifying cultural people called
people who occupy places in the culture
to shine light and have bully pulpits on
certain values and ideas and problems
and so on right and so you're saying
there's a complexity to that debate now
when it comes to the environment Brendon
went on to say when it comes to climate
change when it comes to ecology no no it
really doesn't like if you as a
politician have an energy-efficient
house and drive a Prius so what
um and in fact all of the problems that
exist in the signifying debate in terms
of going on about cultural issues that
obscure real policy are a double a
problem on the environment because it is
pure distraction so some of the things
and and I say this specifically because
look first of all she mentioned the tax
rate and I would only problem there is
it should be 90 percent versus seventy
or eighty percent maybe even 95 percent
maybe I would argue a hundred percent
frankly money after five million dollars
100 percent 99 percent okay um that's my
moderate position other than just
reclaiming all of these companies
completely but that being said when it
comes to the ecological dimension of
what we have to do and the range of
policy changes
and urban planning and transportation
that the word this isn't have a
conversation
this isn't entertain new ideas and I'm
glad that she's introducing blah blah
blah the ecology issues are the weird
synchronized issue where the positions
and the advocacy that is jet that is
most quote-unquote not politically or
economically quote-unquote tenable is
what is required period full stop so in
all these other issues we know where we
need to go on justice okay but there
isn't a and and we know we need to go
because it's right and it's correct and
it's absolutely achievable if we're
willing to reorder power but the ecology
dimension does have an objective
dimension to it it has a you know it has
a two plus two equals four dimension
life on planet Earth is not going to be
tenable in the way it has been if we
continue on that red line and it's
becoming faster and faster not just
global warming species extinction right
and some people you know you can do a
Steve Pinker bedtime story about somehow
magically science will solve all of our
problems but actually the reality
perspective is that science and
technology are going to of course
they're gonna be part of this along with
literally everything else if you don't
want a complete catastrophe political
economic urban design scientific I would
actually absolutely add morale and
pathetic I mean everything is on the
table so when I hear that from something
from somebody like Carla Harris it's
like it first I recoil just in like the
broad sense of politics because what AOC
is actually advocating is moderate and
obvious and should be the mainstream
stance of the Democratic Party it's not
there's nothing radical about seventy
percent on over ten million a year to
fund health care this is this is like
kindergarten basic obvious stuff here
but particularly when you add an
ecological dimension this sense of like
well let's have a conversation we
the conversation point is absolutely
over and the only action steps available
are radical and everybody needs to get
on board with that including people that
are more moderate and from a different
political tradition and obviously common
law Harris is smart enough and Android
enough to understand that right so then
the question dart does start to become
okay here's somebody who has shown some
good leadership on some important issues
in the Senate and is very talented but
then here's also the person that chose
to not prosecute Steve minuchin so
that's obviously a trend is ax and as a
you know was a note as it known as a
particularly harsh prosecutor so those
are incredibly serious question marks so
if we're just having a conversation
about monk amongst ourselves about
rhetoric that's a nice little
improvement there but you know the real
answer is look Megan if you need to go
you know sit in a quiet place somewhere
and and deal with like inheriting you
know one house instead of nine great
like go breathe into a brown paper bag
but the rest of us actually have to deal
with some real problems it
should be the actual answer to that
