where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam Sita it
is Friday August 9th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today it's casual Friday joining
us in studio the recently anointed
politics editor of slate Tomsk oka will
be joining us also on the program today
man enters a Missouri Walmart with a
hundred rounds of ammo and body armor
just because America Trump visits El
Paso and brings nothing but disgust Joe
Biden seemingly on a tour to prove your
greatest fears are true and the
wealthiest of Trump donors want to give
their money to him in secret online
magazine kwill elect duped by a hoax
just another example of how the right is
clueless about the left and that's a
great of fact-checking
Trump dumps his top Director of National
Intelligence official because he wants
more of a crony and Tucker Carlson loses
a major advertiser over his white
supremacy denial new IPCC report says
climate change is making our food supply
completely unsustainable
Jerrold Nadler says he started a legit
impeachment inquiry and the the folksy
story of Trump's construction company
tells us why ice will round up 700
immigrants after they complain of
working conditions for the coda of the
koch brothers while their employers face
no accountability all this and more on
today's program folks let me just start
off well first off let me just say happy
birthday to my daughter longtime
listeners of this program will remember
when she was born 14 years ago on this
day and if you are one of those people
thank you for listening for so long
Jesus
but milah has turned 14 and you know
she's just as pleasant as she ever was
so congratulations to my daughter
Brendan and Michael are out today and
we're happy to have in studio Tom Skokie
who I will introduce in a moment let me
just also say rest in peace to someone
that people probably have no idea who he
is most people I mean he's he's not
particularly well-known a friend of mine
a guy named Mike Reynolds a comedian who
had many years of difficult times and
[Music]
not the least of which was problems with
health care and getting stuck in
and it being very demoralizing for him
at different points in his life and so I
just wanted to acknowledge him because
he was with us and and now he's not and
had a lot of pain and I hope he is
finding some some measure of peace now
let's turn to what we saw this weekend
or I should say yesterday Donald Trump
visited El Paso and maybe it was I guess
Wednesday I can't I can't recall now
where he was going down there Wednesday
and it's just the the fallout now from
that visit has been nothing short of
stunning and in some ways it dovetails
with a piece that Tom wrote that I
wanted to talk to him about a little bit
in a bit but here is the report as you
know he goes to El Paso there and here's
the report from CNN and it just the the
video from this visit and we don't we'll
play some of it maybe later it's just
stunning it's just stunning in some ways
it's completely unsurprising in other
ways it's just sort of hard to see it so
vividly but here's the CNN report on his
visit to El Paso ostensibly to comfort
the victims and make the community feel
more safe and embraced caitlin collins
thank you I've been talking to a
hospital official at El Paso's
University Medical Center and I'm told
none of the eight patients who were on
hand for the president's visit wanted to
meet mr. Trump quote some didn't want
any visitors the official said before
adding and some did not want to meet the
president we've confirmed two patients
who had been discharged were brought
back to the hospital to meet with the
president cNN has learned one of those
patients was the two month old baby who
was shielded by his parents during the
shooting that baby has been identified
as the child of Jordan and Andre
anchondo who died protecting him
according to the hospital official the
president displayed a quote absent
of absence of empathy during his visit
that hospital official went on to say
the president made other comments
similar to his remarks about former
congressman better O'Rourke that left
some staffers thinking mr. Trump was not
focused enough on consoling people that
hospital official went on to say about
these patients were being cared for at
University Medical Center quote the
stories and retelling of their
experience at that Walmart will chill
you to your core and break your heart
now so a Donald Trump goes down there
and then we have footage I don't know if
we pulled it but there's footage of
Donald Trump meeting the doctors and it
takes about three sentences after he
says you guys are doing great work for
him to start talking about the size of
the rally he had in El Paso a couple
months ago and how small bet O'Rourke's
was he does the exact same here let's
play this clip we muzzle put all these
together the job you've done and they're
talking about it all over the world and
it's an honor to be with you you're
fantastic I was here three months ago we
made a speech and we had a stand what
was the name of the arena in fact right
I was / alright the judges of respect
what was it we had twice the number
outside and then you had this crazy
battle bado had like 400 people in a
parking lot they said his crowd was
wonderful go tell it to the press
because they won't even believe it
yeah this is they're having it's it's
quite a jocular time it's always fun a
lot of giggles he does the exact same
thing meets the some police officers
within it takes him even less time to go
into how big his crowd was and how small
Beddoes was I mean this is this is a
severely disturbed human being and here
is a picture of him with that child the
two month old baby that they had brought
back to the hospital so that he could do
a pose with the baby
there's Melania holding the baby smiling
there's Donald Trump thumbs up look
here's the baby I mean I like the who
could possibly function this way it's
it's just it's just unbelievable he's
standing next to a child who's both of
their parents have died in a horribly
violent shooting this is probably the
best thing that ever happened to you HOT
kid right I'm gonna sign this picture
for you remember this forever
unbelievable this is gonna be the tone
of the show today incidentally I mean
it's just yeah this is I mean why we're
gonna this show is gonna be fully
demonetized and just like it's gonna be
ugly
but one this is the weirdest this is the
weirdest place where we're gonna have
one sort of happy story and I wasn't
supposed to read like okay so support
for today's show comes from embark
embark is the dog DNA test kit and we've
they've supported the show in the past
we've read one or two ads for them as
you know I don't have a dog but Kelly
old Kelly not old former Kelly she's not
former but who formally
worked here she she has her dog Edie
longtime listeners will remember the
stories we would hear about Edie and she
did the embark test for Edie she wrote
me she said I received these results
from bark there's so much information
about her she tested clear for all 171
genetic health conditions they screened
for she's not a carry or a risk for any
of the genetic diseases they test
there's also a full clinical trait
report and so much great news but most
importantly I can provide the report to
her vet which will provide so much
information to help with Edie's help
that she grows up it's it's great news
and I wasn't gonna read this one I think
we're doing another ad for them and the
plan was to read it you know the second
was separate but I just need to tell
this story because it made me it was
like one of the few bright spots so
after we did the first ad I got an email
from I'll just read it I'm a member of
the show from the outside the United
States I can't use make it make use of
your sponsors sometimes but I want to
share with you briefly my experience
with embark dog DNA which he promoted in
your most recent episode my younger
brother and best friend best mate is 19
now he was diagnosed with Asperger
syndrome when he was five struggled for
many years with significant anxiety and
his unique spirit and character was
misunderstood by his peers for years
things were tough and despite our best
efforts we felt helpless in trying to
support him we knew he had so much to
give the world but just couldn't find a
way to support him to do so for his 12th
birthday we adopted a golden retriever
for him which he named Gregor Samsa Matt
do you want to tell everybody what this
is is that come on great yeah I can't
I'm really surprised
that's the misunderstood isolated malign
protagonist from Kafka's the
metamorphosis he exactly said to beat a
guy since Gregor came along my brother
has never looked back almost immediately
he had someone who understood him who he
understood
Gregor gave my brother confidence
comfort
critically a way for him to new meet new
people without stressing out about what
to say or do and straight away in short
Gregor has become an absolutely
essential part of our family we couldn't
imagine my brother where my brother
would be had he not come along at 7:00
Gregor's getting on he's happy and
healthy at the moment but our vet
suggested that we get a DNA test to make
sure that we know what to expect and
take all the precautions we can we chose
embark DNA because of its reputation and
positive reviews its simplicity of
delivery returned the fact that a test
for over 170 plus health conditions the
service was brilliant even with the
International shipping and my brother
loved learning more about his best
friend more importantly our vet his
tailor Gregory's diet in line with
genetic predispositions the results
identified giving us the confidence
we're doing all we can to make sure
Gregor is around for as long as possible
a dog DNA test might sound silly or like
a novelty or a luxury for us it's been a
way of showing our love and support to a
complete member of our family sorry for
the length but I absolutely can't
recommend and bark DNA enough I mean I
was that was very sweet and now back to
the copy but for our listeners embark
has an exclusive summer offer you cannot
get anywhere else go to embark vet
dot-com use the promo code majority to
save 15% off your dog DNA test kit
discover your dog more than fur deep
visit embark vet calm and use the promo
code majority to save that was very
sweet
alright now like to welcome to the
program's Tom's caca Skokie let's go
good let's go Tom welcome we just yeah
push your microphone just down a little
bit like yeah yeah you can okay you
didn't do all right tom is the new
political editor over at Slate slate.com
I guess we call it right yeah like how
slate magazine anymore you had a piece
at the beginning of the week which
captured a dynamic that I think explains
even a lot more than even what it would
what it was specific about I think
and it's basically that there are
there's there seems to be sort of like
qohen centric circles that are going on
here that are not terribly different and
I let me just preface this by saying
that there was a moment I think it was
after Donald Trump had in between the
center-back
rally and his initial tweets about Ilhan
Omar where Bill Barr came out I think we
did a video on it maybe we you can find
it bill Barr came out and basically said
exactly what Donald Trump had said but
just set it in the way that was more
polite in some way but every sentiment
was there mm-hmm and it was a little bit
more generalized and it was a little bit
more arm's length but it was basically
him reiterating this thing and you made
a point of an earpiece this week that
well you started with the story of of
Ronald Reagan and the message he left to
Nixon first why don't you talk about
that because it's quite obvious what
Tucker Carlson is doing right - I think
to most people what Donald Trump is
doing to the extent that anybody's going
to really sort of absorb it if they
don't absorb it from those guys they're
not gonna get what's going on but
there's another dynamic going on you
started with the the story of of Reagan
calling Nixon to say that those monkeys
from Africa he's surprised that they can
wear shoes at the UN right and then you
know and that's obvious and mostly the
way that this story went over was about
how Reagan had said this incredibly
racist thing but there was a little
point in the story that really struck me
which was that then what happened was
that Nixon turned around and Nixon
believed that Reagan was speaking for
you know a political faction that had to
be listened to you know it was important
that everyone in the Nixon
administration be aware of what Reagan's
people were feeling right Reagan was
like the the
are of the deeper harder right and so
Nixon started calling up officials and
telling them hey I got a call from
Reagan and he said this stuff and we
need to be aware and we need to not you
know we need to make it clear that we
don't fully support the UN and we want
to like back off and signal that this
message has been received and so he
calls up a the was it the Secretary of
State that he was calling yeah I think I
have the the transcript in front of you
but he calls him up and he says you know
I just got off the phone with Reagan and
so forth and so on because like Nixon
has this really weird the same way that
you know did Joe Biden says anyway Nixon
there's like none so forth and so on on
everything but like you know and then he
says I just got off the phone with
Reagan and he was and he said I so all
these cannibals on TV you know and
Reagan didn't say cannibals I mean he
said monkeys which is terrible in its
own right but somehow this incredibly
racist other term cannibals had just
appeared and Nixon was saying it and
they were chuckling over it but it
wasn't something Nixon said right Nixon
was saying that Reagan had said even
though Reagan hadn't said it but this
imaginary Reagan the imaginary Reagan
who represented the silent majority had
used the word cannibals and so it just
sort of was incepted right it just came
out of out of nowhere with nobody
responsible for it it there it was right
this orphaned like orphaned bit of
racism
yeah just like clinging the ether
precipitated out of the saturated
solution of racism was the sudden
crystal that hadn't been there before
and and so you likened that dynamic to a
dynamic that we see it feels like every
day and the times later in the week
before after you have written this piece
as if to say like to slate like good
higher um had a headline that says
Donald Trump calls for racial unity I
was out what the headline was and Trump
urges unity versus racism yes although
the one that really jumped out of me was
the one the day before where it was like
a bewildered nation confronts the
shootings because like who's who's
bewildered right like the bizarre thing
about I actually thought that those two
headlines back-to-back captured
something really weird about the way
that The Times constructs the world
right which is the that in its news
writing it has this scrupulous extremely
narrow and blinded concept of
objectivity basically objectivity
consisting of things that people will
tell them and like sides of an argument
that someone will officially stake out
right so in news reporting terms right
Trump did sit grudgingly in front of a
teleprompter and call for unity with a
complete lack of emotion or interest
until he could get back to Twitter and
start yelling about how the Democrats
were the enemy right so that was a fact
and so as an objective fact The Times is
like what we it's not wrong for us to
say that the president called for unity
so and that's the sort of thing that
they are dedicated to building their
news stories out of right these like
extremely narrow journalists
journalistically objective like fact
units that are assembled into what the
news is
but what's bizarre about that is that
then on top of it what represents the
higher calling to The Times is to run
news analysis pieces and to issue these
first draft of history verdicts about
what's going on in completely abstract
like epistemological e indefensible
terms so all of a sudden The Times is
telling us that the nation is bewildered
like like a spokesperson for the nation
called up the time right and was like we
want we want to register that without
that as a country where bewildered right
they're able to sort of just look at the
fact that Trump said these things
without doing any analysis or context
but then be in it because supposedly
they have this rigid set of of mores and
methodologies but then the next day they
essentially diagnose what the the entire
nation is feeling without really and who
was bewildered right were you bewildered
no I mean nobody was bewildered everyone
was like oh two more of these right this
happened again and then you know you saw
the manifest and you're like oh right
immigrant invasion I've heard that I've
heard people talk
about the immigrant invasion I guess
this guy was listening to the same
people like there was a I mean it was
terrible
but it was shocking that it happened but
it like there was nothing really
confusing about it unfortunately it was
rather straightforward six months ago I
don't know when it was when we would
play clips of Laura Ingraham and Tucker
Carlson saying invasion we were just
sitting here going like how do people
hear this and not take up arms like how
does I mean I I'm convinced that we said
specifically like there's gonna be
somebody who's on the margins who's
gonna hear this stuff and it's gonna act
on it because how could you not yeah
it's an invasion you're being told
exactly and so this the bewilderment and
then it goes a little bit further with
some of their their opinion writers you
talk about Bret Stevens who had and this
is it it also reminds me of the dynamic
that at one point people were maybe 10
or 15 years ago the back in the blog
blogger age that for a while there was
an attack on the journalistic
construction of some people say mmm-hmm
which was a sort of a way of the speaker
to and and I will concede that I am
guilty of this to the extent that like
I'll go on shows and when I want to on
TV on cable news and what I want to make
it sound like hey this is not just me
speaking I'll say my audience right and
I don't really know what my audience is
thinking cuz I'm not in touch with all
you know the tens of thousands of people
who listen to the show they don't I hear
from some right I'm taking a guess but
it gives me some authority at least I'm
blaming the audience I'm not making it
like son but here is Bret Stevens and
let me just read what he wrote and then
you can you can talk about he wrote is
this is after the Democratic the the
first democratic debate right what
conclusions should ordinary people draw
about Democrats what Democrats stand for
other than a thunderous repudiation of
Donnell
Trump and how they see America other
than as a land of unscrupulous
profiteers and helpless victims here's
what a party that makes too many
Americans feel like strangers in their
own country a party that puts more of
its faith and invest more of its efforts
in them instead of us they speak Spanish
we don't they're not US citizens or
legal residents we are they broke the
rules to get in this country we didn't
and mm-hmm
people criticized him and he said that
he said you speak Spanish when he said
we don't speak Spanish he didn't mean
himself no no he was I mean he he was a
child in Mexico City with his
international businessman father right
so like he didn't mean he didn't god
forbid he just meant some other people
who felt that way and I guess the
question is like to what extent to
spread Stephens hanging around with
these people that he knows this yeah my
sense is that he does not put in a lot
of time but there's you get a lot of
that ventriloquism going on right these
these people are very eager you know you
see Patrick Ruffini all over Twitter
right the the Republican consultant dude
who's always like yeah I think he's like
Twitter bio now is about how like
calling attention to the differences
between the coastal elites and real
Americans is my jam or something I was
like you know what you know you don't
know you you are a coastal elite you're
all like they're they have no particular
insight here but the point is he's
carrying this message without having to
own it yeah he was super offended when
people were like hey that's an
incredibly racist thing you wrote you
know because it's not his racism that's
like cannibals are just like it just
appeared because he was talking about
what the what the real people believe
well this is I mean there's you know
there's some parallel on some level to
like when comedians or people comedic
aliy sort of do a parody of but that
parody we should say is a critique
it is not an endorsement and it's not
neutral well it's not a parody but like
he is supposedly carrying the the
message of people who supposedly the
people who read him can't hear but he
can hear them but even if he has a
certain amount of like dog whistle well
I mean I guess that's really just what
it comes down to I mean I guess like if
he could show up with evidence that
there is I don't know there was nine
million people who watched the debate 10
million people or 11 million people
let's say he just showed up like I have
solid polling results from a million
people who say exactly this right that
does it become more valid then I mean I
would want to know who wrote the poll
right but you know but nobody ever does
that it's that sort of like a it's a
bizarre counterfactual when you think
about it it's like it's this is all
based on like atmospherics it's all
based on the theory that that the that
the silent majority is out there and is
real and it's gonna come smash stuff if
you if they're provoked by seeing too
much diversity or whatever and it you
know the one particular piece of his
ventriloquism in that column which is
amazing so he I think he turned around
and he has a column right now that he's
vlogging about you know where he's
denouncing Trump's in a phobia and he's
saying like absolutely there's a direct
link between the terrible language our
president used and you know the carnage
and like yes that's true
you know glad you're saying it but like
you wrote a column expressing this whole
strangers in our country thing right
people feel like strangers in their own
country you know Andrew Sullivan in New
York Magazine did the same I feel like a
strange no I feel sorry again
he loves diversity but clearly people
feel like strangers in their country
right and you know that's verbatim you
can chase straight up the line to Tucker
right doctor doing his segments on
people who feel like strangers in their
country and like why why do they feel
like strangers in their country when
Tucker and Laura Ingram are talking
about it because they are aware I mean
they're not even necessarily
encountering them where they live but
they are aware that there are people in
there con
you don't look like them and that's
freaking them out right right I mean
this is like the the story of the the
folks living in like Minnesota and
they're afraid that the caravan is going
to come and take their vacation home
they're gonna occupy their vacation home
in Minnesota right and the other thing
about this right is that it you know all
these when you're talking about the the
people who feel threatened by diversity
what you're doing is you're making the
entire conversation be about an intra
white people discussion right
the thing about diversity is diversity
as people when you have like Ross
Douthat at the times writing about how
social cohesion decreased since 1965
what he's saying is that the people who
arrived in the United States after 1965
after the you know near-total bans on
Asian immigration were lifted to him are
not they're somehow lesser then then the
regular Americans regular Americans have
valid feelings when they object to the
presence of these other people who are
residents and/or citizens and live in
this country as much as anyone else does
like that's you know it's this
fundamental decision to continue to
treat the white America as the natural
default at a time when you know it's the
white Americans who are doing who are
practicing real ethnic identity politics
right the exclusion of other things I'd
also argue that there may have been
other things in 1965 that may have also
decreased their socially works like the
fact that we allowed black people to
vote I mean that we right a country and
the white people said like with you know
like we're gonna allow black people to
vote now and that's gonna break things
up a little bit for us yeah the idea
that the country was was stable and
cohesive from like you know the Great
Depression through you know through 1965
is a hell of a story to tell
right exactly I mean if you're the story
to tell on yourself if that's the story
you're right well it's really yeah I
mean this is what it's all about it's
like I'm gonna draw
some lines within the country and say
that's the country right and it's like
in in I'm going to choose a demographic
and say that's the baseline of normalcy
and anything that deviates from that is
abnormal in some fashion or is in some
way different and it has to be justified
and has to be perceived from the point
of view of of my assumed homogeneous
real America right there was a you know
there's a Times reporter who he keeps
embarrassing himself on Twitter so much
he actually got in trouble for it oh
yeah the guy who said was those are
Midwest values right so like he he ended
up following this chain of thought where
first it was people were saying well
actually you know representative Omar is
yeah we remind people because I'm not
sure that I know right we talked about
that over the over the week it was part
here there's the whole this whole
business of like whether these these
Congress people represent you know we're
were an affront to America right by
their the squad was yeah and this you
know and and so people were going to
have to like these people represent
districts in the Midwest Midwestern
voters support them they are you know
there's the mythic Midwest is in fact a
place that supports these people and so
this guy who's a reporter for The Times
gets on Twitter and here that's not the
real Midwest so it came from the artist
well EDD who is uh from the Justice
Democrats right
he was remarking on something that you
know a lot of people have noticed that
we were supposed to take advice from
Claire McCaskill on how to win in the
Midwest even though she her experience
has been that she did not win in the
Midwest right now I think that there's a
lot of valuable lessons that come from
losing but the lessons that she's
promoting are the ones that she lost on
so I don't think she's actually gained
any lessons anyways so while he'd said
free stuff from the government does not
play well in the Midwest says Claire
McCaskill one rasheed Lib and Ilan Omar
are from
the Midwest and to Medicare and Social
Security of both technically free stuff
and they play very well and then
Jonathan Weitzman from the New York
Times and like you know it's one thing I
think for if like you're sitting in your
what looking at Twitter and you're going
like this guy it's another one you're
like I've got to jump in here right like
I mean the the impetus to do that is
like you have to have a tremendous
amount of self-assuredness and you've
got a bone to pick here and he goes
saying that to live and Omar are from
the Midwest is like saying lloyd doggett
Democrat from Austin is from Texas or
John Lewis from Atlanta is from the deep
south come on you know it's hard to know
which part of that sentence is the most
offensive but I kind of think you got a
land on John Lewis not representing the
deep south I think that's probably I
think the the son of sharecroppers who
got his skull busted in the civil rights
movement is generally understood to
represent the deep south his experience
of the deep south is necessarily I mean
this is the thing that people have to
understand here with this type of
construction and it's the same thing
with what you talk about with Bret
Stevens here a rostov our or Sullivan is
that they're not just representing what
they think is in a in ideology they are
also enforcing they're enforcing this
notion of where the norms are right that
defines something greater than what
these people believe they defined what
is the baseline it's like you know
someone saying like well I voted for
Barack Obama I have two non normal
presidents in a row you can't have
another woman there it's like it's not
just reiterating that this these people
did not want to vote for a black person
in a woman because they wanted a white
male but it's also saying that the white
male is what is normal and not even
normal like normative right and this is
and you know again it's like this
particular example gets super pernicious
right because I mean yeah like obviously
like
luis embodies the deep south and rather
than being excluded from but this idea
right that atlanta is not real deep
south politics you know that there there
was just a an election down in georgia
and a lot of people got kicked off the
voting rolls right and what animates
these efforts i mean yes it's naked
partisanship of course like on a phone a
functional level all the voter purges
and stuff are you know that the
Republicans are just pursuing strategies
that they think you know will get them
more votes but you know they do believe
something behind it right they but what
they believe is that they believe that
other people's votes shouldn't count
that their voters are the real voters
that if they put the screws to urban
precincts if they like kick black voters
off the rolls all they're doing is
they're making sure that the people
whose votes really should count don't
get drowned out by the other people
whose votes are worth less or mean less
or are not part of the actual mainstream
right right and so if you say that that
John Lewis is not the deep south you are
completely reinforcing the ideology
behind the vote suppression right you're
saying the experience of black people in
the deep south who have been there and
can tie their roots to that that area
for as long as anyone is just
fundamentally worth less and the thing
is this guy doesn't even think it's an
opinion he doesn't think right I mean
the times people are opposed to be
circumspect about what they well that's
guys getting out there he thinks this is
like a right-wing op-ed writer or
something no he's a political he's a
political editor he's a guy so the to
him this is analysis this is like just a
sort of an objective account of what he
sees on the American scene and it's
particularly sort of striking when you
think that like you know like I mean I'm
trying to get into his head and trying
to assess like by what even being the
the most generous interpretation
of what this guy thinks is like I just
paint with really broad brushes and all
I'm talking about it the political
forces that our debt that that have and
and and do define these regions and and
and that's what he's thinking in his
head but that also ignores the fact that
like if there wasn't that voter purge
it's very likely that Stacey Abrams
would have been the governor there right
it's hard to imagine him saying like
changing his notion of the deep south
based upon those facts to Matisse
tunning he's just basically adding a
little bit to the scales in his general
analysis because he's talking about
white people right yeah and it's you
know the whole sort of the way that that
American politics and American political
discourse are haunted by the specter of
72 you know is all about this belief
that this voting block this you know
that people that Reagan represented you
know the people that he's conjuring as
the real deep south you know the people
that that Bret Stevens imagines saying
it's us against them that this block is
too powerful to be defied right that it
has to you have to reach an
accommodation with with however many
people do think like that because if you
don't then you're gonna be defeated by
the will of the people right it's like
they're gonna they're gonna get angry
because you've provoked them and that's
you know I mean so the one of the things
the Ross Douthat wrote you know there's
an earlier comer who was arguing or I
think he made that that social cohesion
argument when he was saying that the
Democrats needed to be willing to
bargain with Stephen Miller on
immigration you know and he's like you
have to have to recognize that that all
the previous immigration negotiations
have gone on between Republican review
between Republicans who support
immigration and Democrats or support
immigration and you have to recognize
that 30% of the population doesn't
support immigration
you have to incorporate their views into
your politics and it's just but there's
not
you can't average out xenophobia and a
non xenophobia to reach like an
acceptable policy middle right if 30
it's horrible the 30% of American I feel
this way but you can't like drive away
it's Ryanair immigrants it's by an air
you're either right and so and also you
know I mean what other examples do we
have where we like stop the train hold
on we only have 66 percent on board we
right like if anything else if you have
those kind of numbers on one side of the
questions has got to go away right like
that's not but instead you know their
views have to be you know you have to
defer that you have to make room for
discussions about ooh about what
diversity in America is too much and a
piece that I didn't get into in a piece
and that I regret not getting into inner
peace was the Atlantic doing the whole
cover story by David Fromm right right
like if if liberals don't enforce
immigration then then fascists well well
but why are the only two options so the
point is that they're liberals because
they're not interested in bringing about
any portion of the fascist agenda right
and this again this was on the cover of
the Atlantic and this was an absolutely
and like another one of these pieces
it's just a ventriloquist for this well
I mean it's ventriloquist right exactly
and it's right they it's their hand up
the ass that is that it's bun you know
this week this week you know Jeffrey
Goldberg is doing lots of tweets about
the Atlantic's high-minded moral
coverage of like what an atrocity Trump
brought off but like you ran a piece
that was about how people who feel
threatened by immigration must be heard
and must be incorporated and how we have
to acknowledge that immigration went too
far after 1965 like that was your cover
story in your magazine like right very
nice that now you're upset but like and
this is published this and we should be
clear and I say that the the from the
from construction is very similar to
that Sam Harrison's
reduction of if if people on the the
center-left
don't get out in front and criticize
Muslims you're just gonna leave it to
the fascist to do that yeah and they're
gonna do it in a way that's gonna be
rude where we could do it in a way
that's polite I guess is the idea but
the the and we should say that there's
also it's one thing to say there is
thirty percent of the country that have
complaints that in some instances may be
a function of economic in many of those
instances is more of a social complaint
that they are having trouble getting
used to the fact that they are not
centered in our in our society anymore
and so we should acknowledge that and
maybe I don't know
send muffin baskets to people or or you
know let's do a proposal that says like
you know let's put more money into their
communities you know into everybody's
communities let's say so that everybody
can feel like you know they're important
in some fact I mean it's like it's not
it the idea is that we need to keep
their dissatisfaction alive by
recognizing it legitimizing it as
opposed to sort of acknowledging it may
exist it's bad if society wants to get
rid of it there may be ways that we can
work on getting rid of it but from a
political standpoint that it's not
incumbent upon us to do that I mean it's
interview raised 72 is the specter
because that's when we can and basically
went to Nixon and said here's the
strategy right polarize the country
because we got the bigger half and I
think today it's quite clear electoral
politics oral college politics aside
they're polarizing the country they
don't have the bigger half right they
are using voter suppression they are
gonna use all sorts of tactics
I mean literal voter suppression and
then sort of like rhetorical voter
suppression as a way to try and get
under the the I mean I don't think that
there's anybody out there who thinks
that Donald Trump can win the popular
vote but it's really just a question of
they run the electoral college a game
again in some in some fashion and we
also see not only are these guys
basically saying that this ideology this
this is the xenophobia and racism the
adherence of this are worth seven fifths
of anybody else in the country we see
that reflected in like literally we see
that reflected in the way that
gerrymandering has altered the votes
like in a place like Wisconsin where
Democrats win fifty four percent of the
vote and end up with 65% in Republicans
end up with sixty five percent of the
seats right there there's a there
psychically trying to do on some level
what is happening with the
gerrymandering yeah I mean again I think
that like that's the you know that they
want a justification for it and so you
know you have to when you're when you're
tilting the field in one direction you
know you have to tell yourself that
that's the direction that the field
ought to be tilted that there's like
some underlying you know moral reason
that that the side that you're helping
to win deserves to win and you know you
have to construct that reason without
you know in the absence of having a
majority of people on your side which is
usually how we traditionally sorted out
like which side has the better client
it's almost like they don't even realize
they're cheerleading they're just sort
of they have not examined their own like
a hypothesis at all like I just the
level of self delusion that like someone
like Bret Stevens must have when they
write this or this guy Weissman what
does it follow that that that thing cuz
it was pretty funny right like people
went after him and he just kept trying
to justify yeah would you call that
smarm I you know yes that unwillingness
to acknowledge one's own ideology yeah
and the you know and the idea that
you're that you're calling for respect
to these people right that it's yeah
certainly has do you think that that is
I mean what's happening with that
dynamic relative to the body politic
because I think that there is that the
the dynamic that existed in 72 I think
largely that idea if we polarize the
country we have more of those people I
think we went through a long period
where it was muddied and I think
probably 9/11 in many respects sort of
obscured what was the change that was
happening on some level right like
because that was in some respects I
think that impeachment of Nixon obscured
what was happening would that with
regard to the right in this country and
their political power and artificially
kept maybe Republicans out of office for
right over maybe four years or something
but I think 9/11 did did a similar thing
in in some ways I mean I think that the
scars are looking much more lasting in
terms of like setting up institution on
structural things that make this country
more right but but where do you think we
are in terms of like the critique of
someone like Weissman who went on to say
early this morning I tried to make a
point about regional differences in
politics between urban and rural areas I
deleted the tweets because I did not
realize I adequately made my point
because I realized it did I right I
don't remember him saying rural or urban
doesn't recognize that the Midwest also
has like urban areas right I mean that's
that's you know part of the real
American mythology is that somehow the
fewer people there are the more real it
gets and you know given that given the
urbanization that's gone on you know
over the the past decades then it's this
business of writing people who live in
cities out of the out of the real
America is it really is it you know it's
a bizarre well to be fair the founding
fathers did not live in cities the size
that we did that we do now yeah right or
wrong they also didn't have like giant
agribusiness farms
okay you know automated tractors to to
tell and that's like so true or cars
zones you know so I mean the whole
nature of the the urban and rural but
you're just nitpicking with the other
stuff the city stuff is the important
thing that's why we start this show by
saying that we're in the heartland of
America confused my mom that's
remarkable this is an older one from
2016
it says defeated dams could have tapped
Rust Belt populist ahead party instead
black muslim progressive born from
minneapolis yeah yes doing the exact
identity politics that he thinks that
liberals are doing great he's
attributing it to other people right I
mean there's also you know there's long
ago and far away there's Joe Biden who
you know still gets it hung around his
neck the whole calling Obama clean and
articulate right right obviously Joe
Biden wasn't saying that right Joe Biden
was channeling some Joe Biden enthusiast
voter who he you know wanted to uh you
know he could convey that his people
were not gonna be threatened by Obama
but he the way that he did that was by
putting it in he's right Joe Biden seems
to have is is a conduit for a lot of
that it seems like in fact we have
footage of Joe Biden being that conduit
II today but the it is I mean this this
thing I mean the the dynamic you
described here to also describes this
notion of what is defined as identity
politics like the right and in the
center right these folks will say that
Democrats and the left you are consumed
with identity politics yet Democrats are
not consumed with an identity politics
it's that there are multiple different
identities that make up the left but
when you look at the right it is
and this not what 90% white right it is
not it's not a Trump thing right right
no 88% of Mitt Romney's voters were
white and in the coverage of that
election I remember reading and writing
about it at the time it was taken as a
given that that there was racial
polarization and it's it wasn't racial
polarization the fact that that Asian
Americans and Latinos and black people
all agreed that they were voting for
Obama is that's because that means that
lots of different kinds of people with
different kinds of interests all had
come to the same agreement about what
the country needed and then there was
one group of people who disagreed and
segregated themselves you know went and
sat at their own into the cafeteria and
cast their votes for Mitt Romney
you know and to say that this was that
this was identity politics like no you
could look at the Obama coalition and
you could see people who look nothing
like yourself if if you're looking for
the melting pot it is not in the
Republican Party it is in the Democratic
Party that comes with its own challenges
but that's the fact the social cohesion
though the Republican Party is stronger
yes they all and yet and yet they all
have to be spread out and you know in
McMansions with right at a room that is
the iron they're not on top of each
other that is the irony is that they're
increasing density somehow somehow the
people who are responsible for defeating
for for undermining social cohesion are
also the ones who live at much higher
density right I don't know it's very odd
dynamic but you're just looking at
social cohesion in a too literal of
fashion right the how well do people in
a society live with each other right
you're looking at at that bat level but
I'm looking at a more transcendental
level right that's the well let's play
can you stick around for a while dear
it's fried
you guys did you guys said like when you
what right do you guys take off right
like a usually by Nestle's no no we keep
we keep going you got I got see what Jim
Newell sends from from Iowa what what is
going on in Iowa is this where oh here's
an idea of what's going on in Iowa let's
talk about this this is Joe Biden and
for people who have concerns that Joe
Biden harbors a very I don't know how to
say this I don't want to say like you
know like obviously this is like we're I
wish there was this other word
there was like a racism word or
something like that
because like racist fellow-travellers
yes or just sort of like you know like
um he's Ross's microaggression no he's
raw cyst on some level I would look the
Eddie glad was on this program a long
time ago talking about white supremacy
is a habit and it is a practice that on
to some degree everyone in our society
practices black or white and it's in
varying degrees and as we talked about
sort of a notion that some people in
this country have that being white is a
is the normal state of of what's being
and that everything that is not white
and really not just in terms of like
color or race or whatever but everything
that is not sir that white represents
not just a color it's like a it's a
position in society it's a moral
standing it's an education standing and
that anything that deviates from that is
in some way is just like off in some
fashion everything is defined as being
off-white for anybody who's concerned
that joe biden harbors those type of
feelings and or for those people who are
concerned that Joe Biden
is prone to articulating them and is not
necessarily adept when he his mouth
starts going I've got some very bad news
for you and the other thing we should do
is you should challenge these students
we should challenge students in these
schools they have Advanced Placement
programs in these schools we have this
notion that somehow if you're poor you
cannot do it poor kids are just as
bright and just as talyn's white kids
wealthy kids black kids I really but
think how we think now I mean it's
possible that that was like a really
deep critique being delivered but yet I
mean it's like he's so internalized the
code through all the years here's the
good news he understood after he said it
that it was wrong to say that out loud
that's true and I feel like that like
he's not getting enough credit for that
I mean that this is where you know
everything that you that you can say
about Biden then you have to like
refract through the question of what it
what it would mean in a head to head so
yes like it's true saying appalling
things and then noticing that that's
something appalling came out of your
mouth is a competitive advantage
head-to-head in the general you know
it's also even just against Abidin
himself because I feel like Joe Biden
you know even three or four years ago
would not have caught on that that was
inappropriate that's that's possible so
I feel like Joe Biden needs should be
getting credit for realizing after he
said after he revealed that he thought
the different that the opposite of or
the distinction of poor kids is white
kids that he he should get some credit
for catching that in time enough to just
stutter a little bit and then throw in
wealthy kids sure why not
and drawing an intersectional analysis
of the historical disadvantaging of
certain groups
yeah he's not not exactly I mean people
are also talking about him saying that
we choose truth over facts as a gaffe
and that's just true you should - truth
is better than facts facts are facts are
overrated yeah there you go
yeah the the the problem with that of
course is that it's hard to imagine when
we're talking about a I mean to put it
in aside from it being problematic I
mean if a guy says this on the street
you just walk away from him right like
if you're talking to him or if you're
having dinner you go like I really buddy
you know what I'm not covering the meal
tonight you were gonna split but when he
could be the candidate that is picked to
beat Trump the problem is not so much
that Trump would have a problem with
that I mean Trump they said that in a
debate Trump would just go like we had
it right I don't know I had to add those
other things you think because I think
that Trump would stop them for it or
well I think the Trump would I think
Trump would would very very happily you
know jump all over him for having said
the wrong thing Prato it's something
with Trump himself is fine with largely
irrelevant except for the fact that I
think it's quite clear at least this is
what the Trump people and I think we the
lesson we learn from 2016 is it you need
to get out your bases you need to
inspire they need to do this and and and
the Democrats need to do this which is
inspire those people who are just
marginal who like on the right I think
it's like hey I've heard a lot of racist
talk from people but I really feel at
Donald Trump we could do something
racist and that's what's gonna get me
out to vote on the in terms of the
Democrats they have to be convinced that
the person running for president and
you're talking about people of color
largely
black people Latino people that this guy
or woman understands that we have a
problem in this country
and it's not just that we're not white
and I just don't think the Joe Biden's
going to be able to inspire those people
to go out and vote well this is the
thing about you know seeing these kinds
of analyses from from political
reporters and you know and having people
urging the Democrats not to not to
provoke people by embodying diversity or
whatever is like when when the Democrats
are trying to make their their first
political priority be not to provoke
this silent former majority you know
then they don't do the things that would
make the base of people who actually
support the party feel inspired to go
out if they're constantly you know
cringing away from the imagined
criticisms of you know of the real
Americans then they can't articulate who
they who the real real America is and
why they're for it right like people
have this critique of the Democratic
Party where they're like oh they forgot
to do class politics they've abandoned
organized labor they're 100% identity
politics and that's why they lost so
this time around they need to stop doing
that but I don't think they really ever
were for identity politics either except
in a really shallow and pandering way
and it's just now this time around
they're switching a little bit from
pandering to identity politics to
pandering to class politics but they
haven't done either convincingly at all
I mean I think there's been times you
could argue what they've done they've
done that but it but as of late yes it's
a real problem
I mean when you talk when you look back
the past 20 years now I will say that I
will vote for Joe Biden because Donald
Trump is horrible but if I'm demoralized
when I hear that and I know that my
children's future is not incumbent upon
you know significant societal change
and if I know that my prospects are not
contingent upon significant societal
change
and I'm due and I'm still demoralized by
it I got to imagine and maybe I'm guilty
of what Bret Stevens is doing right it's
like sort of like but which is sort of
like too deep but I'm not reinforcing I
think sort of a sense that like I have
that there's some type of baseline I
mean I guess like the the idea is you
know like I'm presuming to know what
will drive people out to the polls on
some level and what they're hoping for
for their for their politicians but I
guess I'm also not promoting something
that ostensibly I'm criticizing yeah I
mean it's it's tricky to talk about look
about you know what's gonna motivate
people the most because it's also true
that you know people are very aware of
how bad Trump is yes and you know
there's gonna be a lot of motivation
behind that and you know I think that's
gonna be the primary driver right I mean
that's what it was in 2018 it seems like
it's yeah I would think it would be and
so you know um
he's the idea that like we're that we'd
be bummed out about Biden and like yeah
but you know people can people can see
this idea you you get into these layers
and layers of people trying to attribute
ideas about like people are trying to
try to be their own pundits people are
trying to sort of guess what other
people are gonna support instead of
going for what they support so but at
the end of that process you've still got
one you've still got a candidate in
against Trump and I think that like
whatever convoluted reasoning people
have followed to get to that point
they're still gonna well then let's go
get a vote I don't think that I don't
think that the difference between any
candidate on the Democratic side is
going to change anybody's vote but it's
how
people are you going to get to go out
and get other votes like that to me
seems to be what the calculus is right
like the number the voting numbers in
Wisconsin and were in Michigan it just
wasn't enough people who voted at the
end of the day it wasn't enough people
who voted and and there's there's a lot
of reasons for why and this is on the
margins it's a small amount of people
but part of the reason could very well
be that there just wasn't enough people
going out and knocking on doors and you
need to have a motivated base to do that
work and I think a lot of that work was
done
the Clinton campaign thought they could
do it through algorithms and they could
just model who was gonna come out and
then they just assumed because in part
of it I think it's because they just
didn't have the volunteer force to go
out in canvas and realize like oh wait a
second we may have a problem here I mean
that's just what we heard from folks in
Pennsylvania anyways in terms of like
well don't you think it's also the
decades of failed neoliberal policies
that kept people from voting like they
didn't think that they had anything to
vote for like there was no evidence that
the Democrats were going to do anything
to improve their circumstances in life
and they weren't necessarily wrong I
mean I don't think that I don't know the
four years earlier they didn't think
that I mean I you know like I I think
that they may have felt like Hillary
Clinton
I don't think they're making that
Universal of a critique let's put it
that way
I think they're just like I just don't
think Clinton's gonna deliver for me I
mean it's conscious and it's unconscious
right because part of it is people are
just too busy and too beaten down trying
to survive to follow politics or to go
out and vote why is also conscious the
question is like why did you have such a
drop off between 2008 and 2012 and then
2016 I mean Donald Trump won with less
votes then then Mitt Romney did and so
the the question is you know why did you
have that drop off well the Clintons
were certainly more associated with
austerity than Obama was I think but but
I would like to get Tom's take on this
actually on the the question of why
people didn't by people were less
you know it's hard to I'm not sure that
the the the the failings of meritocratic
neoliberalism I don't know that it's
that it's necessarily the sort of
emotional response in the public to it I
think that that one big aspect of this
is that voting conditions got worse and
I think that people that when you got a
party that you know as Alex Perrine
likes to talk about right that you have
the party of people who are were there
big the people who are in charge or
there because they did well in their L
SATs right I feel like there's this idea
that that if the conditions are unfair
well we we're gonna play by the rules
that are in place and we're gonna win
and if we need to get like 58% of the
vote to get fifty point five percent of
the of the legislature then we just
gotta get 58 percent of the vote you
know and so this I think that against
the the background of you know ongoing
suppression and interference with
people's ability to easily go out and
cast ballots
you know there's certain complacency
about that that people don't want to
talk about that because then you're
being a sore loser then you like haven't
haven't won the meritocratic voting
contest when you know it's people's the
message should just be to make it easier
for people to vote I mean I think Ari
Berman did an analysis at least in
Wisconsin that was basically yeah the
you just look at the voters who are
allowed to vote in 28 2012 20 for 20 in
2012 and that would have made the
difference in Wisconsin at least and and
and I think I guess my argument is like
if I've got to wait in line for three
hours which I don't have to do in a
white district but I do have to do in a
black district and I gotta wait in line
for three hours
do I want to wait in line you know the
the difference between waiting in line
with for somebody that you think is
gonna win right cuz everybody thought
that Hillary Clinton was gonna win for
the most part
and you're not terribly inspired by her
you're like yeah I'll let somebody else
do it and it doesn't take many people
think that way and you add in actual
suppression where it's just like I'm not
allowed to vote anymore and and those
things begin to add up to 10,000 people
11,000 people to 2% one person I don't
know how what what percentage that is of
a hundred and the the whatever the two
hundred and twenty million people that
vote I mean these things are not
mutually exclusive right and you had
yeah who is the perfect storm of
circumstances there was voter
suppression like actual intentional
voter suppression there was the de-facto
voter suppression of you know the
recession and the incredibly unequal
recovery that did not help everyone and
really continues to flag to this day
there's the sense of giving up that the
Democrats are not going to do anything
for working-class people and in fact
have done terrible things to
working-class people like people
remember the crime bill people remember
welfare reform like people don't forget
like working-class people aren't stupid
and I think people really understand
this when they're talking about they
like to talk about the white
working-class in their economic anxiety
right and whatever role that played in
electing Trump I think that's much less
important than the economic anxiety of
working-class people of color and the
large numbers of people who did not turn
out to vote for the Democrats and never
would have voted for Trump to begin with
so it's also important you know the the
flip side of that framework though is
that you know there's the tendency to to
look at tens of thousands of white
working-class voters or theoretically
working-class voters in Wisconsin you
know as opposed to like the millions of
non-white working-class voters in
California and like it's you know when
you're when you're writing in the
verdict on like who was mobilized to
vote in in 2016 it's like worth
remembering that
there was a large numerical advantage
for one side still writing to all two
like the sort of moral repugnance of
centering any working-class people who
may have voted for Trump the last time
around there there's just fewer of them
than there are people who did not vote
for her right but Tom's I I think point
is like why did those working-class
people of color in California have a
different opinion than those people a
working-class color in Wisconsin but the
other thing too is I think that when you
know because of because of the very fact
that that when an election is decided by
such a small margin anything can be
attributed yes to it being the cause I
think you also have seen you know
there's there are people out there who
are arguing that the Democrats went to
progressive in Georgia and you know they
could have won a close election if that
which is I mean it's it's nonsense but
because it's a close election they feel
entitled to you know you can make any
argument you want yeah so so they're you
get exactly the opposite idea that like
if they'd just gone centrist they could
have you know I don't know maybe there
were huh blocking secretary of state
wouldn't have suppressed the vote is
hard or something right I don't know but
like but that's the theory right when
it's that close you know you you just
sort of always argue that they should
have done it your way and then there has
been a weird Democratic acquiescence to
or at least it's been sort of just
completely unaddressed you know when you
have going back to John Kerry you know
revealing years later that ya know there
was something really fishy about Ohio
yeah dude that would have been a it's I
mean this is a problem that Democrats
have had I think you know from the
moment that I can't remember who it was
now said to Al Gore like was it daily I
think it was Bill Daley I think who was
working Gore's campaign like Gore was
like we got to count all these votes in
Florida and he's like Daly was like look
black people their votes don't count
half the time you can't complain about
this stuff you
got to take it and I mean there was some
like quote like that that was somehow
using the the fact that there's been
voter suppression against black people
to sort of say like you shouldn't fight
for this election to win this election
and you see Kara Kerry having done the
same thing and you see the failure the
Democrats when they get into office to
just pass like some reforms in terms of
voting like I understand you want to
save your cash a for for health care but
how much you have to really expend when
it comes to just sort of fair voting
practices that you know are going to
help you in the future to maintain power
to gain power and to all the way to
Chris Coons and Joe Biden saying the
other yesterday I think it was like we
can't get rid of the filibuster right
well I think and I think that you can
see it around impeachment as well which
is that you know one of the things and
what are the defining features of the
the Democratic establishment is this
terror of any sort of articulated
questioning of the fundamental
legitimacy of anything right right so if
you you know what they're seeing is that
if you they believe it partly because
they have this very static model of how
public opinion responds to impeachment
but you know they think well you impeach
Trump and it goes to the Senate and the
Senate acquits him then you have like
laid bare the fact that the whole system
is a joke and that there's you know
there's a constitutional mechanism for
removing corrupt and incompetent
president doesn't work right and so you
don't want to do that you don't want to
put it's better to preemptively assume
that the system won't work and then
pretend that you're just not doing it
because you don't feel like it then to
have a public display of the truth that
the system won't work right as opposed
to we don't want a constitutional crisis
and therefore we're just going to break
the Constitution so to annoyed people to
pretend
that this part of the Constitution
doesn't exist because if we tried to use
it it wouldn't work and that's you know
that seems like a pretty bad idea
a pretty bad way to run the
constitutional government like all this
 can be explained by three days of
the Condor that's a that's basically it
that's my stance on all of it all I mean
that I mean the it is a real problem
that the Democrats they keep hoping that
it'll just change and it's it's just not
going to like this this notion of these
things that are broken they keep
allowing they did it with Merrick
garland yeah I mean Obama could have
said like okay you know you're gonna
play this game Americo Garland's not
going to get a hearing instead of just
sort of like letting it drag out and
make it like boy Mitch people are gonna
be really upset at you someday he could
have said okay I'm now going to nominate
a series of justices and I'm gonna
nominate an african-american woman I'm
gonna nominate my own thought I was
talking to it I'm gonna nominate a whole
series of people that you're gonna have
to say no to you're gonna have to
completely disregard so that we're gonna
make some politics out of this and he
didn't do it he wouldn't do a real
missed opportunity all right let's go do
you uh you want to hang out and talk a
little bit about this because I think
this is sort of fascinating there has
been a she would go to the fun half
earth Freight freebie Friday let's just
what are you gonna freebie Friday in
folks but make sure that you become a
member by going to join the majority
reports.com
when you do we give you extra content
like the content we're about to give you
and also you support the free show you
can become a member at joining the
majority report com don't forget just
coffee freak just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code Maggiore to get ten percent off and
listen to our a.m. quickie
is doing gangbusters in the morning and
it's really the one time you can hear
how damaged my voice sounds when I wake
up I've noticed lately Jamie do you want
to make a plug for the anti Fattah oh
yeah sure so this week on the anti
Fattah we had a little boys chat episode
where Sean and Andi and a little bit
Jake Flores talked about the Manson
murders they set forth some very
convincing theories around that actually
how there was some really sketchy
government involvement there maybe
MKULTRA it was I was convinced I found a
compelling and Oh today I have a new
episode of vampire Castle my side
project with Leslie Lee the third from
struggle session wherein we talk about
actual vampires so that is out for
patrons now check it out Matt yeah
literary hangover this weekend for
patrons is going to be a episode on
Orwell's a-hanging which is a sort of
anti capital punishment essay he wrote
before he was actually known as George
Orwell and yeah it's very eloquent so to
check that out alright let's let's talk
about this because there's a lot of
there's a lot of issues involved in this
too apparently there's this guy Steven
Ross who is a private developer and a
very very wealthy man and he has done
some wonderful things like he has headed
something called what is it that he
calls it like a rye rise arise and this
is an anti-racist organization which is
great that he's doing that work and he's
putting that money in there that is that
is a very nice thing for him to do I
would prefer confiscatory taxes but
that's not you know if he's gonna have
that money it's and he considers himself
quote a champion of racial equality
inclusion diversity public education and
environmental sustainability that's
great because a lot of rich people are
jerks that's right nice it's nice to
hear about someone who you know whose is
supports good things now maybe a little
bit early to make the assessment about
the jerk part
he also happens to be the owner of the
Miami Dolphins and here is Kenny Stills
he is a wide receiver with the Dolphins
Matt tells me he's replacement value no
he's above he's above a replacement
value so he's a quality wide receiver
and he has become aware of the fact that
Ross is holding according to the
Washington Post an event I think it's in
the Hamptons I'm not sure where to raise
money for Donald Trump and Tom I don't
know about you but I cannot afford to go
yeah it starts at twenty five hundred
bucks I don't know I think actually
tickets are priced at a hundred thousand
for a photo opportunity yeah there's a
there's a big escalating scale like I
feel like it was it was if I remember
the prices already was like twenty five
hundred to get in but then you're
getting into the five figures for to be
in the VIP section and then for the
photo it goes crazy yeah and then
everybody has access to the photo that's
right every is two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars for the package that
includes a roundtable discussion so
we're looking at millions of dollars
being raised
you would think unless it's very lonely
in the tent unless it's very lonely
maybe there's just hundreds of thousands
for for Donald Trump being raised and
Kenny Stills has a message for who
amounts to be basically his boss being
you it's weeded out in response to mr.
Ross holding a fundraiser for President
Trump your thoughts after that tweets
still and the fact that he's holding
that fundraiser tomorrow yeah I mean my
thoughts are they haven't changed
the tweet is what it is so what I said
now for somebody who's so active in the
community especially for the Dolphins
and the rise initiative do you kind of
feel like it's almost a betrayal or a
hypocritical sense in a sense that's
what I was saying in the tweet is that I
just didn't really make much sense to me
for what the mission statement was for
rise and you know what they're setting
out to do doesn't make sense for me to -
or to me for him to be trying to are to
be supporting the man's campaign who is
seems to be against all the things you
know he's trying to work towards Steven
Ross who stood armed is stupid I'm sure
at some point I mean the same thing that
I've already said it just doesn't make
sense to me it doesn't align you know to
be running a non-profit focus on
equality and talking about sports and
equality and then to be holding a
fundraiser for a man that we know you
know isn't standing up for that
sub-clause or champion that same cause
good for that guy seriously say that
about his boss I mean it's pretty
straightforward
it's pretty straightforward and
apparently two people should know that
Ross sits on the board of or he's the
CEO Z the CEO he sits on the board of
the company that owns SoulCycle and
Equinox which are - I don't know if
they're national brands but they're big
in New York City and I'm sort of
expensive this also Briggs meets I did I
interrupt you I interrupted you didn't
do well I wanted to just say that the
equinox and solstice you do statement
saying they do not support the Trump
fundraiser and this is what's sort of
stunning to me okay he responded to
criticism in a statement on Wednesday
saying that he's always been an active
participant in the democratic process
and this is what he said this is what
this is this is a stunning statement I
have known Donald Trump for 40 years and
while we agree on some issues we
strongly disagree on many others and I
have never been bashful about expressing
my opinions
so here it is you're doing some bad
stuff
here's several million dollars to keep
on doing it yeah what Sigyn is he gonna
like rake aside half the money to go to
the people against Donald Trump to
reflect that parts that he disagrees
with or is just all the money going to
Donald Trump that's right a guy I could
have raised a hundred million dollars
but as you know I disagree with 60% of
what you do so here's a check for 40
yeah and this is the real base of Donald
Trump by the way like I didn't mean to
imply earlier that poor whites are
voting for Trump in large numbers poor
whites by and large do not vote poor
people by and large do not vote the
people who are voting for Trump giving
money to Trump and supporting Trump are
the same people by and large who always
vote for Republicans which is to say
people who own gyms and gym franchises
and whatnot I mean this is this is you
know this is this is the the the bottom
line you know the I I don't know why
people would necessarily be surprised
about about a guy like Ross supporting
him but it's this this notion of like
I'm a billionaire and I've criticized
him to his face and so my giving him
several million dollars that me giving
him three hundred thousand dollars to
sit at a table with him and like no no
he's not giving the three hundred
thousand dollars to sit at the table
he's probably already giving him that no
he's he's supplying the table all right
the one who's getting all the other rich
people to come in and pay that oh yeah
the other guys were gonna pay three
hundred you also mean you know they
probably also disagree with him on
important things they very well may they
feel bad about it but I'm willing to pay
him 250 grand so I can sit at a table
and tell him I disagree with his trade
policy and here's the thing is that and
I already here Dave Rubin on Twitter
bemoaning the fact that everything has
become so politicized like you know like
their friends and I I think this should
be the rule you could have friends
sure and you can be friendly with Donald
Trump if you want you're behind my beer
well I am a beer if I'm if I'm a soda
buy a diet coke
exactly but when you do a political
fundraiser for him
that's a political act I mean it almost
goes without saying since the word
political fundraiser is part of the word
Politico the words political it's not
even just like well he you know he's my
friend he's running for office I feel
like I should give him some money you're
you are bringing other people in you're
asking people to come and give him even
more money right it's not you know
that's that's not I mean I I wish my
friends would do that and your cap at
your ability to do this is predicated on
all those businesses that other people
buy or pay for and so you cannot divorce
the enormous amount of money that you
are arranging and providing for Donald
Trump's political campaign from the way
that you raise it and so the the idea
that you know that these things
shouldn't be politicized is absurd yeah
I mean I'm not a big sports head but it
seems to be if ever there's an industry
very ripe for being taken over and run
by the workers it's professional sports
right because these people have a skill
that is very difficult to replace and
what are the owners do like nothing well
that's not true they're the ones who get
the tax breaks and the funding from the
cities okay that's true they're the
conduit they're the ones who show up in
a sweet-ass car and convince some some
local bureaucrats yeah actually we
should try to get athletes to take some
more initiative on that sort of thing
there's really no reason why like they
couldn't do it yeah it was like the
stage is set like you just have the the
unions basically just say like guess
what we're gonna set up our own and I
don't know at first what you need I mean
you would I mean you'd think that but I
just feel like there was a I think that
there were some really grim lessons to
be learned from the Colin Kaepernick
situation right I feel that that I think
it just seemed like you mean in terms of
who the other players are know in terms
of like
what owners and fans are willing to
sacrifice for the sake of their politics
you know I mean you've had lots of
there's such a rich history of teams and
playing like terrible people and being
like look you know I don't I don't like
what he's been serially acquitted of but
you know he helps us win and we got to
make it happen and you know that they
had really effectively created this idea
of sports is this a moral realm where
like if you could contribute to the team
you were gonna be being no matter what
and then NFL teams chose to lose games
rather than employee Colin Kaepernick
right they like right they chose to
bring out guys who were objectively
terrible at playing quarterback and to
lose football games and to have like you
know tens of thousands of people sit in
the stadium and watch some schmuck throw
the ball into the ground rather than let
Colin Kaepernick have a job and so when
you see that I mean it's it's the the
owners in the league but the and you
know but the fans kept showing up the
fans kept showing up right so that's a
really sort of grim measure of how much
they feel like they can damage the
product for ideological reasons and not
suffer for it so well the the idea of
the players taking over though is is a
different one like if you end up with
the same product and they were just like
they would just own equity like it's
almost like the argument they make about
things like uber like if you could get
it's harder I think in some ways it's
harder to do it with uber drivers well
yet all of the uber drivers who don't
know each other they don't show up at
the same place to work they don't hang
out in the same place if you could get
them to get a loan to develop to an app
developer then boom you're in business
it says then the drivers are losing five
billion dollars a quarter
what's it well probably not not needing
to do the the same they don't have the
same sort of like editorial for
expansion exactly
and yes the NFL outlawed for instance
what the
Green Bay Packers situation with their
City there and I think if a city like
Green Bay can do it I mean maybe it's
easier if it's smaller but I mean
financially they can raggle it all right
but it's not just this is not
theoretical the idea that people don't
like the idea of political boycotts ben
shapiro you're just good zoom in on ben
shapiro this thing here first here's Ben
Shapiro this is I'm not sure Tom if
you're aware of who he is but he is the
aware pillar of the conservative
intellect in the country yeah I got a
whole sidebar on ben shapiro if you want
it I I do let's do this video let's
let's talk about this this first and
then I want to hear the sidebar but ben
shapiro went on to say oh my god OMG
he's really down with the kids he's
younger yes there's young kids so we
have lost for was it I forget what the
deficit and OMG the guy who owns
equinoxes favors
I'm surprised in safe fades but whatever
Equinox favors a candidate half the
country doesn't like the only solution
is politically segregated gyms surely
that will be good for the country and
the idea is that somehow like you've
politicized everything is the equinox
all around the country or just in New
York that's good question all over I
don't know we're all such coastal elites
we don't even know the answer to that
also not to be pedantic to the cool kids
philosopher but it's more than half the
country that doesn't like Trump right
indeed yeah that's a little knows a
little bit of finesse he had there and
Cody Johnston of some more news of some
more news fame on YouTube just wrote
backbend period and retweeted ben
shapiro tweeting I cancelled my Sports
Illustrated subscription after 16 years
last year because of the leftist
politics and so ben shapiro this guy is
too sharp can't get away with this sorry
Cody back I'm sorry you're Stu Stu
to recognize the basic difference
between cancelling a magazine because of
the content of the magazine that would
be the leftist politics in the magazine
presumably and cancelling a membership
to a gym where I like everything but the
owner happens to donate to a politician
I don't like so the idea being
ycd platforming Sports Illustrated from
his mailbox
well these deep platforming Sports
Illustrated but the reason is because he
doesn't like the content he would never
for instance say I'm going to stop my
doing business with you in whatever
capacity I'm doing business because of a
political opinion or action that you
have that has nothing to do with my
business that's what he's saying Cody
yeah your social space is different yeah
it's very basic stuff it's a clear
distinction and then Cody tries to shoot
back with hi my good friend Ben Shapiro
who has not muted me and thus everyone
knows that you're reading this just
thought I'd pop in to remind you of the
times you organized boycotts against
Mozilla and Ritz crackers despite having
no issue with the quality or content of
their products and here's a story Ben
Shapiro's website protest Mozilla after
co-founders resignation over prop 8
that's weird that seems somewhat
inconsistent with the point that Ben
just made that was Mozilla's content get
into prop 80 or something yeah yeah do
anti prop 80 oh right right right yeah
because you know that some of the HTML I
heard at that point like if you if you
tried to bold to anything on your wet on
your web site it would just immediately
redirect you to an anti a prop 8 site
and then of course there was this who
could forget this I think just about
everybody because it was you saying
almost 20 years ago Al Sharpton referred
to Caucasians as crackers while speaking
at keene college and this is from Time
magazine
so of course nearly two decades later
conservative activists have called for a
boycott of Ritz crackers which
advertises on Sharpton's MSNBC show
Sharpton doesn't dislike all crackers
boycott leader
and Breitbart news editor ben shapiro
writes the truth revolt website this is
almost like an ad for Ritz crackers it's
so when was this was this boycott well
if he was with that stance right bar it
would have been probably like four or
five years ago okay so I'm just trying
to like subtract 20 years plus however
many other years from Ben's age how long
he's been carrying this grudge sitting
there with with this is from 2013 the
Ritz crackers yeah so would have been
ninety ninety three is when Sharpton
referred to almost 20 years so been so
994 me how old is Shapiro well that's I
mean he's not as young as he as he is
marketed does right do we do we know how
old he is but I'm just I really am
curious at what age he would have us
believe that he tucked his grievance
about 35 is 35 oh my god he's older than
me Lowell that's Sonny so 35 that would
have placed him how old would he have
been in 93 about 10 9 10 now it's very
possible his mom said here been here's a
cracker just like what Al Sharpton
called us could be I mean you know it's
it's old enough to be politically aware
and he could have been like dammit
some day he was streaming on YouTube I
think like about three years after that
yeah that's right that's what that's
what's inspired him what what is the
side bar the side bar is just like I
don't know this there he's managed to
keep himself in the discourse I just
feel like if you like we're honest run
like a Twitter search on is sort of
basic like positions on race I it's
disgusting to me that this guy's even at
the table like I've I've I've given up
on like you know I resist the urge to
even dunk on him on on Twitter when he
says stupid stuff because I don't want
to engage on with him on that level I
just feel like this guy who's like you
know called Ferguson a hoax not you know
not the congested details of Michael
Browns shooting borah hoax but like
Ferguson was
race hoax skip gates was a race hoax you
know go to hell I don't need to hear
from you kid I do like it though when
somebody owns him and shows that his you
know cool kids philosopher I'm talking
really fast therefore I'm smart
intellectual framework is completely
alive yeah he's a dope well and the the
I mean in speaking of someone who does
engage him on that level
on occasion the the important thing is
is that you make it difficult for people
like the New York Times to write
something like that about him like
that's the where I mean I don't care
about ben shapiro
at all as a human being or is any entity
i you know if he was I'd be perfectly
happy to have him sitting in his
apartment saying this stuff or at the
wherever wherever he wants but but as
public discourse the idea is to sort of
make sure that he is not promoted by by
what is considered mainstream right no
it's just my when the times does it in
addition to their recognizing that he's
an idiot that I wish they would just
like recognized that he has you know a
history of being the straight-out racist
and in a way that's like not sort of no
it's not even like sort of Tucker
Carlson level cuteness it's just like
yeah : Paulus on an old tweet called :
pawn in front of action you know hire
basically wolf yeah that's like pretty
rancid you want rancid we have more
rancid so here is this is a clip as you
know there were about 680 immigrants who
were rounded up in was it in Mississippi
yeah I think they were mostly in Jackson
Mississippi Wednesday night the largest
was at a coke agricultural I think
and there is some question as to whether
it was a coincidence that all these
people were rounded up after there had
been numerous complaints to government
agencies about the working conditions at
these places as if there was a message
to be sent you're here so that we can
exploit you and keep you terrorized in
some measure we appreciate the work
you're doing but we're going to under
pay you we're going to sexually harass
you we're gonna harass you on the job
and you're going to take it otherwise
we'll put you in jail and separate you
from your children there is other
footage you can find out there too of
people at these places call them for
their mom let's let's play this clip
this first one is an 11 year old girl
her name is Matt Alania Gomez both let's
just leave it at that I don't want to
give the whole last name frankly and she
was on the channel 12 news and gets the
local news and here she's just I don't
know where they found her probably
outside of the ice facility or maybe
outside of the factory Brad oh is that
the Bell so with my dad to be free and a
veil kreygasm genetic bomb is
no he has been asleep or not doing
nothing bad just inside the company
just get her dad's out of there That's
not me I'm against yet you just see what
I'm doing I'm crying cuz of my heart
that was Cera's or grinding their wife
in their husbands or now cuz the
immigrants took everything for me to
live over here she uses the word
immigrants for ice in this because she's
only 11 and the idea that you know I
don't know how many of those six or 700
people had have children or wives or
husbands or sisters or brothers or
parents or whatnot but I mean I don't we
all feel safer now don't we all feel
like we're in a better position and
those jobs now I guess presumably are
gonna open up for Americans or are they
just going to take you know I don't know
maybe they'll build now then the next
crew of immigrants that they get in
there will understand that you got to
take the abuse know what's up or you're
gonna be sent back good this is it shows
exactly why the criminalization of
migration is absolutely a capitalist
project and it's absolutely a ruling
class project because when you have
out there like this when you have people
scared that their kids are going to be
crying and have nothing to eat and can't
get to school they're going to be a lot
less likely to try to form unions
they're going to be a lot less likely to
stick up for themselves and that's
exactly what the ruling class wants and
if you are wondering like what kind of
punishment are they going to give to the
Koch organization as far as I know none
there may we may end up seeing some type
of fine there was an interesting piece
in The Times today for nearly two
decades the Trump Organization is relied
on a roving crew of Latin American
employees to build fountains in
waterfalls sidewalks and rock walls at
the company's winery and golf courses
from New York to Florida other employees
that Trump clubs are so impressed by the
laborers who did strenuous work with
heavy stone that they nicknamed them
Louis Pacific Piedras Spanish for the
Flintstones and for years their ranks
have included workers who entered the
United States illegally according to two
former members of the crew another
employee still with the company that
remains to today said that President
Trump doesn't want on documented people
in the country said one worker
Jorge Castro 55 year old immigrant from
Ecuador with legal status who left the
company in April after nine years but
had his properties he still hasn't so I
mean it's just unbelievable and here's
another clip from those same ice raids
this horrible ice raided several
companies across Mississippi this
morning all at once
the operation took nearly 700 people
into custody
Wednesday morning raids took place
surprising workers on site but in the
afternoon US attorney Mike Hurst
unveiled the details HSI special agents
executed administrative and criminal
search warrants
resulting in the detention of
approximately 680 illegal aliens one of
the sites was at the pinko Foods in
Canton Tony Frazier says he works there
and saw what happened all of a sudden
the crime he's handing you a letter to
give to his wife his piece
families are now trying to find their
loved ones like 10 year-old Stephen
Matthias who's searching for his mother
we can try to get
so that she doesn't experience she
doesn't want to go back to de life she
was back in her country the acting
director of ice says each case is
handled on an individual basis some of
the parents that were arrested will be
released they'll be placed on an ankle
monitor and be monitored throughout the
pendency of their immigration
proceedings this is an ongoing federal
criminal investigation it's just
unbelievable the where all these people
are paying taxes like it's just like
kind of like this the the just I mean
even from like for one moment step back
from like just let's just put ourselves
in the minds of someone who's just
completely inhumane from even a
practical standpoint like what is the
upside to this these are all all of
these people are paying taxes the taxes
are deducted from their paychecks but I
think it keeps the workers scared and
frightened and afraid to stand up for
themselves I'm talking about the
practicality I understand what the
practicality is to two people who want
to exploit these people but I'm just
saying from your from anyone else for
anyone else no and I think people can
understand that which is why I get
annoyed when people say oh the left
should only focus on mass action
immigrant rights don't affect everyone
they absolutely do and the average
worker understands that they don't want
their fellow worker to be taken away and
locked in a cage right I mean you talk
about social cohesion there's a you know
there's this this guy who saw I don't
know how many dozens of guys folks that
he would work with on the in the factory
you know taking away and watching their
families and watching their kids cry he
did a note to give to kids from a parent
and well and the thing the thing about
it is too that I you know this this is
like a spectacle right ice decided to do
this yeah I just decided to do this
within a week of an elimination Nastase
a cur of immigrants right somebody
went to the Walmart and slaughtered
people because they were furious about
the immigrant invasion that the
president and FoxNews keep talking about
right that happened on the weekend and
then nobody dice said well maybe we
should like backburner this one the
opposite they they escalated and you
know that's the thing that's the context
for the like you know Trump calls for
unity versus racism or whatever that
this same week as somebody freelanced a
massacre in support of this of the
anti-immigration messaging the federal
government escalated its own enforcement
actions came in with their own body
armor their own weapons this time at
least what they did is they instead of
just separating the families by killing
them right they just they put them in
jail you know and the footage of the
crying children there was you know
there's some you know some people have
criticized you should we be like putting
the cameras on these children and this
time of the trouble but it's just to be
it like felt exactly like the footage of
the kids being led out of Sandy Hook
they're like an atrocity had happened
yeah and these children were suffering
because of something terrible that had
just been done and like that you know
that and people I think have have
reacted to it on those terms too you
know and again and also the thing is
right that that we're having this news
cycle about SoulCycle right we're having
this news cycle about our people being
too mean to Trump supporters this week
right
like lucky and Castro tweeted out the
list of El Paso based or just an
attorney base right because he's yes an
attorney tweeted out a list of the the
people who maxed out their donations to
Trump you know and then there's like a
tantrum about daxing people for their
political beliefs which you know I mean
their addresses warning warned included
was just than just their names but like
should be should people be targeted for
their support of Trump and what happened
is we've you know we've fallen into this
this you know one side than the other
news cycle we're now we're gonna have an
argument about whether Trump's opponents
have been too rude and uncivil and
whether it's fair to target people who
support Trump you know in these ways and
are these boycotts impinging on on
people's livelihoods is Right Livelihood
and and you know ability to freely
participate in the democratic process
and so you know there's I think tweeting
about this earlier today is there's like
two ways you can construe this week's
news cycle you can have this one
right where like Trump did something
controversial and then did overreaction
was there did they overreact what you
know has the backlash against Trump gone
too far so that's one way you can talk
about what's happened in the past week
the other way you can talk about what
happened in the past week is what we
were saying before which is that there
was a massacre against immigrants and
then there was a heavy federal law
enforcement action designed to put on a
public show of suppressing immigrants
you know and and are you a supporters
raising millions of dollars along the
way supporters raising millions of
dollars for him right that is are you
are we talking here about a sort of
cyclical politics that's being
transacted among the people who are who
are politicians and you know political
donors or are we describing an
escalating politics of xenophobia and
persecution right and like it seems
pretty clear to me which one is is a
more persuasive frame to put around this
week's events right I mean the the
notion of like we can't get we have to
maintain civility and we can't play I
mean look what Castro did is exactly
what the system is designed for right
like the whole reason why donation you
had why you have an index like this is
to say that like we need to know who is
funding who right and there you know and
there's certainly room to talk about
like overall given the sort of the way
that the Twitter
amplifies things and calls to action you
know the the fact that something exists
as public information is not a
get-out-of-jail-free card obviously like
you like somebody's number up in the
phone book and it's in the photo of
course you tweet out there the phone
number that you looked up in the phone
book like yes that's a different
category thing with public record but
max donors to the President of the
United States is not like a sensitive
class of people like you do you don't
get to to be a top donor to the
president and want and treat that as
private behavior that's public behavior
you're publicly and if people are
worried about that type of thing if
people feel that we don't want to get we
don't want our politics to become so
debased where if you give money to a
friend like you're Ross and you're you
know you help out a friend who've known
for 40 years or if you just give money
there is a solution to that and the
solution is publicly financed campaigns
if people are afraid of like having to
not have their vote secret and want you
publicly financed campaigns like I mean
there are mechanisms if we really decide
like we you know you shouldn't you
shouldn't be penalized you know for
wanting to do the maximum to have your
preferred candidate win then let's
eliminate actually giving money to that
candidate and then you're not going to
ever be held to count on that I mean
there's the in other words there's
mechanisms if we think that's a real
problem
there's mechanisms in which to deal with
that right and then you wouldn't have to
feel bad about the parts of his agenda
that you don't support exactly after
exactly actually it would increase the
value of you criticizing him vocally
because you're not offsetting it with
you know he asked you for money to go I
would except for we're not allowed to
give any money and you know but I'm
still I still I think you're great
here's what I can do I can praise the
thing where I can phrase your tax cut
because I liked it yeah I can criticize
your
because I don't agree with them and and
you know now I have spoken I've put my
voice out into the public - and I'm a
billionaire my voice counts here's uh
much they'd much rather sit back and let
the white working-class get blamed for
Trump yes call from a six one zero area
code who's this where you come from
six one seven at six excuse me six one
zero area code who's this where you come
from
hello ma'am yes ma'am yes hello hello
Mike from Kenya Mike from Pennsylvania
how are you Mike I'm good uh can I just
say that the deportation is one of the
tactics of ethnic cleansing so when Iced
organized that huge raid a week after a
mass killing days I mean it is it's just
it's the exact same thing it's just a
different strategy right and tom was
just making I didn't see any exactly
yeah I didn't see any executives being
led out and handcuffs that had hired all
those people in fact Trump pardoned an
executive who had been convicted of
hiring illegal immigrants I think it was
like six months ago I didn't recall that
so hey but here's the amazing thing
on one hand these executives are so
genius that they deserve 75 times more
in salary than their average worker or
120 times more whatever it is but at the
same time they're also incapable of
telling whether they have hired people
who are not really who they say they are
it's hard it's hard to thread that
needle it is it's you know you have a
very specific skill set yes as a CEO
yeah you have to simultaneously be
totally and confident with labor law and
the basic organization
fact-checking put some but very
successful at directing revenue streams
and ways to avoid taxes to the maximum
degree yeah yeah they don't teach that
in squirrel they probably do but no they
that's most of the curriculum um I
wanted to call because I don't know if
you've been paying attention to the
twitch TV platform the past couple days
I at all I have not I can't say that
that has been on the top of my list of
things to pay it's a pay attention why
what has happened well two major events
happen within this community and the
first of which and in my opinion the
more important one was that I mic from
PA debated top twitch streamer destiny
on the electability of Bernie versus
Biden and pretty much universally was
declared the winner
I heard and my small I by impromptu
twitch stream with my shitty laptop
webcam received four thousand followers
overnight Wow and hundreds of paid
hundreds of paid subscribers fantastic
pretty amazing and then to follow up on
that majority report co-host Michael
Brooks as he builds himself debated
that's the billing I know he was the
co-host but that's okay we had everybody
choose their handles here these are
baited destiny as well on TPP and
foreign trade agreements yeah and
someone of esta knees fans trial uh
tallied up the time speaking and he out
spoke destiny
five to one thirty minutes to ten Wow
who is this guy cuz he sounds like a
pickup artist no I mean I mean I yeah I
mean I don't want to do it on this guy I
mean I know like you know when we spoke
to that I'm not he is not a pickup
artist he's he you know he's a former
like starcraft professional gamer he got
into politics and largely has you know
in the gamer community he's mostly a
force for good any you know anti racism
basically they again
he does like anti racism debates
basically right Cain is it we've got an
interview with Caleb McCain the vacation
and Caleb cites him is the one who
basically pulled him out of you know
sort of the spiral he was in for all
right and so healthy contribution my
believe me my fantasy is a world where
where people are debate having such
debates and that's the that is the that
is the size of the the spectrum of
debates that are happening that is the
that is the range where it's you know
where you know and I don't want and he
says he supports you know Bernie and
Warren he he just didn't understand the
past because no one explains why
Bernie's more electable and I did you
know using voter studies it's actually
pretty interesting if you go over to Tim
bytes which it's called central
underscore committee you go over there
you can watch this you can watch the the
vaad and see the debate and he you know
he's a really I don't want anybody to
get the impression that he's horrible in
every way he's not he's a great guy in
very generous to do that um and help
promote you know he's a big fan of
majority report I know you went on yep
on his like business yeah yeah yeah well
Oh a great guy people should check it
out that is central underscore committee
you don't actually sell out underscore
right you just do a natural and just
know
yeah the in actual underscore yeah well
that is banking what this verifying
marketing 101 but Mike appreciate yeah
I failed yeah bye-bye I don't know why
anybody puts an underscore in the middle
of there because the other one is taken
yeah yeah but I mean just I mean the
worst if we're honest is putting our
underscore at the beginning of your
Twitter handle you know who does that
who does that underscore Michael Brooks
Oh does he
I in my defense I did not know that
Twitter was gonna be a thing when I
chose my name I did not think that hard
about it and it's weird cuz I've
literally never used my middle name for
anything but I was like you know why not
to throw it in there do asterik instead
of underscore oh no if that's even
allowed is it oh speaking of debates by
the way I very much enjoyed seeing his
sign
debate socialism versus capitalism with
his uncle boss Chang Kyogre the other
day yeah he said that I did I tried to
watch it but I couldn't I guess I had
missed the stream or something I don't
know I'll track it down for you
it was amazing calling on a four one
nine area code who's this where you
calling from for what - yes hi this is
drew I'm calling from Toledo Ohio drew
what's on your mind so I had actually
emailed majority reporters uh last week
about the rally in Detroit I don't know
if you guys saw that I don't think we
did okay so um I was there volunteering
to help out at the TYT rally outside the
debate
sorry about that is the first time I've
ever called and gone through so I'm a
little nervous
know about it you're doing great so Eric
Bolling tried to get into our crowd to
you know to harass to go to talk to jank
and interrupt things and I was
personally charged with basically body
blocking him to stop him from doing so
okay and there's a link in the email to
a Twitter video that he posted but I
actually signed up for blaze TV for the
trial account so that I could
get the the full episode which a friend
of mine uploaded an unlisted copy on to
YouTube
okay and I could pass that along to you
guys if you're interested sure what's in
it I mean is it I mean I don't want to
get I don't want to feel too much
anticipation like what is it that we're
we're watching here okay so basically at
the beginning of it he approaches from
kind of you know the outside of the
crown he's interviewing a few people
trying to get you know provocative
responses which with his provocative
questions and I'm not really able to do
that much he tried to get several people
to say that it was okay for the recent
people they've been throwing water on
cops or something I saw a couple videos
of that okay and then he so he
personally came up and at he was calling
out he's like hey Cinque st. come talk
to a sink and I said you can't hear it
on the film but I say to him maybe he
would be more willing to talk to you if
you pronounce his name correctly and
then you can see him walk up to me and
say so what is how do you pronounce it I
said why don't you watch some of the
YouTube videos okay but okay well I mean
I don't need every I don't need the
everyone that's fair that's fair but
what was there was there something in
particular that what that is that was of
note that you know has I mean look to be
honest like Eric Bolling boil it but
whatever his name is he's not that
relevant anymore with all due respect
everyone I know I you know I've been
there I'm there I'm just as irrelevant
as you are but he was more relevant back
in the day and then he's not he's just
that's why he's supposed to oh I'm sorry
well that's why he's trying to muscle
his way and to talk to Jack at hey
outside of night I mean I mean I suppose
it's just it was interesting because he
decided later on in the episode or
whoever was doing the editing and
producing and what not they they
personally called me out in the in the
lower third or the chyron or whatever
it says watch the guy in the blue shirt
closely he comes after Eric and then
they you know they I was in 15 minutes
of the 23 minute episode so I don't know
I it's I hung up pictures of the the
thing I my desk at work and I've been
telling everyone about it well all I can
tell you is good for you good for you
I appreciate it I think that anytime
that you can make Eric Bolling's life
you know just a little bit more
inconvenient in terms of like his trying
to generate some type of I don't know
narrative like that is good I appreciate
the call
keep up the good work and now I know who
do if we ever do anything like that who
I'm into contact as my body guy that's
alright time for one more call come from
a 702 area code who's this where he come
from
hey Sam it's bro flamingo from Las Vegas
bro flamingo from Las Vegas what's on
your mind hey how you doing today I'm
doing all right how are you doing hey uh
I really enjoyed it guess um he's still
here this one time we talk about him
like he's naughty I know I know but I
enjoyed the guys because you guys were
having but I'm it's out to Jamie uh you
know Sam I'm getting a really big 2016
vibes from the media now and I really
think you know with the breakouts with
the breakout stars Bernie of course but
also Warren you know these guys don't
know what to do and it's becoming
increasingly clear like guys like Bret
Stevens um
you know David Brooks and in all those
dead you know that some of the New York
slimes I mean they do look they do good
work but reading the op-ed page almost
almost no reading like it's 2001 2001
and you know even even at the debate
coverage too by the way I saw Jennifer
Granholm saying oh yeah no job I did
indeed great Joe Biden was literally
sundowning on stage
both debates by the way just just
totally out of it and you know and well
some of the polling I mean I don't think
the polling is
at least after the first debate he went
down a little bit I mean after the
second well after both debates he went
down a little bit actually now I think
about it he came back up after the first
debate maybe he'll come back up after
the second debate I I happen to think
that look Jennifer Granholm is is
probably as you know opinions about
these things and you know we all have
some measure of motivated reasoning I
think when we look at it particularly if
you're interested in politics very hard
to sort of keep arm's length distance at
it but I think and I'm curious time I
mean Europe politics editor do you think
there's a narrative that's been created
that is not been created a narrative
that has been furthered about Joe Biden
after that debate that may not have
right reached the public yet but seems
to be Co congealing a little bit in the
the media I think people are worrying a
bit about his age and you know in a way
that they'd probably we're all along but
feel like they can maybe say more of it
now yeah you know I do just seem see
that sort of leaking at around the edges
I mean I think it's going to be it I
think that it's going to be tested as
their campaign continues like is he
going to be high functioning you know in
these public appearances or not and you
know the more he's not more people are
going to talk about it the more he will
talk about it the more you know that
might affect the whole premise that he
is the most straightforward electable
the right controversial choice for
president I mean I saw that I saw that
two ways just in the past few days one
of course the clip that we played where
he said that which I don't know if that
reflects his age as much as like he
hasn't learned much really he comes from
an era where that would be that sort of
the pizzette any still can't seem to
even from like a just a sheer political
standpoint learn to like train his brain
not to not to reveal that stuff but
there was also a moment where he was
hunted by this guy Pollock from
Breitbart and he had a and I just the
exchange was not super impressive but it
was okay but it was written like
somebody wrote with the headline like
you should have Pollock follow you
everywhere because it's the only time
he's been animated was that when he had
the Aviators on yes the polo shirt yes
yeah yeah yeah I was like who's this guy
well but the point is is that that that
is the response to that moment is also
problematic for Joe Biden because again
it puts the baseline is like sleepy Joe
and eventually that's going to catch up
with them all right go ahead to think oh
one more thing about that i'ma on to the
next thing will quit but the thing about
but the thing is people you look at for
example cuz you guys watch the New York
Times as a debate I read the opinion
Thomas there's always qualifiers for
Bernie Sanders in Elizabeth Warren it
was disgusting everything also in like
I'd also want CNN like okay well it
pretty did Bernie did okay but he was
yelling too much XYZ shut up but this
the second day I want to point out is to
like also you put up on CNN the kind of
things you like not only was it like for
uh you know Joe Biden people sing his
praises but ever you also get also-rans
on there like like what's his name is
you know it appeals to a very narrow set
of people you know Bernie Sanders was on
Rogan this week and apparently it's
already gotten four or five million
views it was five when I love and that
is look Rogan gets one one and a half
million views on his average I think
video five billion views are a lot of
views friends again and six million
points and that means in the velocity of
the of that video going is today you
can't say this about every video but on
an interview like that that means that
people are sending it because they were
impressed with Bernie and they were
impressed with Bernie so much to the
point where they thought this is
revelatory
so much so that I need to show this to
my friends that that's what's going on
there
because in that noise before more
relevant than frankly what the
roundtable said at 11:30 at night after
the debate on see who's who's still
watching when the roundtable comes on
especially those debate those debates
were grueling they were a lot like it
was my job to watch those debates and
like we did it live
I got to talk all the way through it I
was not there for anybody for anybody's
Roundtable afterwards it was a bedtime
rightly no reason get to bed I think
your point is well-taken in so far as
it's indicative of a larger attitude
that is in the media but that is to be
expected the the upside of that the
upside of the hell is there's never been
time there's never been a time where
they have less relevance in in in a
lively I mean a good point then I'll job
other treasure after I say this because
you got to talk about what happened in
2016 you know the margins of what not
look I'm black and I can tell you
something just anecdotal data but to a
lot of black people that I talk to you
know and by the way you know Santa's you
brought up the arm the fact of you know
there's more alternative media sources
now you know cable news have the grip
you know a lot of black people are tired
of the lip service that did them say in
Hillary Hillary Clinton was indicative
of this you know I'm saying people were
truly aware black people especially were
fully aware of the super predator stuff
the crime bill stuff you know you know
the racist dog with the Reese's dog was
losing everything and that depressed
black turnout you know and and look I'm
for Bernie Sanders but I hope bunny
finished you know talks because she
really has a path here it's like sort of
Elizabeth Warren to a certain extent but
Bernie has a path here to really beat
other black voters and just if he if a
Bernie Sanders is able to really I mean
really just break through the black vote
I mean he's doing
I mean she's making elbows but Joe Biden
would literally be history okay and I
think I'm sorry saying that's Mercedes
but but you know and on the margin
that's what happened a lot of black
people like look I'm not throwing
availabe Clinton I'm just not I'm not
doing it you're just saying she is done
it ultimately I'm trying mostly what I'm
trying to say
is that you know and you guys have you
guys harping on this but I just wanna
make this clear you know chasing the
white moderate vote listen Martin Luther
King talk I want to talk about more
dangers of white margaret's in the
Alabama jail listen this is a new day
now okay see from the right moderate aka
the casual racist you think that's
running out of steam that's really
running out of steam this is Jamie's
point you know justjust catering some
you know over white working-class we
need to get them that era is over and
also that from the most part most of
them all in for Trump anyway it's time
to mobilize a new base you're saying
it's time to start speaking a new
language to really get people out there
now I'm tired of you know you look at
people like Chris Matthews didn't ever
anything about you know who's gonna play
applause shut up stupid okay I need to
just Jesus Christ like these guys like
Jesus like dude like it we need and
Bernie's represented this we need new
leadership and it's so clear and same
for response anything I'll jump you guys
take care of great show by the way
thanks man appreciate it I mean I think
the you know when I mean I think that
that when you point out those things
about a Clinton I think it definitely
depressed the vote I mean here's the
question if you're going to think about
it in terms of that like I mean how fun
you know how problematic do you think
Joe Biden is and on some level like I I
raised this I don't know it's sort of a
silly question but Hillary Clinton is
obviously was not going to go out and
run on super-predator but people find
out you know what I mean and Joe Biden
you don't even have to really dig that
far that's the problem with Joe Biden
what he goes out and says stuff like
that it's like you could you could say
we must protect Joe Biden at all costs
let's have one primary where we do not
do any damage to Joe Biden and Joe
Biden's gonna say a half a dozen things
over the course of the next year that
people are gonna go like what right and
maybe it's more than a half a dozen I
mean yeah the thing about Biden is that
when Biden was in in the prime of life
and
the most plausible presidential
candidate you know he was going around
reciting an autobiographical speech that
was somebody else's with somebody else's
by I mean that was weird
it wasn't like it wasn't like you know
it wasn't like he was no it's sort of
you're talking about when he when he
plagiarized from it was a Neil connect
yeah and Neil connects memoir I think
and it's like it's not like he said he
borrowed Neil kennix perspective on the
working-class knows what the my dad was
a coal miner yeah yeah and so this this
leak goes down in history is he like
washed out of the race because of a
plagiarism scandal but the plagiarism
scandal doesn't cut it that doesn't
touch the core of it right the point is
it was like really really profoundly
weird it was not a thing where you're
like oh I can see this guy's kind of a
kind of a hustler and he likes to tell
the story and he cut some corners to you
know get a message across and he did
something he shouldn't have like no it
was bizarre it was looking like
something came out of his brain through
his mouth that was repeatedly that was
just not comprehensible by any sort of
like model of normal human behavior yeah
I mean it's it's it's a guy who says I
want to project an image what image is
it and and then you just like you I
don't know it's like saying like I want
my career to be like Bill Maher's and
then I just go out and start repeating
his jokes but I think you know there's
some fundamental that's even weirder
than that because you know it's like
it's like you're walking up to up to
people on the street you want to be Bill
Maher so you're walking up to people on
the street and inviting them to come on
your your HBO show right and you don't
have an HBO show look you think it's not
gonna work they canceled it today I'm
sorry Tom I know you were supposed for
you come on - I had invited you to do
real time and they ya screwed up yeah
that was gonna be your so Paul yeah it's
like Rupert Pupkin
like there oh this is sort of not this
is sort of not about
this is not apropos of anything but
there's two things I want to just touch
on before we go well also you should
know that Jerrod Nadler says that we're
informal what let's do let's do this
there's three there's three little Clips
before we get out of here
I want to get your take on this Tom it's
because this is well let's let's play
this is Jared Nadler on Erin Burnett and
first this announcement from Jerrold
Nadler but a lot of people say okay you
say let's not get wrapped up in words
but words can matter when they then when
they apply to what information you can
get and how the American people see it
right so so I I'm trying to understand
cuz a lot of Democrats they don't want
to be forced to vote for an impeachment
inquiry but they presumably would be
willing to vote for impeachment itself
if you person knows that there's no such
thing the committee has initiated an
investigation into the question into the
various mousies you're saying this is
exactly the same as what we all call
formal impeachment proceedings by
another this is formal impeach
impeachment proceedings we are
investigating all the evidence we're
gathering the evidence and we will at
the conclusion of this hopefully by the
end of the year vote to vote articles of
impeachment to the House floor or we
won't that's a decision that we'll have
to make but that but that's exactly the
process were in right now now I'll tell
you what's bizarre about this to me and
I've been saying this for three years
impeachment is a political process it is
April it's not a criminal process the
whole point of impeachment proceedings
that he's talking about is to engage the
public and basically allow the public to
be part of a decision to in some ways
you know to either directly or
indirectly influence their
representatives who they have
experienced the evidence there is no
secret evidence in an impeachment
hearing as far as I know there shouldn't
be but that would be the last context
you would want secret in Pete you know
right and and because that seems to me
to be horribly
national security bases Pietschmann
right and that would be yeah that that
to me seems very scary talk about going
down that road we'd be bad right so why
does Jerrold Nadler have to say that so
that we understand that's happening as
opposed to us knowing that it's
happening that's that's a great question
and it's a it's a sort of that's a
philosophical and conceptual question
that i'm really curious to see how it
actually plays out it's good I mean it's
it's kind of the flipside of the false
and until now prevalent belief and frame
that everyone has had on impeachment
which is the impeachment is just a vote
right and the House votes and the Senate
votes and the Senate those to protect
Trump and it's over and that's why you
don't impeach right there's this idea
that like impeachment is only the event
of the casting of the vote and that's
been the thing that's been the terms
that Pelosi has talked about it in and
that's been the terms that all the sort
of savvy political analysis as dwelt on
is that treating it as an event rather
than a process right and so this is like
the opposite of that right where it's
like it's the problem they're telling
you rather than saying that impeachment
is such a drastic singular event that
like we're not going to trigger it
instead they're saying well actually
impeachment is such a natural process
that it's it's already happening right
it's almost exempt eaching we know if
that is it which makes you know which
makes Pelosi's self impeachment thing
even more incomprehensible than it was
this to me I mean maybe there isn't a
damage to it maybe there's no downside
to this other than there's a lack of an
upside insofar as like I don't think I
mean maybe if there's a judiciary
committee here a hearing where everybody
votes not against impeachment then Trump
comes out and says see I'm not
impeachable there's nothing I did was
wrong I just got exonerated again this
time by the Democrats I mean I think
that's problematic right but the point
is if you're gonna do it it's like
trying to jump in the pool
and stay dry you shall know it depends I
think on what you think the pool is
because what you know I am not
attributing any sort of strategic or
tactical brilliance to anyone but it's
true that he's like sorry I was gonna do
this but but the thing is that he is
like they've got CNN saying so it's
impeachment right you're impeaching
right
you're impeaching as opposed to saying
you know why are you and how could you
possibly impeach him right like are you
going to take this drastic step of
impeaching like now CN is like oh but so
Pietschmann is going on right we're
doing a peach minute so that you know
and if if what you're trying to do is
you're trying to get a very change
averse a political press to to accept
impeachment as a reality like maybe
maybe like slow boiling them is the way
to get them to do it I guess but has
there been is there that I mean I think
that is a miss Reed of the situation I
mean the way to get them to talk about
that is to sort of say like like here's
some evidence
here's a hearings we're calling in all
of the the witnesses we're gonna go to
you know and I know they're going to
court and they're trying to get this out
of the way maybe in come September
they'll start to be able to bring in
fact witnesses from the Mahler report
fact witnesses on all the incredible
amount of corruption that has gone on in
the administration unprecedented right
we just to sheer numbers of people who
have had to resign from this
organization is it's just unbelievable
there seems to be there's a multitude of
grounds doing it and instead of like
banding about the word impeachment or
whatever I mean I understand what you're
saying like you know like I had a
neighbor who was once was like oh ya
know when I get my might you know when I
got a riding mower my kids wanted to use
it I told them no you got to wait and
then I'll let you mow the lawn and like
you know like that type of like make it
seem like you're right make them want it
and so that they really embrace it and
own it and I and I understand that that
that theory but
at one point you actually got to do the
work of getting the American public to
understand like the value of impeachment
is it seems to me two-fold one is that
you're filling some void and you're not
allowing the Republicans to have this
all about you know Peter stroszek texts
to his girlfriend or whatever it is and
then the other is that you're building a
case against the president and then
you're holding the Republicans
accountable for not holding him to
account right and if as far as I can
tell they're not not doing much of
either if it's you know the the eighth
story of the day they're not exactly
filling any type of vacuum in terms of
what Congress is doing but I don't know
maybe you're right
and I guess well I guess time will tell
when do it when can I tell if you right
or wrong sometimes before November 20
2001 all right you really you really
stretched out that timeline well you
know I mean you get away with a lot well
you put politics enormously really just
like well I mean I think that part of
the problem is this whole weird
artificial idea that there's there
should be some sort of clock right and
that eventually we're going to have the
campaign and that because if the
campaign is in full swing then you can't
do an impeachment what I was right but
what I was saying was more like when do
we find out when I mean if you're saying
that what Nadler is doing is he's sort
of like dangling the lure in front of
them and looking them to snap on the
hook when do we find out when we start
to reel in like there's there's there
are different stages here well I mean
obviously it's not urgent enough to keep
Congress from taking August off so maybe
after Labor Day right here's Andrew
Cuomo on CNN new day with his proposal
for dealing with gun safety and there's
something in here that just stood out
that I that actually some folks tweeted
at me but also is highly problematic and
weak
not you know he frames us in such a way
that this this should be the Democratic
position and I don't know if he thinks
he's running for I don't know when he
thinks he's gonna run but here is Andrew
Cuomo I'm asking all Democrats what
Democrats want to run for president and
come into the state of New York just
make it's a simple clear choice with the
American people the make America safer
pledge for elements an assault weapon
ban high-capacity magazines universal
background check mental health database
red flag laws those four elements of
control will change this nation the idea
of doing a mental health database it
takes about it seems to me point oh five
milliseconds to realize how horrible of
an idea that is for civil liberties for
overall mental health in this country
for even and for efficacy in terms of
gun violence the CEO of the APA the
American Psychological Association has
said the you know blaming mental illness
for gun violence in our country's
simplistic and inaccurate goes against
scientific evidence currently available
the big difference between our country
and other countries who have similar
incidences of mental illness is access
to guns and the idea that you can put
everybody in a database based upon their
mental health can I see the database
well so yeah there's a there like a
couple different different issues with
it I mean one is this thing where
everyone we keep doing these like gun
control proposals that are you know sort
of narrowly targeted to deal with one of
the many massacres that have happened
you know but of course you know a lot of
these people aren't even if even if you
just like hitting it from a straight
Vica see point of view like a lot of
these people are not mentally ill they
haven't been found to be mentally ill
before they got a gun right well maybe
they're not going into treatment either
I mean so it's like you know the
psychiatry you know I don't have rabies
there is right yeah and there is a you
know there's a theory this is like an
existing gun control proposal and the
idea I think the sort of like least
appalling version of it is that this is
a way of coordinating the records of
just like people who've been you know if
you've been adjudicated to be to have
been criminally incompetent you have
been incompetent in a criminal case
before then that goes in a database so
you can't like afterwards go get a gun
somewhere else right like a like there's
a there's a vision of the database where
it's just a log of people who have been
adjudicated to be insane in public
criminal in criminal justice proceedings
but so and you know maybe that's
something that would be of some use in
regulating guns but here's the thing
there was a there's a a magisterial
piece in GQ magazine several years ago
about gun tracing right
did you remember when this piece
happened two dudes jean marie alaska's
wrote it and she went and visited the
people who do gun traces right they do
it on paper because it is against the
law to have those records in a
searchable database right when when you
fill out your background check forms and
you file it with a government it's on
paper and they can they can put it on
microfilm you know so it's easier to
just scroll through but somebody has to
read that visually so if you're talking
about us you want to establish a
database that can be used in in law
enforcement to address the problem of
gun violence it seems like maybe taking
the information about the guns that is
currently prohibited from being in a
searchable database and bringing that
into the 20th century little in the 21st
would be a more straightforward and we
should be clear the reason why that
is because the there are lunatics who
believe that the reason why these people
have these guns is to fight the
government the futur a tyrannical
government and you don't want to give a
future tyrannical government the
information has to have who has the guns
right because presumably when we have to
fight this tyrannical government we'll
all go to the homes of the people who
have the guns down up down the street
with the people the guns and when they
go to the homes of people who don't have
guns now that will be will be armed from
our neighbors
we'll be able to ambush them because
they don't know which house to go to to
get the guns and we all know that these
teams that they're gonna send in to get
us the homes with the guns but they
don't know which one those are they're
there they're not armed well enough and
we'll be able to take them so that's
like you know if you're so before that's
one thing you could do before you do the
mental health database you could repeal
the what is called protecting lawful
Commerce and Firearms Act but that's the
immunity yes yes like you could if you
sort of kept track of where the guns are
and you kept track of you know and you
made it possible to be liable if say
some 18 year old who is like basically
incapable of functioning buys a gun from
you because you told him that he's gonna
get his man card back with his ar-15 you
know if you could if if there was a
downside to that for you as a gun
company or is it gone there's a gun do
then this is a classic case of private
enterprise privatizing the profit
socializing the cost yeah I mean this is
this is the it's a it's a classic case
of that and I I mean personally your
product kills people in the way that it
was meant to be used
you get sued and put gun locks on there
put fingerprint locks there's there's
technologies out there that could make
this a lot safer I mean yeah we need to
go after the corporations and the bosses
and the profit tiers in a very
across-the-board kind of way I think
anything that beefs up the surveillance
state or the carceral state in a way
that can be applied unequally is going
to inevitably be used against the most
marginalized people in our society yeah
yeah there's is that I mean you know you
have this it's like the discourse around
the filibuster right they're like well
but if the Democrats come back in power
and they and they get ready to
filibuster then the Republicans will
just use to get there's this hole right
there's this discourse where on certain
subjects you're like well you don't want
to put that tool in the hands of the
wrong people but they were you want the
the Trump administration administering
the mental health database of everybody
right right
I you know we totally yes been looking
at some files got some information I
want to share with everybody on Hannity
tonight
all right lastly on a day or I should
say the other day the IPCC came out with
a report that basically said we've got
to change the way that we make food that
we grow food because it's unsustainable
and it's causing the maybe death of the
planet is not the precise term but I
think that's pretty close
the IPCC released a report on Thursday
arguing that humanity is according to
Matt Simon income shoot I don't know
where this is from that humanity can't
truly fight climate change without
addressing the land problem habitat did
the degradation deforestation and soils
destroyed by agriculture is it wired
maybe I think it is why and now we use
nearly three quarters of world ice-free
surface and waste a quarter of the food
we produce while the global
system contributes to 37% of our
greenhouse gas emissions
the only upshot is that my understanding
is that the they have now calculated
that the ice in the Arctic should be all
gone by 2024 so they're theoretically
could be a little bit more landmass I
mean that's mostly water
yeah but so we have a an ongoing rolling
climate disaster we've just come out of
the hottest month in the records of
human history that we can at least
calculate which is I mean pretty
substantial and however we have fox news
to tell us that this is all basically
hoax more meat and cheese and rice for
me I mean this is in my seven kids which
I have by the way I need to feed the
nation and I'm gonna feed them a good
Midwestern diet of lots of beef and as
she's lots of rice and lots of wheat all
the staples you do you feel a little
guilty here I mean are you totally
dissing global warming and climate
change totally dismissing this quote
global climate change is all about
control what is more about control than
food I mean that's how I control the
activities of my kids as a parent really
it's like you won't you will ask
permission you will sit down you will
ask to be dismissed from the table it's
the ultimate control mechanism if you
now then say to these poor countries
around the globe that you know I think
it's a 50 percent 3.5 billion people in
the world rely on rice as their staple
food they do and the UN is gonna say
can't grow it as much it's especially in
a lot of third world countries where
populations depend on it as a primary
food source because we're more worried
about the temperature change which is
which is something you know they say the
science is out on it but I know plenty
of people that say there's been there's
been fudging there's been ways in which
let's just I mean let's just catch up
with some of this so the idea is that
the UN is trying to control people by
saying don't eat so much meat and cheese
and basically because factory farming
contributes so much particularly meat
because they're usurping your role as a
parent in using food to control your
family no they're the parents of the
children the UN is the parent and
they're saying
you need to eat different types of
vegetables and that's the way they exert
control and then theoretically you got
to eat all this fake meat and then of
course what happens is you get a little
bit you get don't have protein so you
get like I guess more wiry and easier to
push around and then I would also add I
mean I think I'm just trying to sort of
drop the theory here and then the
apparently Pete hagseth knows some
climate deniers that is that's a shock
well it gets very convoluted when he
starts when he starts talking about the
third world right because he's saying
you liberal elites you're scaring people
in the third world by telling them the
climate change is gonna cause famines
and then they're all gonna try to
migrate and then you know our hands are
tied we got to put them in camps like
this is actually a phenomenon that is
going to happen and it is already
happening it's just really the result of
climate change I don't know I think Pete
hagseth really is concerned about you
know people's diets and as he says
third-world countries it's I know plenty
of people that say there's been there's
been fudging there's been ways in which
they've cooked the books to make it look
like the world's gonna end in ten years
I'm not sold on that whole we've heard
that before it was global cooling it was
global warming now it's climate change
everything when it's raining when it's
when it's hot out it's all part of the
problem is whether it's it's weather no
but in the left am I wrong to remember
that wasn't that the Bush administration
that came up with climate like Frank
Luntz came up with climate change
because global warming was too scary
isn't that the origin of that Ted might
come in climate change was definitely
like a a softening a softening of global
yeah it's not warming it's just changing
but but they should know that cooling
warming is climate change
and weather is weather but the
preponderance and change and structural
changes in what weather you get in
certain areas that is climate but it's
whether it's it's weather no but in the
left wants to fight things that they
can't see that are easy to fight like
weather but they don't want to fight you
know peepees with faces like Islamists
in front of them
would like to take away their entire
livelihood I think we know executive
things sometimes at the end of a segment
you get a little tug tied you're just
like the vibe Islamists are trying to
steal this I was like a fox business
segment generators well Islamist coming
here changed take our jobs and steal our
weather machines I mean he's so he's a
Midwestern ER who doesn't believe that
there's that people are gonna are
capable of doing any damage right it's
to the could you remember though he's
he's off point well wait wait he's off
point because most of them now deny that
it's man-made not that it's not
happening and he's still in he's in
keeping it holds yeah he's in 1.0 of
climate denial not the 2.5 version that
they roll out today he obviously is not
aware of the multiple hundred year
floods and droughts that have taken
place this year in the Midwest I was
gonna say if you were really a
Midwestern ER he might be up on that he
all he needs to do to get your real
Midwest bona fides eat meat eat cheese
eat we eat rice be white that's it
he boom 5o talk about real Americans
real America all right let's take one
more call and then I'm sorry folks we're
at a time come from a nine to eight area
code who's this where you call them from
oh hey what's going on fam not much
what's going on with you who's this oh
all kinds of stuff this is Nate from
Queens Nate from Queens what's on your
mind yeah well man stoked okay anyway I
want to talk about one thing but before
I do let me just thank you guys for
being a really important part of me
being a former Ron Paul guy and now a
Bernie Sanders guy
so that is thanks in no small part do
you want to
oh yeah I'm gonna go right to the page
yes well and and even more so like uh
now I'm reading like bakunin and
Kropotkin and thanks in no small
part to Jamie and the anti-fraud
associated with it yeah totally
and like I said I'm a queen so hopefully
I'll see a tad ESA event so do you
Archer on to what I was super G the
construction worker what do you know
Archie the construction worker who was
who wrote in to quill at he had a brief
career career with Colette yeah I hear
he tried to attend a DSA meeting and was
horrified at our measures to be more
inclusive Oh No he like scared because
you were snapping and I think you did
not hear the story but somebody wrote
into quill let were they or wrote a
piece for quill that that was actually
sort of a hoax but alright we will talk
about that alright anyway anyway there's
something really important that I'd like
to talk about and I know that it in the
grander scheme of things it may not seem
that important to people but so what's
going on in the state of Alaska
I'm Alaskan born and raised there but
what's going on in the state of Alaska
is really really up right messed
up sorry I forgot about YouTube's rules
really messed up right now and I think
it needs a little bit of people need to
know about this
so the Alaskan PFD check the Permanent
Fund dividend a lot of people know about
this it's a it's a check that everybody
gets every year right right
everybody gets it's usually like a
thousand or fifteen hundred bucks there
is a guy who seems like the oil
resources that are taken out of Alaska
right yeah it's a it's a it's a portion
of the interest that has accrued on a
permanent account that was created by
the state of Alaska in the 70s blah blah
blah whatever anyway point is it's a
check everybody gets and there's a guy
named mike dunleavy who is a recently
elected governor of
state of Alaska and he was elected on a
platform basically of giving everyone a
three thousand dollar PFD check right so
this guy was elected on the promise of
basically just giving everybody a huge
check like hey I'm gonna give you a
bunch of money vote for me and he won
unfortunately the other things that he
was running on our super detrimental and
super messed up for the state of Alaska
so he is slashing the state education
budget by over forty percent
he has slashed the state transportation
budget by a similar amount he is
slashing research budgets arts funding
he's slashing just destroying the
budgets for tiny underserved indigenous
communities all over the state he is
basically the way that I think is the
most accurate description is he's trying
to do a Brownback speedrun he's trying
to do to Alaska look round back day to
Kansas but he's trying to do it all in
one hot shot and he's succeeding because
he is abusing the powers of the governor
and he is going against the wishes of
the people that live in Alaska and it's
uh it's it it's really distressing to me
and honestly like coming you know gets
me in like a weird emotional state
because I have always been thankful for
the services that I experienced there
like I had a pretty damn good high
school education as a result of the
funding from the state of Alaska and it
kills me to see those services disappear
what's really interesting about this
though and what makes it more of like a
an intra I'm just going to turn my AC
off so I sound better maybe but what's
really interesting about this is that
this guy is not only coke funded but
super coke adjacent and has been
connected with coke industries for years
since
was serving as a state senator in fact
that while he was campaigning he
literally toured the state with people
who worked directly for Koch Industries
and now has appointed people several
people to state offices who are attached
to or at least affiliated with Koch
Industries in one way or another through
either their you know political octopus
they do all right let me tell you just
like you know I mean I I think we get
the picture I mean two things occur to
me one is it just sounds like a
libertarian paradise and particularly
and I don't want to I don't want to
relitigate this but when Andrew yang
went on Dave Rubens program and talked
about getting rid of the six billion
dollar six hundred billion dollar
boondoggle that is our welfare state
right and I'm not quite clear what
constitutes that's six hundred billion
dollars it was not specifically drawn
out annual budget but when yang said
like well eventually the freedom box
will replace it because it's going to be
more largesse for most of those people
and they're gonna opt out when I hear
that the guy is going to go in offer
double of the the checks but we're gonna
do it by cutting all these services I
get pretty nervous because that seems
really oh and and this is I mean the
only thing I can say and there's no
consolation here because the worst part
it seems to me about the Kansas
experiment was that we learned no lesson
for it from it nationally though the
thing to though I think in Alaska right
is that it's in a way it's worse than
the Brownback speedrun it or the or like
Bobby Jindal too because he's like
actually explicitly just saying that he
can cut the University of Alaska to
pieces right because he's just saying
Alaska doesn't really need a state
university so like yeah the worst
like Jamal was like really interesting
guys just like the body jumped and ran
back thing was like well we're gonna
like cut the state university budget by
40% and pretend that that's not gonna
 it right but we're not gonna you
know but it's it's it was built around
denial it was just like we're going to
massively underfund
and then but act like it's gonna be
business as usual but here he's just
like this is like a sort of escalation
of austerity where he's just like we're
not the kind of state that needs
university its mask off right and and a
lot of it a lot of okay so there's so
when when he talks about what he's doing
to the university what his excuse is or
what the right uses as an excuse is
generally like oh well they have a bunch
of different satellite programs and they
have all these like extra you know fancy
things that they're doing and they don't
really need to be doing all that but
when you really look at that the thing
is that those things that they're doing
like there's satellite programs and and
the things that are actually like really
weird expensive are functions of the
university of fairbanks which is
actually a leading source of climate
change information world lot like this
is literally one of the most important
research sites to track climate change
and to talk about the effects of climate
change on the Arctic and places within
the Arctic Circle and like you know so
wait are you suggesting on some level
that this is a bit of a bank shot that
there's a tune for it there's a twofer
here I don't know if there's a tinfoil
hat that will fit me anymore
right because but to be honest with you
I like knowing that the sky Dunleavy's
like entire campaign his reign as it
were and everything that he's doing is
it and I can't even there I there's a
woman that he hired and I can't think of
her name right now and she's worked for
several different states she's basically
bounced around the United States and
this is a person who you guys would
probably be really interested in looking
into which is worked in a bunch of
different states and her job basically
is to be the Mitch McConnell of
state legislators so she rolls up and
works for the right in various different
state legislatures and allows them to
slash their budgets and destroy things
that people love and then she takes all
the heat for it and then she just up and
bounces and goes on to the next state
when she's on this in several different
states I can't I I don't know maybe Matt
if you want to look it up I don't I
don't want to use air time to look it up
right now but the point is an email
majority written what's her job all
right well she's even she's even come
out and said this literally she's
actually said yeah well it makes it
easier for the people I work for if I
can just move on later do us a favor
find what you're talking about Senate
öitís and majority reporters and I
appreciate the call fascinating thing
all right yeah pay more attention what's
going anyway now listen if I can just
real quick do a hashtag if anybody's
listening right now if this is something
that you want to get involved in the
hash tag recall Dunleavy the guy's name
is Dunleavy D unle avy recall Dunleavy
has been trending you know any kind of
visibility or support from anybody is
super welcome because there's a lot of
small communities of indigenous people
that are underserved and in places that
these services really really support and
there's a lot of people that depend on
this so if you're a person that likes to
get involved in these sort of things I
really urge you to lend as much support
as you're able to to Alaska and the
people appreciate the call thanks love
you guys thank you
interesting stuff alright folks that's
it for us
Tomsk akka that my pronouncing your name
let's go go let's go come no no Scott
Rogers Lee Iacocca Thomas go cat it's
sort of rhymes with Lee Iacocca it does
I knew Tom I knew Lee Iacocca and then I
knew Tom skok oh yeah that does yeah all
right fair enough
Thomas go Gusman from slate pot that
newly coordinated is that what happens
is their coordination with the politics
editor over there
you give like some type of like you know
it's you know it's American politics so
you're not gonna crown anybody right
it's what I had you have you have give
like somebody dressed as Liberty leading
the people and then you know it's like
being the May Queen yeah thanks so much
for your time today folks can check out
your work obviously it's late see you on
Monday
in that to get
I'm gonna get
