with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any Elise
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Tuesday
June 11th 2019 my name is Sam cedar this
the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live steps
from the industrial era ravaged Gowanus
Canal and the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today
[Music]
so shi'ite profession professor of
anthropology at Oxford University
Reuben Anderson on no go world how fear
is redrawing our maps and infecting our
politics also on the program today
federal judge orders the last abortion
clinic in Missouri open for at least two
more weeks House passes IRS reform bill
killing the so-called free file program
which was a giveaway to tax preparation
services meanwhile Warren Buddha judge
on the move in Iowa Bernie marches with
workers and Joe Biden still thinks the
fever will break they know better
Jared Kushner's business got ninety
million dollars over the past two years
from unknown offshore investors
just that folks it's working and it's
very exciting it's getting really good
Wow
New York may be the first state in the
country to decriminalize sex work and
South Carolina wants to add work
requirements for Medicaid Democrats pull
a congressional pay raise bill because
of pushback and Reince Priebus joined
the Navy all this and more on today's
program yes that's not a huge story
Reince Priebus you all remember Reince
Priebus he was the former chair of the
Republican National Party then the
became chief of staff the first chief of
staff for the Trump administration and I
don't know it doesn't say in this thing
I haven't seen any thing any elaboration
on this but I'm going to do a very ad
hoc place by thinking great now Sean
Spicer tweeted out an image of Reince
Priebus in his naval uniform getting
sworn in by Mike Pence so preyus age 47
he joined the Navy he joined the Navy
and apparently he was commissioned after
a process and where a former defense
secretary Jim mattis recommended him and
a board of officers selected him as a
reserve officer and he says you know I
remembered my sister serve as a navy
doctor and my father taught at the Naval
Station
and he felt called to serve after the an
oval office meeting in which Trump met
with his wife and children of senior
chief petty officer William Ryan Owens a
Navy SEAL officer who was killed in a
Special Operations raid in Yemen so he
was professionally recommended by a
board and with four others to join the
service through a competitive direct
Commission program for Human Resources
offices officer I I'm for the life of me
I don't know exactly what's behind this
I just hope that it is an indication
that if you work for the Trump
administration no one will hire you in
the civilian world I wanted to lobby
bear to make it easier to put toxins in
the waterways they would give you a damn
thing the whole thing is garbage wants
to see the world emit away from his
surprisingly hot wife I've always wanted
to see the Orient what the hell is
surprising about it I thought that story
is complete garbage but that's I hope
that's what it is
but I don't think that it's only that
there may be other things involved in
this I mean while on the hill yesterday
the House Judiciary Committee heard
testimony from former White House
Counsel John Dean was obviously Richard
Nixon's White House Counsel went on to
write extensively about Nixon and about
authoritarians in our government that
was 10 15 years ago he saw that the
Republican Party was actually turning
authoritarian
saw the indications of that happening
and he's been you know brought on
various capacities as a as a commentator
I'm not sure I fully get why I
understand the sort of the thinking but
it really is one-dimensional thinking
and clever too clever by half I think by
the Democrats to do this but it may be
the best that they could do with Nancy
Pelosi and we will talk about Nancy
Pelosi we have that clip of her the
Petersons god
anyways so in lieu of of impeachment
hearings we're getting this which is
apparently just to set the table now of
course it did create some attention and
wherever there's attention there is milk
shake Mac gets Matt gets loves a slushie
on a hot floor today he is from the
Florida Panhandle and here he is
questioning John Dean he doesn't do a
terribly good job but he does get
humiliated and how do we know that Matt
Gaetz
felt he got humiliated I will tell you
after the clip do you have personal
knowledge regarding the truth or falsity
of a single material fact in the Moller
report I think if you recall the first
thing I said I'm not here as a fact
witness you're here to provide
historical context exactly and
throughout history you accused
presidents of acting like Richard Nixon
and you make money off of it right not
all presidents now but a few more those
who do act like him I pointed out let me
ask you this question how do Democrats
plan to pay for Medicare for all I'm
sorry
how do well I figured if we were gonna
ask you about stuff you don't know about
we'd start with the big stuff so do you
know how they plan to pay for Medicare
for all who the Democrats or which
candidate or will be more specific let's
get specific to Nixon since that appears
to be why you're here duplicate Nixon
did have a health care plan
good yeah well do you believe if we if
we turned the lights off here and maybe
lit some candles got out a Ouija board
we could potentially raise the specter
of Richard Nixon I doubt that well it so
now
sounded much better from the mirror Matt
right Matt Gaetz thought he was and
basically he tried like three or four
different tacks so I'm gonna go to this
Oh John Dean actually may actually know
how these candidates are gonna pay for
their health care and I certainly don't
want that to happen so let's talk about
Nixon Oh Nixon had a health care and
they all laughed at Matt Gaetz and
what's even more important than my
assessment that they all laughed at
Matt's Gates his math Gates's assessment
that they laughed at Matt Gaetz and how
do I know that Matt Gaetz felt they all
laughed at him because there is no
intern in Matt's gaits office who would
have made the decision on their own to
edit that video and release it and hide
the fact that John Dean owned Matt Gaetz
in this exchange here is the video that
has been put out by Matt Gaetz this is
eerie
folks eerie 50,000 people have watched
this and they're missing the part where
Matt Gaetz
gets metaphorically slushied how they
plan to pay for Medicare for all who the
Democrats or which candidate or more
specific let's get specific to Nixon
since that appears to be why you're here
if we turn the lights off here and maybe
lit some candles got out a Ouija board
we could potentially raise the specter
of Richard Nixon there you go they cut
out that whole moment the minutes sound
as if people were chuckling at his weak
joke yeah exactly yeah they because they
got the tail end of the laughter here's
the part again appears to be why you're
here if we turn the lights off here so
hey let's get specific to Nixon since
that appears to be why you're here if we
turn the lights off or well
let's get specific - skipping me
humiliating myself in a spectacular
fashion
calling Vick burger I'm well forget Vick
bigger this should be all over the news
in Florida I mean that is pretty
stunning that he would edit it that way
doctor in the public record yeah it
really is and there's 50,000 people who
watched his version already 50,000
people and you can bet a lot of those
are his constituents folks one of
today's sponsor is Skillshare anyone who
goes to sk l dot s h slash majority
report for is going to get two whole
months totally free access to scale
shares entire library of super quality
online courses and tutorials Skillshare
is a vibrant online learning community
that offers courses on everything from
designed to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
everything in between there are
Skillshare courses for everyone you'll
have no problem finding course is it
going to be useful for you both in your
personal life in your professional life
whether you want to sharpen your skills
with something you already love doing or
you want to learn how to do something
totally new Skillshare has you covered
they of courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition you can
learn new languages photoshop but check
this one out so anyway so I went to I
went to my scale share page welcome back
Sam ready for your next lesson here's
the amazing thing one they gave me two
options one is intro your business
social media strategy
I haven't taken that course where I've
been talking about courses like that
the other one is lucid dreaming but then
they recommended some other ones for me
and they're all actually completely on
point get unstuck best procrastination
will for once and for all although I'm
actually getting better at that I just
have no time anymore
social media for creatives a great
social media strategy here's the best
one there's the one that is the least
likely I would imagine that someone
predict I would want but make-ahead
breakfasts that will change your day
that is very predictable because I got
to do this for the kid highly
predictable I can do that the kids
anything I can prep to get ahead of my
day that's what I will do but it gives
you a whole range of different courses
and I've been happy with every single
one I've watched you can get two entire
months of free access to every single
course offered by Skillshare by going to
sk l dot s h / majority report for think
of everything you're gonna have it your
fingertips for two whole months
again that's sk l dot s h / majority
report for i put a link underneath this
video if you're watching on youtube it
is of course gonna be in the podcast
description ladies and gentlemen just a
reminder this program relies on your
support sometimes we get a lot of
members and other times we don't get a
lot of members I'm going through a
little bit of a dry spell so any type of
support if you listen to this show on a
regular basis and you want to continue
to or you want to support it help it
grow and continue on join the majority
report com join the majority report calm
for just literally thirty five cents a
day we've done the math before I don't
know why we can't remember thirty five
cents a day yeah I thought it was thirty
five cents I think it's like 36 or 37 I
don't know but it doesn't matter under
40 cents a day under 40 cents a day
ladies and gentlemen you can support
this program every day go to join the
majority report when you do we give you
extra content and we make it commercial
free so join the majority report dot-com
gonna take a quick break when we come
back I'm going to be talking to
Professor Ruben Anderson on a no go
world how fear is redrawing our maps and
infecting our politics
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program anthropologist
and associate professor at Oxford
University author of or his latest I
should say is no go world how fear is
redrawing our maps and infecting our
politics Reuben Anderson welcome to the
program thank you very much now this is
a follow-up to Italy illegality Inc
clandestine migration and the business
of bordering Europe which was largely an
ethnography of of migrants and what just
how did that book lead to this one right
so I was working as an anthropologist on
undocumented migration towards Europe
from West Africa for many years that was
what my first book was about this is
obviously a huge story in the news right
now border security fighting irregular
migration that kind of thing we're
seeing that at both the us-mexico border
and in Europe and that's the story of my
first book so I was following border
guards and their attempts to crack down
on migration build fences launch patrols
including on African territory and I was
following migrants in the border trying
to cross these these borders so the new
book no girl is about the same part of
the world some extent about West Africa
and the conflict insecurity instability
that's hitting this part of the world
right now and I guess one thing that
ties the two together is really this
issue migration and the politics of fear
surrounding what's seen as uncontrolled
migration from poorer countries towards
the West the way in which is ties into
particular mapping of the world into
zones that are seen as sources of
dangers of threats coming towards
western borders so I look at this both
in the case of the us-mexico border in
the book and in the case of your
but we're seeing more and more
investments in border security more and
more wall building and similar types of
controls rolled out to hold this kind of
movement you you talk about you know sir
red red zones and green zones just I
mean for the just so that we are all on
the same page like what does that mean
literally you may recall the old Baghdad
green zone during the Iraq invasion
there they were bunker top part of the
city that set apart from local society
were it's very difficult center for any
locals I think in a way we're seeing a
globalization of this idea of the Green
Zone today on a global scale including
at our borders where we gating up or
borders trying to keep Outsiders away
anything that scene is dangerous to our
territories outside then lies the red
zone and we see that depicted very
clearly on various kind of risk
advisories if you go to the State
Department or if you go to any foreign
ministry website in Europe you'll see
maps of the world that are covered in
red blotches of danger huge part of
Africa apart from Mexico Central America
the large chunks of Central Asia are now
no-go zones out of our reach as it were
part of the world we shouldn't coach so
we're seeing increasingly this division
of the world a peculiar mapping of the
world into zones of safety and danger in
this sense red and green zones and I
think this says something about our
moments is anxiety and fear that we see
in our domestic politics in Western
countries and we also see I think hear
an echo of earlier times you know
colonial times pre-colonial times in the
ways in which certain parts of the
world's were imagined back then and part
of what I do in this new book is to head
back into history and see what we can
learn from those earlier times yeah what
I mean give us a sense of those of those
maps like how so there was I mean I
feels like the the maps in the
pre-colonial times would
not be they would not be red or green
there would just be maybe a question
mark right as opposed to I mean is that
I mean how would you characterize if you
were to to oversee the I mean I guess to
generalize the the evolution of these
maps and these are obviously done from
the perspective of largely of the West
what what would that evolution mean what
would it look like both literally but
also what was the the subtext behind
that yeah
the first two to discuss the subtext
they're important to point out that the
mapping of the world which I talked
about central in this book it's not
simply about the picking the world
around us is a way of narrating or place
in the world of leaving out certain
things
emphasizing others telling a story about
our place whether we are in that in that
world and it's also a way of justifying
certain kinds of interventions in that
world and we see that going back all the
way to medieval times and what I look at
in the book is the history of Western
mapping to some extent maps of the world
in medieval Christendom that situated
Jerusalem at the center's and far away
on the margins you saw this monstrous
figures adorning the edges of the known
world in a way the blank spaces you
refer into that they were imagined as
inhabited by these strange monstrous
creatures here be dragons is that old
phrase we often hear often the maps
didn't say that but they had all these
beastly traces as a written into the
margins and that persisted into colonial
times we see how in the early colonial
period those blank spaces become spaces
to conquer spaces to understand spaces
to go out there and define and remap as
it were and and it's ironic that in the
high colonial era we see not to the
British Empire for instance were all the
red zones indicate zones of colonial
control those were the part of Empire
the Empire painted itself red as George
always said well today the red films on
our map indicate danger in any Cadillac
of control and the indicator finger
retreat as well a retreat and a
selective withdrawal or Western powers
away from part of the world where they
have long sought to assert their
dominance tell us what about the the
timbuktu syndrome because you know much
of what you're talking about at least in
the context of when we I guess in Africa
anyways is around Mali
yes yeah I spent some time in Mali for
research for this book where we seen
conflict I'm going in the past years and
sadly violence is not spreading across
the country and across the whole West
African region into neighboring
countries as well this was a conflict of
started in 2012 with a separatist
uprising in the desert north of the
country around the the ancient town of
Timbuktu of course that's so well known
as pizza me of remoteness in the Western
imagination one of those blank spaces on
the maps that in the 19th century
European explorers as out you to visit
and map and eventually through
colonialism to conquer we're seeing in
this part of the world the insecurity
danger threats of various can kinds
mapped out to different kinds of
interventions we have counted terror
interventions your border security
operations peacekeeping mission is so on
and what I talk about I'm sorry can you
can you just for the sake of our
audience where those types of
interventions can you just flesh them
out just a little bit so that people
have an understanding of of what
typically had been you know what those
interventions took form because they're
not simply they're not simply military
and they're all not I guess I mean
arguably
but they're all they're not necessarily
imperialistic although for the large you
know to a large extent I guess maybe
they are but we did we just outlined
those for us hmm
in the one hand since the Bush era we've
seen the war on terror extended into
this horrible the Sahel Sahara Belt in
Africa to counter terror initiatives
starting already around the time of the
Iraq invasion
that's that's an old thicknesses going
on for a long time and since that time
the early two-thousands we've seen an
emergence is the privation of jihadist
groups and other militias and armed
insurgent groups in the region so that's
one part of the story and we then also
have the French former colonial power in
the region coming in with its own
counter terror mission in this part of
the world that overlaps as well quite
uneasily one can say will concerns about
migration in Europe even when this
counter terror mission is motivated
officially in France is said to be about
controlling a dangerous zone where all
types of smuggling taking place is
partly to do with stabilizing this part
of the world to ensure that migrants and
displaced people don't remove onwards
some extent we then have border security
and this was also that I wrote about in
my first book more and more European
Union funding different European states
investing in this part of the world
sending troops to some extent but also
police forces into the region a lot of
money going into the coffers of
government often with little Democratic
oversight and directly into funding
things like border post vehicles all
sorts of security equipment in countries
such as Mali a neighbor in the air that
is risking real escalation of the
problem if the security apparatus of the
state just keeps on being strengthened
with XI Democratic controls
besides over she have a UN peacekeeping
mission which clearly has more
benevolent objectives attached church
but I've seen in certain huge
trouble in this part of the world with
record fatalities taken mainly by
African troops are out there patrolling
the frontlines in the desert north of
the country the very little protections
in a mission of uncertain end and facing
increasing attacks but year history
certain groups it's a very unstable part
of the world right now where all sorts
of security operations are converging in
a very uneasy way and that's partly what
I get at when I talk about is timbuktu
syndrome in this part of the world a way
of intervening that's concerned with
controlling various kinds of
transnational danger in this far-flung
remote places of the globe but are often
our premise or not actually fully
entering these zones of operating in
them as a remove through the remote
controls from the inside walls of
bunkers and headquarters and via drones
and proxy forces and so on so obviously
in this part of the world is not quite
working out well alright so the the the
what you're what you're describing to us
is this notion of a sort of a and we're
seeing actually I mean you can draw
maybe more of a straight line arguably
with what Donald Trump purportedly was
trying to get out of Mexico which is to
stop immigrants coming not not
necessarily from across the Mexican
American border but the Mexican and
Guatemalan border and to stop the flow
of immigrants and basically to leverage
stuff that was happening and internally
there and I and I want to turn our focus
to that more specifically in a moment
but this this syndrome you're describing
is a fear that's on the margins on some
level but in some way our interventions
are done in a more are done in such a
remote way that it makes these things
more marginal and also more dangerous
that's probably a good summary of eight
yeah it's a bit of an echo the Vietnam
syndrome if we if we'll bring that term
in as
the idea that the United States didn't
want to risk its soldiers lives in
military escapades abroad after the
large fatality sustained in Vietnam and
we clearly see an echo that today and
that's partly why I talk about a
syndrome here in that we're seeing a
reluctance a political reluctance or
risk aversion to put large numbers of
boots on the ground to put in place a
large scale say military civilian
mission in these far-flung parts of the
world instead the idea that we are now
using these new capabilities to
intervene remotely through technology
through drone surveillance but also
through collaborations with partner
regimes partner States as we've seen in
the case of migration in Mexico and
Central America and as we see in the
case of both migration and counter
terror in the Sahel and the Sahara this
is an old technique but also they're
already in colonial times I should say
and it's not quite working out we're
rather seeing often uncontrolled
unchecked resources spreading into often
very unaccountable regimes and they're
often risk escalating the problem over
the long term there's less and less of a
sense of control over what's happening
on the ground and the powerful in
Terenas in their headquarters military
helicopters policing headquarters in the
West or in bunkers in the sealed-off
another very limited view was going on
there and that separation that we draw
all that distancing that I think should
concern us deeply I mean I understand
the dynamic you're describing which is
you know we're trying to intervene but
we're on some level it's sort of like a
one size fits all it's not done as a as
a sort of like an experience that is
that is shaped by an understanding of
what's actually happening there by
interacting with people but I'm unclear
as to like what is what is it that we're
doing I mean what what is the central
problem is it that is it the
intervention is it the mode of
intervention is it that you're
suggesting here or is it that we have
done things that have
have created problems on the margins
because it's also possible and I'm not
sure you know like of the the
perspective on how this is problematic
because there have been those you know
back in the early 90s in this country
the neocons the project for a new
American Century
you know proposed to a large extent a
lot of what we're seeing now it didn't
necessarily work out in the way that
they thought it would that it would
create this sort of like American hyper
power hegemony by you know unchallenged
to Germany because you know in in
envisioning a series of low-level
conflicts all around the world that were
low-level enough that it kept people
busy we're but you know it created some
busy work for people in terms of but it
never nobody ever amassed power to
challenge the United States
I don't know that second part actually
worked out from the perspective of those
people but certainly the first part
seems to be there right I mean if you
pour enough guns you start selling
enough guns and you're willing to sort
of like you know drop with drones or you
know packets of money or whatever you
can create some instability and you know
you still control it you know have a
certain amount of controlled chaos yes
control chaos is a good word for it and
I do go back in the book actually to the
early post Cold War moment when the
neocons came out in force force and said
we need to go abroad in search for
monsters to destroy in a way what we've
seen since last time that search for a
post Cold War enemy to take the place of
the Soviet so he has come to pass as you
say and we've seen this active conjuring
of monsters on the margins of our map in
a way that serves a certain kind of
project here so I think part of the
problems come back to what he's saying
is with the way in which Western powers
have intervened in this part of the
world for long
and fundamentally imbricated
in the problems in the dangers in the
challenges that we're seeing here
through as you say arms sales in the
zones of conflict you see that now in
the case of Yemen for or through for
instance a kind of remote intervention
we saw by NATO in Libya deposing Qadhafi
with no plan for the aftermath which in
turn led to a whole escalation of series
of events not just in Libya itself
engulfed in chaos and factionalism grows
across the whole Sahel Sahara Belt of
states which are long been patrons or
sort of dependent on the patron of
Qaddafi patronage of Qaddafi to a reg
Malians from from the north of Mali it
had been in Libya coming south into Mali
and setting the spark for the rebellion
there that and led to the conflict in
Mali and so on and when I was out there
in Mali speaking to people speaking to
the military as well in this country
they would point the singer directly at
the West and saying that it is done to
you that we're facing this problem and
there comes the other side of the
equation which she said interventions
that have been put in place have not
tended to improve things rather they
were imposing the distance that does
benefit to some extent the external
powers it keeps the problem out of sight
and out of mind for a time it pushes the
problems and risks elsewhere it dumps
them as it were in the Global
Borderlands in the blank spaces far away
from our shores but at the same time
instability keeps growing and we see the
constant risk of blowback of larger
risks coming back to hit the fortified
borders of the West as it were and I
think we saw that in 2015 in their
so-called refugee crisis for instance
and some extent in the the chaos is now
spreading across the region to what
extent is the creation of the of these
sort of like marginal
boogeyman if you will and you know and
both both imaginary and real we've
either created them out of whole cloth
or we've created them by destabilizing
things and/or we've created certain
problems like I'm thinking in terms of
US intervention in Central and Latin
America over the past I don't know six
seven decades which has created
instability which has you know in a
large part added to the desire for
people to migrate out of those countries
and into the US and then of course
they're demonized for domestic political
purposes of of a specific you know a
party or president but I mean to what
extent is this also being used as a way
of like sort of anticipating future
problems like we're also you know maybe
not so coincidentally we're seeing these
this instability in places which largely
are also going to be implicated and are
implicated now with climate change and
it's almost as if like well we might as
well get this party started now and
start to build the walls because you
know summer is coming I guess and and we
should build the walls now and the way
that we get the walls built is by
creating you know maybe ginning up a
fear because frankly there's gonna be a
an even greater crisis down the road
yeah yeah true just to start off there I
should just clarify that I'm not saying
that is simply a case of creating our
own monsters or certainly many other
actors with a responsibility here in the
mix it includes local actors in some of
these countries that have a stake in the
game that includes of course insurgent
the edges groups themselves and so on
criminal networks who all have their own
violent means and
tibs for for doing what they do so let's
also remember that it's a complex mix of
factors thrown in here but we're often
with future projection of a doomsday
that we saw already in the 1990s has
tended to in a way make things worse in
the short run and setting us up for a
bigger a bigger problem in future I
think let's just take the example of
rolling for instance when the first
wolves emerged around western borders
both in the United States in Europe in
the 1990s the pro migration was taking
quite different shapes it was not nearly
as dramatic as what we then started to
see I remember speaking to European
border guards reflected on this error
and said look until the wall was up it
was in in in Spain the people just came
walking across now suddenly we had this
situation were now a large number of
people just to run at this wall all at
once having to be fought back by border
guards and it's really chaotic scenes
invoking an emergency and we saw similar
thing at the us-mexico border be the so
called kamikaze runs at the same time so
that suddenly we had a crisis and the
crisis was in part created by the very
wall there was lyric is supposed to stop
the future crisis from happening and I
think there's a risk with that sort of
doomsday thinking actually helping to
create a doomsday coming into play when
we talk about climate related migration
in academia we have a much more complex
perspective on how climate change is
going to impact on future population
movements it's not necessarily the case
you're going to see millions upon
millions of people setting out on long
journeys towards the west the evidence
is more complex than that but I think
this is a big risk that this gets
simplified and turned again into a story
of these encroaching dangers so we need
to build a wall against that in fact
will then lead to a worsening of the
problem do you do you think from a
certain extent I mean that that may be
part of what is driving this policy
you know broadly to the extent that
there's an a policy or these policies
that are leading to this sort of dynamic
now those are short sightedness to it
and you hinted at that in terms of the
domestic politics here is quite easy to
rally the vote if you can reassure a
certain part of the electorate you're
going to build that wall or
what-have-you and we see that in Europe
as well the most blatant example being
perhaps the case of Hungary were posters
were put up to deal with with migration
and what migrants couldn't couldn't do
in the country but they were all in
Hungarian which meant any migrants of
refugees in the country could not read
these posters it was clearly a message
meant for the domestic audience
similarly walls sentences patrols that
kind of measure the principal purpose of
those tends to be to send a domestic
political signal rather than halting
migration and absolute sense in fact
evidence suggests in the United
states-mexico case that the huge
investments in border security in the
nineteen nineties have led to larger
undocumented population in land in the
United States as people have stayed on
over the long term mister of circulating
back in Mexico fitted in earlier yes
because they know that they can come
back in for seasonal work and then go
back go back home easily they don't feel
the same pressure in fact there's the
theory right now is that the reason why
we are seeing greater numbers of refugee
seekers right now is because there is a
sense that the door is is starting to
shot totally and people need to get
there now so what what what is the what
is is there a specific phenomena that's
happening is around the world that there
seems to be a trend in this way or is it
just that well one leader looks and sees
what another leaders doing and seeing
that it may be successful there or is
there a sentiment or just you know is
this a contagion mm-hmm I talked about
it in innocence in the book as a form of
contagion when we're seeing this ramping
up of fear and threat scenarios and
emergencies around borders often
involving quite small numbers we should
recall most immigrants in the United
States don't enter are not the ones who
are now being sort of broadcast on
television as this major entry similarly
in in in the European case over land
migrants towards Europe certainly if we
take the Euro 2015 out of the equation
or US or a relatively small minority of
overall migration but we've seen here
again and again is a ramping up of
emergency rhetoric that's that's very
easily spread through both social media
and traditional media and that certain
politicians as well a very adept at
using and sometimes copying one from the
other from one context to the other but
I think we need to look in as part of
our during the book look at both the
political gains to be had from this and
the economic logics underlying it on the
one hand there are clear short-sighted
political gains from from engaging in
these sort of emergency politics rather
than taking the longer view and of ramps
or dampening down the rhetoric and
trying to find a more humane sustainable
way of approaching these large-scale
structural phenomena such as migration
violence displacement and so on but
there are also economic gains and there
are gains in terms of how as I said core
Western powers intervenors may be able
to through their operations may be may
be they are creating a larger problem in
the long run but in the short run they
can push the problem somewhere else they
can contain it in border regions on the
other side of these divides it's in that
sense quite an efficient way so in a
very cynical short-sighted sense of
dealing with it through a politics of
risk and fear and we also see a lot of
economic interest coming into that both
on the side of the defense constructors
providing the equipment the border and
security analysis and militaries who are
engaging in these fights as well on the
other side of the board with a partner
to see higher and higher stakes in this
and in fact time and again can ramp up
the rhetoric around emergencies and face
to to ask for more favors as it were
from the western thunders of the
operations and we've seen that across
Africa in recent years in terms of
migration for instance is the I guess
lastly to is the is this is the solution
to this is it a question of just simply
there has to be a different political
will because it seems like you know
we've certainly had eras where the
execution of of policies which would
dampen the the danger to the extent that
it's real or that would I mean is we've
we've had policies in the past right or
there or have we I guess is it just a
question of political will is it a
question I mean how does this because it
feels like we're in sort of a feedback
loop to a certain extent and and so how
do how do we what what is it that takes
us out of that feedback loop yes a bit
what I described in the book is a
negative spiral where we keep escalating
the sort of emergency in a sense the
sense of CA the sense of threat and
anxiety that keeps worsening situation
and pulling in more and more access into
this way of seeing the world based on
security and danger and so on and
certainly I think part of what we
introduced to go back into history and
see is a pretty recent moment when these
sales are being mapped on to the world
in this particular way certainly when it
comes to migration the post-war EA's in
the United States and Europe so larger
scale legal circular migration labor
programs they were not perfect but it
was certainly better than the kind of
violent dangerous routes and sense of
emergency we seen at the borders ever
since his legal pathway started closing
were replaced by census and barriers
similarly the collaboration with
neighboring states where is the case of
Mexico Central America around human
migration and
Traylor whether it's a case of Europe
and Africa is now increasingly focused
on containing migration at any cost
providing funding for of an unchecked
security outfits and regimes that can be
framed in a completely different way and
again not so many years ago we saw a
more positive narrative around
modernization Development Economic
Opportunity that again wasn't perfect
but it can certainly be revived we still
there to some extent but it can
certainly gets back and get the upper
hand and perhaps be retool for a new era
and for this to happen I think part of
what needs to go on is a different
narrative a different political
narrative and in a way our remapping of
our over a world away from these divided
maps that we're seeing were projecting
all these fears and dangers outside of
our territories and instead trying to
assume more of a responsibility for us
fundamentally structural systemic
challenges these are not place bound
people bomb threats are somehow far away
not belonging to us we are fundamentally
implicated in finding a solution to
questions of human mobility displacement
violence and conflict and part of that
is to do with finding another narrative
a more positive narrative for these
collaborations with poorer countries in
crisis hit parts of the world
no-go world how fear is redrawing our
maps and infecting our politics Ruben
Anderson thanks so much for your time
today we'll put the book link to the
book at majority dot F M again thanks
for your time thank you so much all
right felt
there you have it I'm gonna take a quick
break headed to the fun half of the
program we're in we will have fun we
have Nancy Pelosi at the Pete Peterson
foundation today super fun saying those
words makes me nauseous she's always
been a big Pete Peterson fan but the
idea that you would go and promote
deficit Hawk or at this time really any
a time but at this time in particular is
shocking political malpractice even if
you I don't know even if you really
thought like your entire objective in
government was to close the deficit it
still would be just the dumbest thing in
the world to do right now talk about
rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic
it's not it's worse than that
it is not rearranging the deckchairs
because at least you'd be rearranging
the deckchairs
this is literally like blowing another
hole in the Titanic Opie Buddha judge
was on Jesus and mirrors Showtime show
and he talked about that thing and it
wasn't a good interview it's kind of
embarrassing for everybody but he is
talking about that thing about where you
can say certain things to certain
audiences but then it eventually gets
around to everybody right and Pelosi
things like oh I'm at with Manu Raja at
the P Peterson foundation people that
know that this deficit stuff is BS won't
ever find out what I'm saying you know I
don't think so I don't think frankly I
think that's part of the problem like I
just don't i i i i think that she thinks
that she doesn't think that there are
people who would have that much of a
problem with it i well we'll get into it
in a moment cuz it's so nuts he Pierce
him as a great man what the hell do you
know that Susan Collins basically well
it's it's a distorted tape drunk Nancy
Pelosi which is which is in college
we're gonna take a quick break headed to
the fun half just a reminder your
support makes this show possible you can
become a member at join the majority
report com also just coffee dot co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get ten juicy
percent off your coffee tea or chocolate
okay I say the same thing every day I've
said no the same thing innovation is
good what show would would number show
we on 2020 do we even mark our 2000 show
no we blew past it and then like
somebody reminded us what I care hey
we're not sentimental when we get to the
10,000th show oh okay
you know it's amazing by the 10,000 so I
feel like many like China will have like
a naval presence like across the
Caribbean and somehow Nancy Pelosi will
still be in charge of the Democrats in
Congress right we're did if we did 2000
shows in the course of it's been nine
yeah about not quite eight and a half
years so to get ten thousand five forty
forty years total so thirty years from
now oh no no I'll still be 82 I'll be
Nancy Pelosi SH I will literally be her
age Nancy Pelosi was wrong don't give
that to say it her honey I was dirty
explaining a that we should cut so she's
the impression grits are gonna be so
convoluted by that oh yeah when you
start when you start adding timelines
Jesus Christ hey Collin on the
teleporter line listen uh well the port
is really bad but what do you what do
you keep referencing this thing from the
four years ago how about some new
material this show will be totally in
comprehensive
Volta anyone who's been listening for
less than 50 years right exactly
I'm sorry you're not part of the fifty
year I was excited like this on another
minute I was explained to Brandon that
like how how easily you could lose touch
if you were Nancy Pelosi where I was
saying like because so much of your
political and I think it's true with
everything to a large extent for most
people not all people so much of your
knowledge base that you operate on are
formed in you know formative years for
that for her politically probably
happened I mean you know Ryan grim was
talking about this yesterday you know
thirty forty years ago and she's still
operating under those same assumptions
and whatnot and I was trying to use an
analogy it was like Matt understands
that I like you know 90s music the kind
of music and you find like you can you
could extrapolate that to music that
exists today but I'm like when I'm 80
we have some buddies Matt's age is gonna
be sitting at the board is gonna have no
idea yeah about that music Pelosi talks
about d-day like I talked about the 72
and 10 Chicago Bulls right I mean it's
it's a little bit way off it's also
really where you draw the analogy like
you're RH to same it is weird to
sort of like assess perturbation having
a conniption right now like when and I
look at like my daughter and I think
that like I can't remember like the
distance between her and Kurt Cobain my
daughter is like twice as large as it
was for me at her age between me and the
Beatles and I'm like what because the
Beatles seemed like forever ago when I
was 14 and you know the idea that Kurt
Cobain is twice the distance from my
daughter at age 14 and the Beatles were
from me at age 14 is pretty stunning
time I mean even even for like us like I
don't
you were like an adult when he committed
suicide yeah yeah wild you know there
are people being born today who are
younger than anyone ever before
yes dude think about it it's like my
daughter doesn't even know who I was
reading an actuarial report I was
getting really high I will say my
daughter I will Kurt Cobain when I was
when I was tending the Foo Fighters
won't even be remembered but when I was
when I was 10
the distance between World War 2 and was
30 years earlier and we've almost
doubled that time since then like in
what I can tell you World War two seemed
like a long time ago when I was 10 and
like iran-contra yeah exactly
all right I gotta hope for generations
eve i gotta say they're a lot more I
mean they scare me a little bit in some
ways they're just like feral children of
the internet but they a lot of them are
really into Marx and I think they might
save us hope springs eternal yeah
speaking of generations II tonight's
Tuesday what's up Michael is it because
you're contemplating your mortality that
you were so I'm tired yeah okay I get it
go go just drift off tonight before the
main show we're doing a live stream with
Kyle kolinsky and we're gonna be talking
about some of the new this this
progressive economic pledged Kyle also
has requested but he would like to do a
little bit of Dave Rubin dunking with me
which is seems to be a thing that people
like to get in on and then we're gonna
debate a little bit of what is the
difference between a socialist
internationalism versus left-wing
isolationism and we're not gonna make
that about particular we're gonna try to
get out of the granular and out of the
candidate sort of bickering and actually
see if there is like a philosophical and
positional difference there that's
useful to think about
then in the main show Glenn Greenwald's
gonna come on about this massive massive
lava jato story and then Bosch car soon
Cara and Ben Burgess are both gonna be
in studio and we're gonna talk about the
German SDP the history of socialism and
what models might actually be relevant
to the United States in 2019 for greater
freedom and democracy in our economy
patreon.com slash t MBS Michael Brooks
show on YouTube where we're getting
close to our first fifty thousand paid
subscribers on YouTube so hit subscribe
Jamie out now or actually I'm sorry I
 that up out tomorrow and the anti
Fattah we have on Ben Burgess he was
great on the majority report he's great
on T MBS spoiler alert he's also great
on the anti fraud uh he had a great time
he texted me oh that's so nice yeah we
talked all about logic and why the left
means it and you know we put our little
anti Fattah spin on it so it won't be
boring to people who have already seen
him on these shows that's out tomorrow
check it out folks
uh yeah literary hangover check out the
oh well patrons are enjoying the or
Weller series that I've been doing I
check that out Margaret Fuller I'll get
that episode up on YouTube soon also if
we have any electronic music composers
that these sort of instrumental
electronic music think like Keter live
and in ski or a fixed win or like
caribou or something like that get in
touch with me at Matt Lacan Twitter ma
TT le CH because I have project that I
might be interested in so that will
update you as that develops quick break
fun F Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube breeze up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
dude dude dude dude dude dude you want
to smoke this joint yes do you feel like
you are a dinosaur exactly I'm
happy now it's win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven eight
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no all right a quick break I want
to take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lassic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling in
to the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
we are back it's the fun half ladies and
gentlemen it is the fun half so much fun
too much fun let's play this clip Nancy
Pelosi I you know I want to be no I
don't really necessarily want to be
generous but I mean I just want to be
fair as far as that I could see an
argument why one wouldn't impeach I can
see various ones and I but I can see the
validity of an argument that says like
oh this is going to hurt the re-election
chances of members of my caucus in
purple states and that's why I'm not
doing you know going to do it that
argument though needs to be backed up
particularly if you're the Speaker of
the House with an actual plan to do
something in between now and the
election because if you leave a vacuum
for someone like Donald Trump he will
fill it if you leave a vacuum for
someone like Bill bar he will fill it
they will fill it with their own
investigations and they will fill it
with their own Republicans who go out
who are
lately shameless in pursuing these
things and the only plan that I could
see there I don't know what it would be
maybe another sort of like a type of
Investigations or my understanding is
they've passed all the bills that they
had really basically set up they've
passed a bunch of them it hasn't it
hasn't particularly worked I mean
there's a bunch of votes that they've
taken but those votes aren't gonna go
away if you need votes to run on they
have them the idea that you would be in
any way contemplating at this moment
what Nancy Pelosi is expressing at the
Peterson foundation Pete Peterson was
Nixon's Commerce Secretary billionaire
from I think it was Blackrock
investments or something like that he
recently died Nancy Pelosi was was very
crazy praiseful upon his death they are
basically looking to raid Social
Security and Medicare long-term and they
do it through deficit Hawk eree and they
have purchased there are so many of
these summits and so many Peterson
foundation grants and whatnot that you
it's very hard to find
journalists particularly over a certain
age who have not been in some way funded
in some endeavor or another by pete
peterson then they all haven't been
corrupted by it necessarily but it
certainly dominated the discourse this
is stunning she's at a fiscal summit
2019 building America's future being
interviewed by Maharajah I do before we
get into the issues of the conference I
do want to talk about some of the issues
that have been in the news over the past
week you were traveling abroad and you
were Normandy the president wasn't
Normandy to in he made some comments
about she was sitting in the American
Cemetery in Normandy and rather probably
the most aggressive remarks I've heard
from the president make about a speaker
of the house he said that you were
nervous he called you a disaster he also
called you a nasty vindictive horrible
person this is not me there's a
president saying this he later went on
to tweet that you were disgraced to
yourself and your family so how do you
react to the press of the United States
calling this calling you the speaker the
house insulting you like that well what
bothers me more is that we're talking
about that instead of how to reduce the
national debt now look I can understand
the the idea to make it look like you're
talking about business and if you don't
want to talk about him say well he's a
bit of a child let's move on to
something else what does she understand
that in success what she's setting up
with this there are a million other
things a million other places she could
have been yesterday or today rather to
do that same pivot he's a child
I don't want to talk about him I want to
talk about infrastructure he's a child
I don't want to talk about him I want to
talk about monopolies in our health care
industry I want to talk about monopolies
in our tech industry I want to talk
about health care for Americans I want
to talk about what's happening in terms
of a woman's right to choose I want to
talk about the judiciary I want to talk
about getting wage growth up after a
month where wage growth was stagnant in
jobs fell I want to talk about dealing
with wealth inequality I want to talk
about dealing with women's health issues
I want to talk about the opioid crisis
there are a million things that she
could have brought up in that instance I
want to talk about what's going on with
the destabilization in the Middle East I
want to talk about what's happening with
the dreamers I want to talk about what's
happening where we're trying to leverage
our trade to force Mexico to to have
draconian policies towards people who
are escaping violence
a million things she could have talked
about and she's choosing to talk about
the one thing that in the event her
strategy works and gets more democrats
elected that they will be faced with
having to impose austerity policies
because she has already laid the premise
that the real problem we have is a debt
crisis
it is beyond unconscionable it's
unconscionable from a policy standpoint
because we have no more of a debt we
like we don't have a debt crisis and
it's unconscionable from a political
standpoint because everybody everybody
who pays an ounce of attention to this
has seen what the Republicans do they
have done this since the Reagan era they
drive up the deficits in the debt when
Democrats get into office they force
Democrats to cut and to build towards a
surplus and then when the Democrats are
out of power they drive up the deficit
and the debt
rinse repeat rinse repeat rinse repeat
specifically how many times we went from
Republican to Democrat to Republican to
Democrat to Republican to Democrat and
did those same things and we now know
that all of the supposed literature and
academic research that suggested that we
were in a debt crisis was BS like
literally a spreadsheet that hadn't been
double-checked Rogoff Reinhart and
Rogoff right are in row goth and
identified by a grad student at UMass
just to underline how radical a mistake
that was yes and everybody had adopted
it and you know Pete Peterson had to
enshrine these guys I don't even know if
they can walk what was the book called I
used to
remember that i don't i don't remember
either
so there you uh there there you have it
i just would like to add briefly i mean
i think that though that this is where
and i I was reading bosch Cara's book in
preparation he does a good job of
explaining like the elements of
understanding the Third Way globally
going back to the 80s and 90s and how
you know it does fit in with what even
that that Nancy Pelosi sound and in some
ways if you there's like the personal
failings of politicians there's the fact
that they're all compromised by
corporate campaign contributions and
then there is the balancing act between
basically having the political conflicts
between one party that's there to purely
indulge capital interests they have
absolutely nothing else to do which are
the Republicans obviously and then a
democratic party that sort of like has
to triangulate between preserving
remnants and then helping facilitate the
next rounds of basically austerity and
you know there was definitely in the 80s
and 90s structural reasons for that and
so it's like a question of escaping that
ideologically and in terms of your donor
base but also hopefully reconfiguring
how people understand the economy as
well let's take a call here a lot of
people got on right at the beginning
call from a to10 area code whose this
where you come from good afternoon today
I'm miss Johnson San Antonio John from
San Antonio are you calling about the
Iowa poll John actually I am yeah on
Saturday night
I was top pollster and Seltzer released
her latest poll had Bernie in second
place at 16% Warren at fifteen Budaj at
fourteen this increased to focus on
who's gonna get the live I've met Biden
at twenty four right yeah yeah he's
there
Bernie supporters it's ok John it's not
that bad yeah well let's put in contact
the border let's put this in context for
a second there was another poll I
believe the last one was in March
correct Biden's down four or five points
Bernie's down about eight points Warren
is up by four five or six and Buddha
judge is up by about twelve or thirteen
yeah it's more or less right okay
okay so so the increased focus on who's
going to get the less vote Bernie
supporters seems split on how how the
day's activists and how Bernie himself
should deal with Warren now pointing out
policy differences yet being civil and
critiques is my preferred method of
distinguishing candidates to me Bernie
is far superior in reining in military
intervention and spending his commitment
to core issues from 2016 campaign and
Medicare for all $15 an hour minimum
wage free college and the combatting
climate change are still some of the top
priorities for the country Bernie will
be given a speech tomorrow on how
democratic socialism is the only way to
defeat oligarchy and authoritarianism
he's going to be relating this to the
FDR's for freedom speech from 1941
Warren made a smart move when she
decided to put out 19 policy proposals
starting with us the wealth tax on
January 24th in the last two policies
were the economic patriotism and green
manufacturing on in just recently I
doubt it Bernie will criticize Warren
because he has too much respect for her
he called called her his favorite
senator invited her to his inequality in
America Town Hall in March of 2018 if
Bernie does win the nomination Warren
will very likely be his top pick for
Vice President I know that some people
may scoff at this idea as being
conspiratorial but do you think
that they formed a pack or maybe it's
already formed not to criticize each
other and to release their delegates to
the candidates who has the best chance
of winning the nomination this will
increase the odds that that one of them
will win the nomination what do you
think of this idea and how would you
analyze the Sanders warren relationship
as it relates to the nomination right
now I mean I think it would have been
political malpractice or either one of
them to make that type of pact I you
know in terms of like the delegates I
think both of them and I don't know that
they needed to make a pact to not attack
each other I just don't think that
they're they're going to do that I am
not convinced that they are I think the
the the the firt you I think it's a
little bit counterintuitive but I'm not
convinced that they're necessarily going
after the same voters like I don't think
that the the question is is you know
between Bernie and Warren really is that
there are many voters who are saying who
has better policies I think if you're
with Bernie or with Warren
you're not there because you think one
has better policies per se than the
other particularly if you're with Warren
I think it's just really more I think
there are other factors I think you know
Warren has now set her up herself up as
someone who is like a you know who's by
generating these plans has has set
herself up and in the way that she has
late you know sort of doled them out and
and sort of branded herself is as sort
of a workhorse in some way I don't think
it's a competition of plans I really
think actually where Bernie's votes lie
are with Biden and with Buddha judge and
if I were Bernie I would at this point I
think it's smart for him to pivot to
- you know beating Trump in the general
election
I think Buddha judge is going to have
problems after the debates in some way
because I think he isn't he's you know
he's not as rooted as these guys but I
think it's really just mine Biden four
more votes at this point that's what I
would be doing if I was if I was by
Bernie I would be going after Biden's
votes right now because if you are
voting you got to remember right like we
see this on the plane of policy in
ideology but there are a lot of other
voters out there who don't see it that
way
they see it there's other planes in
which they see it they could see it as
anti-establishment on some level which
isn't the same thing because Buddha
judge then sort of seems like a little
bit like he's coming out of nowhere he's
outside of the system that's what
Beddoes both supposedly had some of that
and Buddha judge sort of stole that from
bateau or you could just see it of like
I feel safe with an old white guy I wish
I think you know some people that's I
gotta be part of Biden support part of
Biden support is also the idea that he
can win so I think you go I think Bernie
goes after those I think to try and get
into an argument that his policies are
fundamentally better than Warren's I
think is like you're fishing in the
wrong pond at that point
can I just add two quick things I won
the part I totally agree with Sam on and
I'll just make a plug again that I think
is the intersection of making the case
that Bernie is stronger against Trump
than Biden and will relate to people in
the key in key areas is hammering the
hell out of him on trade and I don't
think and I think that that is grounded
and relevant enough for people that that
isn't a particularly abstract policy
area I think that that's a very lived
and breathed thing for people that
exemplify that you know Biden might have
a glass jaw when it comes down to it
particularly his sort of brand as a
blue-collar guy and and I think that you
you know I agree that it isn't about
partially just because like clearly
that's not even what Bernie wants to do
and I don't think Sanders and I agree
that they're swimming in different ponds
to some extent but I I do think that if
you're a Sanders supporter and obviously
I am it's gonna start to be increasingly
important particularly in much more
narrow areas of conversation but parts
that John's obviously part of because
he's an important part of this show as
an example - you know I think there are
some people actually do care about our
footprint in the world and there's a
huge difference there that matters to
millions of people's lives and then the
huge and then the second is I think at
some point you know we're gonna have to
really sit back and say like okay it's
very nice but everybody can get a bunch
of smart people in a room and come up
with plans how you actually win
political battles is basically a very
different thing and those are a
fundamental different approach to
politics so I think as supporters and a
surrogates those are important yeah
that's exactly what I was going to say
like it doesn't matter how detailed and
how good your policy proposals are if
you can't get them passed right and
Bernie is a movement candidate who
understands that in order to get any of
the stuff passed
you need a real grassroots movement you
need labor and you need to sustain it
through way past the election and build
an infrastructure for that and I think
he's the only one who really understands
that so for the people who do care about
not just what the policy is but getting
the policies through that's something
that he could probably harp on
definitely I yeah I mean I think there's
there's some some value to that I still
you know I think you want to fish where
there's the most fish and I think I
think the the argument in which i think
is probably largely true although i
think it's you know it's not a slam dunk
argument to make because elizabeth
warren can also point to like i created
the most durable agency perhaps in the
history of the united states but then it
flips back to you know how broad is as
that sort of well I don't think it's
broad at all but I'm just saying
exactly cemented by the Trump
administration no they can't okay they
voted no she's a very smart bureaucratic
player and she would make like a great
Treasury secretary the the point is is
that I think all of that is small-bore
that is exactly my point and I think
like it's much I think there's a lot
more I think the trade stuff makes a lot
of sense because it goes right at Biden
but that's my point is you go where the
fish are and the fish are all in Biden's
pond right now because all Bernie needs
do is take ten percentage points of
Biden's away and then it creates a
cascading effect 90/10 rule and really
my recommendations cuz I do think
they're relevant but I think the
critique I outlined is one that he
shouldn't even be making it should be
people like me and it talks to a
fraction of the vote I think the vast
foreign policy and and an argument about
yes foreign policy but also more broadly
military spending I mean I do think you
know ultimately there does that there is
gonna be some conflict at some point
between never-ending imperial engagement
and having the types of reforms we want
our own society not to mention I do have
to say I'm gonna hope that at least 2%
of people and particularly people that
fancy themselves as informed and care
about issues will in fact care about the
fact that we input you know impact every
single life on this planet is something
that can't just be shoved you know I'm
sorry at least point seven five percent
of the electorate it's rape if that
point seven five is an Iowa caucus-goers
that you know turns up in a marginal way
that's great and they're already with
Bernie yeah yeah well they're already
with Bernie no not necessarily I mean
this is another reason frankly I'll just
say it strategically I mean there's
another reason like why do you think I
did so much content on Tulsi Gabbard
early I never think and this will piss a
lot of people off I'll always give her
credit where credit is due but I never
thought she's more than a to three
percent candidate tops but I don't worry
I know where that to three percent is
likely coming from so I wanted to make
pretty clear that I don't even
necessarily buy the idea that she is
like what is she she's at one or two
percent
yeah ideologically motivated left
liberals who consider this helps
progressives might not be as large group
as people who vote based on
personality or whatever but they are an
extremely engaged group and they do
attend things like caucuses right
they're shaping Eric I agree and I you
know I think that's another thing that I
don't accept I apparently you know no
one said in that poll Bill DeBlasio Oh
like he didn't just get our policy you
didn't just get 0% he got zero would it
be really funny if Bill DeBlasio though
like really went and he was just like I
want building off what I have for New
York it's a national plan where you just
cut deals at real estate developers and
then you do some good things you're
there uh John thanks for the call all
right thank you Ken
he literally got I think um there was
one that came out in New Hampshire and I
feel like it was actually like Seth
Moulton somebody else got a zero point
zero and one of these there's one other
there's one other person yeah calling
from a 6:08 area code who's this where
you come from hi it's will calling from
West Virginia will from West Virginia
what's on your mind uh yeah so my
question is for everyone and I
definitely want to hear what Michael and
Jamie have to say about this I think if
you're on the left and interested in
history it can be pretty demoralizing to
look at all like the past failures of
our movements I'm thinking about things
like the decline of the labor movement
Social Democratic or labor party is
turning neoliberal or the pink tide like
fizzling out so my question is how do we
learn about these things and take
lessons from them without falling into
demoralisation and depression and I'll
take my answer off here well can I just
answer before the two people that he
wanted to hear answer answer I would say
that his people you cannot over
extrapolate certain historical case
studies to be sort of eternal truths
about how these things go because the
say the in economic environment the
media environment all these sorts of
things change so
I don't get that from history at all I
feel history and people like struggling
for social and economic justice
throughout history as very inspiring so
I think you just got to reframe it that
way I agree and I would just add that
and I am NOT saying things aren't very
bleak but you can just as easily you
know if you have a reactionary
perspective you could say man there
keeps being these countervailing forces
and breakthroughs and we think we have
them crushed and have all the power on
there our side but then they come into
power and they do these things so some
extent you have to just adopt a broader
frame and you know not be Pollyanna at
pollyannaish but cynicism is its own
form of inverse Pollyanna you know it's
all true yeah I mean I've been thinking
about this a lot listening to our own
series history is a weapon because Sean
and Matt Chrisman they just know too
much and it has made them a little bit
cynical I think Sean has kind of ramped
down his activism at least partly as a
result of how much he knows and also
he's just getting old and tired but um I
don't know I think it's actually kind of
optimistic in some ways to look at the
grand sweep of history because yes we've
had some past failures and those are
depressing but it just means we have
more data for the next time that we have
a new cycle of struggle a new cycle of
anti-capitalist struggle and we can
retailer our approach to shifting
conditions of today like I don't think
you should trust anyone who says ok
there's a revolution it's gonna happen
you just have to listen to me and do a B
and C like no that's ridiculous nobody
could possibly know that but but looking
at the grand sweep of history like Shawn
got into some world-systems theory on
the last episode sumeragi know mode of
production has ever lasted forever that
includes you know the one that came
before capitalism feudalism that was the
first and the shift from feudalism to
capitalism took hundreds of years right
which is about as long as capitalism
itself has existed and there were a ton
of false starts
so if you look at it that way we're
really just getting started and I think
that we should have some hope Hayes
talked about this dynamic just a little
bit on that thing that we put out what
was it I can't remember what day we did
a couple of weeks ago maybe it was just
remember did we put I think we just
remembers but he cited the German
Democratic Socialist I can't remember
his name who had told that that proverb
about the the peasant farmer was dying
and he he wanted to make sure that he
was taking care of his sons but he had
nothing so he told them that he had
buried a bag of gold in the fields and
the sons went and tilled and tilled and
tilled the field turned up the field
looking for that gold they never found
the gold but what they did do is they
turn the soil enough so that it ended up
being bumper crop time and they ended up
all getting fed even if you don't make
it to the Olympics if you train for it
you'll be in great shape it kind of
reminds me two more things there's like
a very poetic metaphor that Shawn put
forth on one of our episodes we're like
he compared building communism to like
building a cathedral like right medieval
peasants or the workers would build a
cathedral and you probably would never
get to see it completed but you know
you'd work your whole life knowing that
it was in service of something something
great something greater than yourself in
other words so they would go on to have
problems and with kids and sorry yeah
maybe maybe your kids Cathedral there's
a George Sand quote that says our
revenge will be the laughter of our
children too right very optimistic and
very maybe the Pollyannish hope I mean
it's sort of like the reason you have to
become a patron of all of our shows well
it's also the Cathedral it's also why
people plant trees right I mean it's
trees totally oh god one more thing I'm
sorry just like the idea that we were
living at the end of history right in
the 90s that was so much more depressing
in a way than what you thought was what
we have right now is leftists at least
because like really that I mean the 90s
were good in some ways but like I
wouldn't want to live in a world where I
thought that that was going to continue
forever and now at the Linea liberal
consensus is clearly breaking down and
it's terrifying and we don't know what's
gonna come after it but we know that
history has definitely not ended the
market was just on fire though in the
late 90s the late nineties Carl fun
gamma my sitcoms come from a six one
zero
area code who's this where he come from
hello Sam Mike from Pennsylvania Mike
from Pennsylvania how are you sir
I am outstanding so do tell i sat down
with I sat down with a fellow show
regular fry comrade and we spoke to he'd
Butare who was the who is primary and
Nancy Pelosi her district in San
Francisco in the upcoming year and
discussed a lot of the issues and why
it's so necessary for him to do as well
as possible because she lives in the
bluest district in the country and she's
going to Pete Peterson events I know it
my you should have heard me at the
beginning of the you should at like when
when Brandon was I was like where where
is she doing that at the P Peterson and
I was just like you gotta be he's one of
the prime bands of this whole show
universe I you know I don't want to
overindulge like this sympathy that I
have for Harry Reid I mean obviously
we're light-years apart on politics but
having Schumer and Pelosi there and
Schumer of course and Pelosi both with
Silicon Valley and Wall Street are going
to be compromised because their
geography but on the level of like blue
state representation and still bending
over backwards for the
stuff when you had a guy you know
representing an actual battleground
state who really at least on core things
like New Deal policies was you know
mostly willing to fight its debt ads to
at least I don't know it I am well what
are the things that's interesting is
like people like Nancy Pelosi Chuck
Schumer because they're so far from
actually running in competitive
elections they don't have to engage with
what really plays they can do them the
mass you know the mental gymnastics of
just saying like oh well this is good us
more money and that will help us run
more campaigns will fund more campaign
so they do whatever gets them more money
and gets them more power because if you
help steer funds towards a candidate
they feel obligated to vote for you in
leadership etcetera and so it creates
this feedback loop where they are
continually taking political things that
are not popular in amongst the voters
but which get them more personal power
which is why it's so vital that you have
a OCS
and and people like show hit who are
primary them and forcing them to to face
electoral equities in their district and
I can tell you if you if you look at the
voters of San Francisco
even now all the Silicon Valley rot they
are not in favor of Peterson cutting
social security and getting rid of these
programs and having balanced budgets
that's insane
and when and Shahid is not just some
sort of like weird kook he is he's been
on the the Electronic Frontier
Foundation which is one of the major
civil liberties organizations online
leading the fight for net neutrality he
has been he is an activist but he's also
an accomplished lawyer you know he's
been on the front lines for example I
think he helped sound buzz looms for
Ferguson so this is somebody who has
true blue cred and really our discussion
was really interesting you know covering
so many range of issues we talked about
robert muller in his past
fighting with you know creating others
entrapment schemes Muslims around the
country the surveillance of mosques that
happened to my local mosque even though
they have absolutely no extremist
rhetoric at all it's insane and how you
know liberals like Nancy Pelosi attended
on someone who is a right-wing
Republican to do something against the
Republican Party and how it fails even
the most basic basic logic test so I'm
calling with Shahid Butare is an
attorney running against Nancy Pelosi in
her house district the most blue in
America he's a great candidate and I'm
highly concerned that a loser imposer
named Mike from Pennsylvania is calling
in on his behalf my concern is that his
weak-kneed
surrogacy will undermine Shahid's
efforts and I just like to know what you
think about that Mike well we'll put a
link to the podcast in our podcast
description today can we do we have a
link we'll find some you link guys but
if you're listening the easiest way to
find it is to search into deep patreon
so there you go alright Mike something
interesting thanks guys Mike alright
let's take one more quick phone call
gets more scum from a 703 area code
who's this where you come from
hi this is Clara from Virginia Claire
from Virginia how are you Claire I'm
good how are you good what's on your
mind um so I was calling to remind
everyone in Virginia that today is
primary day and we have a lot of great
progressives running and primary against
a lot of really bad demographic
Democrats including my district
Barbara Savola who takes a ton of money
from Dominion and actually promised to
no longer take money from Dominion and
then like two weeks later it came out
that she was still taking money so just
wanted to remind everyone to vote that's
unbelievable
it's a great call that's a great clean
liar right there
okay sure I won't do it she's really
horrible oh I'm sorry did I say I
wouldn't take money I misheard oh okay I
wouldn't oh oh okay yeah no I meant to
say I would take money that's what I
meant to say unbelievable yeah well get
out yeah so she'll think I'm the person
primary her is Nicole Marlene and she's
a great young progressive Democrat and
so I really recommend everyone go look
up what their their primary is going on
right now because it's really important
we're so close to turning Virginia blue
so really excited about that
yep all right good luck with it Claire
appreciate the call I feel like working
with the state of local news you could
just get away if you're at like that
level you could just get away with lies
like that all the time well for all you
know I guess what you can also do that
on a national level apparently yeah
that's basically where you know learning
to a large extent right I mean that dude
in the the district with all the
sinclair media got away with body
slamming and a journalist and there was
no GM or tech barely any yeah you mean
like the state of Montana
isn't he the only rep from Muncie I
think the only F that's the entire state
this is a little bit strange well this
Tom Holman I haven't quite figured out
exactly what the heck is going on here
so he's calling on a bluff right and it
was Trump the bluff was to the American
public right like I'm going to I'm gonna
threaten Mexico with tariffs then
they're gonna come to the White House
and we're going to basically pretend
that we're negotiating a new deal even
though the deal that we're making is one
that they already agreed to a month and
a half ago at two months taking credit
for things that are gonna happen already
is a plus move totally people do that in
politics I've heard a couple of stories
that I don't know them for sure but I've
heard a couple of stories but I mean
everybody understands the dynamic here
right it's like basically like I'm gonna
meet with Matt after the show today and
yeah I'm gonna tell him with in no
uncertain terms tomorrow better be
Wednesday because if it's not there's
gonna be hell to pay around here and
then we meet Matt comes out says
tomorrow I agree and we'll be Wednesday
and there it is that's what I thought
and here is this guy the former was he
the former ice director of the former
acting ice director a former ice
director Tom Holman if it wasn't for
this terrorist if it wasn't for the
terror threat they wouldn't be taking
aliens off the train they wouldn't be
sending troops to the southern border
they won't be expanding the migrant
protection protocol they won't be
talking about a third country safe third
country agreement the tariffs worked his
bluff worked so I think once again he
shows a really black part of me said his
bluff worked was it really Bluff or you
think he was willing to do it no I think
I think it was a threat I'd use it more
bluff I think there's a threat and I
think he would have followed through and
I'll tell you something else if they
don't follow through on this agreement
he will impose tariffs wait a second
he that is like oh shoot
maybe Trump is watching he never wants
to maybe exposed as if he was bluffing
you think I'm bluffing
what you think I'm bluffing let's just
go back let's just watch this is pretty
amazing and I love the the look on the
face of trish regan the she's the
journalist over there right at fox
business
you just said bluff - she couldn't bring
herself to say that guy protection
protocol they won't be talking about a
third country safe third country
agreement the terrorist works his bluff
work so i think once again what else
could he have said there his bluff work
it sounded like to me could he have been
saying his blob like the terror it's
hard for me to say tariffs and when he
says tariff threat it sounds like he
says terrorist threat right right but
bluff is fairly yeah go back just one
more time let's just hear it just the
one more time just to make sure that
we're getting it a third country safe
third country agreement the tariffs
works his bluff work so i think once
again he said his bluff worked was it
really bluff or you think he was willing
to do it no i think i think it was a
threat and use her more bluff I think
there's that's right and I think they
don't follow through on this agreement
he will impose tariffs I love the idea
that he's sort of like drifts off and
he's like he's doing the calculation in
his head like oh no a dad no Donald
Trump's not gonna be happy with that you
know I didn't use the word bluff just
usually have to wait for your intern to
cut the video for you do well that's the
point yeah that was like Jesus Christ I
think Chris Hayes made this point on
Twitter which is that if the tariffs was
greatest Trump made them sound why did
we trade them for just a few hundred
more police officers in Chiapas right
because I think you're supposed to save
us supposed to be so good for the
economy but trade it away guess what
guys we got a thousand cops in southern
Mexico instead I also just say that if
that b-roll footage scares you you have
issues I mean Jesus Christ like this is
what's so terrifying some people on the
top of some flatbed trucks
well we'll never asylum come
your summer home in upstate Minnesota
Emma no I don't want to stay in
Minneapolis like I'm in a deeper into
the state oh you didn't support Trump's
tariffs now I have your house now listen
when it came out when there was a story
yesterday that the New York Times
reported that Donald Trump made a deal
that had already been made and his bluff
no bluff worked Donald Trump had to make
up that there was a special part of the
deal that nobody knew about
and he's still got to go on with that
special part of the deal that nobody
knew about
here he is clip number four saying that
yeah I know
Mexico is saying that there is no
special part of the deal but there is a
special part of the deal and I'll tell
you in about two weeks that's why it's a
secret something that they will announce
versus if it's all done and they have to
get approval and they will get a problem
if they don't get approval after think
in terms of tariffs or whatever but it's
just another aspect of what we've done
it was all done because of the tariffs
and because of the relationship that we
have with Mex enough exercise book with
the president yesterday and by the way I
was with the president of France here
the day too
he's a great guy he manuals he's a great
guy so we had a great conversation the
other day and I think you're gonna see
some real action said that when you
think of it Mexico is doing more for the
United States as of now than Congress
and then that specifically the Democrats
they have to get their act together they
have to work and get something done
because
tremendous problem at the border if
people pouring in and it means crime it
means drugs have been so many other
things we're building the wall we're
gonna have close to 500 miles of wall
built by the end of next year that's a
lot and we're moving along very rapidly
we won the big court cases you know the
other day and that was a big victory for
us so a lot of good things are happening
but I want to thank Mexico and we do
have one other thing that will be
announced at the appropriate time but
they have to get approval from their
legislative body what is it why are the
Mexican it's a secret thing that they
don't want to tell any of the
legislators about you know they want the
pass but they'll be doing it soon it's
one of those things it's just is such a
little baby I'm reading a review of
Michael Wolf's new book a siege I think
we're under siege on Trumpton and when
it comes the Trump I'm totally Pro
Michael wolf and totally support gossip
and totally supported all of his
journalistic methods and apparently this
new book is just even even more
unflattering in the last one if that was
possible and in this reviewer says at
this point the books genres switches to
sci-fi what if this quote-unquote
strange organism speaking of Trump with
its uncanny ability to survive every
threat is some kind of unkillable force
like the alien and alien wounded
multiple times Trump has never
quote-unquote bled out even Bannon filiz
and his quote unquote magical properties
about skipping ahead that whatever the
scenario a new bankruptcy ultimatum
dolefully given by Ivanka or or charges
banned and predicts whatever the
scenario Trump won't go out classy well
that's what Trump said the other day
about Nixon he goes you know they're
talking about Nixon left I don't I'm not
gonna leave this week so you know we
live in this very strange world where we
have a Mad King who is running the
country and 50% not quite 50 percent but
40 some odd percent
that control and at least in the Senate
more than fifty percent of the seats
pretend like he's not insane and there
are moments like this one
the Mexico has a secret provision to the
deal that we made that really validates
the whole deal I made that they're not
telling anybody about they're denying it
of course but they're not gonna deny it
for long because it's true cuz they
gotta get passed by their legislature
they keep asking this question because
they can know that he's lying and
everybody just wants to watch him squirm
and they even ask it of Sarah Sanders
even at friendly venues but she knows
she doesn't have to give a real answer
here is Fox and Friends asking White
House press secretary Sarah Sanders
what's this whole secret part of the
deal and on this the deal there's more
troops at the border we know there's
going to be money to give these would be
illegals that are trying for asylum in
our country some type of a job
opportunity they're supposed to get
health care and supposed to get shelter
in Mexico I get it now there's some talk
about this there now the idea just a day
ago this guy was railing on the fact
that immigrant children who have been
living in this country are gonna get
health care or gonna get a chance to go
get schooling or get to play baseball as
some type of massive injustice but the
idea that we would threaten another
country to provide that stuff for the
same people that's a good deal it's
unbelievable how there's no semblance of
shame or just recognition as those words
are coming oh I remember yesterday I was
complaining this was horribly offensive
but whatever I digress Eagles that are
trying for asylum in our country some
type of a job opportunity they're
supposed to get health care and supposed
to get shelter in Mexico I get it
now there's some talk about this third
country deal that could be in the works
the Mexico has to pass through their
legislature and that the president
indicated it's there nobody else says
it's really there can you tell us with
this what other side deal could be
coming our way
look I'm not gonna get ahead of
President Trump or the President of
Mexico and making further announcements
but we have had discussions and you can
see even in the joint statement that
they released where they said that
within the next 90 days further action
could be announced and that we will
continue those discussions that's
exactly what we're doing that's exactly
what we're talking about and we've
already got agreements on the way for
other action that will help again
solidify Mexico's commitment to stop
illegal immigrants for coming across our
southern border okay I have a question
in the budget is send em all back to
Africa Public Enemy in the Bush
administration would they have felt in
the Bush era would they have felt the
need if Killman was doing the same
equivalent of that reversal within 24
hours
what do you felt a need or someone like
him felt a need to say now I know that
may sound different from yesterday but
here's some BS to papered over is part
of that extremism a product of Trump
just normalizing lying to a new I think
that's I think that's part of it but I
also think part of it is like under the
Bush administration they were much more
adept at this stuff it wasn't just you
know George Bush wasn't just like making
up stuff in the moment they would have
meetings and they would fashion a lie
and then they would all be on the same
page and they would all know how they
were gonna present the lie and then they
would tell the lie and they had people
like we're in charge of this it was like
I heard Maureen Dowd drinks totally we
had our ties as opposed to mass producer
who said this but like Bush was their
idiot and Trump is his own idiot yes I
think that's true I think that's true
and I would say that short of bill Barr
everyone around him they are
are pretty much idiots in the new wolf
book apparently uh Trump is also really
upset that Bear is having a growth spurt
because he's very salad dude I feel
seriously if there is anybody know
people are constantly looking for people
to sympathize with in the Trump world I
have never made any sense to me if
you're an adult that's on you
but yeah it's tons of solidarity with
Baron Trump yeah right until until it
all takes hold until he's twenty jewel
adult Trump Barron on Twitch
here is the right-wing talk-show host
Tammy Bruce who is really really upset
that undocumented immigrants between the
ages of 18 to 25 will be receiving
health care as part of California's
Medicaid program this same program is
also going to be or at least in the same
bill it's going to be expanding
subsidies for people who are middle
class upper middle class will be getting
subsidies for their health insurance not
subsidized enough should be full subsidy
but we're getting there but she is just
outraged at the idea that we would be
giving health care insurance coverage to
people who would otherwise get treated
at an emergency room and cost all of us
more money in the end they're going to
put another attacks on people who don't
have insurance to fund health insurance
for illegal aliens but let's remember -
in this country everybody does get
access to health care you can go into an
emergency room and you are cared for
so already California is dealing with
that with ohan zooming apposite this is
like she does not realize she is
delivering the
best argument to provide health
insurance to these people like you know
it's you change your oil every 3,000
miles your engine's gonna be in pretty
good shape you do not change your oil
every 3,000 miles maybe you get away
with 9,000 miles but then one day it
seizes up and you go to the emergency
room and it costs a lot more
well she's cornered because she can't
say what she really thinks would just
like let them go without health care
right but she makes the exact same
argument that you would if you thought
this is a good policy he does get access
to health care you can go into an
emergency room and you are cared for
right
so already California is dealing with
that with overwhelming emergency rooms
and hospitals so nobody's not getting
health care this is an official taxing
of people who don't have again insurance
to distribute it they argue a 98 million
I think that's going to be a little
higher you know this is just after by
the way they refused they they did not
pass a bill that would have given health
care to seniors to sit mericans who are
over the age of 65 they said it's too
expensive you see it's too expensive
it's so interesting because the older
ones are not getting it and they're the
ones that would need it more that is for
adults low-income adults that are
illegal here illegally in California
between the ages of wait a second wait a
second they're not giving it to senior
undocumented immigrants seniors who are
citizens are eligible for Medicare they
are not giving it to older undocumented
immigrants because right wingers have a
bigger problem with that the 18 to 25
year old have brought here without
they're more often than not without
their having made that decision good 5
you would think it would be cheaper for
those individuals because most of those
are not going to get sick to go into the
emergency room and just get there why
it's so dumb I'm sorry is that
inappropriate of me to say that she's
not bright
for some reason the idea that if you're
if you get sick less that it's cheaper
for you to go into the emergency room is
not very bright unbelievable sometimes
got a water cooler in there to come from
a four seven eight area code who's this
where you come from
today Jeff from Georgia how are you sir
I'm doing just fast Bank down here in
the whole crew group exactly with you I
appreciate what you had to say about him
and about the about why exactly you find
it so uh Orson problematic and and I you
know I don't disagree really but I kinda
have a different take on and I was
talking to some of your your supporters
and fans a couple days ago but a little
Kurt Vonnegut quote I once read it's
real sort we are where we pretend to be
but we must be careful that will be
pretend to be but I can't tell you or
anyone else exactly how stupid a
proofing is I don't know I'm not even
frankly equipped define intelligence II
sort of like rigorous testable way look
but I can't tell you this when he opens
his mouth he sounds dumb he'll say she
says dumb as hell the questions that he
asked of dumb as hell to his guests he
does nothing but give a platform the
idea is that uh in law cases don't
deserve to be heard at all I'd say and
in other cases deserve to be heard only
on the most rigorous scrutiny the most
you know / - / - since Dave's not cut
out for that he's a baseball player
without any arm saying and I'm sorry
that baseball player out there are three
trying hard and now I want to look down
on having no arms but he should find
another line of work that's what I
think's team
well fair enough Jeff I mean that is
your opinion maybe you should get a
million subs
yeah maybe I should be a great idea
manager report but where is this didn't
even get his sound Wow there we go
let's go to the IMS Matt's sick friend
Sam can you please say to two phrases
for the track I'm working on have fun
with it
y'all ready drop the bass oh it's gonna
be good there you go
very sincerely thank you you're welcome
y'all ready
drop the bass how's that Gregory from
Oklahoma I gave you two options I'm a
Genji kid and I don't have much hope for
my generation most of us don't even know
who limp is guitar and the ones who who
know who they are I think they're an
awful band also most of us think the
future rat the rapper future makes good
music don't put all your hope in our
generation I'm basically one of the
coolest people who actually gets it oh
my god futures are I mean I think gen Z
is right about both of those things but
I really appreciate his constant
standing of new metal and I respect it
JB Sam can I use your Pelosi Pete
Peterson rant in a Facebook post of
course Michael Greenwald is nothing more
than a long-winded cut rare Ian who
contributes nothing good to any
discussion well that is well I mean
that's just a kind of shockingly stupid
comment to make in light of these
revelations that they just did and so
it's that please don't be so
unbelievably myopic and take seriously
this reporting myopic gee again you if
anything I'm learning to mispronounce
things through exposure to you don't be
so much you dad yeah I learned it for
you dad well now it's a god damn thing
protecting my turf don't don't you get
in on can't say things yeah exactly K so
my hook very myopic this is the fifth
largest country
in the world it's an unbelievably
important story Glenn as part of it is a
main player in it and so I actually do
find that very stupid and very offensive
I will say because there you know this
is what we're discussing and this is
what the interview is about tonight and
I know some people have raised some
things not that point but such I mean
you know which but maybe in another
couple of weeks
Glenn might return the TMB s and will
take on some of the other areas but
maybe read the report and think a little
bit about it particularly a country that
your own government has played a role in
subverting their democracy before you
know being so oblivious is such an
important thing it's actually quite
disgusting possible to criticize someone
on some things without saying that
they're just trash across the board when
that's clearly not true one night
lemonade stand
I suppose one ought to be surprised by a
sensible contempt for public health
inspectors coming from the libertarian
primary frontrunner Sam cedar name's
Darwin Sam two facts to blow your mind
first there was more time that passed
between the building of the Great
Pyramid and the reign of Cleopatra then
between her reign and today Wow okay
second when all the pyramids were being
constructed there were still woolly
mammoths alive in the world is that
right whoa hmm is that right I'm I'm a
sceptic about that one oh but do you
think House Judiciary Committee is
willing to fight for testimony from fact
witnesses named in the mall report the
majority of whom are Trump
administration members and goons
bringing in MSNBC contributors no
offense seems like a step backward in
the Trump mediary III I couldn't agree
more
it is that I mean look the situation is
I think there is a fight between Nadler
and Pelosi and I think that they are the
Nadler forces are trying to bring in
whatever they can to push the ball
forward and as a way of putting more
pressure on Pelosi but I don't know I
thinks in some ways that that lets the
air out of the tire
but I don't know who you get in there
I'm not sure anti-fire mind-set haver
ever I'm habit mindset haver Sean from
the ante father said some of the most
hopeful and profound things in the show
and has inspired me so much listen to it
that's really nice HDX far more good
afternoon mr crew do you think Nancy
Pelosi might be protecting someone or
something by discouraging impeachment
proceedings yes her members from purple
states and her own house majority status
DMBS fan to all the em our listeners and
queens vote Tiffany Caban for Queens
District Attorney on June 25th really
important vote right there hell yeah and
if you're local you can also come out to
canvass for her rube David please
promote viewers to go to Dave Reubens
upcoming shows in Rocklin California on
the 22nd in Cleveland Ohio on the 24th
no I'm not gonna do that
I'm not gonna tell people to go to some
show in Rocklin California or Cleveland
Ohio know what it's the month of June
okay yeah don't do that
don't do that seriously we show pity we
know what's not question showing pity
it's just I'm not me it is
I'm not listen I don't want to be in a
position for encouraging people to do
this look what you're doing is not that
bad it's not like you know going going
and heckling a comedian is the oldest
thing in the book Shakespeare during
shape Shakespeare time they would throw
tomatoes and onions at the performers as
part of the theater-going experience am
i saying you should do that of course
not of course I'm not I'm telling you
history
that's all I'm doing and but I think
that Dave is he takes questions at these
things and so he wants questions and and
if I know Dave I know he wants questions
that are challenging because he likes an
exchange of ideas oh I think I mean
you're literally quoting the man right
there yeah I mean I just wanted to say
getting off of Dave for a second it is
fascinating and quite a testament that
we still have Shakespeare's work when
you consider how often he was silenced
so many audiences I mean you can't even
read a fellow these days
Kenny these days I mean I'm also
assuming that there were people
contemporaneously who were alive is this
at the I don't like that play they
silenced 50th anniversary the romantic
manifesto by Anne Ryan is this is he who
that's a another cookb really related
fund that's another great way maybe you
can upgrade that underwear from H&M to
you new clothes new partners and Rand
Institute thanks guys that would be
really you know what no no here here
though I will publicly advocate this if
somebody is a creative person who would
like to do a reworking of one of Iran's
dreary horribly written and
philosophically depressing and
delusional books but instead of some
type of like brilliant alpha architect
if you could rewrite the character as it
just as an example say a dim-witted
YouTube post I think that could be very
funny idea I don't know it just just
came to me it's just in the flow it's a
whole week God look oh boy more is there
to learn I almost feel like be an
 done I think we are not far away
maybe a year away maybe a little bit
more maybe after the 2020 election where
whenever this stuff comes up I'm
gonna go folks I'm gonna go for a couple
of days and maybe I'll broadcast into it
I'm just that's all I'm gonna do I think
I'm gonna take a year where I go to
every single one of these events imagine
how that's gonna work and we're just
doing a normal show and then all of a
sudden it's like no it's me tip line I'm
here for the I dread conference where
Dave Rubin I have just made cry I have
added to my life expectancy as we speak
it is the greatest accomplishment of my
life I look proudly at my children
Michael can you hear me that is I feel
like a direct quote I don't know whether
he's from Confucius super gonzo with me
we can both take acid no no I don't want
to do that I want to be completely
completely aware of what's going on this
is a sock you want to precise you need
to my future Dave where are you going
we're alive we're live from the show
Dave
all right well to each their own yeah
Nick the liberal oh my god Nick the
liberal with yet another insufferable
transactional ISM screed this time
pointing out how Sam was making the case
for Nancy Pelosi as Speaker and now
lamenting her tone-deaf leadership I I
was making the case and I still like do
you hear me saying that we should have
Tim Ryan to be Speaker of the House I
mean let me I have to say not in the
because I don't like ped in im's like
that whatever point they're making but
and I made the same I have the same
position you did I'm and every I'm not
convinced from reading about Tim Ryan
and I'm not excited about him running
for president he might be a little bit
better on that than Pelosi he was never
did the same type of that level of debt
hawk nonsense that I think even those of
us who did not like Pelosi but made the
obvious calculation if you had told me
that in a couple of months in the future
and in suppose he was gonna do that I
maybe I probably would have just totally
sat it out to be honest with you I would
have just said whatever they do they do
if that makes sense yes that does make
sense that's called being afraid to take
a position there it's I mean it would
say like nobody I mean is really
sometimes makes is it worth it's not
even it's like how much energy would you
expect no cuz well I wasn't out
campaigning for I mean I was we didn't
know I think there was value it's I'm
not ducking what we did there was value
at the time in explaining how this
situation actually was working and
getting away from a just a dumb
one-dimensional just get rid of Pelosi
with whoever that's still the wrong
position but that being said if you knew
with that in addition to all of her in
build massive limitations that it was
gonna go up to being at the Peterson
conference well I'll tell you I I would
have a different position all on that I
don't know about you I don't know Brock
from VA the gerrymandering page and
the data for progress lists a lot of
good of Virginia Dems yes we talked
about that with Sean McElwee on this
program several weeks ago Smoot court
for some reason people can't seem to
come up with an example of Joe Rogan's
right-wing ISM so here's one he peddles
anti-trans bigotry he reduces their
lives and rights and challenges all down
to a single concern over trans women in
the UFC
it's the narrowest possible issue and
return to it over and over again that
his audience learns to associate with
trans people Don Julio how do we get all
aspects of the online left to talk to
each other and have worthwhile discourse
I want to see Sam cedar talking to Bill
Maher I want GenCon pod save America I
want Jamie and Michael on the weeds
I don't really what is the O's that the
Vox show excuse me well I well first of
all the way you're not gonna do it is by
putting us in the least desirable format
what are you talking about it why don't
we get Bill Maher or pod say for God's
sake the weeds Jesus Christ and he's got
how is the Mexican legislature gonna
pass and approve and a plan if it's
secret well I can't tell you I'd have to
yeah we got time for one more call come
from a four to three
area code who's this where you come from
four four two three four two three hey
can you hear me now sir hello can you
hear me now yes we can who's this there
we go that was odd this is probably from
Tennessee how are you doing Bobby from
Tennessee what's on your mind
hey well the other weekend you posted
something about ben shapiro talking
about west as best and all this other
horse and he brought up aristotle
and it kind of pissed me off because I
happen to be an original example so when
he talks about doing science for love of
science what he's forgetting is that
that was actually Thomas Aquinas
who was attempting to reconcile
Aristotelian metaphysics anonymous and
that Thomas Aquinas was heavily
influenced by an Islamic philosopher
named avi Sinha
that was his latinized name I I don't
pretend like I can pronounce this proper
Arabic name and always gonna ever rose
al farabi were several prominent Islamic
philosophers that contributed to Western
society in particular Augie Senna was
was one of the first major natural
philosophers which of the real
scientists before modern science
suggested that medical ailments might
have a natural cause rather than some
sort of supernatural cause like you know
evil spirit or whatever and he used
having too many digits polydactyly as
the example and also he had a trees on
medical treatments that we happen to
have used in the Western world up until
like I don't know if they like the 18th
century but now in other words what
ben shapiro swoosh well that may be
true but bobby isn't it practical to do
medicine i think that was his point this
there was a lot of like practical use
he's talking about practical things it's
one thing to come up with ideas of human
biology and physiology but it's the
judeo-christians who come up with the
stuff just for the heck of it like you
know did you know
that you couldn't yeah stand an egg on
its side or something Bobby I just have
to say I have to say this is it's music
I mean this examples you're using I
don't know if they'll make the final
edit but they are literally in the
Shapiro chapter of my book so I this is
music to my oh and there's knit well now
they are no this is a fundamental
building block of the idea of there's no
that the West is a fiction I mean like
as is the East it's it's a really luta
it's a it's an actually ludicrous
construct and not from some like PC
perspective it's just literally not how
history works so that's awesome and I
love how you look at the boundary what'd
you say liberal here's brewing history
liberal history folks
I like how you broke it down so
eloquently and then said yeah so
basically he's full of which also
does track very closely with the tone of
the book well hey sir if you want a good
resource for the interaction between
Islam and metaphysics and modern
Christian metaphysics the Stanford
encyclopedia of philosophy if you look
at something like probably Arabic
influences on the West something like
that there's an extensive article about
all the interactions between the
different metaphysical constructs that
were built underneath the theological
constructs at the times and how they
were influenced one another which
inevitably led to you know quarter times
awesome Bobby
appreciate the phone call recovery there
hey you guys have a good one new to you
guys in recovery mode after taking on so
many high level important ideas
call for a single show that has ever
existed that's a call-in show that has
this caliber of collars no honestly like
I don't know like Bob grant Howard Stern
well Howard Stern actually did pretty
good we're out of time Oh hiking the Mad
Dog this is uh Susan Wojcicki is that I
already pronounced her name she is the
YouTube CEO and she is answering a
question at the recode code con I don't
know what that is about the having to
respond broadly I don't know if it's
directly a question about crowder but
the idea that like look you you
supposedly support the LGBTQ community
but in your operations of your business
it's a little bit harder to tell that
your marketing department seems pretty
good at it but and here is the here's
the question and the answer
do you started off with an apology to
the LGBTQ community but then you also
said that you were involved in that you
think YouTube made the right call a lot
of people don't really feel like that's
an apology and are concerned that
YouTube Flags lgbtq+ content just for
being LGBT as sometimes you know
sensitive and yet slurs are allowed and
I'm curious are you really sorry for
anything to the LGBTQ community or are
you just sorry that they were offended
[Applause]
Sobers up I'm really personally very
sorry and I it was not our intent
our goal was YouTube has always been a
home of so many LGBTQ creators and
that's why it was it was so emotional
and that's why I think this really
that's why even though it was a hard
decision it was made harder than it came
from us because we've been such an
important home and and even though like
we made this hurt this decision which
I'm gonna get into a little bit more
with your question but saying we've
really liked YouTube we have so many
people from YouTube from that from the
LGBTQ community and we've always wanted
to support the community openly in spite
of this hard issue that we've had right
now so I'm just saying people have
gotten a lot of criticism like why are
you still you know why did you change
your logo to rainbows even though you
made this hard decision and it's because
it's a company we really want to support
this community it's just that from a
policy standpoint we need to be
consistent because if we look if we took
down that content there would be so many
other so much other content that we
would need to take down and we are not
we don't want to just be knee jerk we
need to think about it in a very
thoughtful way be able to speak with
with everyone will speak to people from
the LGBTQ community make sure that we're
incorporating that going forward in
terms of how we think about harassment
and then make sure that we are
implementing that in a fair and
consistent way going forward and you
know I think that it was it was a hard
week and across the board and I am truly
truly sorry for the hurt that we caused
that community it was it was not our
intention at all and I do want to like
not that I want to take away in any way
from the hurt or the challenge of what
happened this week but I do want to let
you know that many changes that we made
in the hate policy which again is a
different set of policies we think will
be really beneficial for the LGBTQ
community and there are a lot of videos
there and a lot of ways that that
community is attacked where we will be
taking down those video
going forward and we will be very
consistent if we see that we will take
it down so again thank you for your
question and I really I really do
apologize for the for the hurt that we
caused now I know that YouTube is a
division of Google I guess it's ABC is
actually the company alphabet is there a
way to short Google I mean YouTube in
particular like is there a way that I
can invest money on YouTube having some
type of other massive problem because
wow did she not think she was gonna get
that question was she trying to say we
do support LGBTQ folks and everything
that we can as a company that is not
associated with this policy we are
working on it but the policy thing is
extremely complicated because we need to
thread a needle where we're not
censoring people where we're not
allowing this I mean the bottom line is
they're hiding the ball and the ball is
this they want to do everything based on
algorithm they want to have as little
people and evolved in this as possible
this is a business model and they cannot
say that because it's indefensible in
many respects they make a ton of money
like literally a ton like it would weigh
a ton yes even if you had it in like a
thousand dollar bills it would probably
weigh a ton and they could go out and
hire people to do this job but they want
to make it algorithmic and so they're
constantly tweaking the algorithm to
figure it out I mean I can see it with
our videos the things that get
demonetised
and I don't I don't get on Twitter and
complain about it it's not a very high
percentage but it's strange
there are certain words in a title that
will trigger it but then there are in
the ones that you cannot figure out why
why why was the ben shapiro when he got
on BBC that one got to monetized we have
video saying ben shapiro is a or
something like that
not the monetized and i think a lot of
it again has to do well the reason why
is because the algorithm can't see it
and then they come and they say we've
manually inspected it but i suspect what
they actually are manually inspecting is
some they're checking that the data in
the data around the algorithm is correct
i think i just want to add to excellent
and i think you know of course the
bigger thing is break these up and and
they're monopolies and that's
fundamentally dangerous to the economy
and democracy but that's a great
opportunity to start asking them when
are you gonna hire teams of actual human
beings journalists fact checkers
opportunity ask a question regular gonna
start oh no I'm no know I'm talking to
the clip though Oh next wave of being
able to ask oh right right
effective questions in a public fora as
some would say not me and then the other
thing just to add to that and this is
you know this is really disturbing but
like they do hire human beings to do one
of the most disturbing jobs imaginable a
very good friend of Mines wife works at
Google
watching basically some of the most
disturbing videos in human existence
because they need actual human beings to
make sure that you know I won't even
describe it I think we all know really
hideous videos are not uploaded because
they can't outsource that to algorithms
because there's criminal liabilities and
things like that they hire human beings
to do that they hire therapists to treat
those human beings buzz so in other
words they can do this they can it's
that they're trying to expend as little
money as possible and they could come up
with policies that a human being could
follow that could interpret like hey
what is the context in which these words
are said or why is this audience that
maybe just watch something that was
hateful coming to watch this - because
I'm quite convinced when they do a
manual review what they're doing is
they're coming in and they're looking at
the inputs and I don't know what the
inputs are but I suspect that you know
part of it is the content but it's
really more the tags and the the the
titling and it is maybe a certain amount
of the comments but I'm convinced it's
also what videos have been watched by
this audience the last ten videos that
they watched and I think when they come
in and they do a manual review my guess
is that they're saying like if the
inputs there's a threshold right that
triggers the algorithm if the inputs are
within let's say 10 to 12 percent or
within some margin of error that they
have established then they say the
algorithm could have made a mistake here
it's too close we're gonna let if we're
gonna let it be monetized whatever I
mean I tell you this not because I we
don't get D monetized that often I tell
you about it just because I think from
the perspective of what I've seen this
must be what's going on because
certainly there are words that we can
put in a title I can assure you that we
will get D monetized but then there are
times where there's no outward reason
why this thing should be demonetised
if the other thing is monetized
absolutely and just to add really
briefly and those words that we know
include words that you could understand
that bias likely even descriptively
would indicate being like an anti
bigotry position so a way in which
they're drawing false equivalency by the
by the algorithm right like I did a
video I don't even remember on which
show it was but it was something like
the global rise of Islamophobia gone
immediately right because even and my
point being is like that's a good
example of how you know it isn't a
question of what is this video actually
saying about Muslims whether or not it's
a reactionary
tract or a left wing you know sort of
defense or even somewhere in the middle
of having a discussion around issues
related to this it's just that is a
problem word zone so regardless of what
it's doing it's gone let's go to this to
this is Bernie Sanders was with Harry
Smith on CBS I mean it's sort of amazing
because the the media that Bernie
Sanders has gotten over the years now
relative to where where he was able to
get on five years ago ten years ago but
here is NBC Nightly News with my big
idea Bernie Sanders talking about
Medicare what's your big idea Medicare
for all me does that mean
all that's all I mean you know let's be
clear this is not a radical idea perhaps
because Bernie Sanders has been
delivering much the same message for
more than thirty years
we're going up not down here's Sanders
then mayor of Burlington Vermont on The
Today Show in 1981 you have maybe two
percent of the population that owns one
third of the entire wealth of America we
met the senator on Capitol Hill in a
tiny DC campaign office bottom line is
Medicare is the most popular health
insurance program in America far more
popular than private health insurance
policies and we think if we expand
Medicare over four year period to all
people you're gonna see a lot of people
being very satisfied Americans would pay
nothing at the doctor's office no
co-pays at the ER he's even throwing in
dental and vision care companies would
no longer offer private health care to
employees the cost in the trillions with
a T if I want to can I opt out know the
word that will come from Republicans is
socialism well that may or may not be
but it happened
this is not a socialist program you know
what is a socialist program
it's the Veterans Administration you
know what's a socialist program your
Police Department your fire department
those are government-run programs
Medicare for all that's Bernie Sanders
big idea there you go pretty amazing to
lay it out like that he's not trying to
like he's even throwing in dental care
and in the thasians
dental are pretty important the cost
again you know this is really important
to say it cost trillions is accurate but
you also to get a notion of whether we
can afford it you also have to put in
there what it saves and so it it cost
billions but it's trillions but it saves
slightly more and so the net effect is
actually a negative effect that's it
that's according anyways to the Cato
Institute numbers so I you know I don't
I can't totally vouch for their numbers
but certainly there been other
breakdowns that that show a similar
dynamic but that's specifically I'm
citing the Cato Institute all right
let's do six more Iams and then we are
out of here Shawn seeing Sarah okay it's
35 so awkward on the other side of that
when you're just sitting there do you
start reading it out loud and there's
old dirty five thirty what are some good
responses when libertarians pose that
Dems are the ones who are really in
favor of slavery walk away well what I
would do is I would say could you site
where a Democrat has called for slavery
in the past let's say 25 years when I
call for the reinstituting of slavery
we're not talking about the old slavery
we're talking about something that fits
with the modern demands of the economy
meets people's dates watch sorry to
bother you
oh I think Oh are they talking about
slavery like medicare-for-all or
something like that taxes taxes welfare
slavery do you mean like slavery slavery
or are you using that word and an
incredibly insane historically
illiterate way right that would be the
response Christo did anyone read a non
Giada's - cover story in Time magazine
about senator Sanders he makes the case
that while it's contrary to what he
wants to Bernie may need to share his
story more to win the nomination and
furthers political revolution does he is
sharing his story he's certainly been
you know there's been an attempt to get
him to do that time might not be
anywhere is in fluid shows once but the
author is pretty good at what he does
and sympathetic take on Ted
yeah well uh we've had on on this
program
he's I would read him anywhere
Chuck towed Fox is using the language of
fascism's other ring to set up the punch
down from the social dominance that
group dynamic in order to let the bougie
wuzzy get get idiots to vote for their
policies because they are granted tacit
consent to punch down on who they've
been conditioned to see as others that
is all that is over and over literally
or fascism Sam it really is fascism it's
insane but it's not the best part of
best even give it any platform actually
producer Lauren do you know if Mary
Cheney ever had a dumb sub relationship
with Tammy Bruce considering they're
both angry right-wing I don't know
Jay cool do you think that on the five
thousand Sabbath Oda a majority report
you'll be breaking down an interview on
the view with Megan McCain and Baron
Trump discussing the first signs of
Donald having Alzheimer's congressional
baseball fan if you haven't got a chance
to check out Bernie scouting report
footage you should he looked good out
there in the ball field for being
supposedly too old to run definitely a
solid hitter with good legs Rando
speaking of time being weird some people
born in the 21st century can vote
bee-boop after I listened to your
debates with him on my way to work I got
a book proposal from Walter block in my
inbox I work for a publishing company I
don't want to give too much away
the topic of the book prompted me to
look up his theory of eviction ISM which
he says is the only justifiable position
on abortion
it essentially applies Lockean
homesteading theory to pry of private
property rights to abortion from
Wikipedia Wikipedia building on the
libertarian stand against trespass and
murder blocks supports a right the first
act eviction within the first six months
but not the second act murder within the
final three months he makes it out to
sound so revolutionary but it just seems
to uphold the roe v wade decision and
repackage it through libertarian lens
anyway weird coincidence in my partner
was really urging me to I am you about
it that's hilarious thank you be Boop
and the final I am of the day are you
going to play the tape of Crowder on
Reubens show in which he comforts Reuben
by telling him he's not a lisping queer
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no sir
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah
[Music]
take it
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
