[Music]
so Paul Ryan is is exiting stage
probably I don't know lobby setting to I
mean I imagine that's what he's gonna be
doing and he is oh yeah you know I have
not seen all the stories that are
attempting to salvage his his legacy
quite yet his press team is probably on
it and they're gonna get out there soon
we'll start to see these long lead
articles that come out your cello
remember yeah I would imagine at the
beginning of in January maybe in in the
next couple of days we're gonna start
seeing magazine pieces about how he was
a stalwart he represented real
republican values maybe someday the real
Republican Party will come back to him
all of this BS that all these you know
that he deep down was a never Trump er
but he he put the party above his own
personal preference I mean who knows
what kind of sanctimonious crap we're
gonna hear about this guy but then there
are people who also feel compelled to
salvage their legacy or at least their
legacy and how its wrapped up with Paul
Ryan's now let me say this straight up
I think Ezra Klein Klein is a smart guy
and there are pieces that he's written
that I've been very impressed with the
one that he just did about youtubers and
about that type of media I thought was
quite good and there's been stuff over
the years that I think I found that he's
done well but one of the tendencies that
he's had that I have witnessed over
really I probably close to my entire
professional career from back when he
was I think at the American Prospect and
is
the a tendency that is and I think you
know when we talked to Eric Levites
about this we're going to see it across
the board that is to to want to be
considered to be a serious thinker and
therefore suspending his disbelief in
realms of politics that are about
politics I understand and I appreciate
policy analysis but policy is irrelevant
if the policy is being promoted as a fig
leaf for something else
or if the policy is being offered in
something with less than good faith
there has been so many instances of Paul
Ryan I mean just off the top of my head
I'm thinking about like his plan for for
Medicare and his plan for Medicare was
to totally privatize it but the argument
was we're still gonna Medicare so it's
not fundamentally changing Medicare its
Medicare but the whole point of Medicare
is not the name the whole point of
Medicare is that it is a government-run
sponsored health insurance program it's
not a voucher system public school is
not tax is taken the money put into a
fund denoted public education and then
handed out to private schools that's not
public school that's private school
funded by the public that's just one
example that comes to my mind but that
is the most classic illustration of Paul
Ryan's BS so Ezra Klein has written a
piece at Vox entitled Paul Ryan's long
con and in it he spends the first couple
pages saying Paul Ryan
Paul Ryan's reputation was built on the
back of his budgets draconian documents
that gutted social spending privatized
Medicare and showed the Republican Party
had embraced the kinds of hard fiscal
choices that George Bush had Slough tauf
and Ryan represented himself or
presented himself as the wonkish
apostille of the new GOP rolling up his
sleeves and running through the grass
the charts graphs and tables that made
his case and this is about how Ezra
Klein says that Paul Ryan never did what
he said he was going to do which was to
cut deficits in fact deficits grew at a
time when we were expanding our economy
and they should have shrunk and you
should know for the sake of this that I
think Ezra Klein has been fairly
consistent in not caring that much about
deficits in specific you know per se
certainly I don't but Paul Ryan claimed
to now in the entire 15 years I've been
doing this starting with George Bush
cutting Social Security there has been
near Union and unanimity on the left of
understanding that this whole deficit
thing was largely about a fig leaf to
cut things like Social Security and
Medicare so that rich people could have
more taxes and probably to put most
Americans in a weaker position when it
comes to negotiating with corporations
who might hire them because if you don't
have health insurance if you don't feel
like you have a safety net right you are
in a weakened power dynamic with anybody
you might negotiate with and Al Gore
knew this that's why I was calling for
the lockbox the thing that he got kept
getting made fun of and the lockbox was
pretty necessary when George Bush said
well there is just an IOU
here there's no money here just I'll use
Treasury anyways so Ryan wrote in the
book young guns
I admit in recent years Republicans have
abandoned these principles of fiscal
conservatism
we've lost the true path and suffered
electoral defeats but we've not returned
from this experience empty-handed for
this Ryan was feeded in Washington
Society the committee for a responsible
federal budget gave him a Fisk EE Ward
for budget bravery it was a member of
the simpson-bowles Commission he became
Mitt Romney's vice president I was among
the reporters who took Ryan's reboot
seriously to move us to surplus as I
wrote of his 2010 proposal Ryan's budget
proposes reforms that are nothing short
of violent Medicare is privatized
seniors get a voucher to buy private
insurance and the voucher growth is far
slower than expected growth of health
care costs Medicaid is also privatized
the employer tax exclusions fully
eliminated replaced by tax credit that
grows more slowly than medical costs I
didn't agree with Ryan's policies but at
least he was making the trade-offs of
his vision clear but two critics like
New York Times Paul Krugman Ryan was an
obvious conman weaponizing the deficit
to hamstring Obama's presidency weaken
the recovery and Snooker Beltway
centrists eager to champion a reasonable
seeming Republican now this is an
interesting rhetorical trick that Ezra
Klein performs here and I don't know if
he's aware of it the way that he refers
to himself is I was one of the reporters
who took Ryan's reboot seriously the way
that he refers to Paul Krugman as a
critic you didn't even say Krugman's
name first you say Paul Krugman the
Nobel prize-winning economist was
critical of Paul Ryan he just says to
his critics like Paul Krugman now what
is the rhetorical trick that's being
played here imagine if I said to you
instead of I was among the reporters who
took Ryan's reboot seriously it would be
among his supporters among his
sycophants among those who were
credulous of Ryan I took his reboot
seriously I mean you see that you see
the rhetorical trick here the rhetorical
trick is that Paul Krugman was inclined
to be critical of anyone and therefore
his analysis was just coincidentally
right now I may be overstating it a
little bit to show this rhetorical trick
but that's the rhetorical trick that's
being played here and then as what goes
on to say in his budgets for all the
hard choices didn't actually add up they
included massive tax cuts with
underestimated costs and unspecified
fining which is what led Krugman to call
him a charlatan back in 2010
Ryan had waived this way as nitpicking
well but his critics predicted he would
lose his appetite for her choices the
moment his party returned to power he
hasn't changed he has merely rebranded
the numbers proved them right Ryan was
elected Speaker of the House on August
October 29 2015 over the next three
years annual deficits increased by
almost 80 percent now and then he goes
on to say to Ryan supporters this is
unfair being Speaker of the House the
most Faustian job in history but then
Ezra says I think that's too kind as
speaker Ryan had tremendous power he
could have he could have done this he
could have brought immigrations
compromises to the floor but he had Pago
but he didn't put pay go down for tax
cuts etc etc we are the choices we make
and Ryan made his
I took Ryan seriously when he said he
was concerned about deficits I covered
the arguments Ryan made the policies he
crafted I treated them like is he
offered a guide to how Republicans would
govern I listened to when Ryan said
things like in Europe generations of
welfare dependent citizens are hurling
Molotov cocktails because their
governments can no longer fund their
entitlement programs we can't let that
happen here now here's the problem the
this story about why Paul Ryan was a con
man is interesting but it's not a huge
newsflash because Paul Krugman was
saying this eight years ago the
interesting story is why did you take
Ryan seriously when he said he was what
is the failure of Ezra Klein and not
just as reclined but all the other
centrist reporters and I don't know what
that means I don't know what a centrist
reporter means credulous credulous
reporters why were you so credulous when
Paul Krugman wasn't that's the only
interesting story here it's not that
Paul Ryan's a conman
because Paul Krugman and others told us
that eight years ago the interesting
story is why do you who was at the time
one of the most the premier Washington
Post policy analysis people why were you
so credulous you've told us the numbers
didn't add up and there were other
people who knew he was a conman and he
wasn't serious what made you take him so
seriously there is no such thing as
policy in a vacuum particularly when it
comes to politicians right like I don't
you think there's policy in a vacuum at
a think-tank
but at when you're talking about a
politician
why is it that the media will take the
will will be credulous so credulous with
reams and reams of evidence to the
contrary when it comes to the Iraq war
when it comes to the notion of deficits
I've said on this program many times
before that the reason why the press
early on was not capable of dealing with
the lies that were coming from Donald
Trump was because they had not exercised
that muscle that made them assess the
validity of a claim when it came to
Republicans in at least a decade or two
and the chickens have come home to roost
and the bottom line is we still see it
we still see it it's irrelevant that you
call Paul Ryan a con man now it's
irrelevant because he's leaving office
the time to call a con man a con man is
when he's in the midst of conning people
when you say in retrospect he's a con
man that story is boring the interesting
story is why did the marks what was it
about the marks who are still amongst us
who are still providing us an assessment
as to whether we can trust certain
politicians why did they get conned and
that's not in this story
