so Dave this is an interesting turn of
events
it appears that China has a problem with
the NBA we just lay out for us if you
would let's just start I guess with and
with the NBA's relationship with with
China and then we can start talking
about why what a GM from the Houston
Rockets tweeted out became so
controversial and then I guess well
broaden it out as to what it says about
these sports leagues yeah I mean the NBA
relationship with China in so many
respects it really starts 19 years ago
with the drafting of Yao Ming as the
number one pick of the Houston Rockets
that becomes very important that he was
drafted by the Houston Rockets that led
to this incredible absurd of popularity
in the NBA and particularly the fortunes
of the Houston Rockets in China and over
the last two decades that's blossomed
into an incredibly profitable
multi-billion dollar relationship
between the league in between the
country of 1.4 billion people and part
of this relationship is not just about
the formal deals between the NBA and the
People's Republic of China it's also
about sponsors that NBA players have
clinics they do overseas some players
when they're done with their NBA career
they go over and play in China like
Stephon Marbury so there is so much
cross-pollination that exists between
China and the NBA and it's proven to be
incredibly profitable for the league and
incredibly important for China with
regards to just basic state propaganda
in terms of them opening up to the west
or at least signaling to their own
people that they're open to the west and
the Rockets are because of young the one
of the I mean the most popular team in
in China yeah they're so popular in
China that for a while I don't know if
this is the true true now but for a
while when Yao Ming was playing there
you would have a bench player for the
Houston rocket
be one of the top-selling jerseys in
China more than players like Kobe Bryant
or Shaquille O'Neal I mean the Rockets
became in so many ways ubiquitous tied
to the NBA and tied to China's love of
the NBA and so the word that I think I
probably would want to use a synonymous
so if you're thinking about the NBA
you're thinking about the Houston
Rockets interesting okay so so
everything's moving along here I'm in
and it raises a lot of I guess other
issues I mean we're seeing this right
with the with tech companies in terms of
the way they deal with China I mean what
and and maybe we can get to that in a
moment to the extent that there's any
other sort of like complicating factors
China right now has concentration camps
where almost two million users but they
have respondent there are protests in
Hong Kong that have been ongoing and
that's basically where this latest
controversy gets kicked off tell us how
well you have a general manager for the
Houston Rockets daryl morey put out what
it was a pretty innocuous tweet just
saying that he stood with Hong Kong in
their protests and but when he sent that
tweet I mean my goodness I mean that you
can't overstate the degree to which I
forget if I can curse on this show Sam
no you cannot but I cannot okay well
let's just say a nothing√≠s sized mound
of feces it's a fan just from this one
tweet and when this tweet hit the fan
let's just say that the response by
China was immediate I mean they they
started banning games on on CCTV that's
their state we're on television they
talked about canceling deals with the
NBA immediately and the NBA immediately
backtracked as well and they clearly
pushed Daryl Morey to then not only
delete the tweet but send it like really
crawl through glass and send out this
fulsome apology the NBA put out two
different statements one in English and
one in Chinese
the Chinese statement twisted the knife
even more about how sorry they were to
have offended China and a lot of people
then though pointed out the hypocrisy of
the NBA which tries to market itself as
a quote-unquote woek league as a league
that's not the NFL or the league that's
progressive as a league that listens to
concerns about racial and social justice
and the gap between that and they're
willing to just just crawl an apology to
China after this suite and in that gap
led to all sorts of backlash against the
NBA from politicians Republican Democrat
the op-ed page of the New York Times I
mean you know the Trump tweet is coming
because it's a combination of people who
are progressive and want to see the NBA
live up to the values that it espouses
and then some of the worst actors on the
right wing people like Ted Cruz
Barry Weiss of The Times op-ed page who
are saying oh look at the hypocrisy of
this wolken Aslam they don't care about
China meanwhile you know that Ted Cruz
very wise people of this ilk Marco Rubio
if it's countries that they support that
act in an authoritarian manner they're
all to silence or even they applaud
those actions but because it's China
they're quick to rush to the pulpit so
so it's led to just this absolute
political Maelstrom that's surrounding
the NBA and and so they tried to respond
to another step the next day and Adam
silver himself the Commissioner of the
NBA he put out his own statement where
he just absolutely reaffirmed that the
league believes in freedom of speech and
supports daryl morey
into that regard but that they also
understand that they've offended China
and they're greatly sorry for that and
they want to work to ask people
understand some of the cultural
differences about why this is such a
third rail issue
well like from China's perspective is
the idea that we're going to discipline
the NBA in the future is the idea that
we're going to discipline all entities
that you know from the outside whether
it's different companies or whatnot like
we're setting a precedent and this is
sort of like the the Fonzie thing right
where I mean I'm dating myself but
the Fonzie on happy days said that he
only had to punch one guy once and then
everybody thought that he was is that
what we're watching punched the first
guy first and then you don't have to
punch anybody else again
first let's be clear I mean Fonzie
exists outside of time and space so
there's no such thing as a dated Fonzie
reference thank you I probably second
thing oh no problem
second thing is the people I have spoken
with who study this issue who have been
immersed into what's happening in Hong
Kong and immersed in this the history of
China's authoritarian practices say
absolutely that this is a shot across
the bow I mean the same week that China
made this decision to really go bat-like
respond really tough on the NBA just
over a tweet they also banned an episode
of South Park that appeared last week
but criticized China and had the South
Park steamed taking place inside of
labor camps and the like and so so this
is very very much what's happening is
China is concerned about the rising
protests in Hong Kong concern they're
having an impact on consciousness inside
the mainland of China as well and are
making every effort to try to quash any
sort of cultural megaphone that could
raise solidarity with the people in Hong
Kong and so I guess lastly like for the
NBA this is just a purely we just can't
afford to lose this cash and so we're
just going to we're gonna kiss kiss as
much butter as we possibly can I mean
that seems pretty straightforward it's
pretty straightforward yeah I mean
there's you know there's that old
expression if you owe the bank a million
dollars then the bank owns you if you're
the bank of billion dollars then you own
the bank this is a case of China in some
respects now owning the up the NBA can
cause the amount of money in the
financial entanglements are at a factor
greater than anywhere on earth with the
exception of the United States and China
unlike the United States the NBA field
only has room to grow why can't the NBA
and maybe that's just this is the
corporate mentality that they don't want
to risk
any money but why can't they say like
well good luck telling our
one-point-four you know I mean I don't
know how many fans they have in in China
but you know it sounds like maybe
hundreds of millions of fans yeah
there's not going to be any basketball
bye
mm-hmm that first of all they do count
they're the number of fans in China the
NBA and the hundreds of millions so and
then that's why they view the market is
so incredibly important to their future
growth possibilities the NBA doesn't
take a hard line with China because the
NBA feels like it needs China more than
China needs the NBA China can shut down
the NBA and go on being the world's
banker basically but the NBA absolutely
needs China for its future economic
health and there have been some sports
writers who've been attempting to write
about this and saying things like the
NBA should just say we are doing no more
business with China because we don't do
businesses anymore with authoritarian
countries and it's like Hello I mean you
might as well be asking a dog to meow
I mean you're asking the NBA at that
point to be something that it's not it
is a global brand it is a global
corporation the most important part of
the story is that to me is that the F
from the NBA perspective is that they've
been caught between a rock and a hard
place and the hard place is China but
the rock is there embrace in recent
years of this kind of local marketing
and I think it's exposed for a lot of
people how paper-thin it is to say hey
we're cool were millennial were
progressive we're woke because then
eventually with corporate politics the
rubber hits the road right folks don't I
guess the lesson is to be learned is
don't kid yourself there are
corporations they got one reason and one
reason only to exist all right let's
turn we got five minutes left here I
want to talk about this because I think
this is huge in California the Gavin
Newsom signed SB 206 this is going to
change or could it seems to me college
sports as we know it permanently and
dramatically tell us what SB 22 206 is
yeah and first of all by my count eight
or nine states
already thinking of similar legislations
so I mean we're talking about like the
absolute beginning of the pulling of the
thread on the sweater that is the NBA
I'm sorry that is the n-c-double-a SB
206 what it is is an ni l bill an ni l
stands for name image and likeness what
it does is it'll it says that if you
play for a university under the auspices
of the NCAA in the state of California
you actually can control and profit off
of your name image or likeness that
means if you want to appear at a car
dealership and sign some autographs you
can do that if you want to hold a clinic
and volleyball because you're a star
volleyball player you can do that if B
DS wants to put you on a cereal box you
can do that and before now all that
stuff has been absolutely verboten you
have not been allowed to do it the NCAA
is crackdown on you has removed your
ability to play the sport if you do so
much as as sign an autograph and take a
dollar bill so it's a huge change in
terms of the control that that college
athletes can have over the over their
personhood really and a lot of this
started when a great basketball player
named ed O'Bannon was in somebody's
house and noticed that they were playing
him in a video game and it was a video
game that he didn't even know he was on
he's just watching himself on the screen
and so so that's where it started and
that's where we've gotten to where we
are today the n-c-double-a is absolutely
furious athletic directors around the
country are furious but I feel like the
the forces around SB 206 they just have
so much logic and popular will on their
side I think what we're looking at is
the future all right well and and I
applaud it but my reaction is necessary
insufficient because you are basically
only paying or allowing only the
superstars to to the to profit and
they're profiting outside of the actual
labor they're putting in that benefits
these schools like why does the guy who
City you know like the the fifth guy on
the on the basketball team why does the
guy who just is uh you know he's an
offensive lineman
on the football team but he's gay
his head caved in he's gonna have he's
gonna have that you know the the hip
problems for the rest of his life and
he's helping to make one of these big
ten colleges millions of dollars why
doesn't that guy get paid well first of
all I want to say that I agree with you
I think if we look at this as the start
of something that we can build upon then
it's much more palatable than looking at
it as like and unto itself but I also
want to say that one of the things that
this opens up the door for is like say
that offensive lineman wants to hold a
clinic back in his hometown and get paid
for doing that they can do that now or
like where I live in Maryland Lobo umv
University of Maryland women's lacrosse
team is incredibly popular among that
community of lacrosse players like the
stars on that lacrosse team can now go
to high schools or get paid to do a talk
at a high school so it opens the doors
up for for all athletes in a new kind of
way to be able just a profit off of
being themselves but you're absolutely
right like especially when we talk about
issues of healthcare being guaranteed
your scholarship and being able to get a
piece of the billions of dollars in TV
money because that's really the Golden
Goose that we're talking about here that
is a fight that we still have to wage
and just lastly I mean there was a
movement I don't know maybe two years
ago three years ago I can't time I've
lost time has lost all context for me to
unionize college athletes she's got a
minute left but what's the status of
that movement is there anything
happening will this help in some fashion
or will it hurt um two things one yeah
it was quite a few years ago I can't
believe how many years it's been since
northwestern was attempting to organize
themselves and so you haven't seen any
movement on that since then actually a
lot of states passed legislation to
prevent college athletes from doing just
the same thing in following suits but I
think in this situation now that money
have entered the equation collective
bargaining all of a sudden is in play
and so for college athletes who want to
unionize and want to organize I think
they're the openings now are open in a
way that they weren't before SB 206 was
signed into law
well Dave Zirin thanks so much for
filling us in both about the NBA and
China and this latest bill that has just
come out of California I mean it's one
of those situations where I hope what
starts in California crosses the country
definitely saw that with the roller
skates I remember as a kid since we were
walking down the lane and skateboards if
I'm not mistaken
Dave's iron always really just a special
treat to talk to you about this stuff
you always have insights that you you I
really would can't find anywhere else
thanks so much for your time
