I don't know as much about her as I
should um I didn't know something about
her um but and I can't lie I'm very
strong Bernie partisan but if she was in
the race this is clip number eleven um
if this candidate was in the race then
we can have a real conversation about
two great candidates
maybe being indistinguishable I would
need to know more about her domestic
record but this is Prime Minister Mia
motley who is the Prime Minister of
Barbados this speech at the UN General
Assembly really caught my attention for
a couple reasons one because I'm quite
invested in the project of counter
hegemony from the perspective of
periphery countries in Caribbean in but
even sometimes in northern Europe
certainly in Africa and so on so she's
speaking to that and the courage it
takes for the prime minister of Barbados
to speak this way about Venezuela like
there is a know like I mean look the
United States not gonna invade Barbados
but I mean you know Donald Trump will
Donald Trump is is has a global trade
war that jeopardizes his re-election
because of his you know whatever he's
made up in his head about China I mean
so there's a lot of courage here on this
clarity and Mia motley is an incredible
leader I actually hope to interview her
one day but what we know is that you
cannot propel war over dialogue the
people of Venezuela must be allowed to
decide their own future in accordance
with the principles of the United
Nations Charter principles of
non-intervention non-interference
prohibition of the threat or use of
force respect for the rule of law human
rights and democracy it is regrettable
that other multilateral organizations
have not followed their own charters
and that is what makes the actions of
our Secretary General of the UN more
laudable for refusing to breach his own
charter and take actions even though
member states have hurled in to the
recognition of those unelected that is
why Barbados readily agreed to the
request by Norway and I salute my
colleague Prime Minister who just left
this platform to host the talks between
the Venezuelan parties we salute the
government of Norway for walking the
walk and taking leadership and
facilitating these talks equally we
regret that the talks have broken down
and we remain people that dialogue
remains critical if there is to be a
meaningful outlaw outcome and benefit
for the Venezuelan people and its
neighbors not just its neighbors on the
Latin American continent but this
neighbors in the Caribbean see because
people forget that Trinidad and Tobago
is less than seven miles from the coast
of Venezuela our Caribbean Sea must
remain a zone of peace and for that we
shall fight this is a really powerful
leader this is somebody who's actually
was honored by Rihanna recently ah for
being the first woman Prime Minister of
Barbados I love that so much
it's a awesome and big story and
Trinidad and Tobago yes destabilization
regime change efforts are having a major
consequence on Trinidad Tobago I've been
destroyed and you know so I feel like
Sarah Palin but you can like see
Venezuela from certain parts of beach
with Bernie's foreign policy can you
imagine how I like you you go into a
coma for four years and you wake up and
she's visiting him in the White House
how good you'd feel about the world so
good seriously don't tempt me yeah I was
just gonna make a self-deprecating joke
about how I absolutely did not know
about that geography so everyone
study your globes folks and maybe you'll
know where Venezuela is both
it's really cool
