[Music]
round out our week with of course some
expert analysis of the 2020 Democrat
debate night - they are even using that
in the in their Chiron they won't even
say democratic debate night -
unbelievable
here is Fox and friend and what is it
Silk'n diamond diamond it's diamond
itself giving the analysis luxury
commodities I think on some level
diamond the Democrats don't want this
argument for the main reason is they're
the ones who gave birth to the Ku Klux
Klan it was a Republican that Abraham
Lincoln's party that up into the 1960s
that would fall push back against racism
and somehow that narrative flipped and
people are forced to somehow remember
one second we're gonna play this back
cuz he's just told you what happened
with the parties which they never want
me went a little too far they were the
party that fought back against racism
until the 1960s and things flipped so in
other words I think Kilmeade is going
with the old you don't measure a party
based upon how racist they are now but
you measure about how many years in
their existence they've been racist it's
you know you can do it a bunch of
different ways good Abraham Lincoln's
party up into the 1960s that would fall
push back against racism and somehow
that narrative flipped and people are
forced to go back to remember what
senator Byrd was and even though every
road is named after him in every hallway
has a plaque with his face on it that's
amazing should we remove those plaques
well also well that's a one number two
though that's an amazing point because
Robert Byrd was a member of the Klan and
whatever else you think of him he
apologized endlessly throughout his
career and of course he was one of the
first Senate Democrats to endorse Obama
as clearly as part of his desire to make
up for that Strom Thurmond and Jesse
Helms both became
Republicans and were ardent racists
throughout the aughts yeah so okay but
how many years Michael has it been since
the mid-60s right right that's it's been
less than 50 years I'm about 50 years
but how many years before that where the
Democrats racist dude it was longer I
Kilmeade game set match boom
all right folks well that does it for
this week
Matt bender
