[Music]
here is and this is the the problem with
the Trump administration it's not just
that they're bad people they're bad at
what they do so it is you know that old
stupid or evil it's sort of both with
these guys on one hand both ahead Donald
Trump had said as a candidate I'm not
gonna touch Medicare I'm not gonna touch
Social Security then the White House
acting
budget director says oh we're not
cutting Medicare even though our budget
says we are we've found savings and
we're just not we're just we're taking
those savings off the table right
incidentally guys I want to talk about
some savings I found in your salaries
best save but then they send out their
chief economic advisor to Fox News
Sunday and Larry Kudlow explains why
they actually do have to cut these
things president Trump's top White House
economic advisor Larry Kudlow Larry
welcome back to Fox News Sunday thank
you for all right the president sends a
new budget to Congress tomorrow that
will reportedly call for stiff domestic
spending cuts and environmental programs
transportation anti-poverty programs at
the same time that is calling for a big
increase in defense spending and you've
still got those tax cuts why do that on
the domestic side why not I mean why not
so like why when you're over 60 why not
have a thousand-dollar day cohabit it's
maybe you've tried you see done the
Weight Watchers you've done the diet
every but the first time Larry's in
college
Larry you've been on the way back to the
80s Donald Trump's around I'm around he
thinks around things are flowered you
got a hand it to him for not for not
following up with that like I'm rich
just go backwards I love that why not
like I'm this is the thing to do can I
write off stimulants that's why do that
on the domestic side why not I mean if
you want to deal with budget deficits
you've got rapid growth which means keep
the tax cuts in place we believe the 3%
growth rate of 2018 will continue in
2019 and beyond 2020 and so forth I
think the other element is always to
limit spending and the president is
proposing roughly a 5% across-the-board
reduction in domestic spending accounts
it will be a tough budget we're gonna do
our own caps this year I think it's long
overdue some of these recent budget
deals have not been favorable towards
spending so I think it's exactly the
right prescription all right you say
that you're gonna have a 5% domestic
spending cut on the other hand
reportedly you're gonna ask for another
eight point six billion dollars from DHS
on land security and the Pentagon to
build the wall so there's gonna be
another budget fight over the wall well
I suppose there will be I would just say
that the whole issue of the wall border
security is a paramount importance we
have a crisis down there I think the
president has made that case very
effectively it's a crisis of economics
it's a crisis of crime and drugs it's a
crisis of humanity we have to be much
tougher and have more constructive mean
you know what's fascinating about this
to me is to know how how thoroughly and
deeply this guy also knows that he's
lying like there is nothing that he's
saying right now that he knows to be
even remotely close to the truth and I
get this is the job that he's got to do
but this is shocking like it's just his
ability to just to sit there in lie
with stuff that he know because you
understand that everything else he's
saying is it's at least at very least
like motivated truth this is just out
and out like he's got to say this I've
got to say two cuts against everything I
believe I got to say it cuz it's my job
now it also explains maybe why he's such
a wreck and can barely keep his eyes
open I send him guys another theory as
to why such a wreck which maybe we could
put on screen alright well let's let's
keep going here Isis of humanity we have
to be much tougher and have more
constructive immigration policy which we
will be developing over a period of time
so yes he's going to stay with his wall
and he's gonna stay with the border
security theme I think it's essential
okay here's the problem with this you
talk about balancing the budget and that
the way you're gonna do it is by cutting
5% in all domestic spending but you know
that if you take entitlements off the
table that you just can't get enough
from domestic discretionary spending to
cut the budget and your new budget is a
case in point traditionally Republican
presidents have said we're gonna balance
the budget and our budget they project
it out that it's going to balance the
budget in ten years
your new budget doesn't balance the
budget until 15 years until the 2030s
and and the question I have is you and
I've known each other a long time when I
covered you in the Reagan years you
cared and you thought the deficits and
debt mattered what happened not
overwhelmingly so by the way during the
Reagan years we were joking we were
joking we didn't really hear you
misinterpreted did guy you idiot
forty years in the making
what happened not overwhelmingly so by
the way during the Reagan years
look I don't think I don't think good
growth policies have to obsess
necessarily about the budget deficits
and so forth look Chris my view and I
believe the view of the administration
we are going to point a steady glide
path
towards lower federal spending and
federal borrowing as a share of the
economy share of GDP that lowers the
burden the deficit increased by an
enormous amount in the first few months
of this fiscal year I think seventy
percent we're gonna run I think about
four and a half to five percent of GDP
that's a very modest number compared to
even with the recent past and with our
little bit close to a trillion dollars
so yeah just it's hard to appreciate how
monumental this is this guy has been the
sort of probably the one of the most
prominent
Reaganites that has been sort of still
in the news and in the mixed he had his
own TV show on CNBC they ran in the as
recently as midway through the Obama
administration may be at least him at
least towards the end of the first but
but certainly into the Midway into the
second the idea of deficits was
literally as much of the conservative
brand as a signifier as the second
amendment and abortion like it was like
there was I mean I distinctly remember
three or four years ago sitting here
saying their deficit obsession is just
one more signifier it is meaningless in
many respects but they will they will
they will grab it as tightly and as
white-knuckled as they grab their guns
and now one of the guys who's considered
one of the few guys I think it might be
around like actually articulating things
since from the Reagan era is out here
and basically saying man now I I happen
to think that he sees his position is
correct but they've jettison this within
a matter of thirty six months yeah he's
like an mm tea guy now for the wall it's
it's not it's nuts hey that's a very
modest number compared to even with the
recent past and
we'll be close to a trillion dollars
perhaps so but the economy is 20
trillion dollars and net worth today and
also networks about a hundred trillion
dollars so I don't think that's a burden
on the economy and I think all the
incoming data so here's something let's
go to the financial markets striking
really should I see that output bow of
nothing it was just some interesting
news from The Daily News you just wanted
to see that headline first all right
well in the meantime let me get to some
of these numbers that they are actually
actually are cutting 5% across the board
right every single agency gets cut
equally that's right except for you they
have 1.5 trillion dollars in cuts to
Medicaid over 10 years this is going to
be a function of work requirements these
are the savings incidentally and
understand when you hear the word
savings it's just they're figuring out a
means in which to deny eligibility to
people or to cover less and that is what
theoretically is savings is start with
Medicare for eight hundred and forty
five billion dollars from a Medicare two
hundred and forty 1 billion from
Medicaid through structural reforms as
well as a nine percent cut across on
non-defense programs so when they talk
about five percent across-the-board
they're averaging out stuff 1.5 trillion
dollars in cuts to Medicaid over ten
years they will block grant this the
states which of course then begins a
almost an automatic process of cutting
each year eight hundred forty five
billion dollars to Medicare over ten
years which is about a ten percent cut
and it's supposedly going to be - you
know wasteful spending and provider
payments which of course is a bit of a
joke twenty five billion dollars in cuts
to Social Security over ten years
including cuts to disability
insurance a two hundred and twenty
dollar two hundred and twenty billion
dollar cut to snap over ten years a
twenty 1 billion dollar cut to tamp
that's the Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families which is super unfunded
already and it's a it's one of the few
cash assistance programs we have for
folks living in the worst of poverty two
hundred and seven billion dollars in
cuts to the student loan program it's
going to eliminate parts of the public
service loan forgiveness program and
cutting subsidized student loans
increases in defense spending of course
by thirty four billion dollars next year
eight point six billion in funding for
the Porter wall and it's more overall a
nine percent cut to non-defense programs
Section eight housing vouchers public
housing programs Head Start WIC which is
the nutrition program for women infants
and children of course so many fat
babies walking around these days they're
gonna cut the low-income Home Energy
Assistance Program we're going to hear
more about this during the course of the
campaign you're gonna have the
Democratic candidate I would be batting
don't know who it is and don't know
exactly what version but they're gonna
be articulating in some form of a
medicare-for-all program versus Trump's
cuts to Medicare
you know 2016 Paul Ryan said explicitly
and I remember playing on the show don't
worry about what he's saying on the
campaign trail if he wins the presidency
we're gonna dictate the budget process
and we're gonna cut all these programs
and give you tax cuts and he's actually
gone out ahead of them I mean I'll be
honest
Donald Trump's are not looking over
these numbers going like hey dude I've
looked into Medicare we can have some
savings say this is all reflection
of the right-wingers that came into
office with him and he is one of them
cuz he doesn't care he doesn't care I
know but I think the big takeaway is the
kind of like the Bannon hustle is done
like this is just a pure Reagan whatever
you want to call it agenda there's not
gonna be any of that counterSpin I beg
to differ I'm gonna be a little bit more
naked in mind well it serves of the
racism but again I'm saying I'm
predicating that unlike yes more naked
but the racism and xenophobia has
already been there as heyo see so
elegantly reminded us about Reagan this
specific scam of Annan ISM was the fake
sort of people it was like a
european-style red Toria kind of thing
uh he wants to slash the EPA by 31% like
I said also the student loan forgiveness
program if you head into you know some
type of service job on a federal state
or local level now again this stuff is
not going to be enacted we need to wait
and see what happens in terms of the
budget my guess is we're just going to
see the same more or less trajectory of
course the deficits will continue to
grow because of the tax cuts not a it
will not be a big deal the deficits
until the day a Democratic president
takes office and attempts to expand
programs that provide material benefit
for the most amount of people on that
day and to be fair it will probably be a
ramp up as soon as you know Grover
Norquist realizes the Republicans are
gonna lose the deficit will be
meaningless and Larry Kudlow if he's
still with us
in one form or another we'll start
talking about well I said you know I
said when it's really we're really now
we're moving into the red zone before we
were not in the red zone now we're gonna
be there I mean that's the game that's
always been and it's gonna return that
way that's what Republicans do and you
will hear the you know save the debt
people remember how much money they were
spending during the the Obama years
they were rolling out like you know
stuffed like cans you know they were
spending money there if they were really
serious about the problem why didn't we
aren't they writing checks to the
federal government yourselves to solve
the problem exactly
they had former senators you know
dancing the what was it the the Harlem
shake and I don't Simpson exactly now
good news
Trump's budget is going to steer an
extra twenty million dollars to the Jack
Nicklaus based Hospital project that is
down in Miami sells by rain there's a
lot of hope you do is you get people and
sometimes they haven't had a hand job
yet before it's like a bigger wish for
adults
