[Music]
obviously today is 911 last night they
had the towers of light that they sent
up that they do every year I don't know
would you you must been like in high
school
I was my senior year of high school I
think it was like the second day of
school or third day of school right it
would have been very close I mean the
weather was very similar to today
actually and I mean I think I've
mentioned in the past I distinctly
remember getting out of the shower
listening to Howard Stern at that time
yes there they thought that everybody
thought at the time it was a small plane
that had gone in a guy called in to
Howard Stern said it was not a small
plane I saw a big tire I lived at that
point had a bit of a sitcom money so I
had an apartment on 29th and park I went
up to the roof and with my video camera
cuz of course I was also had about 14
different video cameras at the time and
basically videotaped the second plane
coming in I mean I didn't see the plane
you couldn't see it from where I was
because I was north
I was north east of the towers and so I
only saw the back I only saw the
explosion on the back end and I had
friends who lived down there I'm fact I
went down there John Benjamin who lived
on Duane Street at the time and he had
come up because obviously staying at my
apartment cuz he couldn't go down there
because the police had cordon it off
everything below
well at first 14th Street and then I
think it was Canal and we rode I think
it must have been September 12 and to
get some of his stuff out and there was
literally like two or three inches of
ash everywhere everywhere
and just random cars that had been
pulled out of the area that were smashed
I was very strange and but the and then
for
months and months and months you would
hear processions that would go down 34th
Street coming from the the pile as it
were as they were pulling people out and
I lived right on the corner from
National Guard Armory on Lex and 28th or
something like that maybe it's 26th I
can't remember
and there was blocks of people had put
posters up looking for missing loved
ones very difficult time in New York
City but this of all those things that
happened and obviously the the horror
you know everyone was scared I'm you
know was convinced at the time I still
I'm convinced that had someone walked
into Bloomingdale's with a stick of
dynamite and blown themselves up half of
the New York City would have left
because it was it was a very tense time
we had to my building on like I say on
28th or 29th and Park South had to be
evacuated because it was their fear
about the Empire State Building wow this
is some rumor and so everybody you
evacuated buildings remember right after
9/11 like a month after there was a
plane that went down in Queens
yes yes yeah there was a lot of things
that follow that there was anthrax that
followed that as well
there was story I was interning for
Senator Schumer in Buffalo New York and
the job of the interns back then was to
open actual physical mail so we had to
go through they gave us the what was the
pill that they they made us take what to
sip Rio Rio that's what I think that it
was called can't remember they made us
take that and then put the gloves on and
oh geez open up the mail and it was yeah
it was a tough time and there was
anthrax going around I mean part of that
it's unclear never found out who was
sending the anthrax around but part of
that they suspected one scientist but it
turned out maybe after his death that it
wasn't him I'm not quite sure it was all
of that was used
rolled up and used and used in a way
that in many respects obviously for
those who lost lost loved ones I mean by
I go by a firehouse where at you know
the 8:30 in the morning essentially when
it ever exactly hit they take a moment
of silence they lost a couple of guys
out of that firehouse up in in my part
of Brooklyn obviously a lot of tragedy
on that day but in terms of the country
you see stuff like killing hundreds of
thousands of civilians in Iraq you the
the the really the explosion of the
drone and missile strike program that we
have tortured that took place in Iraq
are spying yes
spying exactly Jose Padilla spying
expanded the authorization for use of
military force which has become a sort
of way of short-circuiting Congress's
role in and and what it did to our
politics in many respects I mean there
was obviously deep-seated problems but
for a couple of years if you spoke out
in any fashion it was it was scary I
mean Bill Maher got a show canceled
Bill Maher got a show canceled checks
disco records run over and burned they I
could tell you that you know having
worked with with Janine at that time in
the run-up to the war and and after she
was multiple physical threats against
her it was an extremely ugly time I got
picked on at school there you go man
John Bolton still and in light of all
that still couldn't get confirmed what
exactly exactly and here is Rudy
Giuliani
who I want to remind you before I show
you this rudy guiliani placed the
command center the emergency command
center for New York City against all of
the advice from all of his advisors who
were dealing with first responders and
whatnot they all told him put it in
Brooklyn he didn't want to put it in
Brooklyn he didn't want to put it in
Brooklyn because he was using it to as a
Love Shack to have an affair with you
know I like it doesn't matter you know
whether his wife or not I mean that's
not the reason why you put a command
center in seven World Trade seven in
World Trade Center seven oh gee and yeah
and and so here's a guy who made the
response to what was going on far more
dangerous for people there was no
communication communication had been
destroyed at that point with with guys
in the towers and and I think like his
buddy Bernie Kerik after they got the
new apartment overlooking the the pile
ended up using that for his affair these
are scumbags and and they never go away
Bernie Kerik is another one never goes
News contributor that whole ecosystem
here is how Rudy Giuliani celebrated and
I do mean celebrate because it's it's
almost like a fascist holiday for them
hmm you've guys in North Carolina in the
North Carolina Senate today did a sneak
vote 9/11 in the morning knowing that
people would be out to overturn the
governor's veto of their budget with
barely half of their house full because
people were out for you know 9/11
ceremonies here is what Rudy Giuliani
posted today
fall for Heroes proved in the who more
than self their country loved
[Applause]
[Music]
I mean is this the first purge like what
the hell right I honestly like how
fascistic do you I mean like how much
more fascistic could that be if you were
trying to make it fascistic but what's
his agenda there I mean he's under
investigation right now I don't
understand what the point other than
Rudy Giuliani taking advantage of 9/11
every time rolls around to remind people
he was mayor who paid for this this is
this is basically his vision that the
that you have these people who are you
know this is their way of bashing the
left they you listen 9/11 was used to to
defeat guys like Max Cleland who had
lost multiple limbs in Vietnam by
morphing him into bin Laden this was the
way they took power they and and look
there's you know there was the the it's
quite clear that they were asleep at the
wheel
they did not take bin Laden as a threat
very seriously
god knows you know how the bin Laden
folk knew that we were doing a training
exercise that day similar training
exercise which was confusing to people
there's no doubt in my mind that people
who worked I mean look bin Laden was a
CIA asset at one point there's a lot of
cross currents in there at the very
least the negligence on the part of the
Bush administration at George Bush
himself when he said you know you know
you've covered your ass when he saw that
and that presidential warning but for
all that the bottom line is they
exploited the hell out of this and they
were incredibly opportunistic and much
to the detriment of the country and they
continued to do it it's just that Rudy
Giuliani is an old guy and I don't know
how people receive this now I mean
normal human beings receive this now but
it's that is it's sick tears like kids
don't watch TV so that
who's that one little part with a little
kid watching a television like us well
no that is set back that was the idea is
that that cop who is there dropping his
nightstick so he can go beat up these
protesters he's going back on the
moments that brought him there and it
went back to when he got pinned as a cop
and then before that he was in the
military and before that he joined the
military ostensibly I guess because he
had seen the Towers fall and that's what
he was watching on TV do you think that
was a paid placement from the apparel
company and Giuliani's 9/11 tweet
because that would just be the icing on
the cake I mean it could very well be
where I don't understand where did this
come from these guys because I think
they said that this was their Superbowl
commercial that wasn't allowed to air
but obviously they could not afford a
Super Bowl spot charitable giving beer
guarantee grunt style Wow it's like
fascist Outfitters yeah yeah that's very
sweet
you don't bacon and whiskey hell yeah
what if you just like one of those I
mean it's all what are we Tim Allen it's
but I mean it is really a minute you get
all the different flavors that you want
out of the right in this era freedom
bacon and whiskey it's a serious pan
Tina
