Tom Friedman really can this be the last
time I wish all right look Tom Friedman
this guy he just can't let go he just
can't let go Tom Friedman's inability to
say I was woo I was wrong is Wow what's
the CODIS word that's gonna say like
this is his Fonzie this is his this is
his Fonzie move all right so Tom
Friedman as you know wrote glowingly
about mb/s in contemporaneously with his
writing about that he got a law degree
from people at the time yeah like they
did maybe he gone a little bit overboard
looks like I don't can't like a million
people said let's put this one in the
time capsule and see how it ages I don't
care I see somebody who's trying to do
something in the Arab world and I'm
gonna support them and I say eff that so
all right that was contemporaneous it
wasn't may be completely obvious that he
was getting completely snowed by a guy
as a horrible human being who would go
on to basically bring Yemen to the brink
of genocide still time could be full
genocide as well as ordering the
dismemberment of a journalist who
criticized him so Thomas Friedman come
back on to CNN let's have you say you
were wrong and then we'll begun with it
I was quite skeptical but here were the
five things I saw on that trip that I
had never seen before watching something
about five things okay
when I get fired from Air America for
the last time a charlatan who stole on
us a stole a charlatan who who in my
estimation in my opinion
the company out of a lot of money by
telling the owner who came in who didn't
know what he was doing they you got to
spend money to make money and one of the
things he did is he got rid of Randy
Rhoads and he brought in Montel Williams
and he and he he really just junked up
the place pretty bad and he said yeah
this is my fault the economy went really
bad and I said well but you didn't just
lose out revenue you lost you lost
market share it's one thing we've
maintained market share but the value of
the market is just alas and the thing he
said to me that goes there were five
decisions he did exactly that same there
were five decisions that were made
before I got here I think that's like
they teach you that in management school
like you gotta have five cuz you have
three it feels like you can't come up
with a full hand but if you do six that
looks too ugly just go five and let's
hear what those five things were that he
he's now saw at that time in before in
Saudi Arabia I saw someone
a Saudi ruler ready to remove the
religious police off the streets a huge
deal for Saudis second I saw him giving
women the right to drive
third we saw him opening the country to
cinema western concerts and sporting
events force I saw him
actually taking on the red the hardline
clerics in the war of ideas saying no
you don't have the right interpretation
of Islam I have the right interpretation
no Sunni no Saudi leader had done that
before and Christian most importantly
what I saw were young Saudis who are
coming back to Saudi Arabia because they
thought a real change was happening in
my column I said Arab Spring from the
top down not the bottom up and that's
that's what I saw and now some people
said you know what time it's all it's
all it's all fake because look what he's
doing Yemen look what he's you know
people that he's arresting here and my
attitude was maybe there's clearly a
downside here there's clearly an upside
and I thought it was worth investing a
little hope in the upside if we could
curb the downside and so I basically
spent the next nine months
writing column saying kids got a big
upside but a big downside it would be
nice if we linked the baseball route be
nice if Trump actually talked to this
kid about curbing the downside
why don't we appoint someone like
Secretary of State Baker to come here to
be your envoy all right
yeah no I just want to just clarify
something this is exactly also what he
said about the Iraq war incidentally
like I thought they were there for her
for democracy and it turns out they
weren't and that was the problem that
was it was not my fault it was not my
assessment that was wrong it was their
behavior after the fact so he's got some
upside having concerts having concerts
letting women drive some down side
creating genocide in a country here's
the problem with what with with with his
calculation like he can't seem to sort
of weigh out what might be a little bit
like every piece of evidence it's
exactly the same to him right right
every piece of evidence has exactly the
same weight there's no okay he's willing
to kill an entire country from what
basically seems like no reason to have
concerts
well you had five things on one side and
you had the genocide and and what else
and yet in Saudi Arabia so that's five
versus two so boom I mean that explains
it
I think everybody knows five bigger than
two because they were like I had five
reasons to come for it and they just had
to I would split off shopping malls and
movie theaters into two different
reasons actually sometimes shopping
malls has the movie theatres in them you
gotta have five you can't do six and you
can't do two gonna have five it's a
shame there's only two things that you
could find fault with the Saudi Arabia
Yemen was wings he thought it was good
right that was one of the five collars
