as we we perused the various possible
justifications for a national emergency
to be announced tonight let's look to
Fox and Friends to see what they're
suggesting is the national emergency
that we must declare to build a wall
question is not only of the drugs that
are coming through not only the
potential gang members that are making
their way through there is danger
there's also families and humanitarian
aid that's needed at a border and then
though that was with the catch and
release in court saying we've got to
release these people and these kids
within 20 days they go into our school
system in our school system last time
there was unaccompanied minors they
flooded into Long Island and I want to
tell you I can't tell you how many
teachers said their classroom size
doubled and a lot of them don't speak
any English and suddenly they're trying
to teach kids with other kids who are
paying taxes whose parents are paying
taxes the same subjects and the other
kids don't speak English so incomes more
teachers incomes more tax dollars to
find those more teachers to more
classrooms temporary classrooms and they
had no say in what was happening these
people are now being stacked up yet at
the border in makeshift shelters there
you go I don't believe that what don't
you believe actually literally anything
well I will tell you this look there are
50 million students in public schools as
of the fall of 2018 that is I think you
know across both elementary and high
school and every year every year ladies
and gentlemen
almost 65,000 students graduated
graduate from high school who are
undocumented immigrants and they're all
in Long Island
apparently single one of them all
$65,000 like they're all just like they
across the border and then all of a
sudden it's like I want to go to the
mall and of course when I go to
Huntington tomorrow the answer on Fox &
Friends to this problem will be to
privatize the schools and drain money of
them and give it to private schools
so I Color Me a little bit skeptical
about their concern
he'll me complain that they actually got
more funding and teachers like and but
they just couldn't say no we don't want
the more funding by teachers if it means
we have to take in refugees that was
precisely the and just just looping back
I mean they were incompetent and the
lies are so extravagant and ridiculous
that she got called out in Fox News but
I mean we should do some fascism binding
here because those are definitely like
of the big lie varieties like those are
not hey let's massage a statistic and do
some spin and do all this crap that
everybody does of course those are like
well Jesus did create a new assessment
work well no no that's actually
primarily what I'm pointing to because
that sets the whole thing in motion
but she and Huckabee Sanders those are
just those that's fascism it's
incompetent
you know it's fascism so incompetent
that it's not even succeeding in a fox
news segment but a lot of people have
left of original Nazis right and they
didn't exactly and as Ken clip enstein
pointed out Hitler you know the reason
Hitler rise arose was because he wasn't
fact checked and Munich enough did
enough whoppers yeah yeah but the truth
is like you know that we got a note
that's fascism those are those are big
lies well but it's starting with a grain
of truth right because people though
it's in the air that these are real
problems in schools right class sizes
are too big and they're under-resourced
and then they do a little fascist
misdirection and blame it on the
immigrants instead of you know the
ruling class indeed now here we have we
speak of fascistic lies that are being
like almost a be tested on Fox and
Friends it seems to me this is a clip
number four they bring on Brandon Judd
he is the national border patrol counsel
I don't know is that the is that the
Union he's the Union right
the union president of the border patrol
and that this union actually is one that
is in favor of Donald Trump they all
can't be gems folks sometimes when you
have the most backward asked of groups
of people they get excited because they
get to knock some heads at the border
but unions are not good but they brought
on Fox and Friends this guy Brandon Judd
and they brought him on again to a/b
test what lie is gonna float tonight
they tried the thing about the schools
and you almost heard everybody in the
studio laughing like oh kill me it's
worried about public schools now this is
hilarious but here is Brandon Judd a
couple of things that have come out of
Homeland Security and maybe the White
House communications that maybe need to
be further defined NBC News head says
this only six immigrants in terrorism
database stop by CPB at southern border
in the first half of 2018 they followed
up on bigger statistics that were put
out by homeland what's the truth okay
that's absolutely ridiculous to say that
we've only detained six people that were
on the terrorist watch list we're not
going to make that information known we
have to keep that close to our to to the
chest when you look at 911 all of those
closet wait a second
damn I'm confused haven't we heard for
weeks that it was 4,000 but is that part
of like a false flag we put out the four
thousand but it's somewhere between six
and four thousand but we kind of keep
this the same thing I did with the
Snowden revelations we could never
possibly talk about anything to validate
our mass surveillance of Americans
because that would jeopardize the whole
thing they've already put out all these
friends we just heard Bridget do this
direction where whatever Christina's
does sadly those numbers are wrong
exactly the lies are for national
security which is totally not fascist
right do you understand that the numbers
between six and four thousand
because if the terrorists knew the
number was 30 387 they would have all
our secrets good
we've only detained six people that were
on the terrorist watch list we're not
going to make that information known we
have to keep that close to our to to the
chest when you look at 911 all of those
people that took down the towers right
here in New York City none of them were
on the terrorist watch list
we don't know how's it coming
guess what there wasn't before 9/11
nice terrorist watchlist yeah that's why
it was so hard for them to be on it we
didn't have a time machine New York City
none of them were on the terrorist watch
list
we don't know who's coming in this
country illegally this again is illegal
immigration it's not legal immigration
if it was legal they would be presenting
themselves at the ports of entry and we
would know exactly if they said this is
absurd he said that we can't tell we
cannot tell how many people have been
there and we because it would be
revealing secrets but we also don't know
not to mention there is essentially no
legal immigration for working class
people I mean the the bottom line is
half of supposed undocumented immigrants
in this country came in legally and
overstayed their visa so he's just
they're just lying he's just lying but
we'll see if that one floats lastly in
anticipation of tonight's broadcast and
we should say about tonight's
announcement by President Trump that
President Obama wanted to address the
nation about immigration what was this
five years ago for oh I don't even know
what the date is today and
all the network said no we're not
interested is too political somehow they
have found it within themselves to
reverse themselves well my fellow
Americans I'm announcing a complete ban
on white migration to the United States
you go too long these male brained
monsters have emerged from caves and
wrecked havoc across the globe we can't
stop all of them but we can make a first
step
