[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome the editor-in-chief of kaiser
Health News a New York Times op-ed
contributor and author of an American
sickness how health care became big
business and how you can take it back
Elizabeth Rosenthal welcome to the
program thanks for having me so let's
start with just as luck would have it
the Trump administration makes what I
would consider a very dubious a
political decision and perhaps an even
greater even more dubious legal decision
in weighing in against the US government
I guess in this Fifth Circuit case
regarding the Affordable Care Act just I
mean characterize what the the argument
is here in that Fifth Circuit and and
what the implications would be if the
plaintiffs prevail
well I argue meant is that because the
penalty for not having insurance was
taken away by Congress then the whole
ACA is therefore invalid that that was a
crucial kind of leg of the program and
once you've taken that away the rest of
it has to go away too and I'm not going
to think about the politics of that so
much as the disaster and the chaos it
creates in health care which is my
bailiwick okay and so fair enough and we
should just say from a legal standpoint
the idea that it would be severable is
you know the the argument would be well
Congress had the opportunity to repeal
the whole a CA they didn't they just
decided to repeal that part of it
so we know where Congress stands on this
we don't have to assume that they would
perceive the whole law to be inseparable
as it were absolutely and the
administration is of course using its
notion of very expanded executive powers
to basically go against what Congress
has done so okay with that said um I'm
een let's just I mean explain to us what
the implications would be I mean I guess
on day one right if this case was to
prevail 20 million people would lose
their health insurance at least right
and then the rest of us would be
implicated by the patient protections
part of the ACA yeah I mean this will
affect everyone and it's you know the
ACA I think everyone who's who's kind of
candid about it will say sure it has
some flaws which is why we're hearing
some of the Dems talk about Medicare for
all now but it did really really
important things that you know the the
Trump administration has been trying to
kind of kneecap it in various ways but
for example it protected people with
pre-existing conditions to be able to
get insurance before the ACA you could
be excluded from insurance if in the
past for example you'd use an asthma
inhaler or you could find out they would
consider pregnancy in some plans a
pre-existing condition so that that was
really important another thing is is
that it it was behind the Medicaid
expansion through which tens of millions
of people got insurance which was really
important another thing it did was to
standardize plans to basically make it
legal junk insurance plans where you
could think oh yeah I have insurance and
then suddenly you go to the hospital and
you go you realize oh it's not for
emergency room care or oh it doesn't
cover pregnancy so the ACA protected
patients I mean it's full name we always
think about it as the Affordable Care
Act but it was the Affordable Care and
Patient Protection Act it protected all
of us in really important ways and those
protections from business abuses or what
I think of as the business abuses that
are common in our health care system
would basically dissipate
instantaneously yeah I mean that that
raises a good point it's when I try to
make a lot the PPACA is the official you
know sort of acronym of the patient
protection and everything you just
listed was the the patient protection
part of the bill
yet we call it the ACA and in many
respects I think that's why it was so
hard for it and I know this is not your
purview the politics of it but I think
that was so hard for people to say I
appreciate the bill because the P P the
P P part of it is it's really a huge
leap forward for health insurance and
certainly but let's talk about the the
cost because your book is basically
breaks down why are a health care system
is so expensive it is three trillion
dollars a year that it costs essentially
Americans either out of their pockets or
their employers pockets or out of the
government's pockets we as an American
society spend three trillion a year
which is which Dwarfs just about
everywhere well not just about
everywhere else right I mean per capita
so it's the same as the economy of
France it's crazy and so let's talk
about like what where where do you start
what in terms of maybe I guess if it's
possible to do it but the dis in
descending order of of where the the the
inefficiency exists that creates this
this this out size cost well in many
ways it's the fact that we've given over
health care to a market and it's a
highly dysfunctional market so the
conclusion of the book and what I
realize which I didn't quite add quite
gelled before writing it was that what
what happened in the u.s. is we've
allowed business considerations to drive
our health care and health is on the
back burner so you know what what are
our values in health care how do we
judge health care institutions
pharmaceutical companies device makers
return on investment efficiency profit
well what are the values of health care
they're like caring curing talking to
people those of those who kind of
dissipated they're on the back burner
and so when we say you know hey we want
to get to a place health reform is about
patient-centered evidence-based care I
mean you know gee what what other kind
of health care could there be
and I think the answer is in the u.s.
its business driven its profit driven
and that's a big problem and I'm not
saying you have to you know everyone
should be Mother Teresa or we should do
away with all profit in health care but
I think it's so out of control now and
we see this when we look at the prices
in our country compared to the prices in
every other country and what all of the
members of the healthcare industry have
been able to get away with in terms of
what they charge I just did a story
looking at insulin pricing you know two
hundred and seventy-five dollars a vial
for Humalog in our country about fifty
dollars in Germany even less in France
and England now why is that same
medicine because we trust in the market
and the market in this case just hasn't
delivered well right so there's a dynamo
so let's talk about that because you
talk in your book about a dynamic where
you know where competition's supposed to
kick in as it were and it oddly enough
competition kicks in and all it does is
it just sort of like somehow Rises the
price of everything yeah there's a
phenomena that's pretty unique to
healthcare called sticky pricing which
is a nice term where basically what
happens is there'll be a few competitors
in the field and instead of them kind of
competing with each other and driving
prices down one will try to raise the
price of a drug or a hospital service
you know a thousand bucks or something
like that and the other two will look at
each other and go oh wow it worked
they're getting away with it
and so everyone raises their prices so
that's why we've seen you know even
though there are three insulin makers
the insulin prices go up in lockstep
basically by a factor of about three
hundred percent over the last ten years
and we see the same phenomena all over
healthcare where what is the norm in
healthcare we insurers pay often
according to usual and customary prices
in an area well guess what if all the
hospitals are charging a
then that becomes usual and customary
and so there's no need for anyone to
compete so again it's it's a
dysfunctional market and partly because
we've let it get that way and in part
because you know it's hard you don't
shop for healthcare the way you shop for
a loaf of bread you don't you know
someone tells you where to go the price
isn't transparent even if it were you
really don't want to be just choosing
the lower priced product without being
able to judge is that the best surgery
for me or not so I mean I want to get
just stay and be a little sticky on this
usual and customary thing because this
this this does not exist that that like
means of pricing does not exist it seems
to me in anywhere else and that seems
like that's like that's like a
hard-and-fast floor right
maybe so there's no there's no ceiling
on any of these prices but there's like
basically an artificial floor that
pushes these things up yeah and and why
did why do we think usual and customary
is right I mean that's the problem is
rational because what you find and what
I found in the book is what usually say
usual and customary by geo Civ so you
can find you know a high priced area in
Manhattan where usual and customary for
gallbladder surgery would be thirty
thousand dollars and yet over you know
you go into Queens and it's suddenly
five thousand dollars so you know usual
and customary basically just means how
much are the residents in that area
willing to pay and what can you get away
with not like what's irrational we're
right for that procedure where did that
term come from like I mean it's it just
sounds like I mean it sounds like it
sounds to me like a you know a
reasonable person standard that a court
would use to determine like negligence
or something like this but it but it
sounds like it was just simply developed
I mean you might know developed by the
the medical industry to just sort of say
like yeah
the obvious price and that's just a
function of like you know how much does
it cost how much you got I mean that's
basically what it is right well the
problem is I like to say you know the
how we got to this crazy healthcare
system is a tale of you know the road to
hell is paved in good intentions so the
way we got usual and customary is for a
while there were there were no rules
right and and for a while in the 70s 80s
Medicare was just paying you know
whatever a doctor would charge they
would pay and then it things got really
out of control and at some point they
said we're gonna pay usual and customary
because that was lower than whatever
right but then of course if everyone's
charging a lot and everyone realized
well if we all charge a lot then we all
get to charge a lot and so that's what's
evolved and that's partly why you see
these huge price disparities where you
know an MRI in one city can cost five
times what it would cost in another and
an MRI and and you know might cost three
times as much on one Street in New York
than it would ten blocks away so the
other dynamic which I find fascinating
and this is this is a relatively I think
recent phenomena because insurance
companies are now and maybe this
happened maybe this was the case state
to state but at least from a federal
standpoint insurers are limited in terms
of profits to I think it's 20 percent
essentially or I should say that their
premiums eighty percent of premiums need
to go towards providing care for people
so there is an incentive for insurance
companies to do the absolute opposite of
what we would anticipate for them to do
which is to negotiate prices down but
they actually benefit by prices going up
right you know the piece a piece of a
twenty percent of a big pie is is better
than twenty percent of a small pie and
again that's kind of the road to hell
paved in good intentions what happened
before was a lot of insurers were
only spending you know maybe 60% of
premiums on care and everyone said oh
that's bad right of course so you should
spend 80 to 85 percent it's what the law
says but no one thought oh well so
they're going to respond to that by just
paying out a lot more claims to keep
their income stable and I think that's
the problem we assume that health care
will operate in a way that thinks about
the care and about the health but these
are businesses and and they don't you
know what they're doing is trying to
preserve their income and most will
respond in a way that you didn't
anticipate because they're not really
thinking about well you want us to spend
our premiums on helping people they're
thinking about well we've got
shareholders and we just you know we
can't have that
big drop in income it's I mean to me
that sounds like a kickback right it's
like look I get a 20 percent Vig on this
so if you want to charge me double the
price great right I mean I don't think
that's the way they present it but I
mean that's what it is right I mean it's
like I'm not gonna haggle with you over
the price of this because I'm actually
just getting paid Commission more or
less by the transaction I mean it's like
almost like the the media buyers for
political campaigns where they're like
it's too bad these ads are so expensive
but I get 15 percent of the cost of the
ad you know so it's that type of thing
yeah I don't like to use the term
kickback because that has a rather
narrow definition but I think what I do
like to say is you know basically
everyone's feeding at the trough and
what's in the trough is is my and your
health and we're we're the victims of
this right so it benefits everyone in
the industry to some extent when the
prices stay high because there's a lot
more in the trough to eat now you know I
think what what the the big fallacy that
patients need to remember is we
literally say like why would my insurer
pay that you know the my insurers in my
corner no they're not you know they're
pass-through
they take in premiums and they pay out
claims and you know if a claim is
particularly egregious they might fight
it on your behalf but not usually
they're too big to care about you and I
you know this was like an aha moment for
me I had a patient who had an
out-of-network claim and the insurer
paid about a hundred and twenty thousand
dollars on it and it was an outrageous
claim and I called the insurance said
why are you paying this and they said
well you know yeah it's an it's an
unjust claim but we'd have to take the
guy to court and you know we'd have to
put investigators in to see what
happened in the operating room it's just
easier to pay so for individual cases
it's usually easier for them to pay and
they give you you know those annoying
notes about like they charged you
fifteen thousand dollars and we
negotiated down on your behalf to twelve
thousand dollars but the actual price
should probably be about a thousand
dollars for a lot of those things so
they're not in your corner they're
businesses
so the other problem we have aside from
a pharmaceutical industry which jacks up
prices completely untethered to the cost
of these things and there's certain
patent protections and whatnot but we
also have the consolidation of hospitals
and sort of like what is becoming I
guess just a series of monopolies in
some respects I mean I think it's fairly
obvious even with competition it seems
like they raise prices without
competition they raise prices there's no
right like what's the option there well
I do think hospitals have gotten off the
hook you know we tend to focus on Obed
pharmaceutical companies bad insurers
the biggest single spend in our health
care system is hospital stays and those
prices have gone up basically untethered
to to anything involving reality so now
everything is billed it's billed by the
MIT you know if you're in the recovery
room it's being built by the minute
usually and which really bothers me
because
you're staying in the recovery room for
three hours it's not often because you
need to be in the recovery room but
because the surgeons are having dinner
but your insurer is paying by the minute
in that case so I think hospitals
deserve a lot more scrutiny in terms of
their pricing and remember most
hospitals in this country are
not-for-profit institutions so they're
not even paying taxes so I think one of
the big tests that I see coming in the
next few years is looking at these
not-for-profit institutions saying do
you look like a big business or do you
look like a charity and if you look like
a big business
he'll pay taxes and we'll use that to
deliver real health care for people but
I think they you're right we've let them
off the hook a little too easily and
hospital consolidations as you say you
know we used to blame consolidation on
rising prices but again when there are
only three hospitals in a town and
they're all getting away with it they
almost don't have to be consolidated to
to all look at each other and go Oh
usual and customary hundred thousand
bucks that's fine with all of us okay so
you you lay out in the book I mean so we
have these these uh major problems and I
guess the other problem too
is implicit in what we've already said
and what you make explicit in the book
is that outcomes although there I guess
there are some fixes in the ACA that
that sort of implicate this a little bit
and and maybe you can describe those but
outcomes are secondary right like we get
paid they make money on procedures they
make money on providing care as opposed
to providing a specific outcome and
we're not talking just about an
individual we're talking about just like
broadly speaking right this is like this
is the one of the few at least it seems
to me attempts at control of the system
in some way by saying we're gonna judge
your outcomes versus how much care you
give yeah and you know outcomes research
and health care is really complicated
right because how do you define the
outcomes
so yes there have been attempts to do
that
I think it's they're deeply flawed
because you know big hospitals will say
well we have sicker patients or our
outcomes aren't as good I think really
that's why people are looking more at
what we call bundled care or capitated
care or something like Medicare for all
a single-payer system where you know you
are given as an institution a bundle of
money for doing something whether it's
the entire care or an appendectomy or
heart surgery and it you have to use
that money wisely and well so I think
the outcomes world you know it's
important to focus on it we deserve as
consumers of health care to know about
outcomes but I don't think it's going to
be the solution because I think you know
the truth is that almost every hospital
in the u.s. is going to do it
appendectomy just fine and MRIs are the
same everywhere so but prices are really
different so even before we get to
outcomes research I think we have to say
an MRI is an MRI is an MRI a vitamin D
test is a vitamin D test and prices
shouldn't vary and that's what every
other country is done they said here are
some standards and everyone needs to
follow them okay I want to jump to that
I just want to just in terms of outcomes
like so things like how many infections
you know in hospital infections do you
get I mean I think most people I don't
know if most people are aware that like
being in the hospital is a really like
dangerous place to be at some level yeah
in terms of you for your health I mean
that's the irony like do those have
those proven effective in any way like
for instance if we were to say okay
here's bundled care right we're gonna
give you you've got a patient who comes
in with a burst appendix so you've got a
patient who comes in with you know some
type of heart troubles we're gonna check
on the on the menu and this is worth ten
dollars this is worth fifty dollars how
do we assess that they're not going like
you know one of the ways that we can
make this fifty dollars in two
you know feel like $60.00 in terms of
like our profit is we're just we're
gonna pull back on some of this stuff
yeah the worry is always about skimping
right one way to spend less is to skip
on care and I think some really
interesting experiments have been done
on that one is something called
reference pricing where some big
California organization said what does
it cost to do a hip or knee replacement
and they went to some economists at
Berkeley and said we don't want to we
don't want the bottom dwellers we want a
reasonable cost that we're gonna pay and
they arrived at something like 43
thousand dollars and they said okay
that's what we're gonna pay and new
patients you can fight you know if you
find a hospital that comes in for that
we'll pay if you go above you're gonna
pay and they did two really interesting
things first of all it it it encouraged
patients to look around at those for
those hospitals that would do it for
forty three thousand dollars but the
really more interesting thing it did for
me is that it encouraged those hospitals
that were charging 120 thousand dollars
to say oh yeah we could do it from 43
thousand so um
you know I think it's partly you can't
you can't do bottom-dwelling right you
don't want to pick the the the cheapest
health care you can find but you can't
do you know I think it one interesting
thing is you know what about a target of
health care where I say I don't care
about the the amenities the bells and
whistles but I care about just the
fundamentals of good care that doesn't
exist in the US and that's what health
care looks like in most of the rest of
the world like no five-star hotels no
fountains you know maybe not a private
room but just the basics and that's
really what we should be focused on
