you know how I always say um when I do
my Rachel Maddow impression I go Russia
Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia
Russia Russia no dead on I it's actually
horrifyingly dead on and and I am NOT I
mean we stipulate this every single show
talking about the projection of Russian
policy and its own Monroe Doctrine in
Eastern Europe and its use of
politicians like Gerhard schr√∂der and
yes even in fact in a place where it can
its occasional threats around the energy
distribution to a place like Germany I
mean these are valid conversation topics
they're not they shouldn't be the main
conversation United States because we
are in the seat of our own Empire and
that should frankly be our first and
foremost piece of attention and people
are also hysterical and ridiculous and
filled with nonsense conspiracy theories
about Russia but I don't make any like I
have no you know Russia's a mid-ranking
Puri allow or I'm totally not impressed
and there's plenty things to critique
and talk about there there is a coup
going on in Venezuela that coup is
backed with the threat force of the
United States John a Guido was given a
op-ed piece in The New York Times and
Maduro while giving some very good
signals on negotiations is definitely
deploying secret police and engaging in
brutality these are all are happening
simultaneously and the and people hate
whenever I outline broad reality like
that but the bottom line is and the
still simple takeaway is is we need to
oppose coos and we need to oppose
imposing a right-wing government in
Venezuela which will have all of the
problems that currently exist without
any remnants of the accomplishments of
Chavez and we need to support diplomacy
and I would say that you know Rachel
Maddow who actually I didn't read the
book but supposedly she wrote a book
several years ago on the
military-industrial complex and US based
systems abroad I mean I don't know what
to say I would imagine that you know
this would be something that I'm sure
she understand
she's obviously a very smart person but
I find I mean her her fear-mongering and
in this on Russia is that well this one
even this one stood out this is Rachel
Maddow last night talking about Russia
and the energy grid what would happen if
Russia killed the power in Fargo today
right what would happen if all the
natural gas lock-ins that that service
Sioux Falls just poofed on the coldest
day in recent memory and it wasn't in
our power whether or not to turn them
back on
I mean what would you do if you lost
heat indefinitely as the act of a
foreign power on the same day the
temperature in your front yard matched
the temperature in our and Don in
Antarctica I mean what would you and
your family do i download MSNBC yeah I
would call Adam shifts office I would
call yeah I least save me out I would
say like my powers going down get this
tweet to Ted Lou I want him to ratio
Trump some serious Glenn Beck vibes
going on here I mean yeah and so and
look and just what is extraordinary to
me is like okay first of all there there
are problems in the energy grid which we
need to deal with what if you actually
had a rational conversation about Russia
Russia Russia Russia for a second and
you said that Russia just like the
United States is an adversarial power so
and and interferes in other people's
domestic affairs and elections and it's
much smaller degree mostly than we do
because they just don't have the
capacity to do the amount that we do but
as an example could Russia to one of its
immediate neighbors or potentially even
a Germany where it does have a very
large part of its natural gas you know
it could it turn off the tap and like I
just I wrong size of political power
probably not to Germany
there's too many stakes and that to do
that maybe to a regional neighbor and
it's sort of own mini sphere of
influence and imperialism which we
should oppose just as we should oppose
again something I don't ever hear Rachel
talking about like
us supporting a coup in Honduras she
didn't asked Hillary Clinton about that
she's not talking about what we're doing
in Venezuela which far exceeds even if
all of the conspiracy theory is about
Russian interference in 2016 are true
and then let's just get real politique
for a second I can understand why I'm
not the valid evaluating the truth of
any of these claims I'm just saying like
if you told me hey Russia would like to
have a president in the White House that
backs its agenda and is friendly with
its oleg art class i would say yeah that
makes a lot of sense the same way that
the United States would like in a regime
in Russia that supports deregulation
it's all the guard class like we did in
the 1990s in Russia when we literally
brought the life expectancy rate down
from lower than the Soviet era okay that
makes sense
why the would Russia wake up
tomorrow and decide in an unbelievably a
provocative act with the out with
another nuclear superpower to just turn
off the energy grid to with old
people in the Dakotas what strategic
basis would they have for doing that now
maybe they are gonna say because they
don't want us to invade Venezuela and
there's some I don't know I mean but
even the most bellicose voices in Russia
have suggested a repeat of the Cuban
Missile Crisis which is put a flotilla
in front of Russia and say in front of
Venezuela and say no and Putin has an
indica by the way Putin's been the
Russians have been rhetorical but they
actually haven't really put any muscle
behind Venezuela at all so like just
like again if you stipulated all the
conspiracy theories and you stipulated
all of this stuff why the would
Russia do that I understand why they
would steal data I understand why they
would interfere with elections I
understand all of that why other than
just massively pissing off a country
that could by the way certainly do
similar things to them to say the least
and that payoff would be you cute you by
the way and if Trump's the secret
Russian agent you do it in the Dakotas
you would kill some like Matt
heads most likely yeah you're gonna make
a lot of Magha guys to turn into
resistance
yeah is that the real conspiracy this
Rachel Maddow want more Malka people
watching her show it's the liberal
version of chewing on really wild it
just doesn't even make it that just even
within its own universe no but you know
how liking script writing does it make
sense either
it makes sense in its own universe
totally the difference absolutely one
difference is that Coonans optimistic
like you're all gonna be saved this is
right around the corner the the the pet
like paranoia we have is gonna get us
well they need a lens through which to
understand the world and they don't have
Marxism they did this by the way and
think I was shot a debunked story a
couple years ago after Trump got into
office about one in Vermont
it was just debunked that was the thing
that people ran with for a couple days
they've took down a power grid in
Vermont and it turned out to be like it
was hacked it was hacked it's the
Russians was like no it turned out to be
electrical failure because by the way
America's whole grid like it's a
disaster that we have not investigated
invested in in decades that's where we
literally have bridges collapsing so
that's another thing to say to about all
this Russia stuff it's like even if
everything is true
what kind of poisoned immune system in
the United States is Russia able to
exploit an immune system of corruption
and equality racism and yes a totally
failed electric grid which Rachel Maddow
could do one of her like it was 1974 on
the PG&E company that'll be great why
don't you do 20 minutes about how
Republicans and Democrats have totally
failed to upgrade our energy
infrastructure and the next president
needs to do that I bet you can come up
with some amazing wonky questions to ask
the candidates on MSNBC but instead we
go to Putin's just sitting there like
well Trump give me all the meeting notes
from his meetings and the next step is I
want to kill people yeah I thought the
character with power grid
even the blue Sierra C theories on the
right
are more inspiring than in the radical
Center all right here's what we're gonna
do
