[Music]
in the meantime interesting polling and
this is part of a broader point I want
to make here
interesting polling on on Medicare for
all
now you know what Medicare for all is
when we say it don't you because when we
say Medicare for all in terms of the
plans that Bernie Sanders has presented
or jamila pray Paul in the house
Medicare for all is actually closer to
what we would call Medicaid for all
which means you're not paying at the
point of service you're not paying for
premiums and whatnot Medicare you pay
premiums Medicare you pay some at the
point of service it's better
essentially health insurance then you
have outside of that but Medicare for
all as constructed in these bills that
exist would also cover a lot more than
Medicare does currently but apparently
most voters don't know this and they
don't know it in a couple of telling
ways here is a poll taken from May 30th
to June 4th survey of about 1200 adults
the share who think the following would
happen under national health plan like
Medicare for all they ask taxes for most
people would increase everybody seems to
understand that although Democrats the
least 71 percent of Democrats believe
that independents 80 percent GOP
eighty-five percent they're very
sensitive to that all US residents would
have health insurance coverage Demme's
sake 76 independents 61 Republicans 45%
they have a very bad view of it the
Republicans private health insurance
companies would not be the primary way
that Americans would get health coverage
back up
right there everybody across the board
52 52 57 are only half of the people
more or less are aware of that doctors
in hospitals would be paid less
Democrats don't believe it independents
are split Republicans think that's the
case and I think the Republicans are
probably right
certainly the hospital's not all doctors
but certainly some doctors people who
buy their own insurance would not be
able to keep their current plans
Democrats do not believe that 24%
independence 40% 53% of Republicans
believe that in there they are correct
people who buy their own insurance right
now would not be able to keep their
current plans current plans wouldn't
exist now you may not be able to keep
your current plan now it's not up to you
it's up to the health insurance company
individuals and employers would not
continue to pay health insurance
premiums Democrats only 31% know that
Republicans have a better sense of this
that 45% people with employer sponsored
health insurance would not be able to
keep their current plans only 25% of
Democrats believe that but almost half
of Republicans believe that people would
not continue to pay deductibles and
co-pays when they use health care
services nobody seems to know that you
would not have deductibles only only 1/4
of all voters so there is a real problem
with voters in their awareness of what
Medicare for all a means both for good
and bad right there are a lot of
benefits that none of them seem to be
aware of maybe a quarter of them are
aware of of what the benefits are let's
go to the next one
as far as you know which better
describes Medicare for all really is is
it a health care plan that makes
everyone get rid of their current
private insurance and switch over to
Medicare or a health care plan that lets
anyone buy into Medicare
instead of their current private
insurance if they want to 27% of
Democrats or let me put it this way 73%
of Democrats think it's an public option
that you can buy into it
independence 60% think that so only 40%
of independents know what it really is
only 27% of Democrats know what it
really is but 55% of Republicans know
what it really is but of course the
problem is is that the 55% of
Republicans they don't know any of the
benefits
apparently not many of the Republicans
do either as our leaders in Washington
consider changes to our health care
system which of the UH no that's not the
one I want it is I guess we covered that
what benefits you would get oh oh okay
here it is and if you know that Medicare
for all meant the falling would you
support or oppose it okay it Medicare
for all is a program that would allow
people to buy into the Medicare program
if you wanted but people who have
private insurance could keep their
existing insurance seventy-three percent
say that they would support it if
Medicare for all would provide Medicare
program to Americans and eventually
eliminate all private insurance only
fifty percent a little less than fifty
percent want it but those people in that
poll there's still at least twenty five
percent of those people who say I don't
want it have no idea that it would mean
you don't pay at the point of service
they just don't know and why do you
think is this because why do I think
that yeah go I'll tell you what I blame
the electorate no in this or do you
blame my message makers
I I blame the lawmakers and part of this
is because the party that has the most
amount of people championing it in terms
of elected leaders also apparently has a
real problem with with Medicare for all
I mean this is a question this is a
problem with the Democratic leadership
period end of story
intercept June 11th in preparation for
Wednesday's hearing on Medicare for all
before the powerful House Ways and Means
Committee the panel's chair met
privately with Democrats to lay out how
he wants it to unfold represent of
richard neal massachusetts down he's not
good been in office since 1989 told the
democrats on the panel that he didn't
want the phrase quote medicare for all
to be used instead he said the hearing
should focus on all the different ways
to achieve universal health care or
universal health coverage which he said
was a better term to deploy medicare for
all 'yes he argued was wrong on policy
in as a political loser they do not want
to inform the American public what
Medicare for all means they don't want
to do it heard Nancy Pelosi's lead
advisor go in and tell health insurance
companies six to eight months ago it's
not gonna happen don't worry so what
you've set up is a dynamic we're only
your opponents have any knowledge of
what Medicare for all is and all they
know is the negative stuff it's not
unlike you know like AOC they only know
the negative stuff and why
is happening who's a story in The
Washington Post yesterday two days ago
in recent weeks Representative Cheri
Bustos chairwoman of the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee
remember this is the committee that's
saying if you're going to challenge any
of your gonna primary any of our
incumbents as a political consulting
company where you're never gonna get
work from us we're black listening you
Cheri Bustos has briefed fellow house
leaders in private meetings about focus
groups the committee commissioned in
three key political battlegrounds we
don't know what they are the upshot
according to for Democrats familiar with
the findings is that the public's
impression of the new House Majority is
bound up in his battles with Trump not
in its policy agenda and apparently
they're just completely flummoxed by
this their world view is no impeachment
run on a very very vague notion of
health care the irony here of course is
that in the run-up to the 2018 election
there were people on the far left the
they were concerned trolling the
Democrats essentially saying you you all
you're doing is going out there and
talking about Trump and that's not gonna
win any elections well in fact they
weren't talking about Trump because they
realize didn't have to and they were
talking about health care but the fact
of the matter is the reason why their
health care message are really I think
it could have been any message would
have resonated is because the subtext of
all this is that Donald Trump is going
to ruin everything
and it was specific to he's going to
destroy the gains with the ACA which is
still more specific then no that was
tied into it but there were people
running on Medicare for all 50% of them
were running on Medicare for all the
point is is that what drove people to
the polls was a hatred for Trump and
which did not depress the
vote of people was that Democrats were
just talking about health care so
Democrats were functioning as if they
were you know staying on message with a
but but all the while they were allowing
oxygen for hatred of Trump to carry the
day and by stifling the impeachment talk
they're starting to bleed that oxygen
because the fact of the matter is is
that fires do not just stay static they
either get smaller or they get bigger
you don't have an option of like hitting
the pause button here so you got to
offer more oxygen to this if you want it
to continue to grow otherwise it's gonna
shrink it's just they're just too binary
choice was that the comment and the wire
one that I can't remember who it was was
saying to that security guard I know how
you want it to be but it's not that way
Marlo you want it to be one way he
wanted to be way but it's another way
and that's exactly what's going on here
and they're being incredibly ignorant
about it let's play a clip of Nancy
Pelosi reading off Democrats have passed
over fifty pieces of legislation all
good legislation but I want you right
now in your mind to think of the three
most popular pieces of legislation that
Democrats have the ones that have gotten
the most attention over the past couple
of years what would it be what would be
the three most Medicare for all $15
minimum wage get rid of college debt and
green new deal for she's gonna name 50
things here see if one of those comes up
I don't you name 50 but she's gonna name
a bunch
I just want to start off the morning to
say that mr. leader McConnell seems to
take great pride in calling himself the
grim reaper it's part of his political
campaign it's part of the pride he takes
this leader of the Senate and as you see
what he wants to bury none of these
things are going to pass they won't even
be voted on so think of me as the green
Grim Reaper his own quote he wants to
bury the for the people ask for cleaner
government the Equality Act for ending
discrimination against LGBTQ community
dreamers and to protect our dreamers and
CPS Mississippians Paycheck Fairness
equal pay for equal work
gun violence protection common-sense
background check legislation he's
burying that climate action now climate
action now let's bury that save the
internet after net neutrality
legislation young people are so
concerned about the Violence Against
Women Act won't even get a vote lowering
health care and and prescription drug
presence won't even get a vote that's
what he said about our agenda which
encompasses most of our early
legislation that were on what we
promised for the people to lower the
cost of health care by lowering the cost
of prescription drugs by building
infrastructure of America in a green way
and in doing so increasing paychecks
lower health care bigger paycheck
cleaner government not even going to get
a vote again public sentiment is
everything President Lincoln the Senate
will certainly be hearing from the
public on issues values no they won't
and the reason why they won't is because
the three or four things that animate
this public in the way that they animate
this public you refuse to vote on you
refuse to even use the words in a
hearing about it she's arguing to the
journalists and there is no argument
being made
to the people and this is a this is good
this is a massive failure massive
failure
they simply are out of touch or maybe
conveniently so or they think that they
can they can in some way thread this
needle and the and the problem is is
that we have seen this before of all the
things many different reasons by Hillary
Clinton lost many of them attributable
to her many of them not but in terms of
their campaign they were very very
cautious about saving Paul Ryan I think
that's part of the reason why they never
went to Wisconsin because they didn't
want to have to address Paul Ryan
because they wanted to make deals with
him and and this is when they try and
get too cute
they they they this is the problem well
this is the problem and I think it's
also the problem on the merits when you
think about somebody like Hillary
Clinton or certainly in Joe Biden is
it's not even just tactical I think they
do you know they're they're quite their
Bible its ideological to cut Social
Security Medicare but just to circle
back to the point I was trying to make
earlier just briefly which i think is
another distinction is that yes plenty
of candidates ran on Medicare for all
and some ran on protecting the ACA and
it was all animated by loathing and
disgust with Trump and I think though in
a narrow sense like I would be and I
think we advocated very clearly in 2018
for the midterms that of course I wanted
as many candidates as possible to talk
about Medicare for all because that's
where we need to go but actually
particularly the context of 2017-2018
saying look we're gonna protect what we
can of the ACA was the major question of
the day because they were trying to gut
it and right that would jeopardize tens
of millions of lives 2019 with Democrats
controlling the house and an open
primary with you know candidates
actually advocating for serious reform
of health care you know the same Richie
Neal kind of move doesn't work
and well that's same argument I'm making
yeah like you cannot maintain a fire at
the same level it either has to grow
railways or it has to shrink right and
so you've got to pump more oxygen into
this
they're always you're got to go into
direct outages you've got to go into a
direction yes they're always fighting
the last fight and that's the best-case
scenario I think a lot of this is is
ideological or some measure of captured
they're not even aware that its
ideological doesn't matter really at the
end of the day it does not matter
