so Ferran obviously a big story this
week the suicide of of Jeffrey Epstein
we will talk about that in the last hour
of the show we in the last hour in the
previous hour I should say we were
talking about the Ken Cuccinelli's new
immigration rules and laws and the
ongoing assault on immigrants and this
sort of show that Donald Trump was
putting on that is very much about him
communicating to the base of his party
that we are all in on this fight against
Brown people and some of them will be
undocumented immigrants some of them
will be legal so-called legal immigrants
in line some of them will be the
children of legal residents but will be
citizens but they will have one thing in
common that the vast majority of them
will come from a country like Guatemala
or country like Honduras or perhaps a
country I don't know from the Congo or
from Somalia I mean we're from Haiti
they will they will seek out anyone who
has a hue --that is less than lily-white
and in their minds and or has been is
more than lily-white in some respects
and they will they will inflict some
type of of punishment or humiliation on
them and that's that's what they're you
know they're base wants and this very
well could make for a very tight race
obviously Hillary Clinton won by three
million votes last time obviously
because so many undocumented immigrants
voted time and time again by putting a
different hat on their head or something
but the the Trump campaign is clearly
trying to sort of eke out electoral
college strategy and they need to
motivate their base
but there's been stuff that's been
happening this week in terms of money
which may implicate this race I mean
there's talk that the economy is gonna
go south and you know we have been you
made this point earlier on the the
Barack Obama trajectory it has basically
been untouched but we could be headed
towards the end of that road and part of
it could be brought about by Trump's
trade war and maybe the the fact that
all that money that was supposed to go
into jobs on the American repatriation
Act and the big tax cut no jobs so
what's your thoughts on that well the
way I always describe it is our economy
look at it as the Three Little Pigs okay
we could have built our economy out of
the bricks and the bricks are
essentially building an economy by
building up the working class here in
the United States and that's that's what
happened following World War two strong
economy good recovery and it's because
people not those at the top but people
were making money and they could afford
things that's building your house out of
bricks but instead what we did as a
country we have a straw foundation upon
which a stick house sits with a brick
roof because those at the top though
those are the bricks now and that makes
up the roof and what's underneath it
cannot support any of it and it's only a
matter of time before it comes crashing
down and the slightest little thing
because again we've got the straw
foundation maybe it's a trade war maybe
it's a little bit of a hiring freeze
which we're also beginning to see now
reports out this week saying that
companies are actually pulling job
postings off the internet because now
they're not sure that they want to hire
people because of the trade war it could
be something as simple as they're not
expanding their companies which is also
happening we were promised it would
after the tax cuts that never
materialized because it wasn't
ever going to materialize and so now
here we are we're sitting on our straw
foundation in our stick house with our
brick roof and that roofs about to come
crashing down and all of us are going to
be affected the question is is it going
to happen before 2020 or is it gonna
happen after and somehow get pinned on a
Democrat if they win the 2020 election
because you know that's what Trump will
say on fox news every day yeah no I mean
I share your concern I mean we're you
know we're starting to see the what
happens when you have a total
incompetent at the helm of a you know a
country the size and with the influence
that America has I mean it's it's you
know it's got to be like a like a like a
like a huge you know I don't know
driving a huge airport you know aircraft
carrier right like there's so many
different things that are going on it's
so huge that you you can't make a dam
you can't make a dramatic move that'll
sink the thing in the first five minutes
even if you have no idea what you're
doing right even if you're just alerted
drifting there but over time more and
differing crises rear their heads more
decisions need to be made and you start
making a series of wrong ones or you
you're holding back and and so you know
we're seeing I think problems with the
the world's economy and you're seeing it
being exacerbated by the sort of
so-called trade war that Donald Trump is
having but there's also a lot of
instability around the world right now
we have problems in Brazil we have
massive problems in Kashmir between Iran
and Pakistan we have problems in
Hongkong
there's a lot of tumult going on and
there's a lot of you know problems
overseas too with with economies and
we're basically you know getting a doing
a real-world experiment to see what
happens when you have someone who is
president
no idea what they're doing and you know
add another layer of complication into
these economic talks on the global scale
you got a factor in climate change the
big banks and the major insurers across
this globe for several years now
actually the insurance industry for
about 20 years has had to factor in
climate change to their cost there's
areas that they will not cover now
there's areas that they do cover but at
an exorbitant rate you get a big
catastrophe comes along a hurricane a
flood a wildfire whatever it is that is
tons and tons of money loss not just for
the company for the economies and so
when these things start happening
globally and we have leaders that do not
take this issue seriously that still
tell us that it is a hoax then that is
also going to give banks another reason
to be frightened give investors a reason
to be frightened
I mean look just this week Bank of
America warned investors recession is
coming last week goldman sachs sent a
letter to investment investors saying
expect bad things on the horizon so when
the big banks are saying this is coming
economists have been telling us for a
year or two this thing is coming and we
saw so many signs this week all the
indicators are flashing bright red and
the those at the top seem to be ignoring
them and by those I mean Donald Trump he
as you said he's driving the aircraft
carrier he's gotten rid of anybody who
knew what they were doing and we're
going full steam ahead right into that
iceberg yeah all right well look let's
take a quick break and when we come back
we've got plenty more to talk about
Donald Trump has been on a bit of a Jag
assaulting our environment and our
health and then of course we have a
couple of stories about what's happening
with the 2020 Democratic primary Bernie
Sanders has been basically pushing back
on the the type of coverage in the lack
of coverage that his campaign has been
getting in places like cable News MSNBC
CN cn
obviously Fox is gonna be horrible
anyways but also some news for some of
the people who I think you and I both
agree would be much more helpful not
running for president and maybe running
for a different position we're gonna
take a quick break I'll be right back
Sam cedar ring of fire radio talking to
the great Ferren cousins
