[Music]
it's becoming a pattern that's it we're
getting closer to the vacation and
things just start falling apart from me
as we get closer education I found that
I I enjoyed that oh really
even the slavery part was boring I I
enjoyed it so I always comes back around
to slavery somehow it's all just about
me could have been done not violently
I'll think about it
Jakub let's go thinking dangerous times
why am i skeptical let's keep that watch
when you head up number five why am i
skeptical at the notion of their being
able to be particularly at this country
and this time that we haven't quite
fully evolved to the point where we
could have a social consensus about
things why am i skeptical of that well
exhibit I don't know if this would be
exhibit a but it would certainly be in
the first half of the alphabet
exhibit a see that this is Laura
Ingraham and Ann Coulter we can actually
shop we don't even have to play the
video but Laura Ingham and Ann Coulter I
think we're gonna be seeing a lot of
these disputes in in the Democratic
Party base because they all hate one
another I mean you have the Muslims and
the Jews and the various exotic sexual
groups and the the black church ladies
with with you know the college queers
the only thing that keeps this the
Democratic base together is for them to
keep focusing on no white men are the
one keep one's keeping you down you must
hate white men it's the one thing they
all have in common I I almost don't know
where to start with that I mean first of
all the premise about this woman's March
I don't know if you read this piece I've
read a little bit about it there was a
big piece I think it was in the tablet
maybe we
was incredibly misleading for a number
of reasons about it it made it sound
like there was us all this nefarious
stuff for people who I know that's just
based upon having done some work in the
not-for-profit film world but and my
understanding is the not-for-profit 503
C world is similar to this many time
when organization organizations start up
they they don't have time to get their
filings in with the IRS to become a
non-profit tax-deductible non-political
partisan organization so what they do is
they go get sponsorship from an existing
entity I just remember this from you
know the documentary film world where
where if you were you you were looking
to make your documentary donations
tax-deductible you get sponsored by I
don't know you know friends of film or
whatever it is tablet made this all out
to seem like it was like some type of
like backdoor slush fund it was a very
strange article if you know it was
interesting it would be an interesting
thing to break down that piece too to
know the reality of the way these groups
are formed that most groups are formed
like this and then to read it because
anything could be made to be nefarious I
think if you're just simply not aware of
it and you're not given the full context
so it's very strange but that's
ostensibly what the piece was about but
it amazes me that Fox still allows that
stuff on there and that Ann Coulter
who's you know personal life I think was
it would not be consistent with with her
I guess her her Simas like you know
shock at these exotic sexual exploits
and
I mean it's pretty gross but a laura
ingraham channeling that stuff is not
terribly surprising but there is the
Democratic Party has always been or at
least you know in the past 30 40 50
years a broad coalition of of different
people and the irony is of course that
ain't Coulter we'll go on another show
and talk about how the Democratic Party
is all about identity politics when she
promotes a party which clings to one
identity she did just describe a very
good rainbow coalition though and if you
replace the white men with the ruling
class which is mostly white men that's
exactly what we want there you go
identity Polly she should be afraid of
what she's saying and not like instead
she's trying to present it as a
liability because that's what they want
to sell on Fox exactly exactly
