[Music]
we know Lindsey Graham is Lindsey Graham
is a there's a sycophant he's a you know
he's a his game has always been to put
himself in proximity to a more powerful
charismatic person than him and play the
game of power through them so you know
everybody likes to point out that you
know in 2015 and 16 he called Trump a
racist and a xenophobe and all the rest
of it and it's Lulu Lindsey what
happened nothing happened
Donald Trump was like the president and
Lindsey Graham has no convictions and no
concern about anything so he moved in
proximity to power and there are a fair
amount of people like this in politics I
mean I I don't think focusing on you
know individuals is really gonna be the
way to understand how these systems work
but it can draw a you know just the kind
of you know just a vacuous parasite
personality like Lindsey Graham whose
only consistent interest like and the
only thing way in which he you know
carries the John McCain torch is a
endless appetite for war and a and a
robust lack of concern about other human
beings lives whether it's Iran North
Korea Syria or anywhere else the other
day he went on a and and and you know
Donald Trump is giving all of these
people permission they want to go on
what seemed like unhinged drunk racist
tirades on Fox so it's good media for
him it's good media for them it's
probably what they really think anyways
look it's a lot of what Democrats
frankly really think I mean that's that
is what's so clarifying about Ilan Omar
and Rasheeda to Lib right is that a lot
of people even people who've made a
whole career I was supposedly showing
about how decent and responsible they
are they're not they don't want any form
of threat to what they perceive to be
the natural order and then if you're
Lindsey Graham though you still want
some plausible denial
and but at the same time there's no
possible deniability you still have to
work to Donald Trump's insatiable ego
and it leads to a fusion like this which
by the way this is true I think this is
a true statement I think the president
is playing on the 1968 love it or leave
it
I've said before that if you're a Somali
refugee wearing a maganet he doesn't
want to send you back you probably had
dinner at the White House what does that
tell me that it's about the criticism
and the critic that's just the cheap I
mean look we all know that this you know
notion that there's some type of non
racialized nationalism is a lie and
delusional and you know people at people
are either unable to understand why
that's the case so they're deluded or
other people understand that they still
want some plausible deniability
strategically and by the way it's also
true I have no doubt I would not be
surprised and this is another really
important thing to watch in this
campaign and and especially as we hold
media accent about Donald Trump is gonna
pour the fumes on the race war and
insight and insight and insight and
insight and particularly as you get
closer to general election time he
absolutely is going to do moves like
that to confuse the discourse to create
plausible deniability and and get the
you know the counterintuitive take from
Jake Tapper so you you might see a
Somali refugee with a mag ahead in fact
a Somali refugee with a mag ahead that
sets up some type of Trumpets YouTube
channel would be an amazing business
opportunity right now yeah I mean when
Trump did his Muslim ban which included
Somalians I don't think he had a
provision in there saying they can come
if they have Mogga hats no he did not
say so no Somalis can come and speaking
of the game here Kellyanne Conway she
hasn't been on the radar for a while nor
should she be she sort of
she kind of but I guess she you know
she's still in the white house she plays
this whole game with her husband where
her husband you know says what Trump is
and then she's one of trumps biggest
Seneca fans the supposedly a lot of the
reporting is that she actually also
briefs against Trump
you know she's exactly the sort of just
you know completely deranged grotesque
thing that would be in this
administration and this is what you're
gonna hear from them even more
aggressively moving forward here she is
playing the race game herself
their countries of origin
what
what's your ethnicity no no because I'm
asking you a question my ancestors are
from Ireland and Italy no it is because
you're asking about
he said originally it originally from
and you know everything he has said
since and to have a full conversation
the presents already comment on that the
president the president's already
commented on that and he said a lot
about this since since that one tweet no
he said he's put out a lot of tweets and
he made himself available to all of you
yesterday
yes he's tired he a lot of us are sick
and tired of this country of America
coming last two people who swore an oath
of office sick and tired of our military
being denigrated sick and tired of the
Customs and Border Patrol people that
protection people I was with who are
overwhelmingly Hispanic by the way in
McAllen Texas sick and tired of that oh
by the way by the way if you are one of
these like pathetic thirsty losers who
is impressed that there is a Hispanic
port regards first of all you're a
gullible you you think it
was any mistake that they had a Hispanic
woman in front of D caged human beings
there I know that we're all male also
precisely that Mike Pence walked by and
even so I'm sorry if you were a human
being you would still buy even remember
as a teenager in the 90s when photos of
all men gated in cages in the Balkans
were used in the United States as a
trigger for what was also a profoundly
misguided humanitarian intervention
policies but you know what it was on a
higher moral plane that you shouldn't do
that to any human being if that means
something to you or you can't oh well I
guess you're part of like the dem antsy
Pelosi or the Democratic Twitter account
because you can't distinguish between an
individual identity and a structural act
so you know Kellyanne Conway's a
joke we know what she is all of these
people we have an update from Ilhan
though alright let's do this
hashtags dammit Elan always bravest
person in America share my identities
when you have a president mr. clearly
thinks someone like me should go back
the message that he's sending is not for
me he's telling them that this is not
their country and what we tell them is
that this is we have condemned his
racist remarks I believe he is fascist
because it would not be deported but
because I criticized the president I
should be deported I want to remind
people that this is what this president
and his supporters have turned our
country that is supposed to be a country
where we allow democratic debate and
dissent to take place and so this is not
about me this is
us fighting for what this country Turner
they should be and what it deserves more
for America there than anything that
Tucker Carlson or Donald Trump or any of
these other scumbags barbarous fascist
 morons have ever done and your
with her or you're not so it's time for
I mean look I'll just write Pelosi can't
get right but it's time for them to do
the bare minimum yeah I'll just read the
definition of fact of fascism as
supplied by Robert Paxton and the
anatomy of fascism fascism may be
defined as a form of political behavior
marked by obsessive preoccupation with
community decline humiliation or
victimhood and by compensatory cults of
unity energy and purity in which a mass
based party have committed nationalist
militants working in uneasy but
effective collaboration with traditional
elites abandons Democratic liberties and
pursues redemptive violence and without
ethical or legal restraints goals of
internal cleansing and external
expansion Trump's of fascist shrub step
absolutely
