I wanted to talk real quick about the
border and sort of what we're seeing
down there it's um you know earlier this
year all of a sudden you know right-wing
people the local am talk radio these two
meatheads that don't know anything they
were saying things like of course you
apply for asylum at the port of entry
everyone knows that we have no choice
but to prosecute these people who are
entering illegally and suddenly this
thing that nobody knew were cared about
became you know common knowledge I guess
this idea that the place to apply for
asylum is at the port of entry now if
you're caught entering illegally you can
still apply for asylum but this sort of
got injected into you know mainstream
thinking and so what did these people do
well they go to a port of entry and now
we're being told that that's also not
the way to do it I think a couple days
ago the the port of San Ysidro had
conducted something like 20 asylum
interviews and this is a problem that's
been building up now for years not just
recently but in Tijuana specifically
they've out sourced a kind of lottery
system to the Mexican government so that
only a limited number of people can be
interviewed per day and so there's there
were already people from all over the
world camping out in Tijuana waiting for
their turn when the caravan arrived and
it just this whole thing reminds me of
let me just wait to meet dot let me just
I want I just I want to highlight that
point people come from all around the
world fly in to Mexico and then
presuming that they're going to get an
opportunity to be interviewed for asylum
maybe they come from an African country
with
you know famine or uh you know whatever
is or they come from Syria or and they
attempt to to go into a port of entry
there because there's only two countries
I'm not sure if people knew this there's
only two countries that actually abut
the United States physically and I you
probably know this because you're an
immigration attorney but it's Mexico in
Canada people may not realize this
Mexico less expensive than Canada so if
you are going to go to if you wanted to
apply for asylum legally what you would
need to do is to go to one of those two
countries and wait until ein essentially
to get asylum you would go to the less
expensive of the countries because you
would save money if you were let's say
poor and coming from a place where you
know all of your owning x' were were
destroyed in a natural disaster or a war
or the government had decided to take
all of your stuff because they were
politically oppressing you and so you
have people there from all around the
world who come in and they spend what
little money they have left waiting for
an interview I mean how many of those
people do you think there are well yeah
I mean there I think there's thousands
of people like that in Tijuana which is
obviously a you know a real stress on
their local you know everything right
their economy and everything else and
and what we've done like I said is
outsource the kind of lottery system to
the Mexican government to allow a
certain number of interviews per day the
crazy thing is this has been happening
forever I mean it's not anything unusual
and this is you know the most
politicized thing I've ever seen in my
life and we're told like we can't even
discuss like gun control after school
shooting
because that's politicizing something
this is taking something that's been
happening for years and years and years
and the whole you know sending the
troops and shutting down the ports of
entry I've got a friend she's an
attorney she runs a non-profit in
Tijuana and she's there now and she
doesn't know if she'll be able to come
back
she has court tomorrow all of this is
pure theatrics and you know we have the
the capacity as a country to you know
put into place the infrastructure we
need to make sure that people get their
interviews and if they qualify great and
if not you know they'll be sent back but
you're you know everybody's community is
full of people who have either been
granted asylum or who came this way and
they're waiting for their hearings and
you're surrounded by those people and
you don't realize it because they're
just living their lives normally and
like more their Sleeper saying is what
you're saying right they could be you
know coming here to have terror babies
we don't know but that's their long game
obviously did you have that ms-13 audio
of them being like Ronald Reagan's our
most effective lawyer that the anti run
sleeper cells across the Pacific
Northwest and he goes in to talk to Sam
and say they were doing normally I mean
I I think what's happening though is not
unlike the dynamic that John sides and
I'm just saying this from just sheer
speculation but that the the dynamic
where Donald Trump got left or liberal
people who are liberal on race that much
more liberal or even people who are
moderate on race that much more liberal
in response I think there is a growing
awareness of of immigration as an issue
the interesting thing is is that there's
a there's becoming and there needs to be
because there I don't think there is a
cohesive position on immigration in this
country on the left
to the extent that there I mean I'm not
aware of a way of cohesion and it ranges
from no borders to I guess you know the
center center left you know saying some
type of guest worker program which seems
to me maybe he's really more accurately
described as center-right but I mean
what let me ask you this what what would
you say is this should be the if you
were in charge of the left of Ronald
Reagan what would be the immigration
policy that you would promote will be
the principles of that policy yeah so I
think that you have to have a broad
aggressive amnesty people are
undocumented because the laws are broken
and ill-conceived and so they need to be
changed
alright so notice I mean yeah that's me
is that low-hanging fruit amnesty for
people who are here without
documentation get them into the system
make them citizens what do you do going
forward well I think that you need to
make it easier for people to come here
to work if they if they want to which
means having more visas available to the
industries that that need foreign
workers and I think you also have a
couple it with well I think it needs to
match labor demand somehow I don't know
but I mean how do you measure that
yeah how do you measure I mean it he's
so unlimited and those those visas got
to be your fully documented so
theoretically you could belong to a
union and people could be protected in
some respect yes yeah I think I think
you have to match it with with certain
really strong labor protections I have
actually another one of those family
members that you you hypothesize might
exist earlier tell me that there's no
such thing as a labor shortage there's
just employers who aren't willing
pay to get the job done right which is
like he's really conservative but it was
like a small glimmer of of woke Ness
it's true that you know a lot of the
undocumented labor force exists because
of exploitation and and I think you
could you could quell or sort of satisfy
some of the concerns that people have
with the depression of wages and so
forth by coupling immigration reform
with a higher minimum wage or guaranteed
benefits or things like that so that the
American worker doesn't feel like he's
being displaced by you know a new
aggressive worker visa program and so
you know some of that has to happen too
and you know the problem is the left
doesn't really want to admit that that's
a problem
and so yeah I don't know it does get
complicated but I I just think you know
some and there's also just you know who
should be allowed to become a citizen
who should be allowed to become a
citizen well the rule right now is you
have to be a permanent resident for five
years you have to speak English you have
to you know not be deportable and and be
deserving of a discretionary grant of
naturalization I don't know that that
needs to change the question would be
who gets to become a permanent resident
and so that's where you would have to
implement like I said an amnesty to
allow people who are either undocumented
or people who are there are people
who've been on TPS now for like 20 years
and they're about to go back to being
right completely and wholly undocumented
and so you have to have a program but
I'm already I've already granted total
amnesty everybody who's in the country
you have a path to citizenship you're
all legal now and you're under
protection it's just going forward is
the question yeah I think you know there
used to be for awhile a program called
registry where you could basically and I
think they have this actually in Europe
too where you can just show that you've
been here for a certain amount of time
subject yourself to a background check
show that you paid your tax
and and you can earn your permanent
residency it's not but what do you do if
you show up at the border do we let
everybody in well I don't think that I
don't know honestly that's complicated I
tend to be what he's afraid of open
borders he's afraid of losing his work
as an immigration attorney open borders
means you don't get to work right you
better it's classic its classic
scientists I'm looking out for numero
uno over here but I tend to be for open
borders but it does get complicated I
but at the same time I do think that you
know it's a lot of the things that we're
afraid of happening won't happen I've
got a lot of clients who would love to
go back and spend their winters in
Mexico but their laws keep them trapped
here and and having more open borders
maybe not completely open but having a
lot more flexibility and in allowing
people to come and go is better because
we know that freedom is the goal and
freedom and liberty are awesome and you
get paid right so you know you're not
saying total open borders as long as you
have proper documentation that lets say
an immigration attorney could master
suls
after the amnesty I want an immigration
lawyer bail out there you go and then
I'll go retire somewhere but all right
Ronald Reagan appreciate the call I'm
with you on already I appreciate the
call I'm with you I don't you can have
what constant you can have what you know
open borders it could mean a lot of
different things I think that we should
be looking at some type of if Canada or
excuse me if NAFTA was a political
project not just the corporate project
or if things like already went the
superhighway I do or Mercer the you know
the the
the association of Latin American states
the Caribbean I think there's no reason
why you couldn't think of an America's
wide somebody you know I guess I think
that would be great that would certainly
make things easier I think I mean that's
not open borders per se it's more like
it's more like just a free passage free
passes demilitarized and you know you
got anybody anybody who's gone to a
Schengen country I mean knows it is you
know significantly easier and more
humane even for like the easiest travel
possible which is literally you know
just flying to another country to go
spend a couple weeks there it's night
and day
even for that
