but nevertheless the Gephardt rule was
was about basically including every time
that you you know there's two aspects to
congressional expenditures one is they
make the expenditures and that is the
they pass a budget theoretically and
then later in the year there is a debt
ceiling vote which has to happen and
that vote is not to actually expend
money that has already been that has
already been that money has already been
expended that money has already been
appropriated it is essentially a vote to
decide to pay the bill so you can it's
it's not an elegant metaphor but it's
like you go and buy a new t-shirt and
you use your credit card when you make
the decision to spend the money is when
you bought the t-shirt not when you pay
the bill on the credit card now we have
never defaulted in the history of this
country on US Treasury bills and if you
were not to raise the debt ceiling
that's what you would do however
Republicans now Democrats have time to
time voted against it and they it is a
symbolic vote never really threatening
not to raise the debt ceiling
Republicans have over the past now 10
years made a a real threat to do so
which would in many respects possibly
crash the economy the Gephardt rule
basically says when you expend the money
when you vote on the budget we're also
going to tuck in a thing that
automatically raises the debt ceiling so
that this can no longer be used as a
[Music]
Republican hostage and so that is in the
the new pack of new congressional rules
that's restoring calm
for the people I have it here in my hand
and then the other one which is going to
get voted on tomorrow is the pay-go
rules and the pay-go we've talked about
it basically says you cannot vote to
appropriate any money unless it is
offset by cuts or raises and taxes in
other words no deficit spending and in
fact you can't even spend when there's a
surplus unless you pay for it we have
talked about the uselessness of this
provision in terms of retail politics
there is no constituency out there for
this the myth that anybody cared about
deficits is I would hope has been blown
away
there is no political salience to this
there's just no value to the extent that
there is all it does is it handicaps an
ability for progressives for the left
for liberals anybody on the left to put
in any program they want it inhibits
their ability to do so does it make it
impossible no but it inhibits it
seriously there needs to be 18 Democrats
who essentially say I am NOT going to
support Pago it's got to go before I
vote on this host of new rules Roe
Kahana has made that number now 17 by
announcing I think this morning that he
would not be voting to support Pago here
he is with the video explaining why this
row Kahana
representative California 17th and he
explains it people hear the word pay go
they tune out they think it's some
inside baseball technical jargon related
to Congress let me tell you it is a very
important issue
it would be unilateral disarmament for
House Democrats to adopt Pago the
Republicans never did they passed
massive tax cuts for the 1% and they
didn't have any spending cuts to pay for
those tax cuts they never do they don't
ever balance the budget here's the
Republican tax reform bill that emerge
from the US House of Representatives
ran into new obstacles the Congressional
Budget Office reported that it would add
at least one point seven trillion
dollars to deficits over ten years the
president noted today we receive the
largest military budget in history the
budget deficit will balloon to a
trillion by the year 2020 yeah this is
something that Wall Street's been
expecting private forecasters had said
we would be seeing trillion dollar
deficits because of the president's tax
reform bill now that House Democrats are
in charge some folks want us to limit
our policies by adopting Pago here's
what it would mean if we have pay-go
then to do something like Medicare for
all to do something like expanding
Social Security to do something like a
bold infrastructure plan or a green new
deal would require us to negotiate
against ourselves we would require cuts
in programs that many of us value in
like we shouldn't do that the
Republicans didn't govern that way
instead of doing the politically
expedient thing in seeking cuts that are
not necessary what we ought to do is the
principled thing we ought to argue that
our policies are actually going to grow
the economy that these investments are
in the interests of the United States
Pago would be a terrible policy it's
exactly the type of weakness that people
don't want to see they want House
Democrats to be bold to offer our vision
and to offer a real alternative to what
the House Republicans did there you go
so now that number is down to 17 it
would be worth your while to call
members of the Congressional Progressive
Caucus hopefully they're in your
district but if they're not do one
that's close to your district
call and tell them to vote against Pago
the more that the the the members of the
house are aware that you're aware of
this this is one of those things that
they usually just pass and never becomes
a political issue at all because who
cares I can tell you that most of the
normies out there and by that I use that
term is just you know people who don't
spend all their time talking about
politics well just about as far as I can
tell everybody does now but it's nor
meet it so I would say Lincoln but but
but aren't you know the people who are
not listening to three hours a day of
politics let's put it that way they
don't know what Pago is and if you
explain it to them very quickly they're
gonna be bothered by it because it
completely handicapped it's not saying
that you can't have offsets it's just
that by putting the default this way it
makes it much much harder to get good
policies and promote them and so if
members of the House suddenly realize
like oh people are paying attention to
this now I'm not going to vote for it
that I mean that is that will be the
dynamic so I encourage you do we have a
number we'll get a number where you can
call Congress and we'll put it up under
this video and and certainly will tweet
it out and we'll talk about it in a
moment but you got a nice signal boost
from her girl Alexandria so that's cool
yeah I mean I think you know people
I would have my would be surprised if
there aren't already a couple of other
people who are gonna come out and you
know announced that they're voting
against this but hopefully one of you
guys is is actually googling that a
number to call your cutters and say two
oh two two two five three one two one
that's your house member two oh two two
two five three one two one two oh two
two two five three one two one thank you
crack Google
