[Music]
let's just run the footage of julian
assange being walked out of the
ecuadorian embassy this is from earlier
this morning
I guess my times are all screwed up but
this is this morning and as of now he is
facing 12 months in prison for skipping
bail in the UK he is facing an
extradition proceedings that are
supposed to happen in about a month to
the US for an indictment that came out
of the I believe the Virginian US
Attorney's Office not a hundred percent
sure about that but and the indictment
includes or ostensibly is involving
Julian Assange helping Chelsea Manning
break into the DoD encryption that
allowed Chelsea Manning to get those
documents that he then at the or I
should say she then passed to to
WikiLeaks
look I you know and I haven't had a
chance to read the indictment carefully
but a lot of that aspect of it seems a
little bit thin the the the parts about
journalism are highly problematic to to
the to Myers and so here is that footage
I was
so okay sorry about that
so there you have it been in the
Ecuadorian embassy for what now like six
years I I don't have it in front of me
but Italy I may be even longer
I think 2012 or two no no not to go
there in 2011 when I was there so it's
been I guess seven eight years and Matt
will you turn down the the sound on that
computer and so you know it remains to
be seen
there's no there's no indication at this
point that Assange and look the US
government has been trying to get him
for years and it's really important as
we said in the first half of the program
that people separate their feelings for
him as an individual their feelings for
him in terms of WikiLeaks role in the
2016 election really people need to
focus on the the specifics of this
indictment because it is highly
problematic for journalism and to be
clear to say that WikiLeaks is not a
journalistic enterprise it's just is
silly to the extent that we want to err
on that we should have a wide margin a
very high mainly wide margin yes I mean
look there are people who consider what
we do on this program to be journalism
and I don't know if I and I don't really
spend a lot of time thinking about it am
a journalist per se I do
you know that certainly at times on this
program I practice journalism I
interview people what I do with people
sitting down here is what reporters do
when they read they write a story they
talk to experts we aggregate the news we
report basically on reporting that has
already take place and we do opinion
journalism but certainly one of the
functions of journalistic outlets one of
the functions of journalism is to
disseminate information from
whistleblowers and so if we start going
down the road where people decide
because of other issues they have with
individuals or institutions that that is
not journalism we are setting ourselves
up as a society for bad things and you
know people need to really keep that in
mind as they assess where they are on
this and what they allow and what they
give the American government a pass for
now there may be other issues that once
they extradite him into the United
States or maybe between now and that
extradition hearing that we hear about
that may or may not have more legitimacy
than the indictment that that was
released I guess today in the
announcement of the extradition hearings
but to the extent that at least part of
that of that indictment is about Julian
Assange and WikiLeaks telling Chelsea
Manning get us more stuff or hiding the
fact that he was the source protecting
the source of this information I mean
folks really got to be up in arms about
this yeah this is a threat to journalism
and if every kind I I agree completely
and that is the real story here I mean
everything else besides that in my view
is secondary but I also if we have a
minute I just want to also highlight the
dimension of this of how this reflects
on Ecuador so you know Rafael Correa who
was the pink tide left-leaning president
who gave sanction gave refuge to Julian
Assange has said that this is a crime
against humanity and an embarrassment
and you know maybe maybe that's a
hyperbolic I don't know but I do know
that the current president of Ecuador
ran as the successor to Correa on the
same political party with the same
political agenda and has completely
reversed has actually implemented a very
hard right us friendly agenda of every
kind from oil companies to military
agreements and you know he's also tried
to do something similar I think it was
rejected
Korea's in Belgium but there was a sort
of similar dynamic to Brazil of kind of
trying to arrest Correa on what looked
to be very weak charges once that so far
the Europeans certainly haven't
cooperated with sending him back to
Ecuador so I think this also needs to be
looked in terms of the kind of broader
reversal and reassertion of u.s.
domination across Latin America and I'm
seeing even in some Caribbean in Latin
American countries a demand that in
exchange for aid packages that there
needs to be formal support of US policy
towards Venezuela and of the extradition
of Assange so that dimension of a2 is
also very disturbing to me so obviously
you know we'll we'll continue to follow
this and you know it's not inconceivable
that there's gonna be stuff that's
implicated from the 2016 election about
this we just don't know but in the
meantime super important that people
just keep a perspective on this and
understand the implications for
journalism here particularly in the
the age of Trump I mean I think you know
one of the things that we heard during
when the Obama administration was
pursuing legal action against or the
government you know the DOJ under the
Obama administration was pursuing legal
action against Assange was like you know
it's quite possible you might get a
president who you don't like and they
will really abuse this type of thing and
the the ability to criminalize the
hiding of of the identity of government
whistleblowers you don't want Donald
Trump to have that to make it you know
sort of blunt and stark for people so
well at least those aren't hypothetical
conversations anymore well yeah exactly
and that's that's the I guess that's the
the the small upside to the whole thing
is that it is that we don't have to make
it a hypothetical that it's it's pretty
real and so all right
