[Music]
all right but here's a guy who I think
is a very good journalist and we're
gonna we have a sort of a compare and
contrast type of a situation here first
clip we're gonna do is well here is a
guy who I think is a legit journalist
going on and basically making someone
who's going to point themselves out I
understand that this woman is Vanessa
Neumann is just a is she now an official
wand wydo
representative says this but but she
presented her YouTube video or whatever
it was her New York Times thing is just
an op-ed a different woman I know it's
easy to keep all the gusano straight but
this is a different person okay sorry oh
I had no idea all right well then fine
even better because here is wond why
does representative in the UK and I
don't know if this is a I mean is she
like an ambassador to the shadow the the
would be government or I'm not exactly
sure even what that means but it's
pretty stunning insofar as she seems to
have the same depth of knowledge of the
situation as that woman Hausman who was
a sensible a comedian in her her dad I
guess worked with Guido or something to
that effect anomic advisor economic
advisor I just don't understand at one
point I don't understand at one point
our people are just gonna realize like
oh I don't want to go on television with
many his son because I knew in too much
BS or did people have not gotten the
message yet like I understand that
somebody even goes on at this point with
many us on without having like done any
of their homework yeah this is the way
she laughs is as if she thinks he's
joking I Got News for you that is not a
legit laugh
that is a I'm super nervous here and my
media training told me if you laugh it's
gonna make it seem like you're not
nervous
how can you believe that a US military
intervention will bring democracy or
freedom or human rights to Venezuela
especially with people like Elliott
Abrams and John Bolton leading the
charge especially given the abysmal
history of US interventions in your part
of the world Guatemala
Chile Argentina Nicaragua Honduras El
Salvador why on earth would you trust
the US military let alone Donald Trump
well first of all times have changed and
I think even and even at anybody who has
been involved in Latin America since the
nineteen seventies I think a many
continent has changed we you know the
attitude of the United States I just I
think she means maybe late 70s because I
seem to remember something in 1973 that
just sticks out a yen day service
strikes strikes me as like just a little
bit I mean maybe in a Buy button but
within three or four or five years after
that you know and I love how and then of
course Lee the 80s also happened well
after the 70 and there was a lot of
activity I mean lady but if you skip
through most of the 80s and you get to
like the 90s well then actually but then
you would get to 2009 when the Obama
administration back the coup in Honduras
and even you could count and I would
understand why she wouldn't maybe even
2002 and Venezuela I was just gonna say
in Venezuela in 2002 but from like
through the 90s like there was a small
there was like eight years I think where
there was no active US internal you know
we were sending back ms-13 yeah we were
deporting people back we were also
undermining you know sovereign
government's policies and also don't
even forget you know we're the major
stakeholders the World Bank and IMF okay
when I was okay I understand we're
getting killed let's say that was
actually my first six to seven my first
point though real quick was that what I
is that the expectation set goes down so
when you go just to the 70s you are
everybody's like come on you got to know
about the CIA coup against IND and Chile
because everybody knows that but that's
counting like okay I guess you're not
gonna know about the Argentinian or the
Brazilian Hunta or the mat or the
continent-wide death squad I never heard
of iran-contra
well that was true that was in the 80s
right no sayin 70s right I mean it's
like but it's like I love how it's just
like fine
let's goes without saying that a wand
why don't redeem change right now of
course you doesn't know any of that
stuff well what about just a top-line
Wikipedia page entry like you could have
seen in an Oliver Stone movie the Chile
coup that we backed pretty big one I
mean people saying about it good and I
think even and even anybody who has been
involved in Latin America since the
nineteen seventies I think a many
continent has changed be you know the
attitude of the United States to the
region has changed see the understanding
of counter insurgency or counter
terrorists or operations or things to
secure you know safeguard of all normal
population all of those parameters and
all of those understandings and
methodologies have changed you say times
have changed attitudes have changed and
yet the person leading the u.s. position
on Venezuela is Elliott Abrams a man who
was deeply involved in war crimes and
human rights abuses in Central America
during the 80s
you have john bolton who said recently
the monroe doctrine is alive and well
it's our hemisphere he said in reference
to latin america and of course you have
Donald Trump saying Venezuela has all
that oil than they're right on our
backdoor doesn't seem to have changed at
all
they seem to be interested in oil and
sending people with a very bad record on
human rights to help you in turning that
well I'm younger than you but we've all
read history Elliott Abrams was
responsible for massive war crimes in El
Salvador and elsewhere in the 1980s he's
now the man you trust to bring democracy
to Venezuela seriously positive for one
second how old is she 17
how old is born in 1972 okay she was she
was in college in the late 80s like
that's all anybody was talking about in
the 80s but maybe she just wasn't
studying didn't get into government
until she became the representative for
Guido there was some stuff in the 80s
about my dad just potentially losing
money I love this whole theory of like
well I'm too young so history doesn't
exist there was a there was a that was a
classic moment I gotta give begala this
where Meghan McCain was on Bill Maher
and she's like saying Obama D stop
blaming the Republicans for everything
it was like six months after he got
elected and they're already calling him
a Nazi and he's like we need to reach
out you know so it's ludicrous to begin
with and Paul Begala is like not nearly
enough
Reagan blamed Carter through like 1985
and mega McCain's like well I wasn't
around then so I guess I wouldn't know
or something and then I was like I
wasn't a lot during the French
Revolution but I know about it he just
was like oh I guess I'm a blonde it's
it's amazing how though that that is
used as not just a defense but almost
like some type of former like bragging
like I'm I'm too young to die wasn't
living contemporaneous to that it's like
is grandpa safe zone when you're playing
tag like I'm on here no I'm touching
wood I wasn't alive when what you asked
yeah I was five years old when we were
throwing him people out of helicopter
was a time not too long ago to say
something like that would be considered
a total liability like that would be
something that you would say and then
immediately to regret saying it as
opposed to thinking it was some type of
defense let's continue
well I'm younger than you but we've all
read history Elliott Abrams was
responsible for massive war crimes in El
Salvador and elsewhere in the 1980s he's
now the man you trust to bring democracy
to Venezuela seriously I we just need to
have the humanitarian aid enter and we
need foreign we need to get foreign
terrorist organizations out from
terrorizing our own people yes there it
is
I don't read history but I sure know
talking points well there
is not a good response to that it's the
thing well I mean there could be but it
would involve like probably at least 45
minutes of reading and they're not
better there she no good response in
terms of substance writers definitely
you could so she does not know I do i I
think that person is completely ignorant
about all of it and it is I'll tell you
something I don't know enough about
Venezuelan politics to make any
assessment of guido other than to say
like it seems fairly clear that he does
not have popular support and that and
that what he's engaging in is an
attempted coup but if that's the person
that you choose to be your
representative to one of the key
governments that you need to support
your endeavors like I would be a worried
that they have no capacity to govern
period no he's it's him and he's got
like just incompetent but look it I mean
yes it but it's all like the Oleg ARCIC
children of you know the former ruling
class literally her father owned Island
yes sir professional career Newman
received a BA ma master philosophy and
then a PhD from Columbia University for
her dissertation autonomy and legitimacy
of states a critical approach to foreign
intervention think she probably knows no
she's grinning like the cat ate the
canary
I think I just like also I don't support
from the US government no matter how
incompetent they are well she still
would want her appearance to go better
but I think she's just going with that's
like your old that happened a long time
ago I'm interested in now also she dated
Mick Jagger in 98 oh I believe that boom
alright thank you a little bit of uh and
can I just say like I mean I'm playing a
little bit ethnic politics here but it's
interesting to me that how many of these
people have German last name
good strange there was a certain group
of people that found refuge we need to
matter after sea in Venezuela yeah she's
like oh I need to mock Steve as well
oh my father's fortune was built off of
secret Deutsche Bank how's that I need
food I don't read history Mattie you are
such a nerd
these are literally the people from the
Jake Flores means TV video yes mm-hmm
what happened tell me again what
happened in the 80s glasses it would be
weird like I I'd avoid history too if
like there's like weird family stuff
that might come up
Hey look look look Betty yeah off the
record everybody does these stories
frankly all that it's boring on autonomy
of countries in the moment Venezuela I
didn't get tied up with the history
stuff bottom line is dad's ready to get
back home and restart slavery mine
