[Music]
also have to say in my in you know for
my own self-esteem that I was very
disciplined and not making this entire
interview about your piece entitled on
how everything Sam Harris says about
Islam is wrong but let's let's talk
about let's talk about the the sort of
the the modern-day Islamophobia that we
see and the dynamic of of I guess how a
there is this sort of like in this
abrogation that goes on but also be
there is a sort of lack of historical
context in which people are assessing
what certain Muslim people do without a
historical context in which that that
that vision of Islam is being used I
mean can you can you maybe expand on
what I've said and make it a little more
clear I guess for fun haha well you've
made it very clear the the other fact is
that first of all often the Quran is not
very well translated and people then
don't know anything about its context
you know at one point Jesus says I
haven't come to bring any so come to
bring a sword and if people who didn't
like Christianity could quote that and
say look those those Christians are
about murdering people that's the kind
of thing that people do to the Quran
into Muslims so the Quran talks about
the pagan militant pagans who were
trying to kill the Muslims as as
infidels it never uses that word as a
noun for Jews or Christians and then it
says that when when those pagans come
for you defend yourself with with lethal
force if you have to and so then people
will read that and it says you know slay
the infidels so then they allege that
the Muslims won
go around just killing random people
which is you know completely a
historical or not what the Quran or the
Muslim community believes at all and
people like Sam Harris who have made
careers out of spreading hate against
Muslims have have you know excerpted
poorly translated versions of those
verses and tried to make them mean
something that they don't and and what
am one of the things that i think sam
harris also likes to to quote and to do
in his argument that there's something
fundamentally wrong with Islam is the
hadith what is the hadith what is the
relationship of the hadith to the Quran
and and what of that practice of someone
like sam Harris's yes well that's a it's
a complicated issue because mainstream
Sunni Islam is a little bit like worth
it our Studios I'm in the sense that you
have the Bible and then you had the
Talmud and both are adhere to as
strictly as possible and so with the
Muslims there's a big amount of material
that grew up after the prophets death
which is sayings and doings which are
attributed to him by later generations
and those were collected and people
tried to winnow through them and decide
which ones were sound but there's a vast
amount of material of that sort in my
view as a Western academic it's clearly
clearly contradictory to the on itself
but there are you know thousands of
these sayings and doings attributed to
the Prophet and his companions which
some of them can be be picked out and
and used for political purposes I mean
that is the point right I mean and then
that's what we talk about historical
context is that throughout the past
fifteen hundred some-odd years different
political entities
have wanted to gain the authority of
Islam as a mechanism in which to rule or
to to shape the politics of their day
and so they reinterpret the religion or
the document in ways that that suit that
political agenda that's right and of
course this is a universal phenomenon I
mean this is like the Kings saying the
king you know of England saying like you
know I'm here because God wanted me to
be exactly or pope urban ii who strongly
believed that christians were commanded
by the new testament to go to the holy
land and split the throats of the Jews
and the Muslims you know a religion can
be used for these political purposes and
then the whole tradition of the religion
can be deployed in various ways so you
know again in in the history of the Holy
Roman Empire after the Roman Empire
became Christian Christianity was the
state religion and gradually no other
religion was allowed and the
interpretation of the New Testament by
the Byzantine Kings was that you know
pagans should be killed they threw them
to the Lions they kind of reversed what
had happened to them earlier on and to
make to make this about Christianity as
opposed to Byzantine policy would be
invidious it would be unfair and and
likewise a lot of the polemic against
Islam is about what Muslims have done in
history which has been both good and bad
you know as they're human beings I mean
ultimately and lastly I mean that
obviously as a historian this is this is
your field of interest but what when
when you set to embark on on a project
like this what are your what's the what
what both from an academic and I guess
more from a just a human perspective do
you hope to achieve well
I began this project with an open mind
and I had been trained in my youth in
Islamic and had wanted to go back to it
for some time and you know that the post
9/11 atmosphere was such that at my blog
I would get involved in conversations
with my readers about the Quran and
about Islam and I began to see that it
just wasn't well understood it wasn't
understood as I understood it but then I
also had some puzzles to work through in
the text and in the history so some
years ago I began working on this in
what passes for my spare time and I
tried to read as much as I could about
the you know the Roman the late Roman
context of all of these things and then
to trace through these themes in the
Quran and often I was surprised I was
surprised by how much emphasis there was
on peacemaking in the Quran and how few
you know verses there are it said that
the Prophet Muhammad was involved in
these defensive Wars for six afternoons
in his life and and he probably died 63
so most of it is about community making
and peacemaking and I felt that since
the Prophet Muhammad is being demonized
so much by Islamic Oba courses both in
the United States in Europe now that a
solid explication of the of his life as
it is told by the Quran itself which I
take as my primary source was really
needed as sam harris ever reached out to
you for you know to to engage you in
your expertise on this subject no I
think Sam thinks he knows it all he
doesn't know Arabic and has isn't really
and you know trained in religious
studies so much of what he says it's
just just you know glib polemics
he blames you know nationalism on on
religion and his basic argument is that
all Muslims are really extremists or
Islam is always extreme and that if it
isn't it's because Muslims are living
with the blessings of modern enlightened
society he never talks about you know
like the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia who
were atheists and who killed about a
fifth of the country you know it's it's
not only most Muslims or religious
people that have been involved in
violence in the 20th century you know
there's Stalin and so forth and he seems
to say that if only everybody were an
atheist we'd all be living in in in
paradise and that's clearly not true
and moreover than he blames religion for
many things that are actually about
things like nationalism well I you know
it's I'm not necessarily in a position
to criticize someone for glib polemics
but I do I do think that people should
reach out if they are going to espouse
such opinions to people who are experts
so I appreciate you coming on
professor wanna coal the book is
Muhammad prophet of peace amid the clash
of empires we will put a link to it at
majority dot F M thanks so much always a
pleasure thank you Sam you're the least
glib person I've ever met
every jaded
