[Music]
so today was the day that HR 1 they were
going to do the big rollout right HR 1
the first bill that the house the first
House Resolution 1 this was going to be
the first piece of legislation that the
Democrats roll out this involves all
sorts of voting reforms mode of voter
registration campaign finance matching
funds anti-corruption measures a great
piece of legislation that was not going
to get passed in the Senate in fact
Mitch McConnell has said he will not
even put it up for a vote and but the
value of this is basically to stick a
you know a flag in the in the ground as
it were and say you know this is what we
intend to do the day that we take the
Senate it is an attempt to restore the
protections under the Voting Rights Act
it is looking to restore voting rights
for formerly incarcerated it supports
the u.s. election assistance Commission
there's redistricting reform unfair
purging the voter rolls stopped
modernization and some type of
consistency in voting across the country
there's a lot of very positive things in
this bill and Mitch McConnell part
because I think K Street is obviously
super upset about this because it deals
with lobbying and ethics overhauls as
well Mitch McConnell announces that the
bill is not even going to get a vote in
the Senate and the
reason why you're not going to hear that
much about that story today is because
they the press is pretty bad at covering
Mitch McConnell but be Democrats are not
spending the past three or four days or
week frankly building up to this moment
and hammering the Republicans over this
they're not gaining the the advantage of
publicizing how Republicans want to
suppress the vote the part of this bill
also makes it a federal holiday for
federal workers so that they can go vote
this voting reforms should have been a
marquee package there should we it's all
that we should be hearing about
particularly the past couple of days has
been a slow news days however they're
not because the Democratic leadership
buckled may be buckled is the wrong word
but has been insistent upon writing up a
censure bill essentially to censure Alon
Omar because of statements that she
didn't even make or statements that they
have mischaracterized and we touched on
this the other day and I wasn't gonna
bring it up again but we got an email
address to us in respond to the to the
thing that we talked about with Barry
Weiss who was commenting on this on the
view okay and put Barry Weiss aside all
right she is lovely I mean but but
honestly my black swan and I do not like
her right put her side because she's
really a sideshow to this this mailer
writes that he agrees with us that claim
criticism of Israel much like criticism
of France cannot be considered
inherently anti-semitic on this I agree
with you entirely the problem with this
offering the emailer rights offering
this as a response is that on not one of
these three occasions that Ilan Omar has
been publicly censured for alleged
anti-semitism has she criticized a
specific policy or conduct of the
Israeli government instead of delving
into the actual detail of where US
policy has gone wrong visa vie the
israeli-palestinian conflict she chooses
instead to peddle an anti-semitic tropes
about Israel's supporters in the u.s. be
it invoking the image of Jewish money
being nefariously used to control
American politics with her AIPAC
statements or accusing Israel supporters
of dual this is a quote dual agencies or
dual loyalty I want you to put just I
want you to note those two do everything
that's been said there the email or
rights to be clear it's possible to
level legitimate criticism of the Israel
lobby without falling into anti somatic
thinking however that requires
understanding the Israel lobby for what
it really is which is a loosely
connected off a competing group of
organizations across which wide ranges
of spectrum of opinion on what Israel
ought to be doing what the Israel US
policy towards Israel ought to be it
requires actual specific issues with
what these organizations do then rather
than attempting to deal legitimate
support for Israel as reasonable in a
democracy he goes on to say if you
actively criticize AIPAC you'd have no
disagreement for people like me or Barry
Weiss well put aside very wise because I
think you're wrong about that but
totally wrong but that's not the point
dad like I say I don't want to get
caught up in that in summary of this
specific point while criticism of Israel
is by no means inherently anti-semitic
full disclosure I've actually been to
the West Bank and participate in
activism with the goal of ending the
occupation that doesn't mean it can
never be goes on to say you begin
applying old anti-semitic ideas that
were previously leveled at individual
Jews for example using money to control
the world and just transfer the target
from the Jew to the Jewish state you're
getting two very tricky territory all
right so let me show you how this guy
has moved the ball
in the same way that critics of Ilan
Omar have okay because Ilan Omar was not
criticizing even Israel in these
statements she was criticizing the fact
that she is unable to criticize Israel
without being attacked and she is
criticizing the fact that Congress would
take up a bill that would punish people
for supporting protests against Israel
she never ever ever uses the words quote
dual allegiances or quote dual loyalty
and to the extent that she talks about
anybody having loyalty to another
country she is criticizing not Jews
she's criticizing members of Congress
let's listen to what what one of the
things that she said now we know that
the exchange on the unn Twitter where
she's asking like why people are voting
on behalf of AIPAC and she says because
of the money which is exactly what
Thomas Friedman said exactly although
Thomas Friedman to be fair was far more
explicit yeah and he also said people in
non electoral rolls as well yeah it was
a publicity and broader he was explicit
and broader but let's listen to what L
on Omar said that supposedly involves
duo no well first off let's listen to
this what will this exchange here is on
where is this exchange by 24 on i-24
where the debate is happening as to what
L on Omar does and this woman here I
don't know who it is
she's on Fox News about some Fox News
person does exactly what the email or
does we're allowed to talk about the gun
lobby that we're about to talk about the
oil lobby and the positive view Lobby
but only the Israel lobby we're not
allowed to talk about it's completely
and utterly absurd
this nation that is not true and I about
American Jews having dual loyalty you
are making this up I mean just have to
decrease you can you sign it when did
you want achieve when did she say that
Jews have dual loyalty to the US when
did you see sad she questioned citizens
hydrology to produce a single she made
that reference
she said she say she said that she
challenges those citizens who have
jeweled loyalty and conflicted loyalty
to the United States that is utterly
utterly ridiculous you never made that
comment okay where law so so she didn't
use the word citizens she didn't use the
word do loyalty listen listen to this
and when I am fearful of is that because
Rasheeda and I are Muslim that a lot of
our Jewish colleagues a lot of our
constituents a lot of our allies go to
thinking that everything we say about
Israel to be an anti-semitic because we
are Muslim and so to me it is in it's
it's something that becomes designed to
end the debate because you get in this
space of yes right like I know what
intolerance looks like and I'm sensitive
when someone says the words you use Iran
are resemblance of intolerance and I am
conscious of that and I feel pained by
that but but it almost as if every
single time we say something regardless
of what it is we say that it's supposed
to be about foreign policy our
engagement our advocacy about ending
oppression or the freeing of every human
life and and one indignity we get to be
labeled in something and that ends the
discussion
because we end up defending that and
nobody ever gets to have the product
debate of what is happening with
Palatine okay so she or she's just
simply talking about the fact that she
is subject to critiques because she is
Muslim and she is automatically
considered suspect do we have the other
clip where she talks about specifically
what she talks about people being loyal
to the other country I don't think she
said that in there did she
I think miners thing is that that's the
clip that they're extrapolating that
from she doesn't say about another
loyalty does she certainly know what I
heard there's another one I think where
she said but yes she never uses the word
dual loyalty she never uses the word
that in regards to Jews oh you know I
know I know where the exchange is I
think that was written actually hold on
for a second Paul Waldman has written
very well about this actually and she
said okay I should not be expected to
have Allegiance pledge support to a
foreign country in order to serve my
country in Congress or a serve on my
committee so there's not she's not
referring to Jews having that she's
saying that I should not be expected to
have that she's not even referring she's
referring to Congress people she's
referring to herself as a congress
person here it is here is the tweet our
democracy is built on debate
congresswoman she's responding to Nita
Lowey
I should not be expected to have
allegiance slash pledged support to a
foreign country in order to serve my
country in Congress or serve on
committee the People v elected me to
serve their interests I'm sure we agree
on that she's not implying that Jews
have this dual allegiance because let's
face it as Paul Waldman Balban points
out for decades now
the vast majority of Jews in this
country are critical of Israel that the
the most amount of support in terms of
citizenry in this country comes from
Christian evangelicals and plenty of
Jews in Israel are also critical that's
true but in the context of Americans
she's not even talking about actual
citizens or average citizens she's
talking about Congress people and when
she talks about signing a pledge how
many people listening to me now in this
email or who has emailed me from Britain
are aware that in half the states in
this country you must sign a pledge if
you are getting a contract with the
state that you will not participate in a
protest against Israel this is not a
joke
there was a lawsuit that was brought by
a Texas woman who provides speech
pathology services to the school and she
had to sign a pledge in Texas that she
would not participate in BDS if she was
going to take this job there is a where
was it in in Arkansas the state of
Arkansas the are a little rock arkansas
times the owner allen Leverett I don't
know if Leverett is Jewish or not but
the University of Arkansas Pulaski
Technical College would not advertise in
the Arkansas times unless levirate
signed a pledge that his business does
not boycott Israel now Leverett does not
boycott Israel but he considers a state
law that forces him to pledge not the
boycott Israel unconstitutional
that's what she's referring to and we
mentioned that the Democrats are
shooting themselves in the foot because
they're not talking about HR 1 this week
well SR 1 was a bill brought up in the
Senate to federalize this ban so that
it's not just the 27 states it is the
entire country you cannot have a
contract with the federal government
unless you pledge not to boycott Israel
I mean this is bizarre this hobby well
it's an actual assault on free speech it
is natural world dramatic assault on
free speech it kind of makes me think
that BDS might actually work on some
level I decide that's wholly irrelevant
the effectiveness of it whether people
are supported or not the idea that you
would have to pledge to not protest a
foreign country or this country for that
matter or anything for that matter is
absurd
and when she calls that out she is
smeared as saying that Jews have a dual
loyalty to their country no she's saying
I shouldn't be forced as a member of
Congress and frankly none of the
citizens in the country should be forced
to pledge allegiance to not protesting
against Israel I mean regardless of
whether you think there is a a
comparison or not with South Africa the
idea that people would have been that
you could not do business with the
federal or state government if you
protested against South Africa 30 some
odd years ago would be laughed out of
the room particularly by Democrats so at
the expense of a marquee bill the
Democrats decided to bring up this
essentially to
codify this smear against one of their
frankly rising stars and it's incredibly
disingenuous and I will add this that I
took this critique from this email even
though it was doing exactly what the
smear is she never says dual allegiances
quote unquote she never said dual
loyalty quote unquote she never talking
about Jews she's talking about Congress
people and herself being expected to do
this she doesn't and talk about Jews
whatsoever in fact Jews that smear of
Jews that they had dual loyalty is silly
in the context of modern America because
75 percent of Jews in this country
critique Israel and beyond that I will
say I'm going pretty far down the road
by taking this seriously because it was
just reported three days ago maybe was
last week that former Mossad agents form
private security firms that harass
people who support BDS and I can head
for my fake stories in her ass yeah I
can tell you from my own experience than
two thousand four when Jeannine and I
would critique Israel on the original
majority part on air America the next
day the next day we were contacted by
the Israeli embassy and were basically
told we're gonna send I think it was
Pincus at the time was the ambassador
we had the Ambassador on a couple of
times I mean so this type of stuff and I
said it yesterday I will repeat it again
this is the greatest existential threat
to Israel in my opinion because the days
of pretending that Israel is not
problematic and ignoring it and doing
stuff like this is
going to isolate Israel may take five or
ten years but the tide has turned and
largely because of the actions of Israel
and I would say because of the right in
this country because if you stifle
debate in this way you're doing a
disservice to Israel and I say this as
someone who is a supporter of Israel
you're doing a disservice to Israel
you're basically saying like um you know
what they've had a lot to drink but you
just don't let them drive let them drive
that's basically what's happening I
I also just can I broaden in a bit
everything is 100% on point but I think
that also you know in addition to her
courage on Israel and also by the way
I'll this is ridiculous to have to do
but this is somebody who said it as an
example that the Hajj should be
boycotted because of what's happening in
Saudi Arabia which is an extraordinary
position of a Muslim dolt she's also
been obviously opposed to a coup in
Venezuela and what she did to Elliott
Abrams seriously pissed a lot of people
off and I think the real dangerous play
here and this is I'll bring Barry Weiss
up not to bring her up but Barry Weiss
in the clip yesterday said she's on the
Foreign Relations Committee and Steve
Scalise David Duke without the baggage
which I know we'll get to you know is is
getting at this as well so in addition
to the disgusting Craven display of
democratic leadership to even consider
throwing her under the bus like this and
also just the pure disingenuous 'no
slike i said a couple of weeks ago is
the only quarter that i would give on
this is like if somebody had a genuine
concern about this you could easily have
this conversation with her privately
which frankly I think in general is it a
better thing to do with allies period
across the board with regards to these
things but the real aim here is to get
her off of the Foreign Relations
Committee because she represents more
broadly a courageous and different voice
right and that's why I just said Latin
America
Saudi Arabia across the board I mean she
is somebody saying something different
here and then you add this to the
context of the levels of insight
in this country we're on simultaneously
you're completely under playing the fact
that there's an example there was a
terrorist attack against Jews a couple
of months ago by a deranged right winger
and I don't even want to put out into
the atmosphere God knows the types of
threats that Ilan Omar is facing and
leaders in her party are not
unequivocally condemning it and
protecting her is both a political
threat maybe even a physical threat and
I have to say like you know I will I'm I
did this more last night but I'll just
do one sentence like a o'seas
prevaricate and there's no room for
prevarication she needs complete utter
no BS protection this is disgusting and
dangerous yeah I totally agree on that
she needs to stand up for her colleague
and comrade also I'm sure all of the
free speech warriors in the intellectual
dark web are rushing to condemn this
literal restriction on freedom of speech
I may need to read more about that but
YouTube monetization listen listen to I
mean specifically to get on to the point
as to why they want Ilan Omar off of the
Foreign Services Committee here is a guy
who literally introduced himself to a
some type of Elks Club I can't remember
exactly what the context was when he was
out running for election in the first
time as David Duke without the baggage
now I suppose there's a there's a good
interpretation of that that someone
somewhere has the imagination to come up
with I for one can't maybe there was
other things that David Duke was
involved in was it like financial
chicanery
maybe yes finance I don't know being on
an all meet though right but here is
Steve Scalise this is the height of
disingenuous but I don't you know this I
expect this I expect but the idea of
Democrats echoing this unabashedly
line of thinking and this idea that
somehow I mean here he is accusing her
of dual loyalties right and good well
the resolution only addresses a piece of
the problem
she continues to display anti-semitic
remarks comments
these are her beliefs and so if they
really are serious about addressing the
problem Nancy Pelosi has to remove her
from the Foreign Affairs Committee she's
literally getting intelligence briefings
on foreign policy of the United States
including our relationship with Israel
as she makes these kind of comments
where she thinks any support of Israel
is is denouncing your own nationality
where does that come from it's a
deep-rooted belief that shows the core
of our convictions and again everybody's
entitled to their own beliefs but why
would you have her on a committee that
important that sensitive to our foreign
policy if she has those kind of
anti-semitic beliefs unless you're
willing to tolerate it and it shouldn't
be tolerated she ought to be removed
immediately from the Foreign Affairs the
response by Nancy Pelosi to skeeves
Steve Scalise is you've got to be joking
that's the only legitimate response to
that guy you've got to be joking
because he's got to be Joe guy who runs
on a overt white supremacy message is
put in again this is incitement and I
don't throw those terms around like I've
been you know I'm someone who's critical
I think of people in the left for going
to that too quickly in a fair amount of
cases particularly online but like that
literally if you couple that with the
atmosphere and increase of hate crimes
in this country the West Virginia
travesty with her and the 9/11 poster
this guy is I mean what's he implying by
that he's saying this is a Muslim woman
who's getting intelligence briefings the
clear implication of some frank gaffney
nut conspiracy that what is she passing
intelligence somebody at what of course
that's what he's doing he's inciting it
right there and and and and and I think
the idea of this is of course is this is
you know this is one of the ways that
they hope to run and this is one of the
ways that they hope to sort of get
the Democrats off-message and frankly
it's worked and Nancy Pelosi should get
a grip and frankly censure those members
of her caucus who go out and smear a
fellow member of the caucus make a list
oh well
Democrats get money from AIPAC - right
yeah yeah absolutely like Bernie and AOC
need to be brave in this instance like
they are and other ones and they're kind
of spawning me right now
