majority rum or Whitsett
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat come
on Jordy rapport with Sam Sita it is
Friday September 13 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA it's
casual Friday folks we're doing a lot of
debate wrap up Friday the 13th so far
nothing's gone wrong joining me today
will be Digby from the blog hullabaloo
also known as Heather Parton
[Applause]
then later in the program Chris James of
not even a show will be here
tough prank phone calls harassing people
on radio shows
he's a prank call artist also on the
program today
full democratic debate recaps as Joe
Biden shows his path to primary victory
and general election loss House
Judiciary passes rules and procedures
for an impeachment hearing big deal
Elizabeth Warren Ron Wyden reveal Social
Security expansion plans separate ones
both great donald trump opens up on wire
to drilling
finally it's been a long fe White House
is now trying to strip California of its
ability to set its own car pollution
standards meanwhile California just
banned private prisons and ice
facilities good stuff coming out of
California folks
lastly Trump's African American that's
quit the Republican Party that is a lie
I've stepped out of public all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen welcome thank you for joining
us we're gonna be talking mostly about
the the debate there was only one of
them this week and it's the contours of
this race are becoming a little bit more
clear I think even though it's quite
possible in October we're gonna have
multiple debates again Tom Steyer
apparently is going to qualify because
he was able to buy a lot of donations
I know Matt Iglesias said on Twitter
that everybody knows the Tom's tires
donations are fake I don't know if he
was being I you know funny about that or
or not I imagine if you have a lot of
money to spend right you don't need to
raise money then you can spend more on
your revenue then you get in revenue and
it still has value to you this is a
dynamic that exists in in in the tech
world quite a bit actually I mean it is
true the way that companies sell
themselves so they get bought out is
they will spend a dollar and ten cents
to to get $1 worth of revenue and then a
bigger company comes along and says oh
look at all this revenue we can help we
can help with expenses that's easy
because we we have you know we can
amortize it across are all our different
operations and we can get rid of some
redundancies but this new revenue will
take that and in this instance there is
the federal government's not saying like
what's your net revenue in terms of
spending versus what comes in it's just
or I should say the Democratic National
Committee they're just looking at how
many donations you got and so Tom Styer
maybe in the next debate there maybe
it's possible Tulsi Gabbard maybe in the
next debate but the contours of the
evening you know I think made it clear
we'll talk more about that would Digby
specifically I'm talking about just sort
of the wide array of forces that were
deployed to basically say don't believe
your lying eyes Joe Biden had a sharp
night last night and anybody who messed
with him was doing something wrong
and I'm not convinced frankly that there
weren't people on stage who were also
sort of trying to promote that idea a
little bit but but certainly you know
Rahm Emanuel I could have told you what
he was gonna say three weeks ago if you
told me that he was going to be the
first voice as a neutral commentator on
ABC television which carried the debates
I mean and look I don't know how much
this has an impact or not on things but
a a broad acceptance of some of the
reality about what Joe Biden showed last
night I think would hasten if not make
his demise in this primary inevitable
and I'm gonna spare digby having to
watch this clip I mean look this is you
might enjoy it
hear it well it's true but and and and
those people are gonna say like this is
cruel you're picking on it but look
here's the bottom line
two things cannot coexist one we cannot
say it is a existential question as to
whether Donald Trump should be reelected
or not and then say you're being too
mean by picking on somebody for
something they can't control I would
never make fun of Joe's teeth right well
I mean that's the point is that like
look seriously you can't make an
argument that this is the most important
election in multiple generations but you
gotta cut the guys lack because look
you're gonna end up there too and I know
it I know it I the be caught the the the
idea that I'm going to have an
embarrassing moment with my teeth at one
point in my career is I I've accepted
that I know you were saying the other
part like you need to get record plays
in front of those kids well we're gonna
get there but here is Joe Biden the
moment
err what'd he say the bridge fell down
the bailout Raiders would be in eighth
grade today at the time there was a
groundswell in this country to get
something done President Obama asked you
to lead the push for gun control he sees
even a question ality to reach across
the aisle to get things done but four
months after Sandy Hook a measure to
require expanded background checks died
on the Senate push it up push it up if
you couldn't get it done after Sandy
Hook why should voters give you another
chance
because I got done before my peers ever
beat the NRA yeah I mean he's playing
around with his teeth and he just didn't
have him set and when he started there
and I mean look like I say well first
off let me just say this get quick calm
slash majority there is a reason why I
have been so so attuned to my dental
hygiene over the past couple of years
because I know I'm getting to this age I
know there's certain inevitability I
know a lot of people frankly who have
that type of bridge work but the bottom
line is and this isn't the biggest
argument as to why'd you know Joe Biden
shouldn't be President or shouldn't be
the nominee but you can bet Donald Trump
would make some hay on this I'll be
interested to see if he says anything
now because I think he's actually sort
of wants Biden as the nominee and it'll
be interesting to see how strategic his
his mockery is certainly come on they
make fun of people's eyes blowing up and
bleeding it's you know in a sense it's
really unfair really taste this right
you know maybe Joe still does have his
fast but it was certainly a nice way to
underscore the outdated Miss
of his politics for anyone who didn't
get that yet well the thing is is that
that's part of the narrative I mean part
of the narrative is people think that
Joe Biden has lost a step or two or five
and if this happened to Elizabeth Warren
I don't think she has a bridge but
Bernie Sanders very well may if it
happened to Bernice and I was sure it
would not I mean for other reasons I
think it would get blown up but it
doesn't necessarily play into the same
now if there's nobody out there who is
saying Bernie Sanders has lost the step
they may say like he's been a cranky old
man for 35 years or something to the
fact but the fact of the matter is
everybody knows it everybody who pays
attention to these things knows what's
going on with Joe Biden and the people
who don't care about it like a rahm
emanuel they just know that look there's
been multiple presidents who've gotten
into office and had to be basically
walked through everything and that
doesn't matter because it's guys like me
Rahm Emanuel who be there actually
pulling the strings and I'm perfectly
fine with that in fact I that's the way
I would like it so but we'll talk more
there's more substantive I think
critique of Joe Biden but this plays
into a narrative and frankly it captures
one of the issues that people have that
like this is not I would not be
supportive of Joe Biden 15 years ago but
that's a separate issue as to whether
people who would be supportive of Joe
Biden 15 years ago can today say like
that's the Joe Biden I'm support give me
a break Sam to even like Earth Wind &
Fire let's get real deal here it's folks
oh wait no where the hell did I put this
place again yeah I know here I got it
right here support from today's show
comes from mova Globes mova Globes turns
all on their own I actually have to talk
about it I have it right here so I've
been you know I got this and I'm
supposed to bring it home to Saul and he
keeps asking me where it is but the
thing I'm starting to realize is like I
like to play with it during the show a
little bit because it's sort of cool
it's calming and
also it's I every day I try and enhance
my my understanding of geography I mean
I know we're basically a lot of this
stuff is I'm not terribly surprised but
like oh my god I had no idea that Chad
was Africa but they're super cool
there's no batteries needed there's no
cords or anything like that they turn
all on their own hidden magnets provide
the movement they have 40 different
designs like you can prove through their
things they have they have stuff like
that are you know typical globes where
you have like a relief map and blue like
I have here but they have a white and
gold version they have a sort of a more
ocean oriented want version there's
Earth from what it would look like from
space there's blue and silver there's
black and silver then they have stuff
like an antique terrestrial globe which
I feel like Matt would really like or
the constellations which is super cool
and then they have them like Jupiter or
Uranus or Pluto Titan moon they have
earth and clouds Saturn Venus and then
they have like some that are just
different motifs like a van Gogh motif
or something like that they have an oz
version I'm joking they don't but that
wanted to see how Michael would react to
that car you but they're they're great
it's great looking globe it's a car
looking globe and they've got vintage
matte from 1790 and they they sell a
couple of different types of bases for
it and they've got one of an asteroid
the Vesta asteroid super cool super cool
that in 1790 map shows the maps of three
voyages of Captain James Cook and I
don't think there's an America there
because Cook didn't realize that it
existed at that time so it's super cool
you have like this vest asteroid has
like you can see each
later multiple layers of red and brown
and tan colors that make up its surface
I mean it's pretty crazy graphics or
satellite images taken by NASA so it's
reals folks check out mova Globes comm
slash majority mov a GL OB es dot-com /
majority use the code majority you get
10% off your purchase
that's mova mov a Globes dot-com /
majority use the code majority get 10%
off your purchase alright gonna take a
quick break and when we come back we're
gonna talk to Digby about the debate
last night and maybe we'll also get to
these these social security expansion
plans with Digby if not uh certainly
we'll be talking about them you can bet
on that
and this the other big news is the house
judiciary setting the parameters for an
impeachment inquiry and the moment may
be too late from an electoral standpoint
it's possible I think but it's still an
important thing to do we're going to
take a quick break we'll be right back
after this
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone ladies and gentlemen
it is always a pleasure to welcome to
the program
Heather Parton a writer for salon but
hopefully well I don't know hopefully
but I would imagine many of you know her
as there you go
Digby from the blog hullabaloo hello
Heather
hey how are you I am well I know you
stayed up late last night to watch the
debate I know it's a little bit early to
get up on the west coast
I appreciate your joining us get give me
your just overall just like top line if
you've got to write the headline I'd I
wouldn't say for the Washington Post
because I it might be a different than
what you would write but I mean what
would you say the top line is well okay
I'm not going to be a good Washington
Post headline writer I don't really
understand how to do that but I will say
that from my perspective as you know
sort of a semi activist writer lefty you
know of long-standing observer of
politics that you know this this field
that we have of the Democratic
candidates for president is pretty
impressive certainly compared to what
they're offering up on the other side
and compared to what we saw in 2016 on
in the Republican primary you know these
were pretty it was a substantive debate
I think more than they had been in the
you know previously and you know I felt
like I learned something and that this
is actually a pretty good process this
time among the Democrats now maybe I
sound like some kind of a Pollyanna but
I feel like like this is going okay and
I'm not one to be I've never been one to
say you know hey everybody's got to get
out of the way and
everybody needs to quit whatever it's
only September I think there's time and
I'm sure that we're gonna see some
dropouts very soon but I got a lot out
of it to be honest I didn't find it
particularly boring I thought that they
were they were good and it was good to
see the frontrunners all together and
kind of you know exchanging ideas with
one another so I mean I think that's a
pretty good reflection of where they're
where the Democratic Party is right now
what was the stuff I mean well I I'm
just curious as to and you know
certainly I think I learned more about
some of the specifics of plans but what
jumped out to you that you were like I
had no idea I'm glad that I watched this
debate I heard that well I mean I think
that they gave well with the exceptions
and we can talk about the front-runner
Joe Biden in a minute but I think that
they were pretty articulate about where
their values are what their belief
system is I mean you know you had this
famous moment with better O'Rourke which
I thought was really excellent I am
always impressed when somebody sounds
like a real person instead of a
politician and I felt like he did when
he was talking about you know the guns
and and racism in America but it was
also just on the details I mean I felt
like I got quite a bit out of where
Warren's discussion of her her of
medicare-for-all Sanders
I thought gave a really brilliant
exposition about what he believes to be
democratic socialism and I know it's not
new for him but to do it in that in that
particular venue and do it so well I
thought was was really excellent I'm
sure there were people who saw that who
went wow you know that's interesting how
he put that and you know to giving that
a second thought that they may not have
had thought about before you know I felt
that Amy Klobuchar who is not my
favorite candidate she's a little bit
more centrist than I am but nonetheless
I think she gave a good rendition of
what the centrist position is on a lot
of these issues particularly on Medicare
for all I think if you wanted somebody
to articulate it she did her bat
position I think she did it quite well
so you know it was just you know as they
went you know unemployment on foreign
policy you know I mean I was yearning
for more foreign polish
in the in the debate and we got some
questions and about Afghanistan it's
pretty clear that you know where the
Democratic Party is on that even Joe
Biden even you know even Amy Klobuchar
you know they're all I'm saying that
it's time to get out now they have a
different way of thinking about that
than Donald Trump but essentially I
think we're in a place of of consensus
on on that issue which is new I mean
that has not always been the case so you
know I just I I felt that it was you
know that that there was a lot of
substance there you know even for
instance Camilla Harris's discussion
about trade I think what she said was
kind of the sort of mainstream view that
most Democrats probably would sign on to
about trade which is you know I I want
to have a trade policy that lets us
export our stuff as she put it not our
jobs you know that's sort of simple but
it is a it's an it's a reasonable way to
explain that sort of thing so you know
as I was watching instead of usually you
know zoning out as I don't do anything I
was kind of I was interested in how they
were articulating a lot of these ideas
and by the way you know I'm sure you've
pointed this out already you know this
party has moved I mean it is it is
unrecognizable from where it would have
been a decade ago in any kind of debate
like this I mean they have really moved
and I think for real I mean this is not
you know just some kind of positioning
saying that you know placate some
faction in the party I mean this is this
party has moved in our direction let me
put it that way
and it's quite impressive I mean it's
been it's been a long time coming I mean
you and I both we've been talking about
this stuff for years I mean 20 years
really just kind of pushing pushing
pushing come on you know you got to get
out of this post you know Reagan you
know tour that the party had been under
and let's move I mean let's become you
know become Democrats again and I think
it's happened I mean I I just I was
stunned by how far left some of these
you know issues were
from people you wouldn't expect it from
right III mean I think that's true and I
think it's I think it's sort of III
think it's hard for people you know and
we got a lot of young people in the
office and I think it's hard for young
people to really appreciate I'm not
saying it's sufficient but to appreciate
the movement that has taken place the
idea that Biden is defensive let's say
and even Klobuchar is defensive on some
level as to their moderate posture you
know which which relative to ten years
ago would have been the left right I
mean you know short of like Kucinich on
stage
someone like Klobuchar would be
considered like she's sort of you know
sent you know to the left it probably
where everybody would be on stage on
some level and and it's it's it's
stunning the other thing and this is
sort of this has nothing to do the
debate but Elizabeth Warren came out
with her expansion of Social Security
which is a great proposal it involves a
doughnut hole but it but but the benefit
increases are substantial substantial
across the board for everybody but super
substantial for people living in the in
the lowest 25 percentile of income in
terms of what it does in shoring up
their retirement I mean it would
literally take ten million elderly folks
out of poverty you know like right off
the bat and then Ron Wyden and and I I
may be you know like I just remember Ron
widens Medicare Medicare proposal or
whatever it was like I can't even
remember one that was five years ago ten
years ago or something where it was just
people were like you're undercutting
everybody like you know like how could
you do this and the guy kind came out
with it with a very robust expansion of
Social Security you know a whole idea of
like basically getting rid of the the
way the preferential treatment that the
capital gains get over payroll I mean
the
you know and and they're thinking you
know when a guy like ron wyden does it
he's not doing it because you know he
he's running for president he's doing it
because he wants to be in on a
conversation that is definitely going to
happen
and you and I you know we're following
the Social Security thing throughout the
Obama years we would talk it seemed like
every time that we would talk we were
talking about how Obama has been
planning on cutting Social Security
since day one you would make that you
know you would cite the the interview he
gave and in oh nine on and on and on and
then at one point they gave up and then
the Senate basically voted on a
non-binding resolution to or the caucus
did to expand Social Security and it's
it's it appears that that is an earnest
really genuine earnest agenda item for
the Democrats in the Senate it really
does and and it's I mean let's talk
about a popular kind of popular program
I mean this is the kind of thing I mean
you know I think it's brilliant for
Democrats to come out with this I mean
you're talking about first of all that
10 million that you're talking about
probably more you know when it gets
right down to it people who are you know
elderly people who are really living in
poverty and it's not like they can go
out and you know get a job or something
I mean they're old and many of them are
sick and they're living on virtually
nothing I mean it's just is not enough
money I know some of these people you
know it's like oh my god you know
they're and they're dependent on a bunch
of services anyway which would be you
know alleviated by just basically giving
them a fairly decent safety net income
in their you know in their golden years
and on a political level this makes
sense because you know there are a lot
of poor elderly baby boomers out there
many of whom are probably dumbly voting
for Republicans well this is basically
saying to them hey who's looking out for
you here it's not them and it isn't them
because I can guarantee you and they're
already talking about it them if Donald
Trump wins re-election
that they are going to go after
entitlements again or what they call
entitlements I hate that word
and it's so they're already talking
about it because you know that the the
deficit you know will become an a you
know a new issue they are going to if
they especially if they win back the
house which doesn't look promising for
them but nonetheless they're going to
try to do it because they you know are
going to be facing tremendous blowback
from their you know rich donors over
this deficit and that is going to be the
kind of thing that we're going to have a
major battle for so the best way and the
best political way to go about this is
to you know put this into go ahead and
put this into the into the campaign and
let these and let's have it out on that
because I don't think you know Donald
Trump has said he says a lot of things
and he this is one thing you know I will
never touch Social Security or Medicare
but you know nobody believes a word that
guy says anymore and they've got people
like you know his cronies Kevin McCarthy
and and Mitch McConnell there they're
definitely talking about about doing
something with entitlements again and
you know if the Democrats can get that
into the campaign it's politically smart
because I think that it does show that
there you know people have always
trusted Democrats on Social Security
more than they trust Republicans and for
good reasons because Republicans have
been trying to repeal it since the day
it was enacted so they have a lot to go
for and I think that you know that's the
kind of thing we've been down this road
that fights been had over and over and
over again and the smartest thing the
Democrats did was take the tack hey
we're not going to be fighting this
defensive war anymore
Social Security is inadequate we're
gonna start talking about expanding it
and that I think that happened right
during the or perhaps right after that
assault on the program in 2005 right
after the election George Bush's
re-election and they went hard after it
you remember that battle yeah and I
think that they that that wisely the
Democrats and the activists on that
issue decided hey we're not going to be
defensive on this anymore it's time to
go the other direction and I think
that's starting to pay off yeah well
I I mean I remember just like how absurd
the idea was considered and and folks
can go over to Atrios his blog - he
still I think is he had written a couple
of USA Today opinion pieces I think at
one point that you know really set some
people off on that but but right so
let's turn back to the debate I want to
start with with this one I mean it will
get more into the the specifics of the
issues but this this clip with Joe Biden
to me is basically the there's two clips
that that define what I think is the
problem with Joe Biden in my mind and
i'm and i'm even divorcing this from
policy on some level just from a
strictly from a political standpoint one
of them is the the the who lien castro
one will play that in a bit and the
reaction to it that we saw from sort of
the establishment Democrats right or at
least you know some of the some of the
the the the sort of conventional wisdom
voices that it was too tough and blah
blah blah
but the other one this clip here is the
one that scares me the most about Joe
Biden because if you believe and I don't
know where you are on this but but if
you believe like I do that
this election is going to be one about
mobilization versus persuasion that the
that that the efforts in persuading
people and the cost associated with what
it does to your the the the the
potential voters you could get is is not
is not worth it that you need to go
after voters who stayed home in 2016 and
there's gonna be obviously that you know
Donald Trump's strategy is gonna be to
depress the Democratic vote turnout and
it won't be just coming from him nobody
nobody's gonna by Donald Trump's you
know a notion of racial justice or
whatnot but
but you know the reality is there's no
doubt in my mind that Hillary Clinton's
super-predator remarks regardless of
whether you know and I you know without
having to litigate you know whether it
was fair or unfair to bring it up or
this and that that that hurt her and it
was a weakness that was exploited when
you listen to Joe Biden answer this
question multiple things come up his
perspective on race his perspective on
poor people and just like his ability to
answer a question coherently are all I
think in play in this question here it
is this is a question that's asked what
what is what is the name of the ABC he's
asked I don't know what her name is
but one of the ABC people asked him this
question quoted him and the quote in and
of itself is bad enough the answer was
even worse in schools and race in a
conversation about how to deal with
segregation in schools back in nineteen
seventy five you told a reporter I don't
feel responsible for the sins of my
father and grandfather I feel
responsible for what the situation is
today for the sins of my own generation
and I'll be damned if I feel responsible
to pay for what happened 300 years ago
you said that some 40 years ago but as
you stand here tonight what
responsibility do you think that
Americans need to take to repair the
legacy of slavery in our country now
heather yummy you tell me I mean I think
that's a fair that's a fair question she
really set it up in such a way of like
that was 40 years ago
I accept that your your attitude towards
this may have changed but frankly you
know if somebody said that today it
would be a right-winger would be saying
that yeah right I mean that is the you
know the idea that like I don't have to
pay well no you don't have to pay
society has to pay your part of society
we do that all the time right like if
you are if in a municipality the police
arrest somebody illegally and there soon
we all pay for the compensation that you
know because our apparatus did something
that was wrong and then people deserve
to be recompensate I mean this is a very
easy concept to uh to grasp so he's
given the opportunity to basically say
I've evolved or you know the that was
taken out of contact whatever it is but
this is the jibber-jabber he comes up
with and I don't know he smiled when she
asked started this question I don't know
if why he did that if it was just a
nervous smile or like I knew this was
coming or I don't know what was behind
that but here it is because need to take
to repair the legacy of slavery in our
country well they have to deal with the
the look there is institutional
segregation in this country and for the
time I got involved I started dealing
with that redlining banks making sure
that we are in a position where look
talk about education I propose that what
we take is those very poor schools the
title one schools triple the amount of
money we spend from fifteen to forty
five billion a year give every single
teacher a race of equal race of getting
out the $60,000 level number to make
sure that we bring into the helpless
astutely
the teachers deal with the problems that
come from home the problems that come
from home we need we have one school
psychologist for every 1,500 kids in
America I posit for one second so here
but Hyden goes I mean right like it like
it like like it the this is not some guy
who it's the first debate he's ever been
in this is stunning that he doesn't have
the ability to answer this question with
any type of coherence but aside from the
fact that he's not addressing slavery
aside from him just like trying to go
down this idea of like I fought
segregation and realizing like oh wait I
shouldn't bring that up because I was
praising segregationist say you know six
weeks ago then he tries to pivot to
education and he gets educated one
immediately pivots from what are we
gonna do about slavery that affected
African Americans to just the question
of poverty
so he is now in his mind immediately
goes to poor people living in urban
areas which is a you know we're starting
to getting like Daniel Moynihan
territory here which is very
uncomfortable territory to because a not
only does he get he gets the idea that
our education problems are a function of
poverty but he then just basically says
but we've got to put it on the schools
to deal with it because we need
psychiatrists at the schools he and then
he pivots to full-on Moynihan territory
where he basically starts blaming these
poor people for their inability to do
the right thing for their kids to go to
school and remember now when he says
poor people he's saying black people in
his mind because the question was about
slavery good come from home we need we
have one school psychologist every 1500
kids in America today it's crazy
the teachers are kind I'm married to a
teacher my deceased wife is a teacher
they have every problem coming to them
we make sure that every single child
does in fact have three four and
five-year-olds go to school school not
take care school we bring social workers
into homes and pairs to help them deal
with how to raise their children it's
not that they'll want to help they don't
want they don't know quite what to do
play the radio make sure the television
the excuse me make sure you have the
record player on at night the phone make
sure the kids hear words a kid coming
from a very poor school or have a very
poor background will hear four million
words fewer spoken by the time they get
there I possum so so my god now now look
the the the the the question of a
vocabulary deficit is a little bit
controversial I happen to believe I
don't think it's four million words but
the listening vocabulary of kids living
in poverty is definitely lower but the
reason is not because their parents are
home and not playing the records for
them it's because the parents are
constantly dealing with poverty and
either in the form of like I've got
multiple jobs or I can't afford to send
my kid to the universal pre-k that I
think he was trying to suggest
and I don't know that he has a you PK
program frankly and he is just going
full-on saying that these people don't
know how to raise their children now
remember that he's talking about black
people that was the question it was it I
found that to just be just stunning I
mean first of all you know that's like
going back in time back to the mid 70s
when we go back to the original quote
that the that the you know interrogator
asked him there the interviewer asked
him you know he that was the way that
the Liberals spoke in those days and you
mentioned Moynihan and it comes from
that there was this whole school of
thought you know about the you know the
tragedy of the black family and how it
was just a bunch of women were in charge
and they were you know they didn't know
how to raise their kids and people had
to go in and help them I mean what that
answer showed was that Biden is still in
that mindset to a certain extent he is
not evolved not really I mean you know
it's like there's this condescension in
that in which he's just giving no credit
to the to the people who are you know in
these situations trying desperately to
raise their kids my best friend is a
school teacher in Baltimore and
basically you know she teaches a lot of
kids that are in poverty and I'm telling
you those parents are involved this is
absolute nonsense what they're saying
these are people who were struggling
because they're working two jobs or
three jobs not because they don't care
about their kids and they're doing
everything they can
this is absolutely ridiculous it's kind
of it's it's offensive and even more so
when you consider what he was responding
to this question about you know it's
basically about reparations right I mean
that was the introduction to that topic
and his answer to it was we need to
teach these people how to you know raise
their kids and he didn't do the one
thing that Joe Biden should be able to
do I mean you know I don't I'm not I
don't think he's a racist you know in
the in the sense that you know he has
some hostility toward black people he's
a racist in
that old-fashioned sense of sort of this
noblesse oblige right we need to help
these poor people they really don't know
what they're doing kind of thing and
that's just as bad it's another form of
racism and he is unable to sort of
extricate himself from that that moment
was there for him to say look my values
are this I love all people I care about
you know everyone I've been fighting for
everyone to have a better way of life
since I entered politics that's why I
did it
and my attitudes about you know
african-americans and poverty and all of
that back in the mid 70s was you know
was was wrong and I have changed and I
am you know through the help of you know
I work he could evoke his good friend
Barack Obama if he wanted to say you
know I've learned a lot but he just
can't seem to do it and it's just it's
intensely frustrating and and I this I
could come up with literally a million
answers to that
all of which say we would start with
like look I don't know about reparations
but we as a society have a
responsibility Bob I mean there's a lot
of different ways he could have answered
that question and not only has he not
evolved like he's not even aware that
the rest of the world has evolved he
doesn't obviously is not listening to
any advisors and even if he has so
little answer for that that he goes yet
I mean he's not only being racist he's
also has like no real genuine
understanding of the struggles of people
who are living in poverty like I am just
sort of he has no sense of that
structural issues right like aside from
conflating black people with poor people
he also has no sense of poverty and he
also doesn't seem to have a sense of
Education I mean these are all there are
multiple concepts here like sort of
policy silos that he's getting
completely off base with incredibly
antiquated perspectives on and he
delivered all that in a nearly
incomprehensible ramble and it's funny
wait the the incomprehensible ramble
doesn't stop here this is the let let's
continue to play out the
clip because he is so shook by his in up
I think his inability to answer this
question but he he goes off into lala
land
make sure the television the excuse me
make sure you have the record player on
at night the phone make sure the kids
hear words a kid coming from a very poor
school or a very poor background will
hear four million words fewer spoken by
the time they get there no I'm gonna go
like the rest of them do twice over okay
[Applause]
the deal is that we've got this little
backwards and by the way in Venezuela we
should be allowing people to come here
from Venezuela
I know Medora I've confronted Medora
number two you talk about the need to do
something in Latin America I'm the guy
that came up with seven hundred and
forty million dollars to see to it those
three countries in fact changed their
system so people don't have a chance to
leave y'all actin like we just
discovered this yesterday Thank You mr.
vice president secretary Castro now what
he says he says well I'm gonna get to
double the time that everybody else did
okay you got this all backwards he says
at that point like I don't know like
what he's talking about I mean I mean
that I feel like that extent like moment
where he goes like no you got it all
backwards
I wonder what he was talking about there
because there's he's he's mad and it's
like III there was something super weird
going on in his head at that point you
got this all backwards and and then
apparently he felt like I I completely
aced that whole question about slavery
and what we should be doing for black
slash poor people that I have invented
in my head but that is Wow
right and I'm also amazed that like
that's not the headline of every single
paper in the country it is very strange
to me I have to admit when I woke up
this morning and saw everybody say yeah
Biden had a pretty good night I'm sorry
kidding I mean I I thought he had a
particularly bad night I mean even worse
than than he was before
I mean I didn't think this was
particularly good for him at all and in
that particular that exchange was
probably the worst moment I think of the
night for him but I you know two things
that struck me about the about this what
number one is I you know if he gets the
nomination I think we're all going to go
right whatever it looks like we're going
to have quite it's going to be like the
worst campaign in history of watching
these two guys Trump and Biden just do
what they do for six months it's going
to be awful and and I am NOT looking
forward to the idea of having to make
excuses day after day after day for Joe
Biden's gaffe
I don't want to do it I'm not looking
you know I'd rather have him be
President and Trump of of court whether
had virtually anybody Richard Nixon's
corpse anybody then then then Trump but
this is really really disturbing the
idea that this guy could end up being
the nominee and we're gonna have to you
know deal with all of this stuff because
if there's no need for it there are
other candidates who are great there's
plenty of you know talent in the
Democratic line up there that we saw
there last night and there's no reason
for it so that's that's one thing I mean
the other thing is is that I think I do
believe that he was confused I think he
got lost I don't know what was in his
head in that moment but you know if one
were to be cynical if one were to look
at this from a purely political
strategic standpoint it kind of makes
some sense for Biden to be saying these
sort of quasi racist things and to be
kind of being this old guy you know from
the past in if there was somebody out
there who was thinking you know if you
want to bring back some of those white
working-class voters who voted for Trump
but maybe they voted for Obama in the
past this kind of stuff maybe the thing
that appealed to them after all they
voted for Trump and he's incoherent as
it gets and you know Biden in some ways
it's kind of one of them right I mean
I'm talking about the older you know
white working-class people in
Pennsylvania out in the middle of
nowhere you know upset
about manufacturing and all the rest of
this stuff I don't think that's the case
with Biden I think he truly is just like
that he's always been like that a bit
he's worse than he used to be but he's
always been like that a bit but you know
from a strategic standpoint you can kind
of see some logic in it and that is very
very disturbing well going there this
point in the Democratic Party is a very
very very bad idea well I mean but that
that is I can see a strategy but I think
that's a bad strategy and I think it's a
bad strategy because I think it
misinterprets that what the terrain is
because that strategy you're basically
saying we're gonna get more of those
people who voted for Trump the first
time then we would depress the vote that
we had in terms of last time that right
I'm gonna go out there and make this
case that I am at least somewhat
friendly you know whatever you however
you want to define you know whatever you
want to define that concept I'm not as
offensive to the racists as you know
somebody who might be you know a
non-normal president right like a
non-white old white guy president but
the problem is is that and this is not a
gaffe and I you know I went back and
forth a little bit with bill scher on
you know on this this is is that this is
not a gaffe and despite the fact that
Joe Biden is is leading with African
Americans it's quite possible that those
African Americans that he's leading with
are reliable voters and the the cohort
of unreliable voters white black Latino
they hear stuff like that and they don't
come out to vote and and and that is
that is the the major dilemma with a guy
like Joe Biden you can't tell right now
how much he's going to depress the vote
and like you say this is gonna be an
election where it's gonna be in in many
respects like the Clinton Trump thing
boat but but more
more like two candidates who are
basically just racing to the finish line
with the least amount of unfavorable and
that's basically what happened with
Clinton and with uh with Trump and it
just so happened that she was slightly
more unfavorable in the wrong areas and
just people didn't come out now maybe
they'll come out regardless of who the
nominee is but it is Joe Biden has a
risk I think associated with him that no
other candidate does in this in this
Democratic field and I mean literally no
other candidate I agree with you and you
know the thing yeah I mean I look as I
said earlier I will you know I'll back
him if that's what it takes but it's not
I'm not looking you and I would vote for
you and I would go to vote literally for
a can of soup if it was there's plenty
of where there aren't enough but there's
not gonna tell like young people for
instance who are you know you know for
them they haven't been through this war
as we have and there's you know they're
idealistic and they look at this think
oh hey you know I want something better
and I don't blame them I felt the same
way when I was young you know this is
wasn't something that I was just gonna
you know wasn't some party line kind of
person I mean I'm different now I'm
older have been through a lot you know
and I'm not gonna even try to convince
anybody of that because it's not you
know it's just it's impossible this is
just the way it is and the Democrat
there's no excuse for it it's not as if
he's the only person out there look at
these other people who we haven't even
talked about yet I mean yeah there's a
whole there was a whole lineup of people
there who have an argument for being the
nominee of the Democratic Party in a way
that is not only unifying for the party
but is inspiring for a whole bunch of
people who may not normally vote and you
know I could see them getting out there
I have no problem making an argument for
them but for a whole bunch of them you
know that that I could say you know
let's you know this is this is the
Democratic Party of the future this is
what we believe in we're not we don't
want to you know go back you know both
Biden and Trump are throw backs
and and that the world that they are you
know talking about and Biden less so
than then Trump I think he wants to go
back to the 50s
I think Biden just wants to go back a
few years to the Obama era but either
way that time has passed
and you know yeah in order to make young
people enthusiastic about politics and
make them feel that they have a stake in
the whole thing you got to look to the
future that's their life you know that's
what they're trying to put together and
I just don't think Joe Biden speaks to
that and you know and he doesn't and to
the extent that he speaks to anything
he's doing it very very badly and I'd
really is this the best we can do I mean
come on let's talk about just briefly I
mean we're not going to get to nearly as
much as I had wanted to but let's let I
don't know I mean do we need to go over
the the false choice of taxes in cost
and health care I mean it was sort of
interesting to watch both Warren and
Bernie deal with that clip I mean that
with that that question or let's let's
go to that you mentioned that Venezuela
question about Maduro and the the that
then turned into like really the one of
the most ridiculous talking points to
hear mouth I mean this is that you know
Bernie Sanders wants to turn America
into Venezuela and and Bernie came back
with I think what is the best
construction to deal with this question
of democratic socialism but here is that
question Jose Ramos Michael to his
credit had predicted that Jose would
bring up as well in this way and it was
the horror Hague rather would bring it
up in this in this context and he did
almost thank you previous debate so
let's begin
senator Sanders one country where many
immigrants are arriving from is
Venezuela a recent UN fact-finding
mission found that thousand had been
disappeared shorter and killed by
government forces in Venezuela you add
me that Venezuela does not have free
elections but still you refuse to call
calles Maduro addicted or a dictator can
you explain why and what are the main
differences between your kind of
socialism and the one being imposed in
Venezuela Cuba and Nicaragua well first
of all let me be very clear anybody who
does what Maduro does is a vicious
tyrant what we need now is international
and regional cooperation for free
elections in Venezuela so that the
people of that country can make it can
create their own future terms of
democratic socialism to equate what goes
on in Venezuela with what I believe is
extremely unfair I'll tell you what I
believe in terms of democratic socialism
I agree with what goes on in Canada and
it's Scandinavia guaranteeing health
care to all people as a human right I
believe that the United States should
not be the only major country on earth
not to provide paid family and medical
leave I believe that every worker in
this country deserves a living wage and
that we expand the trade union movement
I happen to believe also that what to me
democratic socialism means as we deal
with an issue we do not discuss in a way
not in the media and not in Congress you
got three people in America owning more
wealth than the bottom half of this
country
you got a handful of billionaires
controlling what goes on in Wall Street
the insurance companies and in the media
maybe just B maybe what we should be
doing is creating a economy that works
for all of us not 1% that's my
understanding of democratic socialist I
mean I think that is you know that was a
gift
on some level I don't think that's what
Jorge Ramos meant it to be but it was a
gift for Bernie Sanders to be able to
basically lay out the broad strokes of
his vision for what you know what should
happen in America and I I'm just sort of
shocked at that question though to be on
I mean I can see like why don't you call
him a dictator because you know I don't
know the words tyrant seem you know
sufficient there may be a technical
reason why he doesn't call him a
dictator I don't know but that to me is
a silly but the other one is even
sillier are you there yeah yeah I'm here
oh I'm sorry I thought you were well no
that other thing the second question was
even was even was even sillier but I
thought he knocked it out of the park
there
oh he absolutely did it was really one
of the best answers of the night I mean
I said to me that 1 and beta O'Rourke's
passionate and bizarrely for politics
honest answer about you know
confiscating ar-15 I thought were the
two best moments of the debate you can
see why why young people particularly
and others of the left like Sanders so
much from that answer because that's
very very clear it's not you know
there's no obfuscation there there's no
kind of you know overly pedantic sore
the details in it it's just a
straight-up explanation of what he
believes and what why you know why he
believes that this is this is important
for America you know there's plenty to
disagree with or agree with or whatever
but it's out there and he's and he said
it and he said it in a way that I think
was was important in the in the debate I
mean I think I've heard a lot of sort of
performance criticism on Sanders and I
guess that's legitimate I mean part of
this is a performance but really his
answer on that I think was was
particularly important in sort of
setting the parameter of how to deal
with that venezuela situation i mean
this is going to be a big thing in the
campaign don't this is not the last
we're going to hear about not just
Sanders but all the Democrats probably
they'll say it about Joe Biden too right
if they want to turn America into
Venezuela and this is the way to to
answer that if you are in a position to
answer it that way I mean I think
Sanders can I think Warren can I think
there are others probably there who
could
who could take that tack although
perhaps not saying democratic socialism
in those words but can sort of make that
case but they're going to have to do it
and they should listen to him in the way
that he puts that because it's very
compelling I mean I think even if you're
not a Democratic Socialist you have to
listen to that and go you know yeah he's
right and as particularly when he gets
to the kicker at the end where he says
you know three people have more money
than the bottom half of the country
that's startling and shocking statistic
and it's extremely important to continue
to get that out there and you know both
he and Warren do that in different ways
and some of the others sort of you know
push that as well and at times you'll
hear Booker beta or others sort of say
that but that's an a very very important
thing and I thought yeah I thought you
did it very well it's the best I've ever
heard and do it in a big national sort
of forum like that yeah I thought there
was a very tight response and and I mean
I wish he had said up front like I have
laryngitis
like I just the beginning of the debate
but all right let's just do the the bado
clip as well because this was pretty
impressive and I think this is Beto
realizing like I'm not running for
Senate in Texas I may not have much of a
you know statewide future in Texas at
least the for the time being and so I'm
going all in on this and of course you
know I think he was genuinely moved by
the events that have taken place in
Texas over the past six weeks
the high impact high-velocity round when
it hits your body shreds everything
inside of your body because it was
designed to do that so that you would
bleed to death on a battlefield not be
able to get up and kill one of our
soldiers when we see that being used
against children and in Odessa I met the
mother of a 15 year old girl who was
shot by an ar-15 and that mother watched
her bleed to death over the course of an
hour because so many other people were
shot by that ar-15 in Odessa in Midland
there weren't enough ambulances to get
to them in time hell yes
we're gonna take your ar-15 your ak-47
and just to make the point here somebody
found this guy drew McKevitt I don't
know who he is found an ad from an NRA
magazine in 1962 the armalite ar-50 new
iphone it is a complete report on a 22
caliber rifle being offered for military
purposes I mean this is what it was
designed for and you know the NRA knew
what it was back in 62 they understood
what it was is they wrote about it in
the American Rifleman like oh one
sentence is just two words
NATO caliber right you know that well
that moment you know I didn't would
actually moved me and I can't say that
much in politics moves me anymore I
found that very moving and it was
obviously because bado the the passion
shone through and he was saying
something that people are saying all
over the country that millions and
millions of people say is common sense
right that these weapons should not be
in the hands of civilians that it's
outrageous that we have them other
countries don't have them this is not
some it's not something it's not a
god-given right to have a semi-automatic
weapon there is no reason that people
need those for any other purpose than
for mass killings and I don't know
showing off to your friends when you go
to Starbucks or whatever your reasons
are none of which are rational and
reasonable and the fact that a
politician said that in fact I think ID
tweeted somebody last night when I was
watching it you know I've been waiting
20 years for somebody to say that to
somebody just come out and say it
they've done it in other countries they
did it in Australia they've done it in
other countries there there is no you no
rational reason why that can't be done
other than this you know completely
ridiculous gun culture that we have and
the NRA and it's its influence on you
know members of both parties although
that seems to be bifurcating now and
it's really concentrated in the
Republican Party and the NRA is in this
ray although I'm not sure that the gun
rights movement is you know going to be
defamed simply if the NRA goes away but
we'll have to wait and see but I thought
that was a brilliant moment and I think
it does you know it speaks to the value
of somebody just saying you know just
speaking from the heart in politics it's
rare you just don't see it very often I
mean in a way I think Sanders did that
you know as we just discussed with his
definition of democratic socialism
Warren does it when she's talking about
you know I think middle class the middle
class squeeze and the families there's
some real passion there and they towed
it on that and on on on racism as well I
mean he took both of those issues I
think those are going to be something
that he'll be working on after he you
know now that he's blown himself up in
Texas politics he's not going to get but
he'll be doing something along those
lines and obviously feels very
passionate about it and it was really
good to see I mean I think you know
that's the kind of thing and I was you
know it's the kind of thing that if
Democrats were like Republicans they
would say that they just made the
Republican gun outing snowflakes cry
right I mean they're drowning and
conservative tears I mean that would be
but Democrats don't look at it that way
if not done to troll the Republicans
it's done because it comes from a very
real and authentic sense of total
outrage and frustration that we're
dealing with these mass killings and
that we're dealing with gun violence in
general I mean it's just it's it's
reaching this point where people are
just you know they are just absolutely
appalled I know we're dealing with it
and I think Beethoven at very
effectively I will note that I saw a
clip of Chris Coons on some morning show
this morning but moaning the fact that
beto said this and you know and folks
keep an eye on Chris Coons because if
you ever missed you know
who was a Behrman Joe Lieberman well I
give you Chris Coons he's gonna be there
he's gonna be the guy who's give us a
problem the filibuster with with the
guns everything else Chris Coons is the
latest in he's he wants the fulcrum seat
as it were but all right I really gotta
say something about this you know I love
me some sad bado
right any time he looks like he's gonna
cry that just really does it for me
but the framing of this answer and I'm
sure he wasn't thinking about it because
most of them don't where by weapons of
war are fine to use on the battlefield
on people in other countries but not
here in the US just really sets my teeth
on edge like nobody should be gunned
down by an ar-15 no matter where they
live you know but you're not saying that
people should be shot by single
bolt-action in war you just don't think
there should be war oh yeah and we can
stop selling arms to countries like
Saudi Arabia that are using them to
conduct horrible massacres right but I
mean it's not just that you have a
problem with that specific gun that he's
talking about you just don't think there
should be we should we should be
fighting wars which i think is I I mean
I think the idea is that it's a it's a
separate issue silo and I think yes it
would be it would be nice if there was
none of these guns whatsoever I think
certainly the first step in let's say
you just look at let's say like even
tobacco right like what's happened with
tobacco is we have more or less made it
not used in this country and they have
basically just focused all on using it
you know selling it overseas and I think
it's a it's it's evolutionary but I
don't have connected violence abroad is
certainly connected to violence at home
when we look at these mass shootings and
the reasons behind them we have to look
at the violence of our society yes and I
would also even expand it to you know we
should get rid of all guns because
30,000 suicides a year I don't know what
percentage of them could be stopped
probably well
more than half if people didn't have
access to guns and they're certainly not
using ar-15s to kill themselves they're
they're using handguns or maybe they're
using a shotgun or something like that
but within the context of this you know
getting some movement I mean you know I
I take your point but I'm not sure in
that moment like it's it's gonna be more
effective in getting rid of ar-15s in
our society to say we shouldn't have
guns or war well and that move is used
more egregiously I think by Budig who
uses it as a way to point out his
military service yes he's in there
definitely trying to say like I've
handled these things and I've I just
want to remind everybody I went to war
take me any last words
we didn't get through nearly a portion
of what I had hoped to but I think like
you know the big takeaway honestly is
that I mean you know as a as someone who
desperately wants a Democrat to win the
presidency I mean you know over Donald
Trump my biggest concern today is Joe
Biden winning the the Democratic primary
like I just you you know the way that
they came out where Rahm Emanuel is
sitting there and and and Heidi Heitkamp
are the two ABC Democrats who are I mean
seriously this is I mean this is bad
stuff and they had Claire McCaskill
she's the one who's you know they bring
in I mean it's not just her but she's
among them I'm kind of really what what
you know how is this how is this really
why not Joe Biden boy yeah I mean you
know and look like like I said my
takeaway from this is look I mean I'll
make no bones about it my my personal
choice at this moment for the nomination
is Elizabeth Warren I've loved her for
many years I'd say love not in a you
know in the sense I don't really love
politicians but I've admired her for
many years I met her I think she's
terrific and I think she'd make a great
president but like you and like most
Democrats you know I will vote for you
know a can of soup as she put it you
know against Donald Trump he is an
existential threat to everything that I
care about I mean look what he's doing
on a daily basis so that's not really
any question but I really really do
dread having to go through a campaign
listening to these two older old white
guys Trump and Biden you know just make
a hash out of everything that we care
about you know in terms of politics
inability to articulate anything that
makes sense
honestly I think that Biden being the
nominee is going to further degrade what
Trump has already taken great strides to
degrade in our politics which is just
coherence reason you know the idea that
any of this makes sense that it's
something beyond some sort of
entertainment spectacle I mean that is
what we're going to have is like these
two old guys fighting it out
incoherently on the national stage and I
dread it I mean we need somebody who can
actually speak to what is going on bring
us back to reality remind America that
this is not the kind of leadership that
that we can have it worse it's a
superpower whether we like it or not the
United States still the most powerful
nation on earth
maybe it shouldn't be but it is and it's
dangerous for everyone on this planet to
not have rational leadership you know
Eddie and I'm you know I'm even just
even george w bush was more rational
than what we're hearing coming out of
both Biden and Trump at the moment so I
just I really really hope that it
doesn't come to that I mean I'll go with
it if we have to but I really don't I
really hope that's not the way it goes I
like Digby said I think is what the old
phrase was appreciate the the time
Heather we will talk to you soon
my pleasure thanks Sam have a good
weekend we'll go over more of the some
of these clips
the ones that stick out of course for me
are not just when Julian Castro said did
you forget your own plan from what you
said two minutes ago to Biden but
actually the substance of that question
was really important because Biden
actually did forget his own plan also
the part before that where Bernie's like
will be spending less and Biden's like
but we're America we should be spending
my own right exactly
Jesus completely completely we have the
biggest most bloated blood sucking
healthcare system in the world cousin
yes baby all right but in the meantime
it before we get there we're going to
take a quick break we're gonna talk to
Chris James of not even a show famous
for his for his artistry in prank
calling right wing talk shows quick
break be right back
[Music]
you
we've changed the change of plan in lieu
of usually I like I'll call during the
break and bring on one of these things
but but I'm gonna give it it's been a
while for me but I certainly I've been
known to do some of my past hello
gullible rube industries Chris speaking
yeah you have Prince Albert in the can
oh no it's one of the classic pranksters
oh no it's real I'm curious I'm looking
for some tobacco that was sold in the
30s mm-hmm okay so you're not even
really a good one okay Chris I it's it's
actually Sam cedar I'm sorry way to say
yes Chris that's all right thanks Sam
thanks for having me on really
appreciate I know you I know you already
talked about the debate but I am I'm
excited to talk a little politics with
some fellow polit politic head oh good
well we'll do that but but before we do
that we have to go through basically
what you do because it's fantastic this
is it's a great era for something like
this to happen like a you know in the
past there have been people who have
done stuff like this I have done one or
two myself
of this type of stuff but you have made
it into a show the not even a show but
and it's pretty amazing well III just
want to play a couple of clips to show
people we can talk about this this is
Curt Schilling that we just don't know
it to be honest if you play near the
clips from my if I might have to DMCA
you buddy so that your algorithm can't
find it okay good yeah well I'm not sure
what are you gonna play okay we're gonna
play first this is show episode one I
guess back into 2017 where you called in
Curt Schilling I guess
this time I didn't know maybe he still
has one but he he had a show yeah on
Breitbart breitbart.com that was the
first show I ever called was Curt
Schilling I came across it on Twitter
and he was just sort of doing it on
periscope but it yeah it wasn't it was
just him and his in his house you know
sort of doing a show but yeah was on
Breitbart now had you decided to do a
show yet or were you just like god this
guy I get a call in and just the mess
with him well I I'm a stand-up comedian
that's my background it's on the
stand-up comedian and I sort of decided
I don't really want to be a stand-up
comedian I want a tour around so I have
to look for something that I can do at
home and I really love editing I love
like what Vic Berger DJ Doug pound on on
Tim and Eric they're sort of taking
footage and making it funny or just with
editing right so I became really
obsessed with that and I started looking
at ways of getting footage and yeah I
came across so I had it in mind that I
was doing a channel I also had an idea
before that to do a Twitter account
where basically we organize pranks large
pranks so it would be like an account
that would have whatever however many
followers meet say okay today we're
calling Hannity and everyone's gonna say
this but I couldn't get it off the
ground because I had no followers and
nobody cared so I just started the
channel well it's gonna happen we're
gonna do this in the meantime here is
Curt Schilling now I have to say Curt
Schilling for me obviously there's
there's some there's some pleasure in
watching this but there's also some pain
I'm not gonna lie
Schilling part of the Oh for team where
the Red Sox won the World Series after
what was it 80 some odd years I can't
remember now how long the curse was and
but here is Curt Schilling we'll uh
let's start with a clip where he busts
him on Curt attributing muzzle attack on
Muslims when they wasn't them so we just
gonna get the flavor okay we'll get the
flavor first huh clean your ears
clean your ears out big boy all right
hey Kurt how are you doing good what's
on big fan of yours you look fat as
today but I Love You Man that's funny ok
are you calling it for something yeah
yeah no I'm telling him I'm a really big
fan of yours I'm raised almost say your
California that covers all those what
else what else you got for me Chris Oh
am I still there no yeah we go ahead
come on go ahead come on go ahead come
on oh sorry is usually a hang-up really
I'm really scared all the time and I'm
always looking for outlets as far as big
things that I can point to just say
you're liberal that covers it all I'm
not a liberal a conservative no no
there's nothing conservative about you
you're a coward and a fraud because you
can't call in with anything to debate or
talk about other than the fact that
you're a dumbass Oh anyway go ahead
coward sure you're not a cowardly
exactly what you want me to say that I'm
running for Senate and then go ask my
wife and have her not okay now one
second here I forgot that this is that
wasn't the must it's still pretty funny
yeah that was what I remember that he
said he was running for Senate and then
he said all I have to do is ask my wife
and then he came out like two days later
and he's like I will not be running for
Senate very alpha move I've been there
let's just let's go to the let's go the
formations yeah let's go to the
defamation cuz this is pretty good and I
really this I I had a lot of respect for
what your work you the work you did here
because you would not let this die and
and so this is Kurt making the mistake
okay this is later in the show this is
Kurt making what you write as a truly
wonderful mistake quote Trump
administration chose to defame me mommy
said I didn't realize that Fame was part
of his appointment for his position but
apparently he was a posit we should just
be clear here he doesn't know what the
word defame means
thinks it means removing his fame like a
child the way a child would think if I
said that to my six-year-old like what
do you think defame means get rid of
Fame like defang right but so you call
in to just sort of talk to him about
this I'm a big fan I calling all the
time I know what I am a fan I'm as much
of a fan as anyone else I listen to your
show every single morning I wake up for
six o'clock in the most OP I noticed
last week you seem to not really
understand what the word the fame means
and I was curious if you if you figured
out yeah what the word means yeah it
means to slander somebody to - I mean to
slander somebody to - so why do you seem
to feel like it has something to do with
Fame no because you said I don't like
questions on somebody's fame somebody
who isn't actually famous but you can't
you understand that you can buy by law
right right but if you're damaging
somebody's reputation then you're
defamed yeah but you understand that you
can do that or not Fame are you not
defaming somebody by damaging their
reputation yeah you are nothing to do a
thing but you can if somebody's famous
and you damage their reputation you're
defending them right awesome I think
it's awesome that your entire weekend
worrying about my use of the word defame
that's that to me is funny you got
anything else in it
can I talk sure so why did you say it's
something to do with Fame I said how can
somebody who is saying who is it
shouldn't be yes right yeah so that
shows that you don't understand the word
and they're dumb nine o'clock in the
morning listen to somebody's show that
they don't like and we can take em that
one there yeah okay but you don't and I
yeah good yeah you do you do want to you
don't want to miss this right at the end
that was when I reminded him was
actually 6:00 a.m. for me because he
doesn't understand how time
that is now let me ask you this do you
such an irritant do you have a device or
a system of spoofing your caller ID
yeah I do yeah I have to like once I
started calling more shows and they
started to know my numbers and I had to
get yeah get it called spoofer to spoof
my call which I guess you're not
actually allowed to really do know in
America you're not it but I live in
Canada luckily so there's really nothing
that anybody can do cuz back in the day
hypothetically if I lived in America and
I had done this I would have used I tell
us that I tell us calm but apparently
you can't do that so yeah I know I use
an it's just a simple application it's
good it records the calls and it allows
me to change my number because yeah
there's a lot of the hosts Kurt doesn't
do a show anymore there's a lot of the
hosts that stopped doing their shows
since we've been up and running but you
know there's people like Jay Jay
McCartney's a guy we regularly call and
I can just call back over and over again
from different numbers and he's got no
one calling in so he's picking up my
call after my call well so here we go so
19 episodes later in fact now you
publish this on June 19 so this is
almost like a year and a half later this
is four seasons in 19 episodes oh my god
so this is a long time later curt
schilling this is a best-of clip I
should say okay Kurt Schilling is on is
it on the Howie Carr show is that what
he's on oh yes this is this is from an
earlier episode but yeah he went on the
house
car show with a the guest host Steve
something who's like the producer and I
had already pranked him that day so I
had already pranked him at his home and
then he got into his car drove to a
studio and then I pranked him on the
show that he was at that time as well
let's look at the on the guest I
admitted I made a mistake it was my
mistake it's no problem the way do you
know what the word that they means yet
waking up this early to call in for that
one
[Music]
we'll go to the phone lines again Chris
you're next on this one with Stephen
Curt go ahead Chris oh hey how are you
today good can you ask her the question
before we occur to you can you ask me
yourself
go ahead buddy oh hey Curt I was just
curious do you know um could you tell me
the definition of the word two-faced oh
so this is who calls into my show every
day he's I think he's Canadian he's hi
every morning by 9:15 he has absolutely
no no like political awareness
whatsoever but he tries to like call in
and ask about because I usually have
good Canadians who kindness a lot of it
I had mentioned mentioned we were
talking about James call me and and
somebody had said he was being I said he
was Dean
how do you do Fame somebody that isn't
actually famous oh oh you used the word
defamed in the wrong sentence and the
wrong context like well in that case I
think you might have to stop it marinate
in that moment where the easy first of
all I don't know why I felt so you've
got under his skin so badly this is what
I think it's really impressive about
what you're doing here is like you found
something that reduced Curt Schilling
the guy who like pitched through a
bloody ankle and you found something
that stayed in his brain in such a way
that he could not even let it go on a a
major regional radio show where he was
like that's just some guy I got a lot of
trolls what are you gonna do bah bah bah
but he actually has to explain the whole
thing to him keep it up there cuz we're
gonna keep going and the host basically
says oh yeah yeah you did get it wrong
Curt Schilling tried dig himself out of
this all the pillows I think you might
have I get you Kurt as someone who's
also very funny I understand sometimes
people just don't get it no see and this
is where I would do the
Romney laughs I was over on the board
but here's the thing as grace grace
obviously calls you a quasi celebrity
right so you all by your understanding
could not be defamed brought him onto
the show and presumably agrees with my
mode stuff is just absolutely mocking
the out of it not only stupid but
you're not even famous yeah that's
that's the thing that I like to do and
that's like with my channel what I've
sort of focused on is is honing in on
one thing and and just not letting it go
I found that sort of the best way to
drive the hosts crazy and there's the
Jay Jay McCartney is the one I have a
supercut of three hours and we only ever
call him about his shirt and that's like
sort of a well-known one please and
please some of that yeah see I do I
thought in my head I thought can I
invent something can I invent something
that has no meaning whatsoever so it
does it's not even insulting it's not
bad there's nothing to it and just
invent it from nothing and create a
thing that now is the bane of his
existence and drives them insane and it
it worked
110 this is this is this guy what's his
name now this is Jimmy Carr JJ McCartney
JJ McCartney he's in like Nebraska he's
an extremely right-wing like key one on
false-flag really truly disgraceful you
know religious bigot just a terrible
terrible guy and and you're you've just
picked the shirt randomly and random
yeah we're just gonna pick up randomly
this is a three hour super good three
hours super guy yeah the attacks of 9/11
or say that your your family member of
yours was killed by a member of the
Hells Angels
what trade and I'm really worried that
if China cuts out the trade altogether
then where are you gonna get your cheap
shirts from so funny gosh there's a real
knee-slapper that's where you know folks
the these people are you know they're
clever aren't they 8 5 3 5 2 2 s 5 7
this one says it's Janice hello Janice
welcome to the show no no it's not and
you're not sorry and I'm sorry but I
don't have time to waste you know we're
just not gonna play your games seriously
ok let me go next it says you're in
Tennessee but who knows hello welcome to
the show I told you not to mess with the
locker
excuse my fed don't mess with the wok
miss do you wanna explain the locking
well the law King is there was an old
host that we used to call named Jim
Lockwood who was the blind lawyer in I
forget where but and when we called them
and we started a bit where we pretended
to be a gang supporting him and we
wouldn't call other hosts and say don't
you know double-cross Lockwood in the
lochs gang I was sort of like in a way
of mocking him sort of became a big part
of it he again he's one of the other
hosts that he's gone now he doesn't do a
show anymore I mean I this is so
fantastic if if if YouTube it existed
when I was younger I know this is that's
this I think basically let's just skip
ahead I just want to see JJ McCarthy
McCartney like you know months into this
you can see him years into it everyone
[Laughter]
yeah okay this is too complicated to
explain he starts playing this weird
clip that every time somebody calls over
I would never wish that on anybody else
that they would have to be you that's
the bottom line you never know
you just never know hello you're on the
Jay Jay McCartney show not this one oh
hang on hang on
got a little bit of a hitch in the
giddyup don't go away stay with us we're
taking care of this I promise okay okay
now our caller you there David David
I'm gonna I'm gonna give you a 20 I'm
gonna give you 20 seconds to to tell me
why you're calling and what's going on
go ahead okay well you mentioned earlier
you were looking for a news report and I
was just saying that out here in
California Doris right now he's
organizing a bunch of youth groups and
it's really worrying to me they're
they're indoctrinating all these kids
and I think the worst of them have you
heard of any of these I think the worst
one is youth bed no I am not heard of
you've been tell me much because you'd
been yeah
[Laughter]
like that is by Prince Albert in the can
basic yeah it really is amazing to think
that we've we've honestly called there's
genuinely five hours of material of
calling this guy I mean he I don't know
why he kind of still does his show it to
be honest because the chat he had to
shut down his YouTube chat because it
was 95% people and from my channel just
pretending to be other people
and honestly 75 to 80 percent of the
callers are I don't really well that's
fantastic I think I think that's
fantastic like have you come in have you
come across anybody and I sort of feel
like I feel like I maybe I'm aware of
something that but have you come across
a guy like this when you start calling
realizes like I'm just gonna change the
nature of my show and have it be a
receptacle for prank calls I mean that's
essentially what Jim Lockwood did the
guy the blind and oh I forgot to mention
about Jim Lockwood he had swords hanging
up behind the money his wall so that was
like a key thing we would always call
him about his swords like a pretending
we were just sort enthusiasts and we
only wanted to talk about the sword but
yeah definitely I mean we've had we
there's been a lot of shows where they
just stop taking phone calls they just
decided you know what maybe we just
won't be a Colin show anymore maybe
we'll just talk for an hour or whatever
like there was one guy there was a show
called the deplorable z-- radio that was
the name of the show so you can imagine
right what it was but I have a character
named the fat master who he there's like
a really homophobic host the fat master
gets aroused by that and he calls in and
watches the livestream and bashes off
which is his way of saying jacks off and
this guy was the most homophobic
 ever on the deployables radio
the fat master called him one single
time and he just shut down the phone
lines forever
never took another call in its entire
life that's badass Thanks
that's that's so great and so yeah so
how many how many years have you been
doing this - two and a half years I want
to say like I said I'm a I'm a stand-up
so you know I've been doing comedy for a
long time and I grew up you know
watching the I mean I watched Crank
Yankers I think you might even ref I
have you know and and the Jerky Boys
when I was a kid I was like it it was
when the Jerky Boys were which is insane
to think they had like the number one
album in North America as a prank always
do which is just crazy to think that's
like my formidable years and then salhan
Richard as well on on Howard Stern
celebrating ya the tre do calls and all
that stuff so I've been obsessed with
sort of you know where I've I've had an
interest in prank calling for for a long
time it's very can you hear me Chris
yeah it's very it's very tre do call
like and the difference is is that the
the tre do calls that the Howard Stern
guys do are incredibly funny but you
have to like it the hosts of tre do are
these very nice hapless coasts and these
 from New York these scumbags
are bothering them and they're nice
little slop shop program so it's really
funny but you have the same dynamic
except with the payoff of Oh like
they're a horrible person oh that's so
it all were it's like you don't have
that I love those pranks but there's
always a little twinge of like oh just
leave them alone and let me sell their
tractor or whatever they're doing but
this has none of that
please waste all of their time yeah that
that is it's really the beauty of it
it's like the Quentin Tarantino thing
where it's like the villains are so bad
I can do whatever you want to them and
nobody feels bad for them so it's yeah
work so really well where I can be
really ambitious to these people
sometimes what I do have to do is and
people have told me in the past but I
have to do is sort of frame it a little
bit show a little bit of them talking
and saying some of the really bad stuff
I don't want to I don't thing is I want
it it's a fine line because it's a
balancing act I don't want to put that
out there I'm
channel and have too much of that
actually you know I just I don't want
people watching that it's just
it sucks
but you know I do want to frame it up a
little bit to say okay I'm actually
happy that this guy JJ is considering
flying to Vancouver to try to kill you
you know like that's actually funny to
me c'mon sit he has he has said that
before a number of times he sort of let
on that like hey I'm I'm considering
hiring somebody to kill you probably not
the best I'll do context in which to
announce that that was such a great
although like hey JJ be hit bad it's
Jack back back when back in my early
accord in my early days of comedy this
guy Carl Perry and I who was sort of
like a like a legendary comedic
influence on lacrosse and those guys but
it was very in his own world yeah we
would call the production offices of
this TV show called Cobra with Michael
Dudikoff as if we were the Michael
Dudikoff fan club
different storylines as to like we think
that Michael could get involved with
Christine but if you're holding off for
later in the episode that's cool and
then it would be stuff like I would call
and I'd say listen I just want you to
know cuz I don't want to be I want to be
upfront about this we had to remove the
president
it was perfectly you know a long
parliamentary procedure I am the acting
vice president but I do have
authorization to make this call by a
vote that I can send you the minutes if
you need to see the minutes and and they
would put us on speakerphone because
they are all thinking like these guys
are insane like I think we recorded it
but it was doubt that's the beauty of
like this YouTube here is that you could
actually like do this stuff and show it
to other people we would just do it and
then just I don't know get high and then
laugh about it like yeah but we weren't
12
we were 25 I think well that's what a
lot of the time I'll tell people like I
have a prank calling channel and they're
like oh yeah I used to love doing prank
calls when I was nine yeah I know what
you do on some level I mean it it's like
it is a form of political trench warfare
you are jamming their signal to the
extent like what's the big well let's
play this one here this is this the fat
man really need to call that guy as I
can find the red stone that would be so
funny
I am oh this is the Roger stone call
yeah this was it's really hard to get on
with in floors I'm actually in my head
as somebody who tries to prank call
shows all the time I'm convinced that
Alex Jones doesn't have real callers to
his show like he never did it was all
sort of pre done because I mean we've
called thousands of times and never
gotten even through to a screener but
yeah we managed to get on this other
show that Roger stone was co-hosting
that's interesting I definitely know I
can I can assure you that in talk radio
people would put planted calls in I know
that but I was I was definitely aware
that people would do that but that's
interesting maybe he never got any real
calls at all that's in chat but here is
this is the fat master calling in to
Roger stone I just got to say that
checkered tie really diggin it today
Roger really diggin it I appreciate that
coming from a man who's whose tie and
whose pocket square are perfectly
coordinated today it's a hardcore birds
well thank you and revealing the
suspenders to after coming off the Joan
show up oh yeah all right let's go out
to the phone lines indeed your calls for
Roger stone or myself let's go to Chris
in Florida as well go ahead Chris oh hey
good afternoon fellas how are ya we're
great I'm excited to talk to Roger a big
fan of yours Roger I love you I love
that you're on the live stream you're
lookin good with those the spenders
thank you it's kind of the Larry King
look but I wanted to change it up from
the Alex Jones Show you look a lot
better than Larry King sir you like a
whole lot Larry King years younger I
think but go ahead yeah yeah my name's
my name is a fat master I'm kind of a
well known figure and I like to watch
these radio shows that I find the most
handsome hosts and I liked it again I
guess batch off to him very interesting
question for us today yeah my question
is have you ever heard of Jim Lockwood
in the lock gang I cannot say that I
have did you want to talk about South
Korea and North Korea like it says on
the board here or are you are you just
calling in for a good time
I am had a good time jacket off yeah
yeah I used to get nervous calling you
know what I'd get on with a big person
and it doesn't happen as much now it
makes it a lot easier like on that call
I was really nervous you know to have
gotten through you think stone was
really flattered by that yeah I think
yeah I think he definitely was yeah that
was the thing about it when I did it I
heard that what he wasn't the best
target for that type of thing because
he's very open sexually as the truth is
famously he was like he had that
posting or whatever right right I mean
you want to you want to call into like
someone who's very conservative and you
creep them out that you exactly yeah the
idea the idea the fact that they're on a
camera and there's nothing they can do
like they could turn the camera off I
guess but they're on the camera they
can't you know pick who's watching them
or what that person is doing while
they're watching them it's really sort
of you know you're it you're on a live
stream right now isn't it a little
uncomfortable to think of that
a little bit I guess I mean if you tell
me that you are I would say I'm not
surprised I think a huge percentage of
our audience is probably doing the same
but that's why that's why franking
left-wing shows doesn't work as well
that's that's the reason I mean if you
try to call them at it you would just
say something like that and then it
would be over and it wouldn't be a great
clip no we don't care if you jack off to
us in fact I like it we actually
actually are enrolled in a an affiliate
program where and if you're jerking off
while you watch the majority report be
sure to let credo mobile know actually
supports playing parenthood use the
coupon code majority black code majority
like I know you jerked off to your eyes
let's let's watch with the fat master
calling in on one of these homophobic
radio oh this is the deplorable yeah
this is the guy who never took another
phone lines all together the number here
I guess my money given the wrong number
earlier qo2 eight three eight zero one
zero one that's the call-in number
someone tweeted me that maybe I gave the
wrong one which not be the first time I
got a call here this is Roger from Hyde
oh let's go ahead get his input on this
so hey Roger how's it going not bad how
you doing today
hey good so what's your comments with
Witkin uh what's your thoughts on this
hey I questioned is deplorable is that a
play on that comment that Hillary made
yeah it actually was kind of going
around before that but then Hillary kind
of helped codify it yes that that helped
that helped give us kind of a common
banner Russian people that the Democrats
and the establishment don't like it all
kind of an important part of a call-in
show sure is so do you have any any be
input to the show yeah I wanted to talk
about mid-to McConnell okay I'm sorry
that you on the livestream it is I like
to call these shows in a I get they
batch off while I watch okay so what
about McConnell what's your point well
McConnell I would never batch off in the
car good booking idea these are what we
call trolls people root have nothing
better to do thanks so much and thus
ends his phone taking career yeah he
didn't say the thing because it's it is
really amazing one thing that I've
learned from calling all these different
shows it's amazing top to bottom doesn't
matter how big the show is they all use
the insult living in your mom's basement
it is just every single one says it it's
crazy how many dennis prager Gorka like
all the way down to JJ every single one
of them now we've got a bunch of you
call me work yeah it'd be like in a
spare bedroom or something is that where
you are in your mom's house yeah that's
that's actually I actually had my mom
and dad call in to the shows so there's
a clip where my dad calls Curt Schilling
and says that I live in the basement and
he can't get me out of the basement and
current like talk to him father to
father
how does this guy know what his son is
doing the bay like how does this I watch
YouTube and I stumbled across your show
and saw that my son called in and I just
wanted to tell you I'm sorry I'm trying
but we've we played a bunch of your
Gorka stuff where you would say like oh
my sister she's a lib she says that
you're ugly and horrible and you're just
despicable and dishonest that's my
favorite prey it's my favorite prank to
do to the bigger shows it's so great
where you just position yourself as a
huge fan who has a detractor within
their life and then it just gives you
free rein to insult them is just right
to their face on their own radio
so if they'd be most insulting things
you can think of you know and and do you
have like a favorite persona you used
when you talk the screeners do you have
any screeners I mean folks want to do
this some of these shows don't have
screeners I had a thing back ed during
the air America days where Janina was
getting harassed by a right-wing
talk-show host in Massachusetts which we
ended up you know it was it was the Ken
something show and I didn't realize that
there were radio shows that don't have
screeners and that they just pick up the
calls and so I just kept theoretically
changing my my caller ID and within like
a show there was not that many colors so
I just think you pick up a call it would
be me he would hang up on me he would
pick up another call and then he would
pick up another color with me and then
it was me and then it was me
doo-doo-doo mostly I would imagine most
of these YouTube shows don't have
screeners it it depends on the level of
the show so a lot of them like to any
show that's a bigger show so any show
that's happening at a radio you know a
terrestrial radio network and it's just
being simulcast on YouTube or Facebook
or whatever they all have screeners but
the unaffiliated ones the ones where
it's just a person who's streaming from
their home they often don't so yeah it's
a real I'm gonna tell you just if you're
starting a right-wing radio show and you
have a live video stream and you don't
have a call screener it's just it's
really it's it's bad news for it's not
gonna work out well like it's just those
shows are like I mean yeah like Jay Jay
McCartney is like that where he he has
an automated screener so it says what
please tell the host what you would like
to talk about and then it just does
voice-to-text oh so so that's that's
like but yes I guess that's even one
step further because yeah some of them
they're just picking up the call
answering it and saying hello and
they're doing it on the radio on the air
which seems a crazy we do that raisi way
to do it that's what we do
but again I'm not as concerned about it
you have gotten pranked a few times
though I've noticed well you definitely
have gotten I think you did well you
know what's funny somebody praying to
last week I guess but it wasn't it was
somebody on behalf of my channel but not
somebody that was you know I had no idea
they just sent me a DM on Twitter saying
hey I I pranked him on behalf of the not
even a show oh yeah so that happened
quite a bit now which is nice it's like
kind of a cool thing about my channel
too is if it's like oh I like this
channel you can just be on it and be a
part of it by just making a prank call
and sending it to me you know right it's
basically like a bababooey type of
situation I know what was it Frank was
the valve half life and then someone
called you a Boomer I couldn't follow it
but yeah yeah I mean the big the big
Keeneland with you boomer that's the
main thing that you got to remember yeah
well I mean I'm a gen Xer so yeah me
thinks about doth protest too much
oh it's like a fact that you can't even
question its based on your age and yet
still I'm calling it into question well
I mean it's it's also maybe a mentality
on someone yeah right well so folks can
head over to not not even a show on
YouTube what is the what is your YouTube
channel will obviously put a link at
majority dot F M but just do at
youtube.com slash not even a show and
then I have a patreon patreon calm slash
not even a show I do a bonus episode
every week and a podcast and then I also
I do my own call-in show on Twitch no
prank radio where I ask I sort of begged
people not to prank me but unfortunately
Sam you're not gonna believe it like
they they actually don't listen to they
do in fact all prank me
it's a show that is completely overrun
by pranksters exactly so another fun one
though where you can sort of you know
make your own character and call in and
so yeah it's been really fun I just kind
of started it as a bit of a goof but
yeah I do it
three three days a week and yeah it's a
lot of fun okay all right well Chris it
was it was it was great to talk to you
really appreciate your work and thanks
for taking some time
amen thank you so much thank you to Matt
and everybody for you know boosting my
stuff it's been so huge for me it means
so much and and I really appreciate it
and the last thing I want to say Sam is
nice shirt bye wait what's is there
something what's wrong with my shirt
nothing it's just you know it's you know
JJ treatment no not yes doubt he goes
away and now I'm stuck folks you can
support this program by going to join
the majority report com we gave you
extra free show today but we're gonna
head into the fun half in just a moment
we're gonna pick up a couple more clips
of the the debate and also address these
maybe we'll hold off on these Medicaid
you know social security expansion
because I want to give them a proper
amount of time next week but you you can
support the show by going to join the
majority report com
also at majority dot F M you can well if
you look at the podcast descriptions you
can always get the links to anything
that we either talk about on the show or
for to support our advertisers also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get ten percent off within the the next
week or so what we're probably going to
do is put up a basically a an
introduction episode to the a.m. quickie
on our feed so that you can have an
opportunity to subscribe to that feed
before we officially launch and then we
want you everybody to subscribe to that
new feed on the am quickie
check it out gives you a very quick
headlines for the day and just coffee
co-op ready tea or chocolate using the
coupon code majority get 10% off Michael
today is Friday that means that Tuesday
happened at one point this week already
kianga
the amount of Taylor from black lives to
black liberation Josh Garson Cara and
Napoleon the legend we talked about the
legacy of Robert Mugabe the Comoros
Islands and French imperialism
Christopher Hitchens in 2020 the problem
with the warran coalition the org way
elections much much much much more get
the whole thing at patreon.com slash t
MBS this weekend in illicit history of
Mugabe and Zimbabwe with Bill Fletcher
jr. the new executive editor of the
Global African worker calm which I would
check out also get your tickets to the
Philadelphia live show November 23rd the
week before Thanksgiving with crystal
ball emma biglan RTG a ball drop and get
him today we'll see you soon Jamie this
week on the anti Fattah we speak with
our friend weed and sex journalist
Sophie st. Thomas about my trip to LA
hurricane sex pickup artist magic
octopus weed relationship bordick ism
and we get her take on alexandra : Ty's
celebrated essay make way for wing at
eros a letter to working youth wherein
she lays out kind of a framework some
ideas for how people might create new
kinds of love and sex relationships in a
post-capitalist society so that's out
now check it out also next week we've
got Erin Bustani on fully automated
luxury communism oh and our live show
duh at Littlefield and YC October 12th
get your tickets Matt yeah literary
hangover dude james fenimore cooper's
the pioneers that was the second episode
we did on that we talked about natty
bumpo as sort of a hunter that's opposed
to capitalistic surplus production but
he's also racist and how that
illustrates the work of Frantz Fanon so
check that out alright quick break fun
half bye
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
who sent us this alpha males and the
alpha males are back back back back back
and the alpha males just want to degrade
the white man alpha males
alpha males are back back back
I am a total
can we bring back the eg dinner yeah or
a couple you put them in rotation DS you
damn well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break that's
I do dogs have more consistent and the
alpha males cycle
almost says what what watch watch watch
watch
[Music]
on the back
on the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
blocked alpha males
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan birthday
birthday to meet you boy I have a
talking Spanish to foil and the alpha
males
needs to pay the price request way
around here I am a total
all right we're back we've got a couple
more clips to get to on this debate
thing a couple of important ones I think
let's start with this one it's just the
do you have the the for number four
lined up
that's the okay now here's the thing
there is it sort of depends on on where
you know where you're situated I think
ideologically as to they change the time
codes so this might take a little bit
but go ahead okay so this sort of
depends on where you may sit
ideologically in terms of your
assessment of the extent of the
differences between Warren and Bernie at
least in the context of domestic policy
right the in even if you put aside the
questions of their approach to actually
their their actual practical approach to
change they may come to similar
destinations may they do it from
different places in terms of what is the
you know what direction they're heading
from I think obviously Warren is more
about reform of an existing system
Sanders probably too less of an extent
then then he will be accused of but to
some extent he's looking to make some
structural changes that that as opposed
to sort of containing certain problems
he wants to change it and hopefully
eliminate those problems in terms of
like the way that markets work and etc
etc but nevertheless the value of having
both of them in a debate addressing
major issues in which they at least in
broad strokes agree
I think is invaluable it is always
better to have two people saying
something than one person saying
something and and so here's Elizabeth
Warren and I think she is particularly
good at this now Bernie Sanders has made
it clear I think and introduced the
country largely to the understanding of
like we're gonna have to raise taxes but
the amount that we raise taxes is going
to be less than the amount you are
currently spending on health care when
you include premiums co-pays when you
include whatever it is whatever else
comes between premiums and co-pays and
things that aren't covered you're gonna
be paying less in taxes than you are in
all those other expenses associated with
getting health care Elizabeth Warren I
think has been very good in basically
saying like not even going to accept the
premise of a question about taxes
because at the end of the day a dollar
is a dollar and you want us to believe
that tax dollars constitute two dollars
where every dollar paid to an insurance
company is like worth one dollar and
that's just not true and here is that
exchange from the debate last night
saying there about health actually
praise Bernie Sanders for being candid
about his health care plan that Senator
says that senator Sanders has been
candid about the fact that middle-class
taxes are going to go up and most of
private insurance is going to be
eliminated will you make that same
admission so let's be clear about health
care and let's actually start where Vice
President did we all owe a huge debt to
President Obama who fundamentally
transformed health care in America and
committed this country to health care
[Music]
and now the question is how best can we
improve on it and I believe the best way
we can do that is we make sure that
everybody gets covered by health care at
the lowest possible cost how do we pay
for it we pay for it those at the very
top the richest individuals and the
biggest corporations are going to pay
more and middle-class families are going
to pay less that's how this is going to
work direct question you said
middle-class families are going to pay
less but will middle-class taxes go up
to pay for the program I know you
believe that the deductibles and the
premiums will go down will middle-class
taxes go up will private insurance be
eliminated what what families have to
deal with is cost total cost that's what
they have to deal with and understand
families are paying for their health
care today families pay every time an
insurance company says sorry you can't
see that specialist every time an
insurance company says sorry that doctor
is out of network sorry we are not
covering that prescription families are
paying every time they don't get a
prescription filled because they can't
pay for it they don't have a lump
checked out because they can't afford
the copay what we're talking about here
is what's going to happen in family's
pockets what's going to happen in their
budgets and the answer is on Medicare
for all costs are going to go up for
wealthier individuals and costs are
going to go up for giant corporations
but for hardworking families across this
country costs are going to go down and
that's how it should work under Medicare
for all in our health care senator
centers you were invoked by the
vice-president now so closeted now like
you know this formulation I think is
good particularly in the context of a
democratic debate because people need to
understand this dynamic which is not as
self-evident I think as you know it is
to people who are sort of really
immersed in it and I don't know if
Donald Trump is gonna be sharp enough on
a debate stage to say so you're gonna
raise taxes at that point I feel like
any other Republican would but he may
not listen
to engage this got one of hit I mean I
just think that's one of the go to like
he'll say that probably in a completely
non sequitur way on other thing he might
he might so I I think that the the next
step in this argument has to be sort of
more specific in accusing like you are
trying to hide costs behind the idea
that taxes are somehow more expensive
the you know a family doesn't care they
want to know how much money is in their
bank account at the end of the month and
this is gonna mean more money in their
bank accounts so we could raise taxes
through the roof and if we everything
else is you know doesn't cost you
anything then they're going to be happy
the fact and then you say that but we're
not gonna raise taxes through the roof
there's going to be a tax raise but it's
gonna be nothing compared to the relief
that you're gonna get the medical cost
relief in fact I think in some level
coming up with a name for that probably
would be helpful medical costs relief
act is you know that's the way they do
it like tax is a burden well you know
what medical cost is a burden massive
net savings act right something to that
like oh it goes back to I I always use
this example of taking a European Union
Studies class and going over Denmark and
definitely especially as an American you
you the the taxes that he broke down the
professor no class really that's a lot
and then you know the obvious corollary
is like but you have full ecology of
full health care you have all of these
things and it it's either it's it I
think it was a net positive actually in
terms of what was literally flowing out
of your pocket
sure versus what was being kept in your
pocket if you weren't ultra wealthy this
is a Biden's response if we want to see
that right yeah this is where Biden
basically says I'm going to choose the
response that Republicans will give you
largest out-of-pocket payment you'll pay
is a thousand dollars you'll be able to
get into a anyone who can you said we
need to contemplate that the largest
out-of-pocket cost you're gonna pay as a
thousand dollars that's a lot of money
for any given procedure I presumably yes
I mean
I don't of a lot look at how that's
that's out of touch is an overused
phrase but that's one of the more out of
touch things I've ever seen bragging
about only a thousand bucks everybody
can do that it's a banana Michael how
much could it cost ten dollars for one
my health care plan does significantly
cut the cost of it largest out-of-pocket
payment you'll pay is a thousand dollars
you'll be able to get into a anyone who
can't afford it gets automatically
enrolled deposit posit anybody who can't
afford it gets automatically enrolled
okay so you don't get automatically
enrolled in fact not only it's an you
know there's a number associated with
what can't afford it that he may not
even be aware of it's in his plan but
it's a hundred and thirty eight percent
of the federal poverty level so it's
only eight percentage points higher than
what Medicaid allows for in the
expansion of Medicaid so you're really
talking about between a hundred and
thirty percent and one hundred and
thirty eight percent those people get
automatically enrolled in this continue
then do a anyone who can't afford it
gets automatically enrolled in the in
the Medicare type option we have
etcetera but guess what of the hundred
and sixty million people who like their
health care now they can keep it if they
don't like it they can leave number one
number two the fact of the matter is
we're in a situation where if you notice
yet and answer the question this is
about candor honesty big ideas let's
have a big idea there's the tax of two
percent about that raised about three
billion dollars guess what that leaves
you about twenty eight billion dollars
short
the Senators said before it's going to
cost you in your page there will be a
deductible in your paycheck you're going
to the middle-class person someone
making sixty grand with three kids
they're gonna end up paying five
thousand dollars more
they're gonna end up paying four percent
more on their income tax that's a
reality now it's not a bad idea if you
like it I don't like it okay now I want
everybody to keep it the time but you
didn't quote both senators I have to get
responses to then Senator Warren you go
first
so let's be clear I've actually never
met anybody who likes their health
insurance company
people like their doctors I've met
people who like their nurses I've met
people who like their pharmacist I like
many people who like their physical
therapists what they want is access to
health care and we just need to be clear
about what medicare-for-all is all about
instead of paying premiums into
insurance companies and then having
insurance companies build their profits
by saying no to coverage we're going to
do this by saying everyone is covered by
Medicare for all every health care
provider is covered and the only
question here in terms of difference is
where to send the bill senator Sanders
let us be clear Joe in the United States
of America we are spending twice as much
per capita on health care as the
Canadians or any other major country on
earth this American yeah but Americans
don't want to pay twice as much as other
countries posi like what this is you're
a Republican problem yeah that's all it
is that's every argument has been
stripped and what do you have left this
is America and by the way it's only
$1,000 I mean who couldn't afford that
probably a lot less people after your
bankruptcy bill you prick it's really
stunning that people find this
compelling that but you know I don't
know how many people watch less this is
America any normal people out there find
this compelling I think insurance
companies find it compelling and you
know the politicians that they give
money to somebody who's saying they're
gonna vote for Joe Biden at this point
oh no I think is I think a broader thing
I think very few human beings found any
of last night compelling right it was
not a compelling debate most people who
say they're gonna vote for Joe Biden
aren't doing it because they find him
compelling they just erroneously think
that he stands the best chance of
beating Trump I mean I think that's
that's true
but it gets harder and harder to make
that case it seems to me I got the best
chance of being true up and you want to
talk about the black kids put Khulna
gang on the record player let's learn
words
number seven he's talking about his
Medicare choice opt-in
and then Castro says wait what all right
there's a two different clips so here's
the the the the first one is going to be
Biden and you know there's there's two
issues to this one is that he doesn't
seem to know his own policy and two is
he can drink on tradition himself and so
he's also it's also not a great policy
one hundred thirty eight percent of
federal poverty line gets you
automatically enrolled into this but
again if you're at a hundred thirty
percent and you're in the states that
have expanded Medicaid you're in
Medicaid which is frankly better than I
think his version of Medicare look
everybody says you want an option the
option I'm proposing is a Medicare for
all in Medicare for choice if you want
Medicare if you lose the job from your
insurance company or employer you
automatically can buy into this you
don't have no pre-existing condition can
stop you from finding you get covered
period and if you notice nobody's yet
said how much it's gonna cost the
taxpayer I here this large savings the
president think my friend for her Mon
thinks that the employer is going to
give you back if you negotiate as Union
all these years got a cut in wages
because you got insurance they're gonna
give back that money to the employee
about reflect they will well let me tell
you something for socialist you've got a
four associates you've got a lot more
confidence in corporate America than I
do
well first off be clear at least part of
that savings that they're gonna get for
not providing health care is going to go
in taxes to providing health care in a
more efficient system that's going to
cover everybody and provide more
opportunities to the extent that there
is any and it's not like I mean look
this is pretty clear right like these
are all numbers that are pretty
transparent we know exactly how much
corporate America spends on health care
because they tell us all the time and
complain about it and we're gonna know
how much they're getting taxed and we're
gonna know the difference and the point
is is that they're going to have to
they're workers in something and
everybody's gonna know what the
standards are there in terms of you know
negotiating power particularly in the
context of unions you're gonna see a lot
more power from unions in that instance
their biggest beef with this stuff is
that they're offering more quality
health care and they're gonna have to
find other things that make people want
to unionize at that point but a lot of
unions here would be really upset with
expanding the territory they could fight
on also what the hell is an automatic
buy-in like if you have to buy into it
is it then not automatic yeah I don't
know if he was wrong about buy you can
automatically buy a BMW like do they
take the money directly out of your bank
account I don't know I don't know that's
the it's hard to know how much of him
he's just you know getting extra words
in his sentences or he's actually
referring to something okay thank you
and you know I also want to recognize
the work that Bernie has done on this
and of course we owe a debt of gratitude
to President Barack Obama now of course
I also work for President Obama Vice
President Biden and I know that the
problem with your plan is that it leaves
10 million people uncovered now on the
last debate stage in Detroit you said
that wasn't true when senator Harris
brought that up there was a fact check
of that and they said that was true you
know I grew up with a grandmother who
had type 2 diabetes and I watched her
condition get worse and worse
but that whole time she had Medicare I
want every single American family to
have a strong Medicare plan available if
they choose to hold on to strong solid
private health insurance I believe they
should be able to do that but the
difference between what I support and
what you support Vice President Biden is
that you require them to opt-in and I
would not require them to opt in they
would automatically be enrolled they
wouldn't have to buy in that's a big
difference because Barack Obama's vision
was not to leave 10 million people
uncovered he wanted every single person
in this country covered my plan would do
that your plan would you do not have to
buy in
they do not have to buy a closet now we
just said that he said that and so
Castro is like wait why you just said it
you admitted it yourself in addition to
being it already been fact-check last
time around so go back to his a little
bit and this is the exchange now that
they have somehow managed to turn
against Castro and I would not require
them to opt in they would automatically
be enrolled they wouldn't have to buy in
that's a big difference because Barack
Obama's vision was not to leave 10
million people uncovered he wanted every
single person in this country covered my
plan would do that your plan would you
do not have to buy in they do not have
to buy you just said that you just said
that two minutes ago you just said two
minutes ago that they would have to buy
it you said they would have to buy to
buy in if Paulo fire you are you
forgetting what you said of Maddox being
four
you said just two minutes ago I mean I
can't believe that you said two minutes
ago that they had to buy in and now
you're saying they don't have to buy
you're forgetting that any mother who
has no money she automatically and
frantically enrolls people regardless of
whether they choose to opt in or not if
you lose your job for instance his his
health care plan would not automatically
enroll you you would have to opt in my
health care plan would that's a big
difference I'm fulfilling in fulfilling
the legacy of Barack Obama and you're
not I would be surprised to him
there you go I mean really the the
bottom line is also is sort of like your
circumstance rather than your poverty
level will dictate your absence of
health insurance will get you health
insurance even under that Medicare for
America planned which doesn't go as far
as obviously as as Bernie's and to some
extent Warren's
basically covers you if you don't have
health insurance as opposed to it covers
you if you don't have health insurance
and you're living a hundred and thirty
eight percent below the poverty level so
that's the the big difference there
this stuff is gonna you know I don't
know how much of a difference that makes
the people who are watching this stuff
broadly speaking I mean I think you know
there are some people who are engaged
but what it does sort of resonate was
like you know here's a guy who doesn't
quite know what his plan is or he's
trying to be a little bit obtuse about
it and he can't communicate amongst
friendly people yeah The effect of that
looked horrible regardless of the
substance horrible and and of course
like I say there was a lot of like folks
coming out ABC had some random dude
saying like I spoke to some other
anonymous people who were like Julian
Castro really went too far being mean
well actually a Labour globish are
specifically attacked him yeah so I
would never never go out somebody like
that unless they were a staff member
right now who do anything like that
that's the vice president I'd state
that's not some schmuck that you can
blackballed from a job reminder from
finder people are gonna be going up
against Donald Trump in the Republican
it's gonna be much worse much much much
that's incredible watching these eight
like Buddha judge really those were
people who are sick of really Pete is
what they're sick of that was an okay
another guy right here let's see what
they're sick of is Castro saying this
isn't this is an election that way that
you know what cuz I I really you know I
I don't like Julian Castro because of
his policy record and I've always found
it you know previously rhetorically he
was pure discount brand Obama but I mean
between the hits on Biden and him saying
that point that like we're sort of
supposed to be up here differentiating
ourselves at points credit where
credit's due
this is not being bag that is what
Julian Castro said lesson and lastly you
know a Biden's $1,000 you know is the
most you'll have to pay as a copay or do
you know are deductible many you know we
have like many versions of this
statistics you know people can't get
raise $500 in an emergency you know some
50% can't raise four hundred maybe sixty
some odd percent can't raise five
hundred in an emergency can't raise five
hundred they can raise a thousand though
right by going out and taken like a
payday loan or something to that effect
and then getting into a spiral of debt
what is this this is on homelessness
correct oh yeah okay this is the one
more clip and then we'll take a couple
phone calls no we getting it going
what comes after you have to just like
you talked about sort of heading down a
road of fascism right like you know who
knows different people have different
definitions but who knows how far down a
road you go until you are called fascist
right because it's very easy to look in
retrospect and say this regime was
fascistic this regime was pure fascism
this had elements of it the thing about
the Trump administration has been that
it is it may not
have crossed that threshold I don't know
where that is I don't want to litigate
it at this moment but there are certain
paths you have to take to get to that
point where history looks back on on
this era and say this is fascism and it
inevitably the way that these fascistic
governments regimes whatever it is
operate as they start at the weakest
people weakest in terms of political
power weakest in terms of their the most
marginal perhaps they have the least
amount of support materially and
politically in society so you know
immigrant children they're not even
citizens they don't have the same rights
that other children have immigrant
parents then maybe you move to like all
right folks who have been here for a
while they didn't come here on their own
but we're still gonna sort of terrorize
them then maybe people who are literally
like their lives depend on their being
here thousand people with like sort of
getting life-saving medicine in this
country that you would boot out maybe
you also target transgender folks like
this administration has done harder for
them to do it with gay people broadly
speaking but maybe you can attack things
like marriage equality and each time you
do it you know at one point it was the
Muslim ban but just Muslims who are you
know terrorists and then and then maybe
maybe it's like oh we're not gonna let
in any of the people from the Bahamas
despite what went on there under a
temporary protected status in fact we're
getting rid of a lot of the people who
are here under temporary protected
status and you basically it's not it's
not perfect or you basically just step
the rung of of people and each time
you're able to do something to people
down on the totem pole in terms of
resources materially or political and
then you take a step up and you widen
your net a little bit and you widen the
group of people I mean this is the way
that fascistic regimes work and that
doesn't mean necessarily that you're
killing all of them
it could just mean that you're deporting
them you're putting them on trains and
sending them to Poland or wherever or
you're just denying them entry into
places or you're starting to limit their
their rights that they have and Donald
Trump is taking the next step not
talking about immigrants talking about
people who are US citizens essentially
ostensibly have a wide swath of rights
and here's Donald Trump saying that
despite the fact that you remember that
his party is very very adamant about
states rights right which which is not
even code it is literally you cannot
come in here and tell us how to treat
our slaves or our freed black people or
then it just expands but that's
basically with the history of that that
formulation here is Donald Trump just I
think yesterday at the making a
statement what's happening it's like
look at what's happening San Francisco
take a look at what's going on and we're
gonna have to step in and do something
about it because we can't allow that to
happen to our great cities Los Angeles
is a great city
we can't allow
and in the not-too-distant future you're
gonna see we're gonna step in we're not
going to allow it to happen we're major
major companies are leaving their cities
leaving our country when they see that
you walk in they pay a lot of rent they
walk into a beautiful building the best
street in California and you have a
sight that nobody even can believe
nobody can believe and we're gonna have
to do something about it and we will do
something about it we're gonna give them
notice fact we gave them a notice today
clean it up they got to do something you
can't have it these are our great
American cities and they're an
embarrassment what the Democrats have
let happen Republicans want to rebuild
our inner cities what he's talking about
is sweeping the streets clean of
homeless people and the proposal that
they're floating now is using some
former air terminal as like basically
I'm trying to think of how you would
call this a way of concentrating them in
an area a small area you know call it
some type of like campus or like a camp
of some sorts and they want to
concentrate them there so that they're
not on the streets just that
coincidentally I am sure
according to Media Matters Fox News
began increasing its coverage of
homelessness in America maybe because
they became very concerned with that
issue they were using it as a bludgeon
suggesting that it's because of
Democratic policies that homelessness
exists I mean it's really what they're
saying is Democrats tolerate homeless
people and that's the problem
the problem isn't that they're we have a
lack of policies to address the problem
of homelessness
it's that Democrats don't punish
homeless people enough and that's why
they congregate in areas where they
don't get punished Media Matters showed
that the network aired 53 segments
since May on Fox News about homelessness
and so this is obviously like the brain
trust at Fox has been test marketing
this stuff and they're rolling it out
and they're suggesting it to trump and
that's what's going on here
and here's Ben Shapiro this was in May
but I've noticed him in like Ruben
mentioning it on their shows more often
lately
yes there's no doubt in my mind that
they're all getting the message whether
they whether it's you know formalized or
something or they're talking about it
this is back in May Newsome called the
growing homelessness in California and
national disgrace he's announced he's
launching a task force to find solutions
and he's working on it because it
obviously requires money and housing
support I mean these are pretty basic
things the problem is that there's very
little of that you also need the support
for mental health a lot of these people
who are on the streets have mental
emotional issues maybe they have
addiction issues some in some instances
that's causal in some instances it's a
function of where they are and they
can't get out of their situation
domestic abuse plays a part in this the
immigration policies that we have
undoubtedly do because they scare a lot
of people and they're afraid to go to
the authorities for help and you want to
talk about the big companies that are
supposedly going to leave these cities
because of the homeless problem they're
causing the homeless problem with
gentrification in many respects that is
a big part of the the problem so
rounding them up putting them in some
type of camps not a solution but here is
the states rights guy basically
threatening California because they want
to make this a political issue and
that's basically what's coming down to
so all right we got time for a couple of
phone calls and then we get to get out
of here folks I'm sorry if you've been
holding on the phones fortunately it
hasn't been that long we'll just anybody
who's been hanging on for
I'm more or less a half an hour oh wait
a second where am I in this am I not on
this here we go bear with us hey here we
go and better be a prank phone call
confluence No yeah come from four one
six area code who's this where you come
from oh wow sorry your voice just came
on hey Sam it's August from Canada
August from Canada what's on your mind
it's not too personal okay I asked you
about like your story of smoking smoking
cigarettes yeah
I smoked cigarettes for a long time up
until basically around the time my kid
got well yeah you know I tried to quit a
couple of times before them but I
basically gave it up and when my kid was
born which kid my kid my daughter milah
oh so that okay so I just wondering like
can you give any advice and like how
many times did you try to quit and like
oh I quit a couple of times and you know
it lasted it certain length and then
basically what I did was I I quit and
then I was down to like three or four
cigarettes a day and would you know you
can't smoke inside in in New York you
know back at that time that was
relatively no so you have to go out and
then and then at one point like I did
hit the electric cigarettes for a brief
amount of time and then stopped I mean
the key is change your habits you gotta
like all around yeah because you
associate smoking with two different
things I can tell you this right now
from my experience one it is a measure
of time right like I'm gonna have a
cigarette then I'll do this it's like
I'm gonna take a break
and it's like five you know I'm gonna do
it and maybe then you associate smoking
with like talking on the phone or you
know coffee or
whatever it is those things that have
the tightest associations you got to
change that behavior you can return to
it later but if you got coffee you know
if you walk down to the store and you
get coffee in a takeaway cup and that's
when you start to smoke then make coffee
at home you know for a month do whatever
it is you know break it for 45 days
change your habits change all the habits
associated with cigarettes and you will
find that there is less opportunity to
do it you know and figure out something
else to do in terms of like measuring
time all right
good night thanks a lot them keep
talking about you the best guy on the
team oh thank you that's very sweet of
you keep smoking but keep trying at it
that's basically what you did what was
the number was that was that four one
six call from a 631 area code who's this
where you come from
hi my name is Greta and I'm from upstate
New York grad up from upstate New York
what's on your mind I just want to call
and thank you and Michaels for all the
coverage you're gonna share my husband's
family is all there and so getting news
covers like yours really at least gives
us some information and peace of mind I
just remember probably for eight years
thank you for the support I appreciate
it I wish we had more information to
provide but part of the problem is the
the lack of information that's coming
out of that region and you know if it
wasn't for an IM or that we have there I
don't know that we would know much at
all but it's it's a bad situation bad
obviously it's really bad bad for the
people in Kashmir and very potentially
bad for the rest of us but yeah and I
think we're just afraid for whether
we're afraid what's gonna happen when
the restrictions are really I mean our
family kind of stays at home so we're
not too worried about them getting
caught up too much trouble outside of
the home but
but thank you very much and we really
appreciate it
well Greta and keep us updated if you
hear anything really appreciate the call
all right
he went to the bathroom but I'll pass it
along all right we got time for I don't
know how to decide between these collars
l-band hanging on for an extended period
of time
comp from a four one three area code
who's this where you calling from four
one three hello hello hello
damn are you serious well in the would
in a while you're stuck in a well yeah
from flynn's
[Music]
that's pretty someone's playing with
reverb that's pretty good I like it
someone send lassie down there I
appreciate the call that's pretty cool I
like it there was a time where that was
the big that was the big story news
story all the time some white girl fell
into a well and so every the entire
world has to stop revolving call from a
two five six area code who's this where
he call him from two five six two five
six yeah hello oh hey my name is Ryan
I'm from Huntsville Alabama and I've
been listening to your show for the past
maybe five or six months I just recently
got into you guys but um I'm very
nervous
basically all I wanted to know is how
did you get into I guess leftism as it
is or politics in general because I'm
still fairly new to the whole thing and
I don't really know half of what you're
talking about sometimes well that's okay
I mean you you know you keep listening
and you you will know more and you know
as it goes and you know follow some of
the links that we
that that we provide you know in the in
the podcast and go back and listen to
some others you know you can search our
archives but I guess I got more
interested in politics when I was a kid
I mean you know literally in high school
so I'm not sure there's you know but
it's it's really just about reading I
mean that's that's all what I do but
particularly recommend well you know I
think one that's interesting is is
Howard Zinn's people's history of the
u.s. just because it it's effective in
not only sort of giving you a a
competing narrative to the one that we
get but it also sort of makes you
understand the sort of that there
there's value in understanding that the
way that we record history and the way
that we record even the sort of like the
first draft of history is in and of
itself an editorial decision that is
also ideological and once you see that
dynamic of how something that is that we
all take as for granted like oh the
history is this and once you step back
and realize that wait a second no
history is not that that is a reflection
of the historians ideological
perspective on what constitutes history
and there are competing ideas to that
once you understand that dynamic it's
like almost like you know when when kids
learn you know that hey this is not a
chair it's something that we call a
chair and you can call it something else
too it's it's a device for city you know
like that dynamic I think is important
to learn as if sort of a fundamental
basis in the way to deal with like
different competing narratives about
what's happening in terms of politics I
would only add the even more than
reading a lot of people find their
politics over the course of struggle so
if there's a local fight area that you
can get involved with I've learned so
much from my comrades in the DSA and
I think that you hope I hope the best
for you appreciate the call right right
alright let's take one more phone call
then we got to get out of here
if you've last call the day of the week
calling from a nine eight nine area code
who's this where you call them from hey
Sam this is a Chris from Michigan can
you hear me alright yes Chris from
Michigan what's on your mind um well I
don't know I've got a thousand things
I'm under trying to get through Turkey
guys about but being that calling from
Michigan and just had the guy from Flint
stuck in the well I was wondering about
if you guys have any thoughts on or any
knowledge of instances well like how we
talking about privatizing or
nationalizing certain industries here in
Michigan with all the issues with water
and like ice mountain Nestle taking
obscene amounts of water from the state
and paying like I think it's something
like a set rate of a couple hundred
dollars a year or something and we've
even had local communities where those
wells are trying to pass local ballot
measures or just like local ordinances
to restrict their water use and it gets
overthrown in the courts now in Michigan
we can do ballot initiatives when
legislature legislature doesn't properly
you know represent our needs and get
things done they've figured out how to
overturn a couple of those but go ahead
right yeah and you know and usually but
anyways do you think that I mean do you
guys know many instances where ballot
initiatives like that that would hold
more weight than just a local ordinance
being successfully used to like mandate
that a you know corporation has to do
something you know whether it be they
would have to pay tax of you know X
amount per you know however much they're
making or however much water they're
extracting and then that would go to a
fund for you know like the Flint water
issue I don't worry anything specific to
that but if you wanted to if you're
looking for where to look for I would
look for like in Pennsylvania you may
see at least attempts on where they did
this with fracking maybe also in in in
you know maybe maybe in New York you may
if you start to Google around you may
find examples of where there was an
attempt to do that you know because now
you're talking about ground rights and
stuff like that and I would look I would
look around that area and I would
imagine there's got to be an
organization in Michigan that you know
you could contact maybe look into that
type of stuff but right yeah I
appreciate the call Chris yeah it's just
one other quick thing same just
something that you guys have brought up
a few times or quite a few times
recently with discussion of gun rights
stuff and I'll come back some other time
to talk about it but just like when you
guys talk about different gun control
measures going in and how they will
impact the minority communities or
minorities were you know usually first
and more harshly as historically we've
seen I just wanted to say that a good
person to try to talk to about that who
has brought it up a few times is a
Michael brendor aka killer Mike I know
he had brought that up on Bill Maher at
one point recently and I just know as
him being a gun owner and someone who
lives in the south and you know it's
very familiar with the impact on
minority communities with different laws
like that he might be a good one is to
you know try to pick his brain about and
get some insight for him all right
great I appreciate it all right take
care guys
thanks all right folks I'm sorry that's
all the time we have for today got to
get going
see you on Monday in that
to get to where I want
no son
[Music]
I was I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
where the choice is made so the option
when you don't get paid
oh the rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
