you were making a very good point that
this you know the critique of of
Israel's policy in regards to the
Palestinians should not be left to a
freshman congresswoman who is Muslim I
mean which is perfectly fine for her to
to to make this critique but she should
not be out there alone and the
Democratic Party I feel like at one
point it's gonna be like a dam breaks
right I mean but the the idea that that
she has to be out there alone maybe she
did it in artfully on on Twitter and
whatnot but there's a real problem
there's a real problem in just days
later you had Bibi Netanyahu out there
this week meeting with other Arab
countries talk about a war with Iran I
mean you know increasingly the Israeli
government is becoming you know it's
problematic at least from the
perspective of the left and there should
be more leaders on the Left who are
willing to stand up and be counted and
an elected leaders and I'll tell you
something in Olano Omar also this week
she well she read the riot act to
Elliott Abrams about stuff that Elliott
Abrams did back when we you and I both
remember during the Reagan here you know
in terms of he's a war criminal and so
you know we need to see more guts like
we're seeing from Anolon Omar we need to
see this across the board in the
Democratic Party and there has to be
some measure of solidarity here when
when you know and and the democrats i
don't think i think they there was a
knee-jerk reaction and there was a
temerity the Democrats insisted that she
apologized she did apologize for her
wording although I appreciate that her
apology didn't back down from sort of
the the
you know the the concept that she was
trying to communicate so good for her in
that respect and it's not like they you
know took her off any committees or
whatnot but Democrats need to step up in
this area it seems to me absolutely I
mean I think now look you know we're
about to go into a presidential race and
this is going to come up I don't think
there's any doubt that this will be an
issue in the campaign this is something
that's been bubbling up for a long time
the you know the foreign policy in the
Middle East the way Trump has handled it
I mean you can criticize him you know up
and down but there's also you know we
are in a situation that any new
president if you're going to run for
president you've got to talk about what
you're going to do you can't just talk
about how in bring this situation in
particular and what you think about it
and you know we've got some some very
you know people who are positioning
themselves as liberal leaders as
progressive leaders and they're going to
have to step up here and you can't just
you know they've got if they want to
appeal to their constituency you know
that left lane as they call it they're
going to have to have a explanation and
a policy that reflects what you said in
fact I think that they should just you
know copy what you just said earlier and
to talk about that because I think that
you have a very you you expressed a very
mainstream view among most Democrats as
far as as as Israel is concerned it's
not a you know a hatred for the country
or some kind of or even placing Israel
in any sort of a special you know sort
of category as you know being unusually
awful it's just that this idea that you
know if you care about Israel if you
care about about this idea of Israel and
you expect that that going forward it is
going to continue to exist in it with
the support of the American people you
better rethink this blind support for
this right-wing government that's there
and these policies that are you know
basically committing human rights
violations I mean yeah they have to do
it and if they don't
going to find themselves with a very
divided coalition and that is not good
for anybody I mean they don't they don't
need that Israel doesn't need it and
certainly you know America doesn't need
it you know this is the and you cannot
just say say that some young you know
Muslim woman is the one who's you know
let's throw her out there and let her
make the point and we'll all fight over
it on social media and everybody will
you know go through a kabuki dance and
nobody else takes a stand I mean that's
ridiculous and it kind of made me a
little bit sick I mean and she you know
kudos to her for having the you know
boys her back and yes and when she came
out and and her apology and I do just
want to make this point I thought her
apology was pitch perfect because what
she apologized for was a legitimate
thing which is that you know I'm really
sorry that I said something that was
perceived that way and I'm learning and
I'm getting there and I issue an
unequivocal apologies what she said
those are excellent words and then she
said you know she went on to say but
that doesn't mean that I'm you know I've
changed on the criticize her exact words
yeah I mean I I still believe that the
substance of my thing and that's exactly
right you know and a lot of people agree
with her on the substance it's not like
a pact is you know what since when did
you know I mean the Democratic voters in
this country are not AIPAC fans that's
just not true the one thing we have ever
heard of it most most of them haven't
but this is not something you know these
Democrats do not need to walk walk the
plank on a pack that's ridiculous and if
it isn't money then maybe we need to
think about you know I agree and I and I
think we are not far off from the day
where Anolon Omar makes a comment like
that and instead of everybody sort of
taking a half a step back and getting
worried that they're going to be a
caught up in it we're going to see 20 or
30 fellow Congress people stand up and
say I second that motion and then I
think we're in a very different world
all right but we've got to take a break
if you'll join me for one more segment
Heather we got to talk about what's
going on with the Muller investigation
in Donald Trump because he's freaking
out I think as typical we gotta take a
quick break I'm Sam cedar we'll be right
back with more ring of fire radio
