now I got it
you
Salcedo where everyday casual Friday
that majority report with sam cedar the
destiny of America is always safer in
the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms they are we must
guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Thursday April 18 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today bill
bar takes questions on a report that we
now just are seeing to the extent that
we can see it and guess what it appears
that bill Barr somewhat miss informed
the public as to some of the key
findings of robert muller also on the
program sean McElwee would join us from
data progress talking about the drama
amongst the democrats meanwhile
Democratic leaders call for robert
muller to testify North Korea claims it
is tested new tactical guided weapons
the Naval Academy is going to ban
transgender students starting next year
Kentucky congressman pulls a Dave Rubin
and rescinds the invite to AOC to talk
to minors Australia ready to confirm
the meeting which launched the Trump
Russia Intel investigation HUD
implements a policy to harass folks
living in poverty and pretends they are
punishing the undocumented Facebook
teams with Tucker Carlson and the Daily
Caller to launch a fact-checking service
and what's old is new again Trump
administration announces new travel
restrictions to people going to Cuba
because it worked so well the first 50
some-odd years a cracking this time all
this and more on today's program well
ladies and gentlemen let me just give
you a little bit of a timeline and a
little bit of insight into how we we do
this a show so we didn't know what the
timing was of the Muller report in terms
of when it was going to drop until this
morning and at 9:30 a.m.
William Bar gave a press conference to
ostensibly take questions on the report
with no one in the audience having seen
any version of the report why would you
do this well we'll get into this because
this is this is really actually like a
great lesson in how politics and spin
works the report was then released up
almost an hour ago to the minute and so
people are going through it it's it's a
440 page report I think it is and
apparently there's a real absence of of
the materials from the Intel
investigation so this is strictly on the
criminal aspects of it and I'm gonna
read you a you know some excerpts but of
course I haven't read my
of it at all and so you can take with it
what you want some of these excerpts
come from frankly Twitter feeds of
people on the left and on the right and
so these are really you know you can't
see them in in context but the
paragraphs themselves make relevance but
bill bars performance today was was
shocking I guess to a lot of people I
mean you'll recall when he was nominated
I think we referred to him is you know
just as bad as Jeff Sessions but smarter
and the guy has a long history of
running interference for four presidents
dating back to the the iran-contra
affair he has there are a couple of
pieces I've been reading about his role
and misinterpreting a Mis presenting
Congress when he omitted parts of a
Justice Department memo in 1989 that's
when he was the head of the just
Department's Office of Legal Counsel it
concluded at that time that the FBI
could forcibly abduct people in other
countries well a consent of a foreign
state so you know these are and this was
a way of paving the way of abducting
Manuel Noriega during the first Bush
administration he also was part of of
the pardon process for people involved
in iran-contra gate and so this guy has
a long history of this he also wrote a
19 page memo as
job application as to why the president
can obstruct we will again go through
some of these things in a moment but the
important to understand I think in this
is that the point of the the the reason
why they they did this the way that this
has been done it seems to me is that and
it's quite clear that Muller at least on
the question of obstruction was and he
was not in a position to say this should
go to Congress but that I think he was
anticipating this question should go to
Congress the reason why we're getting
the report as opposed to not getting the
report is I think the White House knew
there there's a certain inevitability to
this report coming out whether it was
going to be subpoenaed by Congress
whether it was going to be leaked
regardless and what they understand in
the White House and I imagine they
understand this in Congress - is that
how the report is made public will to a
large extent determine the way that it
is absorbed by the public so for
instance the White House here's a
scenario the White House does not
release the report and I say the White
House because it's quite clear that
there the that to talk about the
Independence of the department adjusted
that's the point is sort of silly so the
White House decides not to release the
report when it comes out it comes out in
the hands of Jerrold Nadler let's say or
you know I'm the maybe the Senate
Judiciary Committee and it's Patrick
Leahy and they get to be the ones well
wouldn't be Patrick Leahy
so it would be Jerrold Nadler right
because the house would get it and
Leahy's not insure
to the committee in the Senate because
it's it's controlled by Republicans so
Jerrold Nadler would be out there and he
is going to be the one who's going to
tell you the important parts like you
can go on to Donald Trump Junior's a
Twitter feed and I'm sure he's pulling
pictures of you know whatever it is and
you can get in a sense of what the mole
report says and then you go to Marcy
wheelers Twitter feed and get a
different sense of what the mall report
is right and when you go to Twitter you
choose who's going to be your narrator
but in terms of the the country how the
report gets to the public is is what
will determine who gets to be the
narrator for that report
bill bar has been desperately trying to
be the narrator for weeks now I mean to
the point where he wanted to be the new
it was so important for him to be the
narrator that he is taking questions on
a report that none of the reporters have
seen so he knows they can't ask the
questions that the reporters want to ask
they can only ask these general
questions that he wants them to ask I
mean if it was up to him he'd want no
press conference he'd want no report
obviously they want none of this but the
report exists so the question is to who
gets to define to the public what that
report means and to some extent that's
like you know what this program does and
what Rush Limbaugh does and what MSNBC
does and what Fox does I mean to some
extent that's what the dissemination of
news is all about but in this case in
terms of the report it is a much higher
stakes game that they're playing and so
this is uh this is what's going down
with this and we're gonna play a couple
of clips from bill Bars thing and I'm
going to read a couple of things from
the report this is all incredibly
preliminary and
and frankly at the end of the day I
don't know what its gonna mean for
anything I don't you know we still have
a bunch of Investigations that are
extant in terms of whether Donald Trump
is going to be president between now and
2020 none of this means anything because
he will be and in terms of whether he is
going to win his election in 2020 I
don't know that any of this is
implicated either the speculation that
somehow this would give a Donald Trump a
win and he would go around and this
would be some type of benefit for him
electoral II is I'm sorry frankly silly
and there's absolutely no data to
support that if there was going to be a
bump in the polls for Donald Trump it
would have happened before this would
have been the period we would have seen
it because now that the report is out
there and Bill Barr is not the only
person who has seen it I mean just it's
very this is like it's like this is
honestly like a children's book right
like somebody goes looks into the secret
chest comes out and they're the one who
tells you what's in it well now the
chest has been open and other people are
getting to examine it and to the extent
that they can and I you know I can't
tell obviously I have not read through
440 pages I don't know to what extent it
is redacted and what parts are redacted
the percentage of the redactions I
imagine are far less relevant than the
redactions themselves and so what we're
going to do is we're going to get into
we're gonna play just so you get a sense
of where we are today now we're going on
vacation today and I was thinking about
like how come every time we go on
vacation there tends to be these sort of
big news things and I don't think it's a
coincidence now I'm not suggesting that
they're afraid of art they're afraid
our attention what I am suggesting is
that this show goes on vacation has per
the Department of Education in New York
City's calendar when I got to take care
of the kids and and they're on vacation
and the calendar generally follows when
holidays are so February vacation is
during Presidents Day spring vacation is
during Easter and Passover obviously
Christmas vacation is during Christmas
and so I don't think it's a coincidence
that bill Barr presents this the day
before Good Friday and going into the
holidays just because and I don't know
that there's actual data to show this
but there's there's probably like if we
got to drop it at some time Moz will do
it during the time when we know people
going to holidays and so so it's not so
much that they're scared of us is just
like we're all in the same schedule but
hey folks whether you're trying to get a
sweet deal on something or find the best
happy hour in town it's generally good
idea to read the reviews first so why
should finding the right software for
your business be any different read
through thousands of real software
reviews and find the right software for
your business at kaptara dot-com slash
majority kaptara is the leading free
online resource to help you find the
best software solution for your business
with over seven hundred and fifty
thousand reviews of products from real
software users and more than seven
hundred specific categories of software
from project management to email
marketing is everything you need to make
an informed decision fast if you have
heard me talk about kaptara in the past
you know that I spend probably too much
time just scrolling through the
different categories amazed at how many
different professions are out there you
have skill FOMO there is honestly that's
exactly what it is and and
and the thing about kaptara I mean it's
actually just it's fun reading to see
the the various types of of businesses
and software that exists for companies
you'd be shocked I mean just some of
these categories 360 degree feedback
software 3d architecture software 3d CAD
software that's for I think like when
you're making like like product what do
you call those like a compute CAD is
computer-aided drafting yes alright can
make things advocacy software so that
might be relevant to a lot of people who
listen to this show or applicant
tracking software I'm still in the A's
attendance tracking software that might
be good to find out how many times
Michael misses the show here auto dealer
accounting software let's go down to the
I it takes you a half an hour to just
get down to the G's garden center
software garden gradebook software
gymnastics software hit wait handyman
software wait a second hold on for one
second service Fusion house-call Pro
jobber Vaughn go field pulse there's
like it's 20 there's like 30 different
softwares that you could use if you're a
handyman business and they all got
reviews it's pretty amazing
visit kaptara comm slash majority for
free today to find the tools to make an
informed Assaf where decision for your
business kaptara comm slash majority
kaptara that's EAP te r r a.com slash
majority kaptara software selection
simplified also you've heard me talk
about the importance of getting term
life insurance you may not think you
don't need a life insurance yet but if
you have loved ones who depend on you
you need to have a plan there's a lot of
reasons why you don't deal with
insurance because it's a hassle but
particularly if you have kids or a a
husband or a wife or
again other in your life life insurance
can be really important and thankfully
ethos makes doing the responsible thing
easy with ethos so you can get covered
in ten minutes online and even sign up
right from your phone no pesky paperwork
no pushy salespeople just choose a
policy that fits your needs and don't
waste time deciphering fine print ethos
treats you like a person not a risk they
work to make sure you have the right
policy for your lifestyle and budget
they have a dedicated customer support
team right here in the USA to help with
any questions you may have
visit ethos live.com click check my
price to get started on the quick online
application ensure your life today by
going to ethos live.com to apply online
insuring your life and providing your
family with financial security has never
been easier that's ethos eth OS live.com
and you are 10 minutes away from your
estimated rate make sure your family's
future is know is safe no matter what
super easy to do check it out
worth going through that very brief
process to see how how available life
insurance can be to you and lastly the
majority port is being supported in part
by simple habit simple habit as you know
is a mobile app that provides a massive
and diverse library of five-minute
guided meditations the majority report
audience can try simple habit totally
for free for an entire week when you go
to simple habit calm / majority simple
habit as over 2,000 guided meditations
specifically designed for parts of your
day and just about anything you might be
dealing with in life they've guided
meditations for mindfulness anxiety
depression when you're having trouble
falling asleep to deal with
procrastination to help you if you're a
parent
they have meditations designed
specifically for when you're waking up
or your lunch break when you've gotten
home from work where you go to bed
different people are trying to try
different things with meditation simple
habit is able to cater to just about
anyone regardless of what their goals
are with meditation no matter how much
past experience you have the variety of
guided meditations is what sets simple a
habit apart and that's why they just won
the 2018 Google Play award for best
well-being app it's available iOS
Android web
browser the majority port audience could
try it for free by going to simple habit
comm slash majority if you're watching
on YouTube or you're listening to the
podcast in any manner
check the description we got links down
there alright let's play this first clip
from William bar today in announcing the
the rapport rod Rosenstein looks like he
has been shot with embalming fluid
standing behind him let's play this in
assessing the president's actions
discussed in the report it is important
to bear in mind the context president
Trump faced an unprecedented situation
as he entered into a Hassan I'm sorry
just to be clear here this is his
response on obstruction now the
obstruction is going to be extremely
controversial because when I read to you
the part in the report when they talk
about obstruction it is quite clear that
Robert Muller anticipated the question
of obstruction heading to Congress but
here is a bar talking about apparently
intent and I'm not quite sure how bar in
divined intent because we know that
Muller never had an opportunity to
interview the president and he in the
report says the questions were were were
not sufficient that were written
questions were not sufficient but go in
assessing the president's actions
discussed in the report it is important
to bear in mind the context president
Trump faced an unprecedented situation
as he entered into office and sought to
perform his responsibilities as
president federal agents and prosecutors
were scrutinizing his conduct before and
after taking office and the conduct of
some of his associates at the same time
there was relentless speculation in the
news media about the president's
personal culpability yet as he said from
the beginning there was in fact no
collusion and as the special counsels
report acknowledges there is substantial
evidence to
show that the president was frustrated
and angered by his sincere belief that
the investigation was undermining his
presidency propelled by his political
opponents and fueled by illegal leaks
nonetheless the White House fully
cooperated with the special counsels
investigation providing unfettered
access to campaign and White House
documents directing scenes a I just want
to be clear here he's not reading from
the report he is just basically
functioning as a political commentator
he is deciding that the White House
fully complied but Muller does not say
that they did not sit down for an
interview this sounds like it was
written by Sarah Huckabee honestly this
is like the way in which Trump's
language gets into everything even like
the most well-spoken amongst them
relentlessly speculated the no collusion
I'll read you what it says about
collusion here in evaluating whether
evidence about collective action of
multiple individuals constituted a crime
we applied the framework of conspiracy
law not the concept of collusion in so
doing the office recognize that the word
collude was used in communications with
the acting Attorney General confirming
certain aspects of the investigation
scope and that the term has been
frequently invoked in public reporting
about the investigation but collusion is
not a specific offense or theory of
liability found in the United States
code nor is a determined federal
criminal law there's no reason why the
debated the Attorney General should be
using this word for those reasons the
office this is the special of a special
counsel focus in analyzing questions to
joint criminal liability on the was on
conspiracy as defined in federal law
continue the white house fully
cooperated with the special counsels
investigation providing unfettered
access to campaign and White House
documents directing senior aides to
testify freely and asserting no
privilege claims and at the same time
the president took no act that in fact
deprived the special counsel of the
documents and witnesses necessary
to complete his investigation posit the
president maligned those people in
public who were cooperating with the
Special Counsel rats rats man affords a
brave guy for lying to the Special
Counsel pretending to be a cooperating
witness well complete his investigation
apart from whether the acts were
obstructive this evidence of non corrupt
motives weighs heavily against any
allegation that the president had a
corrupt intent to obstruct the
investigation there is no official
mechanism in which bil bar determined
there were non corrupt motives in this
obstruction there is not there is not a
single document there is not a single
written word there is not a single
report from an interview that would
suggest that bill Barr has any official
way of knowing there were no non corrupt
motives about obstruction that's just a
lie that's just a lie that's just
made-up whole cloth let's talk about
obstruction the office learned that some
of the individuals we interviewed or
whose conduct we investigated including
some associated with the Trump campaign
deleted relevant communications or
communicated during the relevant period
using applications that feature
encryption or do not provide for long
term retention of data or communications
records in such cases the office was not
able to corroborate witness statements
through comparison to contemporaneous
communications or fully question
witnesses about statements that appeared
inconsistent with other known facts
accordingly while this report embodies
factual and legal determinations that
the office of believes to be accurate
and complete to the greatest extent
possible given these identified gaps the
office cannot rule
out the possibility that unavailable
information would shed additional light
on or cast in a new light the events
described in the report there's not
enough information because people hid
their tracks continue alright let's go
to the next one where he talks about
that he wanted you to make the decision
or that it should be left for Congress
and also how do you respond to criticism
you've ever seen receiving from
congressional Democrats that you're
acting more as Special Counsel Muller
did not indicate that his purpose was to
leave the decision to Congress I hope
that was not his view since we don't
convene grand juries and conduct
criminal investigations for that purpose
he did not I didn't talk to him directly
about the fact that we were making the
decision but I am told that his reaction
to that was that it was my my
prerogative his Attorney General to make
that decision
that's that never came up from the
report and do we have that thing where
he says like this is not why you go to
you have at one point Barr says this is
not why we we have we don't send this to
Congress this is not why we have grand
juries and what not but you have the
Moller report saying first a traditional
prosecution or declination decision
entails a binary determination to
initiate or decline a prosecution but we
determined not to make a traditional
prosecutorial judgment the office of
legal counsel found that the indictment
or criminal prosecution of a sitting
president in the capacity of the
executive branch to perform its
constitutionally assigned functions in
violation of the constitutional
separation of powers in other words
okay so the special counsel mawla did
not indicate his purpose was to leave
that I hope this was not his view
because we don't convene or he says this
I hope that was not his view because we
don't convene grand juries and conduct
criminal investigations for that purpose
however in the report itself it says
given the role of special counsel as an
attorney in the Department of Justice in
the framework of the special counsel
regulations this office accepted the au
Elsie's legal conclusion for the purpose
of exercising prosecutorial jurisdiction
and apart from the au Elsie's
constitutional view we recognize that a
federal criminal accusation against a
sitting president would place burdens on
the president's capacity to govern and
potentially preempt constitutional
processes for addressing presidential
conduct okay in other words we did not
bring an obstruction charge because we
accept the au Elsie's view the office of
legal counsels view that a criminal
accusation against the sitting president
would place burdens on the president's
capacity to govern and potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct what
is the constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct it is
Congress investigating and deciding
whether they're going to impeach so I
mean this is the part that's really
gonna nail par that's really gonna be
highly problematic because the report
absolutely says it doesn't say the words
because we're giving this to Congress it
says we're not going to bring a criminal
charge because it could potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct I
mean I don't know what else to tell you
that's going to be rather damning all
right let's take a quick break we're
gonna get back to Shawn McHale we will
get back to more of this in a bit quick
break first and we'll be talking to
Shawn miquellee
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program
Sean McElwee he is the co-founder and
chief meme officer as a chief meme
development officer just chief meme
officer for data for progress welcome
back to the program shot of it it is it
is a chief meme developer officer or
just chief meme officer normally just
chief me monster I try to ensure quality
assurance for all the memes that appear
on the date of progress Twitter page all
right I'm glad to hear that
alright so a question for you this week
I mean obviously the mullet report is
going to be sucking up a lot of oxygen
going forward but the past couple of
weeks have been dominated by a couple of
narratives or I'd say probably three one
starts with Ilan Omar and that in many
respects sort of ended up being laid
over the the the dynamic of Nancy Pelosi
and who she called the five you know
just five I guess progressives or five
incoming women from the freshman class
of the Democratic House diminishing the
the relevance of folks like AOC and
Talib and Ilan Omar and I guess maybe
Porter and and others and also more
recognition that the that the leadership
of the House Pelosi is not interested in
Medicare for all despite the fact that
that seems to be sort of like a and you
can speak to this I think from a data
perspective as to where that position is
amongst both elected and Democratic
voters and then also sort of capping
with and no pun intended the Bernie
Sanders Think Progress slash
cap Center for American Progress dust-up
would give me your just your your broad
take before we get you know a little bit
more granular with this stuff you know
someone told me yesterday they thought
data for progress was an ARMA Center for
American Progress I thought that's funny
because nearest hand and yelled at me a
lot on Twitter because I said that Joe
Biden was gonna turn off young voters
and people of color but uh yeah I say my
my sort of overarching take on this is
this with the d-triple-c blacklist oh
yes absolutely yeah that's another part
of this yeah the d-triple-c blacklist of
course was the d-triple-c this is the
Congressional reelection committee said
that if you are a vendor and you're
gonna work with a primary challenger you
will never get work in a general
election
from us yeah it will be funny to see if
like a pack ends up using like all
Republican vendors when they try to take
out on Omar but I'd say that the there's
a sort of view within the party that
primaries are like toxic and the people
who run in primaries are malignant and I
think it's far from that I mean I think
that you have a lot of members of the
Democratic caucus who as far as you know
Pelosi and and Bustos are concerned are
members in good standing who are in fact
you know far from the values of the
party it's odd to me for example that
you know Omar has taken all this heat
when you know just two weeks ago the
democratic party passed an LGBTQ rights
legislation you know that sort of
enshrined civil rights for LGBTQ folks
and dan Lipinski is a Democrat from
Illinois did not sign on to that
resolution that seems to me to be like
far more offensive than anything Elin
Omar has ever done pretty objectively
and yet the official position the
Democratic Party is if you work you know
on a primary against that bigoted member
you know Europe
ayuh and you'll never get any contracts
from the d-triple-c and in fact they'll
tell red to blue Democrats that they
shouldn't work with you so I think
there's like sort of a ton of
inconsistency on this I mean there were
multiple members of Congress who
returned donations from ill on Omar and
you know at the same time there are at
least two members from New York
Kathleen Rice and Tom Suozzi who have
taken money from Trump and to perfuse to
return the money from trouble so I think
there is absolutely a double standard in
the fact that Democratic leadership and
resolutely Democrats are piling on on a
lot Omar for you know very very
separated comments at a time when the
president is literally working to incite
violence against her is just despicable
and I mean you know it's not what we
were promised remember if you remember
the promise that Pelosi Hoyer Nadler all
of them made was you know we're gonna
take Congress we're going to investigate
the Trump administration day after day
we're just going to be subpoena trumpet
officials and I haven't seen any of that
what I've seen is a democratic
leadership who's that's more interested
in investigating and prosecuting the
progressive women of color in their
caucus than they are in doing anything
about Trump I forgot if I was allowed to
say swear words on this show or not you
can but but but sparsely because we do
have cat listening all right and that's
a good point though I'm very upset about
that all right well so let me ask you
this how much of the alon omar thing is
about you know being on the right side
as far as they're concerned of a
question of israel which is basically
you can't critique israel or our our
policies in regarding Israel and how
much of it is this is a like a twofer
you know we also get to undercut the
this this this movement that we feel is
threatening to us
yeah I mean it's really baffling because
you know as someone who supports primary
challengers was very supportive of aoc
you know and and I under Presley the
whole time we're doing that everyone's
like do not do not focus on primary
Democrats its meaning to take on Trump
and yes you know like those same
Democrats are now instead of focusing on
Trump focusing on you this is an attempt
to humiliate and ostracize you know one
of the most progressive women of color
in the caucus and also one of the very
few Muslim members of Congress it's it's
genuinely difficult for you know her own
party um to be I think trying to make an
example of her I think the Democratic
Party is saying you know if you're a
Muslim you know you probably should have
run for Congress but if you do like
we're gonna make it hell for you
but yeah I absolutely think that there
is a sense among the caucus that you
know these progressives who speak so
much to and for the base they need to be
put in line they need to be silenced
because there's this view that they're
somehow hurting reelection chances
despite the fact that you know AOC and
Anna Presley where we're very popular
national figures before the election and
there was no impact on on the on the
midterms I I just think remember
everyone telling me you know Oh what
bullish ice is gonna cost the seats and
I said I think we're gonna take the
house and I'd love for someone to
identify afterwards which she we lost
because of all shy and if you gotta
identify the seat I'll pay you $100 per
and in no one has no one has come to me
and they're like Shawn we've done the
we've done the regression models we
would have picked up this seat if it
wasn't for abolish I Cindy the reason is
because like everyone knows that's not
true and I think members are free to say
you know like hey you know AOC is one
vision for Democratic Party I'm you know
somewhat more conservative but that's
not the path they've taken they said not
only is you know iln omar not my vision
everybody party she's active
the Toxic on par with Steve King when I
saw Dan McReady like returning donations
from the lone Omar I was like wow like
this is more aggressive than the way the
Republican Party treated Steve King like
they they are treating her as though
she's like a white supremacist and in
terms of the way they're interacting
with her it is just disgusting you know
I I don't think it's a coincidence but I
do seem to remember like the first
attempt it sort of felt like it was like
a almost a dry run was when Talib was
being ostracized for saying let's
impeach the mofo yeah and that was it
seemed to be short-lived because people
were like yeah wait a second let's
abridge the mofo and the in the well I
mean I think that's an exaggeration but
I think they I think I think there was I
think there was certainly a subtext of
we're going to investigate the hell out
of the guy right and that may lead to
impeachment but but but people were
trying to sort of say like it's
inappropriate to say impeach because
you're you're sort of you're saying that
you're going into this process you know
with a predetermination and then they
were like oh that's not going to work
well it's not appropriate to say mofo
and then people remembered wait a second
didn't Dick Cheney say this stuff on the
floor the Senate to people wasn't you
know like well I I mean aren't we past
that now the president of the United
States said you can grab them by the
vagina he didn't use that word I don't
know why I won't say but and and
so I mean there does seem to be like
there was a real attempt to find
something and I think if you know we've
gone through Olano Mars comments odd
nausea at this point and they were they
were completely mischaracterized
and they were a very specific complaint
about a real thing that was happening
both on the state level and in the
Senate at the time in terms of a pledge
to not protest against Israel that was
being that people were
being fourth design yeah I'll say two
things on this I mean one is notable do
you remember there was it was sort of
like a smaller story but recently Elijah
coming who remember was like we were all
supposed to stay in a king because he
was going to like come in there and just
like roast every member of the child
ministration and instead the most recent
reporting is that he's been actively
seeking bipartisan support for any
subpoenas that he that he initiates and
that he has said privately he's not
going to go after any of Donald Trump's
children because he fears that it'll
like look bad and I'll turn the public
against them so like this is a
democratic party that is more
comfortable you know dragging and and
degrading a woman color their own caucus
and they are the president's corrupt
racist children and that's just it is
quite frankly disgusting and I think
that it really goes back to like they
like the way it was done in the past and
there's a very real sense it's
comfortable to say but it's a varial
sense which like Elijah Cummings is more
comfortable with the Republicans who he
has worked worked with for two decades
than he is with this new freshman class
of young progressive Democrats and I
think that that's the reason that it's
all the more important to put
progressive pressure on these members
because if they don't feel the base you
know like on they're nipping on their
heels every day they're going to go back
to the instinctive sort of like
bipartisan DC Beltway style of politics
right of course and let me get let me
ask you this and I know you deal with a
lot of different activist groups in a
lot of different groups that are trying
to get Democrats elected a lot of groups
that are trying to push Democrats to the
left what is your sense is what is
behind that I mean because you know I
talked to David day in yesterday about
about Wendell Primus who is Nancy
Pelosi's top one of her top advisors
and very sort of like interesting story
of a guy who was so principled in 96
that he quit the Clinton administration
over welfare reform but you know as also
seems to be adamantly against Medicare
for all in a you know fairly I have not
heard like a like a reasoned rationale
behind that as much as like this is the
way you know this is we can't change the
we can't change the weather type of
rationale to it like what is your sense
of what drives that is it really just
like personal comfort is it just a is it
a temerity is it a fear are we talking
about something that's generational what
is your sense of that yeah I think I
think the first aspect is that there is
absolutely a generational aspect to this
like it's notable that even this sort of
more centrist red to blue
representatives are pretty supportive of
Medicare Medicare for all or at least at
least to buy in but but often more I
mean Haley Stephens for example red to
blue Democrat in Michigan who is a
member of the Medicare for all caucus
you know Katy Hill represents a district
that was a Republican district that is
now a democratic district you know also
quite progressive and sports Medicare
for all so I think you have this very
very distinct generational divide but I
think the biggest most important thing
is that every one of these members of
Congress you know they're not eating
their public opinion briefings from data
for progress you know we're not getting
in those rooms and being like hey like
Medicare across quite popular
Republicans have tried running you know
ads about it it hasn't been effective
you know you guys there were tons of
members of Congress who were sitting
members of Congress who the entire
Republican message against them was they
support Medicare for all and it's going
to destroy Medicare as we know it and it
didn't work they won but you know the
consultants did get in the room to
present them with only our all
presenting with the polling like
you should support a buy-in you support
something more modest you we need to
talk about protecting the Affordable
Care Act that's the message that works
and I think that the pollsters sort of
had this mystification around them that
allows for that there to have more
influence of power but I would put you
know are we gonna pound a pound with any
any of the pollsters that are in those
rooms in terms of my ability to do basic
statistics waiting DC TV all right wait
a second so I want you to just back up a
little bit and just understand we're
talking to people who don't do this for
a living so just when you talk about you
know like pollsters going in just give
us a you know a 101 course on how how
Congress people look at their reelection
or they read the election that they just
went through or you know give us a sense
of what the process is so that we can
understand like you know what relevance
it is is who is actually get who are the
players do you understand I'm asking you
want to know this specifically the
specifics in the name of the poster but
the dynamic like the day-to-day if you
were describing how this you know if I'm
a congress person and I've just gone I'm
I it was a Republican district and I had
you know it was me a fight and I won
somehow who do i but you know who am I
talking to over the next couple of
months or the past couple of months and
what how do I get to those people and
what are they telling me sure I mean so
the d-triple-c has their unapproved list
of vendors for proposing and you know
for the most part members rely on on
those vendors they're probably four or
five and I'll be clear like they're not
there because like their math geniuses
through developing new methods you know
most of them are using basically the
same polling methodologies we've been
using for years slowly moving to sort of
more online panels maybe some SMS what
do us part what is that
Oh text
okay all right sure recruiting people
through taxmasters yeah so they're not
being there because of their like
methodological genius the reason they're
there is because they are sort of you
know modern Oracle's
almost all of them has been like sort of
senior advisors on various campaigns you
know be it
Obama or even earlier than that you know
and a lot of cases you many of these
guys are still around from like the Bill
Clinton era and the reason you ever
would hire a bolster and like you know
you can you can ask around on this like
it's like well you know half of its the
polling but the real thing is is like
you want to have one of these guys who
has a name that people respect and who
you know when they send an email you
reply their email when when they're in
the room you listen to what they say I
mean so those folks control you know
most of the sort of polling budget of
organizations like the d-triple-c
and they will they will circulate quite
often you know slide deck memos
internally showing the the various
support and opposition for different
policies and you know you'll have a lot
of instances in which the d-triple-c or
the House Majority PAC will will will
sort of give the members together to
hear polling presentation research
presentation sometimes they'll
Commission their own polling for the
district and you know the city stented
that is useful a lot of it has to do
with the structure of the polling
question and all and also has to do with
you know how what questions you include
on your polls because you can't really
measure something that you're not
actually polling on and there's a
there's a famous social scientist named
Andrew Gelman and he talks in sort of in
the social science world about what's
called the Garden of forking paths and
the basic idea is that whenever you're
you're doing a survey instrument
whenever you're doing a research project
there are lots of different degrees of
freedom that you have that allow you
to sort of manipulate the result in a
way that you know seems perfectly
reasonable if you sort of every time you
you come to a crossroads in sort of
methodological design you go in one
direction the other you know the choice
to if you or say ask you a question to
include support oppose and II don't know
you know that's going to change the
options if you don't included oh no
you're forcing people to make an
extension did you included oh no you
know you might have might have more
people go in that in that bucket and so
the point being that these sorts of
research or degrees of freedom are
incredibly large in the polling world so
it allows for you know the day sort of
hidden biases of the of the pollster of
the researcher to come through my
argument is this the best solution for
that is to have a broad diverse range of
people but obviously the the d-triple-c
the democratic party have a have a
pretty definitive set of folks who have
their their views on the world pretty
well shaped you know by the politics of
the the 90s and early aughts right that
seems to be the sort of the the I guess
the the determinant factor here is is
when your politics are shaped and you
learn the lessons of that era and it
encumbers your ability to imagine
anything different and it seems that for
years the difficulty has been in getting
folks like you in the room to at least
provide some type of counter narrative
and that process and it's interesting
because we had a sort of a you know a
moment of being able to bypass that to a
little bit right where folks like you
had access to another generation of of
politicians because of their outsider
status and because of where they were
situated ideologically they proved to be
fairly successful right I mean I mean
give me assess I mean how would we
assess that like you know
in what would be the benchmarks like
justice dams they didn't do how well did
they do let's say and how would you
measure that just to get a sense of this
a and B to the extent that they did well
or not how much does that influence the
conversation I mean it I would say first
off it's actually very hard to win a
house primary that's gonna combat it it
happens very rarely which is why it's so
notable and it happened and to the
extent that the Justice Democrats are
like you look at all the number of
contortionists they made how many one
it's not a wildly impressive record but
if you look at this sort of most
important endorsement they made in what
she has done to change the discourse in
the country I think the rest of the
record is very impressive you know right
the the sort of primary model has has
fundamentally changed the sort of shape
of American politics like the idea of a
green new deal is something that will
almost certainly be discussed in the
debates you know this this year and that
is solely because you know we the this
member of Congress the Kaiser Cortes has
become you know the third or fourth most
famous woman in the Democratic Party she
is an incredible amount of influence
over the next generation of Democrats so
I think that this model has been an
incredibly effective one of sort of you
know cultivating the next generation of
talent and I think that we will see more
of that de cycle you know I think that
we're gonna see we already saw like the
sec q1 reports are back so Murray Newman
who is back for rematch against dan
Lipinski she raised more than dan
Lipinski did and there was a guy named
Stephen Lynch he's a massachusetts rat
he's one of the most right-wing
Democrats in the country he briefly had
a challenger named Mohammed our czar had
to drop out because of family medical
issues but da raised $180,000 in the
very few weeks
he was running that's more than Lynch
raised from the entire quarter so I
think that you're seeing an incredible
amount of energy already behind the
progressive primaries the fact that
we've already had two members be out
raised in the first quarter of you know
2019 is quite frankly astounding because
some of the the biggest raisers haven't
even hopped in so I think that there's
absolutely a next generation of talent
like nipping at the heels of incumbent
Democrat the fact that the d-triple-c is
trying to so so aggressively move
against us is I think they're showing us
and I think that Ocasio Cortez and INFs
Leandre seriously and Nomar need backup
and I think that if we have a caucus
that grows to to a dozen members you
know that Congress will be away and if
that caucus can like you know credibly
say look like you know we can beat you
in a primary like you're you're you're
out of touch with where the next
generation the Democratic Party is that
I think is going to fundamentally change
the sort of calculus that you know as
someone like Nancy Pelosi is operating
under in many respects the pushback
we're seeing is a function of a fear
that the plan you just disposed could
actually happen right like they don't
they don't want a half a dozen or even
three or four sitting Congress people to
be primary beaten and replaced by people
who are more progressive because not
because of those three or four votes per
se but because that becomes a cudgel
that is used against a lot of those
people in the house and it's leverage I
mean it's basically it's just leverage
right yeah I think that the left has
been very effective strategically and
sort of rejecting the like a
sort of style of politics that doesn't
include as central racial justice and
gender equality you know the fact is is
like we're in a much better position now
with AOC and L on Omar than we would be
if you know both of them were white guys
because you know that our date wants to
see that representation in Congress I
say that's the first key point but I
actually wrote a piece of the nation
which I sort of discussed what I call
the Normie progressive last Alliance
which is basically you know the
standard-issue hyper energized Democrats
who are incredibly frustrated by the
fact that say Ritchie Neal is dragging
his feet on Trump's taxes are I think
hyper primed to vote for primary
challengers plus you have the left it's
making a more ideological critique if
you have those sorts of groups come
together against incumbent I think that
incumbent in a lot of hot water and the
fact that this sort of the the
leadership the caucus is continuing to
drag their feet on Trump continuing to
attack members who are in good standing
with the base I think makes all the more
likely that there are a lot of Democrats
who voted in 28 and 2018 expecting to
see rigorous oversight of the Trump
administration that are ready to throw
the bums out who will also align with
the the left because almost certainly
whoever is going to run in these
primaries is going to be running from
the more progressive standpoint so let
me ask you this lastly I guess do you
think that there has been one of the
stories that was was sort of floating
around was that there has been sort of a
demobilization of I guess what you could
call broadly speaking the resistance I'm
not quite sure I know what that means
anymore right like because it seems like
the leadership of the Democratic Party
is being less resisting than the
Democratic average democratic voter
wants them to be which i think is which
is may
that's not uncommon but but but it's
surprising right I mean for all the talk
of how people have been leveraging the
Muller investigation the Democratic
Party now seems to be sort of like
lagging in terms of the actual electeds
but this this argument that there's been
demobilization that we don't have you
know people protesting I mean maybe it's
because I don't know what they would be
protesting at this point the I think
there's a broad understanding that you
know not that there's sort of a
stalemate to a certain extent except for
probably on judges so what what is your
sense about that question
I mean is there are the prospects for
Democrats going into 2020 sort of like
generically speaking any better or worse
than they were going into 2018 I mean or
is the intensity less or is it is it
hard to know I would say that there's
definitely reason to believe the
intensity has has decreased um I mean
you remember what it was like after 2018
like you remember like the attention
that was given to like John Asaf special
election in Georgia that had quite
literally like zero impact on any
meaningful like political outcome in the
house right and you compare that to you
know we have we just lost it was
constantly Supreme Court see like two
weeks ago we like we literally the
Democratic Party lost pre decade the
chance to draw their maps in Wisconsin
and like no one cared like no one from
the no one in the presidential field was
like going out there to to campaign you
know that we were you know we we just
got be bad and like I still think about
that every day but I think for the most
part the cycle has moved on and sort of
any anger about that has diminished and
I think that that is to me very powerful
evidence that there has been at least
some you know tapering of enthusiasm and
I think a lot of that is in part being
driven by
you know the eight I would say it's an
intentional demobilization of many parts
of the of the Democratic base that house
leadership is involved in because I
think a mobile eyes base is a threat to
them and they see is a conservative the
Republican Party does not see a
conservative mobilized basis of threat
to them but they're in a lot of ways I
think the Democratic Party does see a
mobilize progressive base is regret for
them and and that's worrying and it's
also sad but I also think that that I
mean I've talked to a lot of people in
the primary movement and in the next few
months I think we're gonna see some very
exciting candidates who come onto the
onto the playing field who are who I
think will have a lot of opportunity to
sort of give us a hope for a new
generation of progressive a new
generation of Democrats Sean McElwee
co-founder and chief meme officer for
data for progress thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
always glad to be on all right folks
we're gonna head into the fun half
there's obviously more and more stuff is
coming out about the the the Muller
report ranging from you know where I
guess like different people are reading
different things into it but president
uh here's one just one that I'm reading
now the president's efforts to influence
the investigation were mostly
unsuccessful but that is largely because
the persons are surrounded the president
declined to carry out orders or accede
to his request in other words a comb we
did not end the investigation to Flynn
which I ultimately resulted in Flynn's
prosecution and conviction to lying in
the FBI Don McGann did not tell the
acting Attorney General that the special
counsel must be removed but insisted but
instead prepared to resign over the
president's order
Lewandowski and dear boy
did not deliver the president's message
to sessions that he should confine the
rush investigation to future ala
election meddling only McGann refused to
recede from his recollections about
events surrounding the president's
direction to have the special counsel
removed that to me sounds like he
refused to accede to the president's
request that he lie despite the multiple
demands he did so consistent with that
pattern the evidence we obtained would
not support potential obstruction
charges against the president's aides
and associates beyond those already
filed in other words the president tried
to get these people to perjure
themselves or do illegal things to
obstruct the investigation but they said
no I mean that that's like I attempted
to fire a gun at you but it jammed well
I think you can still be charged with
attempted murder I tried to stab you but
I didn't only got you in the arm so I
didn't kill you but your mileage may
vary folks there's also apparently some
tidbits about people lying from the
podium spokespeople this is
the president's draft termination letter
also stated that the morale the FBI was
at an all-time low and Sarah Sanders
told the press after commis termination
that the White House had heard from
countless FBI agents who had lost
confidence in Comey but the evidence
does not support those claims that is
lying they were just lying and your
chitta stock is at the deal standpoint
what they thought about it there you go
so obviously more of this will come out
over the coming days I'm gonna try and
get on do maybe a special little
broadcast and maybe do a YouTube live
type of thing and in which case maybe
I'll try and pop that on the website but
we're gonna talk more about this and the
fun half we'll take your phone calls if
you are a listener of the free show this
will be the last live thing we do for
over a week so we've got six great
interviews for you over the next six
days six business days as it were
ranging from New York Times magazine
piece on the Murdochs to in-depth
discussion about misogyny in our society
of the logic of it to talking about
philanthropic foundations and how they
function - what else did we have I can't
even remember now what was the what is
it what are we doing on Monday Monday we
have okay you just like saddled up to
the microphone and thought I want a
disease you could just pull it off in
the meantime take a leap into the future
with kaptara calm the leading free
online resource to help you find the
best software solution for your business
with over 750,000 reviews of products
from real software users kaptara can
help you make an informed decision no
matter what your business needs visit
kaptara calm / majority for free today
to find the right tool
to make the 2019 the year for your
business kaptara
comm / majority kaptara that CA p te RR
a.com slash majority folks just a
reminder it is your support that makes
this show possible
when you go to join the majority report
and actually join the majority report
for pennies a day we bring you extra
content you can go back and check the
archives when you get on the app and you
log in you can search eight years worth
of archives and keyword searches and
whatnot find all sorts of great
interviews fun thing to do maybe in the
next coming week but again we'll try and
do some some live updates if things work
out according to my plan on vacation the
kids will be occupied for at least part
of the day so maybe I'll try and hop on
the computer and give some updates maybe
even some conversations if I can if I
can swing it so check that out join the
majority report calm it is your support
that makes a show possible this is
absolutely the case and I get a little
sentimental before I go on vacation so
thank you to our members in the meantime
check out the Michael Brooks show no
live show Tuesday but things have been
posted on the patreon and as well as on
Jamie's the anti Fattah patreon.com
slash the anti Fattah and literary
hangover though yeah there's gonna be
some George Orwell looking back on the
Spanish war this Saturday and then
during the week probably or maybe the
Saturday after that some patreon only
content on a different George Orwell
essay on the Spanish Civil War where
he's upset that he was a Trotskyist
called a fascist it's kind of like an
anti father there's a lot of like well
as a little bit of overlap with those
sorts of debates alright folks gonna
take a quick break ahead into the fun
half six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty gone from a 909
awesome awesome awesome
Wow let's just do this exercise whoa
whoa super sick saga super sick oh yeah
right
you don't need to meet tesco security
you don't need to meet that's not a kid
nobody cares the way that you need a
special tax wealthy people think that's
just simply not enough and as you always
say soon as you stick in that access
that we already do of universal access
right is a weird weird weird time for
politics right now
that's legit galaxy right this is a
friction not at all finally got to
fulfill his destiny worker Somalia
very legal Mary
[Music]
I mean
[Music]
[Music]
alright folks I am calling into the I
don't know what happened here
where's oh there it is what is that
noise I hear some weird noise and Lee
alright come from a 509 area code who's
this where you calling from
Ronald Reagan first in line today very
very well done hey dude I'm doing fine
first of all I just want to say in the
future you might not recognize me
because I've signed up to take the
Howard Schultz master class on business
leadership from master class kaanum oh
all right and so I'm gonna be taking a
lessons and I feel like it might really
transform you ready for a whole new me I
feel like we are I feel like we we are
ready okay seems like they have I feel
like parallels with sort of Roberts
interpretation of corruption which is
you know citizens united is all about
how look if if Exxon gives you a bunch
of money and you just happen to do
Exxon's bidding but there's no literal
quid pro quo then this is just like a
big coincidence of the universe right
yes or your interest might have already
been aligned maybe you already loved
Exxon and so we have note you know we
can't it's not correct and the same
thing seems to be happening with this
whole Trump thing it's like that these
interests are clearly aligned they're
clearly doing things for you
shelter there's a whole back-and-forth
but we don't have like a literal
recorded conversation where somebody
ties it together and says if you do this
then we do this and so therefore it's
like you're thinking well this is
actually just off of the off of the the
the bar letter this was the point that I
was making a couple of weeks ago they
are saying that there was no concerted
effort to coordinate the actions of the
the actions that the Russians actually
took in other words there was no one
saying like here's how you hack that or
when you hack it the best time to hack
it is at like 12:00 p.m. because you
know as if the trumpet you know campaign
would have that type of technical
knowledge it was more just like you do
one thing and I do my thing and we don't
wit just we know it aligns you keep
doing stuff that's good for me
I'll keep doing stuff that's good for
you the end and that's it
and in that sense it is there is
apparently no criminal conduct
associated with that because like you
say it is and and and you know because
it's I can see why in other contexts
that would be problematic to have people
who just have aligned
incentive structures you know doing
stuff that is you know if not if not
coordinated somewhat synchronized right
I mean and so you know and I happen to
believe that you know we we should avoid
whatever nuclear conflict with Russia
and Iran on na one that's kind of one of
his best argument yes
the problem is is that budget that was
undercut when it was clear he had such a
big business incentive to be friendly to
the Russians and I think he knew that
and I think that made him I think that
made him sensitive to to that guy
coincident total coincidental
coincidence all right well yes I think
I've called it a few times and been a
little dumpy about being a father and
having kids you know like at one time I
threatened to sue you because he didn't
warn me not to have kids right that I
knew that was a false and I don't get
intimidated too easily but go ahead well
now now I'm your lawyer so it's like
come full-circle kind of us yeah we had
a kid but my daughter Sophie se turns 3
tomorrow and last night beautiful men we
went out the yard
sat down better so far
[Music]
but it's a fee let's go let's go look at
the moon so he went out and I was
telling her you know people have been to
the moon and it's really far away and
asked her if she she would want to go
and she said yeah and I said I think I
would be too afraid and she kind of
patted my leg and she said Oh Papa it's
okay I will protect you it's not scary
and it was the best moment of my life so
here's to having kids and fatherhood and
I'll just end on that serious note
that's very sweet
making a Regan ladies and gentlemen
there you go coming around wait till she
turns 13 we'll see how that changes
where it comes from father I will
protect you too
father if you step in my room it could
be the last step you ever take where's
my money
in fact I think it's quite possible my
daughter will be showing up here within
an hour or so just to give you a sense
and now I know that earlier in the
program I characterized bill bar as the
Attorney General essentially functioning
as Donald Trump's spokesperson and that
of course is something that someone who
is of the left and critical of the Trump
administration and feeling like the
Attorney General's role is not in the
same way that Comey you know Comey when
he came out and said Hillary Clinton was
irresponsible but not criminally liable
for what he did he was doing the same
thing that bar did here except for bar
is going the other direction that bar is
saying like well to the extent that
there was obstruction it's not really
obstruction Trump's just cantankerous
and he had reason to be can you imagine
if you were being investigated and you
felt like you did nothing wrong
you'd be mad too and so this is what
this is the show that bill bar
provided for us don't take it from me
folks
take it from Fox News the obstruction
case and as he pointed out there were at
least 10 instances that the special
counsel raised that could be considered
potential obstruction then you got into
this very curious area where the
Attorney General seemed almost to be
acting as the counselor for the defense
for the counselor for the president
rather than the Attorney General talking
about his motives talking about his
anger his feeling that this was unfair
and he was big there were leaks and
really as I say making a case for the
president I suspect the Democrats heads
on Capitol Hill were exploding and
they're gonna come down very sharply
about the way that that bill bar today
laid this out because there's no
question you know this is gonna be this
is the first look in a sense that
everybody has gotten today at the Muller
report and this was as good a case as
the president and the president's
lawyers could make that there is nothing
to see here let's move on I mean I love
the look on hammers face here where he's
just like basically a fox news
correspondent or a host has said Wow
bill Barr was really and I also like how
they're just only Democrats are gonna be
upset about this rather than like as if
it's like a I'm not partisan but they
the partisans will probably notice the
fact that of what I'm saying so there it
is Fox News
goeb are functioning as the defense
attorney for the President as opposed to
functioning as the as the Attorney
General meanwhile in other news let's
move on just a little bit I'm sure we
will return to this as we get more calls
Alexandria Cascio Cortez in and earlier
our guest John McHale who was talking
about how just her election which you
know apparently Nancy Pelosi thinks a
drink of water could have gotten
that in this district I don't know if
she meant defeat a member of her
leadership team drink water that would
not really reflect too well on Nancy
Pelosi that she is appointing someone to
in grooming as a future house leader a
guy who could be beaten by a glass of
water but let's put that aside for the
moment this glass of water came in and
has altered our politics in many
respects the as Sean McElwee said it's
probably likely that we're going to get
debate questions certainly amongst the
Democrats about the green new deal and I
also want people to check out there's a
great video made by avi Lewis I think is
his name is Naomi Klein's a partner on
the green New Deal which is which is
quite good it's just going around it's a
little I don't know if it's done through
the intercept maybe yes and but part of
the green New Deal is providing millions
and millions of dollars to Kentucky coal
miners and other coal miners in fact
probably more than any bill that I think
has ever been presented in terms of
helping them make this transition there
is an awareness within the green new
deal to the costs that will be borne by
individuals in our society because of
these transitions and so there is
provisions in there not only for jobs
guarantees not only for pension support
and health care support and Retraining
support for miners among other people
there's also even a provision that says
like you know we'll provide support for
miners who decide at age 55 like I'm too
old to start a new profession I just you
know and I got I can certainly
understand that and
so this is in the green new deal and at
one point a congressman representative
Andy Barr that you remember we played I
think the clips of AOC responding to the
charge that this is elitist that the
green new deal is elitist and out of
that exchange Andy Barr this congressman
from Kentucky invited AOC to come down
and visit the state and speak to minors
and then she said yeah I'll come I will
come and then apparently Andy Barr got a
little nervous and was like um
you can't come until you apologize to
representative Dan Crenshaw for
critiquing his attack on Ilan Omar and
for saying that he doesn't support the
911 responded compensation which he
doesn't and in fact that came from
somebody a fire former firefighter who's
trying to lobby him this is what is
known now as the Dave Rubin defense that
is when you basically accept or offer a
challenge and then you rescind that
acceptance or offer for something that
you have desperately searched around for
to use as an excuse for not having that
exchange and here is on Chris Hayes's
program Corbin Trent who is a AOC
spokesperson explaining why the
Republicans rescinded this invitation
joining now is Corbin Trent good to have
you here you're from that part of the
country are from eastern Tennessee why
do you think the offer was rescinded I
think that they understand that the
policies that Alexander is advocating
for extremely popular not just in the
Bronx not just in on the
coast but all over the country and I
think they also understand some of them
at least that she's a fantastic and
talented communicator and that if she
goes into the backyard and starts
talking about Medicare for all Federal
jobs guarantee and a green new deal that
maybe they'll have a problem coming 2020
is is the bet here that you can I mean
the bet here right is it like the actual
policies matter and the policies will
out in the end right if you're coming to
people you think I want to actually we
want to make your life better and here's
how we're gonna do it that that can cut
through the kind of layers of cultural
anticipation that's been built built up
yeah and Andy Barr was saying that you
know he wants to bring her down to
Kentucky and let the coal miners tell
her what's gonna happen with a green new
deal and how it's gonna hurt their
community has gonna destroy jobs but
what people in my neck of the woods and
in Kentucky know is that their jobs are
being destroyed already factors are
closed and mines or laying people off
you know we've seen that happen over the
last several decades and what they want
to see is a plan for the future and
Republicans don't have one and they know
that the the progressives in the
Democratic Party at that wing that's at
least five people do have and that if we
go out there and push that narrative out
there there I think afraid that they're
not gonna have a rebuttal for it first
of all I love the fact that asu's
communications director is a white guy
from Tennessee just because that's like
the the last thing that they would
expect and and in one and I can't
imagine that that's not a coin that's a
coincidence I mean they're just they're
just people they're just it's a very
smart it's a very very smart political
operation they have there they're just
super smart about about what they need
to do to get their message across and
and that's basically it they're afraid
that she's gonna come in there and it's
gonna be have the opposite effect is
what they hoped and we're gonna see this
during the campaign I mean this is this
is one of the things that we're gonna
see during the campaign I think is when
you know AOC is going to go out there
Derek at one point as surrogate for some
people and maybe it's in the general
maybe it's in the primaries I'm not sure
but she's gonna be carrying a message
and it's going to there's gonna be
infrastructure to get people out there
it's gonna be fascinating to watch here
is john bolton for sixty-five seventy
years I think it was now 59 I I can't do
the math maybe fifty years let's call it
just some fifty odd years we had a an
embargo with Cuba we had travel
restrictions to Cuba I traveled in about
nineteen years ago eighteen years ago
2001 I think it was maybe 2002 under a
special Oh FAC license office of some
office in the Treasury where you could
go if there was a clear educational
purpose or something like that was down
there shooting a documentary and with my
ex-wife
and I think that's available online
somewhere but and but since that time
during the Obama administration these
travel restrictions were lifted people
were able to see relatives that they
hadn't seen in ages Americans were able
to go down there and you know tourism
increased obviously there's a lot of
European tourism already but over the
course of those 50 years the embargo did
not work the inability to allow for
direct travel to Cuba did not work the
the theory behind it was we are going to
try and put such stress on the
government that it collapses and when it
collapses in chaos rather than any type
of orderly unwinding as it were or
anything like that those people who had
been dispossessed of their property that
they had garnered during the Batista
regime
would get that property back and not all
that property was garnered through
corruption but there was a tremendous
amount of corruption in that society
prior to that and that was basically the
hope that is why there were a lot of
members expats in queue in the Cuban
community who were hoping that the way
the Cuban government would end would be
in an implosion in a catastrophic event
because that was the way that they would
get back in in there and it simply did
not happen when the Soviet Union fell
Cuba suffered significantly a lot of
their economy was propped up by the
Soviet Union they worked their way out
of it there certainly was a healthy dose
of of political repression in Cuba and
and certainly human rights violations I
think you could argue there was also and
it was certainly a dictatorship people
were afraid of what they could say
publicly in many respects I experienced
that firsthand there was also a lot of
you know social services and support and
certainly like Castro would bring in
from rural areas it was fascinating
because it was a lot of parallels along
with what the Bush administration was
but he would bring in policemen from the
rural areas to be police in in Havana
and some of the other cities is because
they were naturally skeptical of city
dwellers there was a lot of a lot of
propaganda there were other attributes
of the society that were envious
literacy rates healthcare respects so a
mixed bag but certainly the u.s.
policy of embargo and travel restriction
only made Cuba suffer more Cuban people
and did not have the desired outcome so
what better reason do you need to
reinstate it Institute it if that's the
case here is John Bolton trying to get
some votes in Florida for the president
in 2020 we are also announcing that the
Department of the Treasury will
implement further regulatory changes to
restrict non-family travel to Cuba for
in other words
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
so there he is in Coral Gables Florida
talking to a group of elderly Cubans I
don't need to see them to know that
they're a group of elderly Cubans he
responds like that's the first applause
he's ever gotten in his life that's true
really so travel restrictions
re-implemented in Cuba families
apparently still go there but of course
it'll be a little bit trickier because
you don't get the same amount of flights
that are going because only families are
there but and and who knows how Cuba
will respond to that and make it
difficult so what's old is new again
because it was so successful the first
time meanwhile looking at 2020 Kamala
Harris was on the pod save America show
that's where it's interesting that she
we're at the point where she has to
apologize for this and people can decide
on their own whether they think it it's
a little too little too late the the
policy she had as I think this was as
was it as AG I think the California AG
to punish the parents of kids who miss
too much school as it got more and more
attention stories of of parents who were
keeping their kids home from school
because they had sickle cell anemia and
they were too exhausted to go to school
many days were arrested and then caught
up in the criminal justice system her
pooh-poohing of criminal justice reform
during that era apparently has caught up
with her and she needs to apologize good
for her for doing so and and of course
this is where you go and you do your
apology tour on pod se of America
and my concern was if we don't take
seriously the need that we as a society
should have to ensure that our children
are receiving the benefit of an
education we will pay the price later
and those kids will pay the price which
is that they'll end up in the criminal
justice system and that's what I wanted
to avoid I wanted to avoid a situation
where those children end up being
criminalized some for their entire
lifetime because we failed them yeah in
the earliest stages and so part of the
what we wanted to do and what we did
successfully when I looked into this
issue John I realized that there was no
distinction in the education code
between truancy meaning three or four
unexcused absences and what we were
seeing which is kids missing as much as
80 days of 180 day school year yeah so
we changed the law to say no we need to
understand like you know if you think of
it as in phases as you know yellow light
red light red light situation is the
chronic truancy and we actually got it
in the education code so now it says
chronic truancy 10% or more of the
school year missed because we had to
understand institutionally that this was
this is a red light warning and we're
failing these kids if we're not paying
attention to the fact that there are
kids who are chronically truant and what
that will mean for their lives or that
or just that our failure as a system to
let them achieve their capacity so do
you think that the 2011 law shouldn't
have a lot you know shouldn't have
allowed some of these days my regret is
that I have now heard stories that where
in some jurisdictions da's have
criminalized the parents and I regret
that that has happened and and that the
thought that anything that I did could
have led to that because that certainly
was not the intention never was the I
know people can decide for themselves
that to me seems like a little bit of
weak tea so you implemented this law as
the Attorney General and instituted this
policy you didn't realize that it would
lead to the criminalization
of these parents I find that to be I
mean highly suspect we have the original
tape here do you want to go over them
yeah let's go over it because I mean I I
understand the impetus all that makes
sense to me although I should be clear
80 days out of 180 days is significantly
larger than 10% is 10% would be 18 days
ah 80 days out of 180 days be closer 40%
but nevertheless we don't need to
quibble about that I think if you if you
have a kid who's missing 10% of the days
you should maybe do something but maybe
what that would be would be we're gonna
send you a civil violation you're gonna
get a ticket
summer school maybe no well I mean I
mean but maybe then maybe I'm just
giving her the greatest benefit of doubt
as to what what was in their purview and
certainly if you're Attorney General you
have the ability to criminalize that you
certainly have the ability to make it a
civil violation so you could say like
we're gonna send you a ticket for $20
and you we're gonna give you an
apparatus to respond to that ticket so
the 20 bucks is an incentive
we'll get the response if the response
is sickle cell anemia the response is I
don't I don't have the ability to get my
kid there I'm working so much I just
don't have I need help
whatever it is it seems to me there
could have been a lot of different
programs for this but she I think chose
to criminalize it here is a here is when
she's talking about that very policy
back in the day I would not be standing
here were it not for the education I
received and I know men of many of us
will say the same thing and I believe a
child going without an education is
tantamount to a crime
so I decided crime I was going to start
prosecuting parents for truancy well
this was a little controversial in San
Francisco and frankly my staff went
bananas they were very concerned because
we didn't know at the time whether I was
gonna have an opponent in my reelection
race when I said look I'm done
this is a serious issue and I've got a
little political capital and I'm going
spend some of it and this is what we did
we recognized that in that initiative as
a prosecutor and law enforcement I have
a huge stick the school district has got
to care it let's work in tandem around
our collective objective and goal which
is to get those kids in school so to
that end on my letterhead now let me
tell you something about my letterhead
when you're the DA of a major city in
this country usually the job comes with
a badge and there is often an artistic
rendering of said badge on your
stationery
so I sent a letter out on my letterhead
to every parent in the school district
outlining the connection that was
statistically proven between elementary
school truancy high school dropouts who
will become a victim of crime and who
will become a perpetrator of crime we
sent it up to everyone a friend of mine
actually called me and he said calmly my
wife got the letter she freaked out she
brought all the kids into the living
room held up the letter said if you
don't go to school Karma's gonna put you
and me in jail yes we achieved attend to
intended effect so friends the the AG I
would imagine who are probably not in
the same cohort as people who would have
these problems got the effect I mean I
think quite clearly she said prosecute
this is I made the decision to prosecute
the parents so I don't know that that
pod save America apology was quite
sufficient now I I imagine maybe we
don't have the rest of the tape maybe we
have the tape where Jon Favreau says hey
wait a second now we've actually done
our homework here with the millions of
dollars that we have in our TV show and
we had this clip of you saying you were
gonna prosecute how do you how do you
reconcile those two things I mean I
don't know maybe she has an answer for
that but she didn't have that question
so she had the opportunity to answer it
I mean like I say there could have been
other options and I will also
that I think educators would tell you
that well it may be the case that the
truancy is correlated with things like
crime and and dropping out but that does
not mean that they are causal and the
causation may be between the parents and
the kids or maybe the context in which
the parents are living in or you know so
that is really super problematic and I
was hoping that her her apology would
have been a little bit more
comprehensive a little bit less dodgy
yeah yeah I mean because I you know at
this point I've divided the field in
half for the Democratic Party and in
terms of like how depressed I'm gonna be
as to who wins the primary or not and
she is still in the half where I'm gonna
be less depressed she's not I could
divide it into quarters and she would
not be in my top quartile but she's not
like you know I'm not gonna be Eric's
all well depressed but I'll do it was
Biden depressed or Biden depressed but
so I would like to see you know a better
explanation there like you know I own it
I I made a mistake I had the wrong
attitude towards these things and
everybody learns and when I was bragging
about it and laughing about it at that
function I was I was also I was drunk or
something to that effect I don't know
what you say but that was a little
disappointing however over at Fox they
are of course worried about a different
thing
well is this Fox Business
this is they have gotten yeah let's this
is yeah this is trish regan here
one of the things that's quite clear is
that and apparently there's data to
suggest this the Trump administration
and that and really the Trump campaign
it has been my sense that they are
pushing this because they're playing
directly to that base those people that
Trump could shoot on shoot person on
Fifth Avenue and and still have these
people support him
apparently there's new data I think it
came from Ron Brownstein I think I'm not
100% sure where this comes from there's
new data that suggests and this is gonna
come to a shock to everybody that the
people in the Republican Party who don't
like Trump they like the tax cuts it
turns out there's something else that
they like and I'm gonna give you the
context they are maybe live in the
suburbs fairly well-to-do they live in
white enclaves
can you guess what else they like they
also like the bashing of immigrants they
also now why they're not worried about
their jobs they're not worried I mean
these are not people are like I'm
competing with these guys for you know
doing yard work or picking produce or
being domestic help
they don't fit in fact maybe in some
instances maybe they hire them maybe
they don't they are not concerned about
their impact on wages they probably
don't even see any immigrants but for
some reason they seem to have a problem
with them and it's not even just
immigrants right because all we're
concerned about is the southern border
when we talk immigrants right so we know
who they're talking about
well the data shows that
and that the Trump reelect campaign is
functioning this way the bashing
immigrants is actually good for business
across the Republican Party even with
people who don't like Trump I know
that's coming to as Shah as a shock to a
lot of you but that turns out to be the
case because they are the party who play
identity politics there is one identity
in which 90% of their electorate at
least is made up of white folks and
here's trish regan one of the whiter
folks on TV reminding him that the
border crisis is beyond the breaking
point even though it hasn't broken yet
attorney general bar now directing
judges to deny bond hearings denying for
asylum seekers who illegally enter the
country in other words if you come in
the right way through the port you can
claim asylum posit but if you come this
is incidentally a lie every asylum
seeker comes in illegally they come in
to the port and they say I want asylum
they are found to have a credible case
for asylum but there has to be a hearing
and prior to this point they have been
then released on bond so they come back
for this hearing and now they're not
going to she's lying about all this but
good but if you come in the wrong way
illegally you're gonna have a hard time
doing so think about it now if you're a
person with absolutely no Economic
Opportunity living in Honduras or
anywhere else in Latin America I get it
why not roll the dice why not try and
come here however you can including
illegally and that's exactly what we see
again in this video people
I've showed this to you before literally
swimming under
trying to get here migrants will do what
they need to all in an effort to come to
the United States now as they march
towards our border in many cases with
their own Flags they are most definitely
threatening our sovereignty we have no
idea who they are we have no idea what
their background is we have no idea
whether they're gang members we have no
idea whether they're even terrorists
certainly plenty in Venezuela we've
talked about that among them no idea
it's a completely unverified group of
people if you were genuinely afraid of
all these people and we don't know who
they are you would actually let them in
at the port's but we know that they are
pushing people away from the ports and
to into the desert or into the you know
wherever it all these alternative
crossings but I mean this is just absurd
but this is there's a reason why they're
doing this it's because it works with
the Republican Party whether they like
Donald Trump or not so get what you know
gird yourself for it that's what the
next I guess 18 months are gonna be like
that's basically it alright let's just
one more touch this is just very quick
about beta Roark he seems to have faded
a little bit but he could come back Pete
Budig a gauge judge has Buddha judge has
taken some of the taking some of his
shine and it there was reports that a
Roark patted some of his fundraising
stuff it was money that he got for the
general election so people were double
dipping I think they were probably
maxing out on their primary and their
general donations at one time they
included the general election donations
into the primary thing to make it look
like he got more than Bernie but
whatever three hundred thousand dollars
that's not that big of a deal
what is I think you know a Roark is
starting to run into problematically is
that with someone like Elizabeth Warren
particularly in the race who is everyday
coming out with incredibly well thought
out important proposals to deal with the
inequalities in our economy to deal with
the material interests of Americans it's
putting pressure on a lot of the the
people running and and frankly I think
it's educating the Democratic primary
voters and they're getting more and more
sophisticated in terms of what they're
asking at these events and it is putting
people who want to run for president
but to do so on sort of like vague
generalities in an uncomfortable
position better or roark for better or
for worse I think is one of those people
who is running on vague generalities
remember this is a guy who called for
the cuts of Social Security in 2012
before he ran cuts social security in
2012 and now he's being a little bit
less specific but here is how he wants
to address corporate concentration
corporate concentration just think about
those words what comes to mind when you
think about corporate concentration
maybe think about grit opportunity
innovation no but seriously I want
people to think the words corporate
concentration think about what corporate
concentration means to you in practice
like what companies so he says quote I
think we need to do more to ensure
dynamism in our economy and to an
address corporate concentration O'Rourke
told insider at a campaign event on
Wednesday
I don't know that breaking up Amazon is
the way to do that he goes on to say but
I'm grateful for people who are talking
about different ways to ensure that at a
time of historic corporate concentration
and
vast disparity in wealth and income that
we look for ways to ensure that
everybody can participate in the economy
that we try to encourage small business
development and growth which is
suffering as a result of corporate
concentration so in other words let me
just translate this I'm glad people are
talking about corporate concentration I
agree that corporate concentration is a
problem and we need to address it but
the only way to address corporate
concentration is not the way to address
corporate concentration
Toodee concentrate corporate
concentration would not be a good way to
address the problem of corporate
concentration right this is like the
post America is already great sort of
liberal pose I think like and actually
Obama said that not Hillary but like him
and Buddha judge they'll like
rhetorically talk as if they see the
same reality you are like ensure that at
a time of historic corporate
concentration they like to do this or a
new Gilded Age and then none of the
actual ways to address that are the
example I used was Obama going into Iowa
and saying there's a crisis in Social
Security because that that means that oh
wait now whether there was no crisis in
Social Security but that signifies the
people who care about Social Security he
cares about Social Security
even if he's assessing the problem
incorrectly he's addressing it but
literally addressing it like talking to
the problem is simply a way in which
politicians are trying to snow you they
need to commit to at very least a
philosophy on how to deal with a problem
and there really is only one way to deal
with corporate concentration and that is
to D concentrate the corporate
concentration and the only way to do
that is to break up some of the biggest
businesses out there like a Google like
an Amazon ones that owned both ends both
the pipe and the content for for you
know lack of a better way of phrasing
that so
he's gonna have to get more
sophisticated in in his responses to
things hey it's not a policy to say we
shouldn't do something that's not a
policy I think he's gonna have trouble I
think he's going to have trouble
speaking of having trouble dave rubin is
very upset and this is something that
you would imagine he'd be very excited
about here he is featured in Collette
quill it cooler Quinn let just sort of
the IDW Bible magazine it's the IDW
Bible it is printed out of Australia
it's my understanding and I believe Dave
Rubin was just in Australia not not too
long ago with his Petersen uh Pete
Peterson norm Peter what's that guy's
name again Jordan Peter Jordan
Peterson's tour and and here he is they
they pictured him sitting on the set of
Tucker Carlson's white nationalist show
no not white nationally I'm sorry Fox
News show I misspoke and they basically
go on to say that folks like Ruben in
particular they try and pretend that
they're not conservatives but that
really in many respects they are
conservatives and they need to make a
decision I mean this is a this is like
one of those really helpful pieces I
mean for coming from the it's amazing
that it came out in quill it yeah I mean
this is the best quote piece ever by far
and and this is in its it's asking is
the intellectual dark web politically
diverse because the whole thing about
the intellectual dark web is that it's
not a partisan operation that it's just
ideas and it really just champions ideas
and all ideas that's why we'll have
people on who are you know white
nationalist will have somebody on I'll
interview somebody
who even Nigel Faraj who is a the u-clip
leader in Britain yes and then you kept
how would you how would you like a
nationalistic
anti-immigrant right an ant I am a
booted a woman out of their organization
because he called her a Nazi or she left
the organization because Nigel Faraj
called her a nut okay so when you get
chastised you know it's sort of like
it's it's sort of like I don't know when
you know some rock star tells you hey
take it easy at the party man you get
you're getting again out of control with
your party there's something like that
it's like malc on you a third-world er
right exactly and so this piece
basically says that the IDW makes claims
that they are not conservatives but
rather mostly a collection of
disillusioned liberals looking for a
place to have honest conversation comes
from this craft I don't know you can see
this here it's not terribly convincing
to me this guy tried to make a graphic
that showed all these guys as leftists
well he scores this on a lot of
different like vaccinations has the same
weight as a wealth inequality as a
problem some of these I don't I know for
a fact aren't true Jaron Peterson does
not agree that wealth inequality is a
problem well he thinks it's a problem
but one that cannot be dealt with in any
way right it's an inevitability yeah
right which of course has so you know
like these are all you know supposedly a
leftist positions that they take
positions left of center right and but
this the author just says take a look at
Dave Rubens timeline he relentlessly
attacks dead on Twitter he relentlessly
attacks Democrats retweets Trump jr.
hangs out with Candace Owens and Charlie
Kirk proof is in the pudding some of the
other people are debatable but clearly
the chart is missing something when he
looks at that chart about Dave Rubin
and he writes after gathering a lot of
data it's important to do a sanity check
which means taking a step back and
making sure that the big picture that
emerges from the data makes sense in
this particular case if it's true that
the IDW members with the exception of
Shapiro align almost almost entirely
with liberals on the main issues that
divide liberals and conservatives then
we should reasonably expect them in
practice to align politically with
liberals and not conservatives right I
mean if you hold these beliefs in a
genuine and sincere fashion you would
align with the your ideological
colleagues to make sure that those
proposals actually come to fruition or
remain and he writes yet as I point out
in my tweet it's clearly not the case
with Rubin or as even the briefest
glances at reveals he relentlessly
attacks Democratic politicians but never
Republicans regularly appears at
speaking events with conservative
organizations as turning-point USA and
frequently retweets and is retweeted by
prominent conservatives like Trump jr.
Charlie Kirk Candace Owens in other
words while the data suggests Rubin
should be politically aligned with
liberals and against conservatives on
the main issues that divide them in
practice the opposite is true and he
goes on to talk about how there's a
different type of realignment on YouTube
and that there's a question of like you
can posture as something but fight for
something that is quite different from
your posture better or work right or but
but we can see it in that regard or just
sort of like you know the Fox News
Democrat think they used to bring on
this guy Pat Caddell
for instance who I believe just passed
away you know there's a way in which you
can sort of maintain an identity but
actually as I think a lot of these IDW
people would tell you that your identity
is secondary to what you actually do and
advocate for and so Ruben got pretty
upset as he was a flying home from
somewhere I don't know
and he writes a long discourse that he
then cuts up and puts in there because
he had a lot to say this is most I think
he's ever said I mean who wouldn't and
he talks about the article implies that
I refused to extend the same courtesy to
the left because he has a lot of right
asan now understand if I'm not mistaken
Dave Rubin says the problem with the
left today is that they've become like
sjw's they become authoritarian they
don't allow people to you know speak and
whatnot so he's now defined who the left
is it's people like me right I mean that
I don't agree with his assessment of me
but he's basically that's who he's
talking about he's being very critical
of these people in fact he won't even
have people like me on but then he
claims that he has had some on the left
like Eric and Brett Weinstein one of
whom I guess works with Peter Thiel
Peter T Lea Sam Harris who but for the
Islamophobia that doesn't exist and IQ
stuff generally my jawed Nawaz who
apparently is a good friend of Sam
Harris's according to Sam Harris are
firmly on the Left I don't know what
that B - how could they firmly be on the
left it's funny - all of the favorite
guests on the left are also his friends
and also they're in the IDW that's weird
the only people on the quote left the
Dave Rubin will sit down with a comment
to have a conversation with our ones
that he's assured beforehand aren't
gonna be challenging to him of course of
course so Dave Rubin has an opportunity
to actually show the world that he can
have a conversation with someone he
considers to be a true leftist someone
who he considers to be you know out of
bounds
I mean if you want to exchange ideas
let's exchange ideas let's have that
conversation he won't and I think this
is why he's getting that criticism and
so good for Aquila for making that
criticism I mean for gosh sakes this is
an opportunity why you let me ask you
this bring it in a little bit can you do
that hey let me do this I'll do this why
are you so afraid Dave I'm not going to
hurt you I'm just gonna have a
conversation with you I am sorry that
contributor on my program did a video
where he called you stupid but I took
that video down
I made him apologize to me personally
because I was offended by it I pulled
his commissary rights for three days he
didn't get to have lunch there so I
don't know what else I can do but let's
do this let's do this so that quill that
has to write another article saying we
were wrong they did add a correction
apparently there this article has been
updated to include reference to two
criticisms of the data and society
report alternative influenced broadcast
on the reactionary on YouTube by Rebecca
Lewis but I think that's I think they
might declare that a victory mm-hmm no
maybe not some people are saying they
retracted it but they haven't retracted
this article I don't know how you
retracted it's an opinion piece right
and that you know what's amazing is that
they're so these guys all these IDW guys
that dave rubin cites they go to great
lengths to stifle any critique of theirs
that are even opinion that are opinion
I'm only issuing opinions I haven't
stayed in any facts about Dave Rubin
other than he got funding from
libertarian organizations supported by
the Koch brothers which he then you know
first denied and then sort of said was
no big deal and doesn't implicate you
know
I love that thing where you get a big
chunk of money from an organization and
you don't have to do anything for it
that's great
I want to get in on that how do I get in
on that I want some of that that cash I
like that
all right oh and lastly speaking of IDW
this is um a little bit disturbing who
dug this up wild gear ders or classic I
also known as classical liberal on
YouTube will or on Twitter sorry all
right well a hat tip this is a from a
podcast in 2016
polite conversation podcast it's Sam
Harris being interviewed I guess by I
nted Muhammad is that yeah I know
Mohammed she wrote the polite
conversation started as she was sort of
like on this new atheist type of thing
as she's a I think from Pakistan and
she's been sort of like she's been
censored by religious authorities
herself so she was sort of like kind of
on that side of things but this is about
where the split with her and sort of sam
harris comes from where it oh is that
right yeah so this this conversation
happens with sort of her as a sort of
like fan or previously a fan of sam
harris yeah and she's saying like you
know she's talking about i think dave
rubin had on this woman what was her
name
anna marie waters anna marie waters who
was the woman that nigel Faraj who is
you know an virulent anti-immigrant and
i think some in britain would say who
charged him with racism is that right
nigel Ferrando says on this cliff here
it says anne-marie waters who won 21
point 3 percent of the vote in the you
Kipp leadership election said she left
after she and her supporters were
branded quote Nazis and racist by Nigel
Farage and Henry Bolton now Nigel franch
is somebody who I think people in
Britain would also say is racist yeah I
think people have definitely said that
now and so she must be if that's the
case I mean you know what is that a
second-order races
I don't know certainly controversial
without a doubt and it's you would
expect her to be called upon that if the
leader of her own party called her a
Nazis and racist according to her so
anyways here's Sam Harris in
conversation with Annie Mohammed and she
is basically you can almost hear this
sort of like she's hoping for him to say
the right thing and by right thing I
mean just like the humane thing and he
doesn't and I have been so happy because
you know my following of sam harris is
sometimes like a like a roller coaster
then one day there's like oh this
interview with anne-marie waters is good
and i'm like oh no that's another
example so that's the only thing I've
ever seen
from anne-marie waters but you see why
then God and Reuben are doing some
harmful things because they're
presenting these people in the best
light possible
okay positive just under get you up in
this conversation so she sees sam Harris
tweet out this conversation with this
anne-marie Watters is interesting and
good and she says that's problematic
because she's a bad person and Harris is
like well but that's all I've seen of
hers and then she says well that's a
perfect illustration of why dave rubin
and it was it's odd god she's talking
about are so bad and toxic because they
take this person who is who has been
called a Nazi and racist by the UK Party
in Britain and make her seem palatable
to people like you and then
theoretically you when I IVA CLE you
amplify this person in a positive light
even more and so you've got a need
Bahamut here trying to say like don't
you see this is the problem when they
charge you with being some type of
gateway to the alt-right this is exactly
how you're doing
and you cannot it's not enough and she's
now taking the tact like it's not enough
to say that just you're ignorant about
this person you're you're you are well
ironically it's the whole context thing
Sam Harris says I shouldn't need any
extra context for this person I should
just be able to judge it purely off of
this one interview with Dave Rubin I
like Jesus Zen ting these people in the
best light possible okay but so so but
do you agree you watch that interview
right did do you agree that that she
came off but she basically sounded like
me or or Douglas or someone I mean
Douglas I just fences but in that narrow
context she was good so you cannot so he
is purposely avoid evading the point
she's trying to make the point she's
trying to make is that you cannot
present this person this is what's
problematic you're presenting a person
is so good when you're not doing any
research on him and you're just relying
on dave rubin and so dave rubin is
problematic because he's taking someone
who is also not good and is is selling
it to you and so his defense is like
whoa but you know i i didn't know you
know it was like it's like buying like
the guys showed up and he said hey he's
got a bunch of fur coats that fell off
the back of a but i had no idea what
stolen goods right i mean it's basically
like you can't blame me for that even
though i'm a scholar but good and I know
that she thinks if you're not
anti-immigration as she said to me and
Mario namazi then you're Pro the rape of
white women right okay so and she heads
this organization called pegida with
Tommy and with a white genocide guy
called
Paul Weston I believe and she Paul
Weston is a guy who thinks that no
Muslims should ever be allowed to hold
public office even Muslims like Margit
Nawaz and they're all heading this
pro-freedom
supposedly organization which which is
clearly contradictory because the
positive so she is now telling him
this person's pedigree she is working
with people who are you know like what
talking about white genocide she's
working with people officially working
with people who say that Muslims can't
hold office
she's worried I think Tommy is that a
reference to me Robinson yes who is like
an avowed white supremacist and so this
is all this is all you know problematic
stuff listen to how Harris responds to
this it's fascinating freedom Tommy
talks about deporting Muslims at Paul
Weston doesn't want them to be able to
hold public office and Murray thinks
you're Pro rate of white women if you're
not anti-immigration but we're prepared
to let rape happen and but the problem
then again and this is this is an area
where we're in you know it this is a
gray area in the sense that you know
she's right when you look at what's
happened in Europe in the last 12 months
you have a lot you have a lot of people
on the Left who are prepared to let
white women get raped by Muslim
immigrants I mean there are there there
are people who are prepared to be raped
themselves I don't know did you hear the
story of the woman who got raped by
three refugees or the three you know non
german-speaking migrants and when she
reported this rape she was so afraid to
spark racial tension that she she claims
she was raped by three German men and
then she then like it like 48 hours
later she recanted it and she described
them accurately but that's there's
another story of a dozen girls now wait
a second she's gonna go back and forth
with this story but like to cite an
anecdote like that as the public
intellectual that this guy pretends to
be to site and anecdote like that let's
just assume as stipulated it's true I
don't know if it's true or not but let's
just assume it's true to cite an
anecdote that and say that the left is
Pro rape of white women if they're
allowing immigrants
or are prepared to be pro whatever that
means
to use that one example and to tarnish
an entire political ideology with that
is just absurd it's absurd the deposit
that you are some type of public
intellectual and to make those
pronunciations that is a guy who is
afraid of losing his audience I that's
the best thing I can say about that the
woman who got raped by three refugees or
the three non german-speaking migrants
and when she reported this rape she was
so afraid to spark racial tension that
she she claims she was raped by three
German men and then she then like it
like 48 hours later she recanted it and
she described them accurately but that's
there's another story of a German girl
who made up a story about being raped by
Muslim immigrants when she worked but no
one is sure sure that happens that one
anecdote though shouldn't by the same
reasoning shouldn't that tarnish all a
white people who get ready like so you
are necessarily prepared the rest of
societies rest is prepared for people to
make up who they're raped by I mean this
is absurd
this is absurd this is a guy who's
desperately flailing around trying to
protect some image and and you got to
ask yourself why people ask like why I
used to call this guy a charlatan this
is why is it that what no one can
reasonably dispute now is that there
have been there's been a wave of sexual
assaults which the left feels some
obligation to not report or at least
what no one can reasonably dispute that
the left in Europe is reluctant to
report rapes because of widespread
immigrant but first of all you go and
you look at that I was looking at
dear Spiegel Online these uh the the
reports of these rapes are from places
like Facebook pages
you know outfits called rape Fugees net
as a website these are where these
reports came from it's also the case
that some European countries have higher
reported incidences of rape because
they're better at reporting rapes and
they don't have a problem of not
reporting them I mean you know we don't
talk much about sam Harris as much
anymore because he seems to be sort of
like you know I don't know maybe
re-evaluating things or just sort of
like trying to ease off when he realizes
like maybe maybe my personal wealth and
fortune is not necessarily something
that I have no idea but that's just
disgusting and I don't know how people
can say that's taken out of context I
would love to see the context I mean
it's the entire conversation Wow let's
go to the phones come from a four one
nine area code who's this where he call
them from yeah that's me yeah it is
who's this hi this is Lukas from
Columbus Lukas from Columbus what's on
your mind so I had a question for you
guys with things like the New Zealand
shooting and just in general like the
rise of more right-wing violence that we
kind of see day to day especially like
since 2018 I wanted to know what your
guys thoughts were on the sort of
counterculture slowly growing in the
last as far as gun culture is concerned
where you have like organizations like
the socialist Rifle Association and
people advocating that people on the
Left start arming themselves a little
more in lieu of like gun restriction or
restrictive gun legislation that is sort
of more mainstream on the Democratic
Party and instead advocating for police
and militarization and things like that
I mean I
I don't know how much of that
counterculture is really growing up I
mean maybe it's organizing a little bit
you know more because we're living in an
era of social media but you know the
biggest proponents of carrying guns in
the 60s were the the hippies and the in
the Black Panthers I mean that's how you
got that's how you got gun control in
California was because Ronald Reagan was
a little bit concerned that the Black
Panthers were showing up at city hall
meetings with shotguns and so I don't
know enough frankly of what is behind
these the these groups if it is
something like if the idea is that this
could bring about you know more gun
control legislation I think you know
it's been effective in the past right
broadly speaking though I don't think
that there's I'm not sure what the
endgame is there okay going from a six
five one area code who's this where he
come from hello my name is the crystal
Paco I'm calling from Minneapolis
Minnesota
the Chris lopaka how are you sir I'm
doing well I haven't called in in a
while and I see as you're honest a first
as a computer man okay so I've had your
listeners may not know about my little
drama here with my computer's I've had
two computers die in six months on me
and I started a Gulf on me and some
people donated very nicely I won't say
names because I don't know if they want
me to say their names great but yeah so
people donated and that was very nice of
them and somebody actually bought me a
computer and I thought I tried to do a
refund to the people who donated since I
got a new computer and it hasn't
happened yet as far as I can tell and
the computer I got is a piece of garbage
so now I'm gonna start a new GoFundMe
but I'll do that later
that's not why I called in today man
okay I called in for a couple here's
what's going on with his molar report
okay
just cuz people are sitting through it
and getting down to the nitty-gritty a
lot of people have been thinking about
the PP tapes and there is in the Muller
report a passage about the PP tapes
where a Russian businessman contacted
Michael Cullen and said he stopped the
flow of tapes coming out of Russia and
that was about the compromising
information so I just want people to
know like the P P tapes may be real and
when it comes to cops or excuse me when
it comes to like this obstruction of
justice I don't see how it can't be
obstruction of justice like if a cop
pulled you over for speeding you know
weed in the car got the drug dog to come
out and then you try to like stop the
drug dog right like you know maybe
there's not weed in the car but you're
trying to stop the drug dog you're going
to get arrested for obstruction of
justice and then afterwards if you say
like oh that was unprecedented I've
never had a drug dog before like they're
not going to just let you go so that is
obviously obstruction of justice I just
don't understand how that can't be but
well I think like the bottom line is
this is you know all this stuff I've
been saying from day one is a political
question and it belongs with Congress
and they look they're going to take the
report and they're gonna do they're
gonna have committee hearings and we'll
see but I it seems like the Democrats
the Democratic leadership is committed
to not impeaching Trump as you know I
also suggested at the at the outside of
this that they would rather run against
the weekend Trump in 2020 and that would
be their perception and I would also
argue that you may want to save that
that quiver because if he wins
re-election you may you may want to
bring impeachment charges then but but
we'll see oh for sure and then last
thing I just want to say that since
Ronald Reagan shared his nice family
experience I want to share one from this
week for me so my mom's been battling
breast cancer for like the last six or
seven months see any other it
chemotherapy yeah chemotherapy she just
had surgery the other day and she's
cancer free so maybe we can get her a
shofar that's great I'm glad to hear
that
lopaka that's its that's thank you all
right congratulations and best wishes to
mom all right all right bye-bye
Thanks that's good I'm glad to hear that
calling from a to10 area code got a lot
of people have been on the phone for 73
minutes a lot of people
good afternoon Sam miss Johnson Spanish
I'm from San Antonio how are you sir I'm
okay
yes a trump upon learning of Muller's
appointment said oh my god this is
terrible this is the end of my
presidency I'm f
and a Marshall Stein modern economists
at the Roosevelt Institute retweeted
Trump was way too optimistic about the
health of our political system right
exactly
okay okay so I don't know if you if you
saw my tweets about the the Social
Security 2100 Act I did not
okay so this isn't this is an act that
will increase the cap from 132 thousand
dollars right now if you make over a
hundred thirty-two thousand dollars you
don't pay any more money into Social
Security to four hundred thousand
dollars it will also increase the cap
from six point two two it will increase
the zero point five percent every year
until it hits seven point four percent
well can we only wait but it's not it's
not the cat so you're saying it creates
a doughnut hole between one hundred and
twenty two thousand and four hundred
thousand and it includes no yeah 132 132
that's a separate thing it's you know so
in other words people are gonna pay more
also you know they're gonna go pay more
from right now they're paying six point
two every employees paying six point two
every employers paying six point
- so that's going to be increased also
so I haven't seen it but tweet at me and
I'll look at it okay
I mean Howie Klein has a big article on
it
okay I'll retweet that and so it came
out yesterday so the problem though is
the same thing that I called you about
the other day on is that it only has two
hundred and three votes and the
Republicans refused the Conservatives
refused to vote for it so just thought
that you know I just wanted well I mean
that's part of the reason why you know
we have someone like Sean McKelvey on
because he basically lays out what the
challenge is right the challenges to
knock off a couple of those people in
primaries and have that be a club to get
another you know dozen or two to sign on
to bills like that right exactly
okay a couple of one other things also
you were saying that he said it a couple
of times this week did you think that
the insurance industry is going to
survive despite the fact that they're
their stocks are just rapidly tanking
especially after Bernie's Town Hall so
you want to elaborate a little bit more
on that and also do you think this
Medicare for America which is the
Medicare buy-in which is promoted by cap
and beta Rourke do you think that if
that's put in place that eventually
people slowly people are going to sign
up for that and slowly it's going to
eliminate private insurance I mean yeah
I mean I think a Medicare for buying
Bennett care buy-in would be popular I
don't see why it wouldn't be it really I
think frankly I would prefer like a
Medicaid buy-in right because Medicaid
you know it's not taken in the same
places but you'd have to expand you know
who takes it but some version of that
think would be you know good not as good
is a medicare-for-all which is really in
many respects the Medicaid for all in
terms of what what the benefits would be
and how you pay into it but you know I
think one of the problems is that you
can't get the same level of efficiency
with the buy-in that you will with
Medicare for all I you know like again I
don't think the goal should be to get
rid of private insurance I think the
goal should be but wait a minute would
make no one woman's irony's plan does
though
that's what Bernie's plan does though
and so when you're saying you don't the
goal is not to get rid of insurance
that's exactly what his plan does in
fact makes it that the his plan makes it
illegal I have heard the same thing and
so so aren't you essentially saying that
you don't think Bernie's plan is gonna
pass I mean I'm not saying you know
obviously it's not gonna pass and even
in the brightest scenario 2021 but I
don't think that any plan that any
presidential candidate presents today
will pass as written no I don't you
cannot give me in the history of
legislation an example of a plan that a
president presidential candidate
proposes that ends up being the the the
law on the end now you can say that it
outlaws any any insurance that that
becomes redundant right you can still
have private insurance that's
supplemental and if there is you know
and that may mean like private insurance
that provides for you like concierge
service or your doctor's that is you you
can one can still have that now Bernie's
plan may call for and you just say you
know call for the elimination of private
insurance but I don't that doesn't mean
that his whole bill goes down if there
is there still you know they don't pass
a law that says you can't have private
insurance well yeah but I mean he's
gonna have to change his
his haha they needed it's not a long
it's not a lot to his bill rather I'm
sorry I'm sorry it's doing that yeah but
that's the way I mean John can you point
to me any piece of legislation that
doesn't get changed I mean from where
that's presented of course I'm
addressing the question though you're
not addressing the question the question
is you're saying you're saying that it's
not you know the insurance is still
going to be viable and what I'm saying
is Bernie's bill doesn't it's it's
saying that it's not going to be viable
in fact it specifically makes it
unlawful law it will be illegal for the
insurance companies to cover the same
thing well I mean first of all John what
is supplemental mean well I mean if
you're talking about like cosmetic
surgery okay it's different than the way
it is now the way it is now is
supplemental Medicare you know I get you
but Medicare but supplemental Medicare
doesn't make any sense anyways because
what his Medicare for all covers a lot
of stuff that Medicare doesn't Medicare
for Medicare as it exists now involves
you know paying premiums that his bill
won't write okay so if you're I don't
know what the question is you're asking
me what is the question what the
question is you know if you're saying
that the insurance is good private
insurance is going to survive you said
this a couple of times I said I don't
care if it I don't care if it survives
but my guess would be yes it survives
and what form I don't know but I think
it will be supplemental to you know
either cover stuff that doesn't cover
now or you know maybe it's cosmetic
surgery but I think it'd be broader than
that even but that's my guess yeah that
would be my guess okay I just I mean do
if you're asking me do I think that
Bernie's bill and I would my answer
would be the same for every single
proposal that any politician offers on
the campaign trail or frankly that
submit
in in the Senate or in the house do I
think that bill is going to be
implemented word-for-word I doubt it
no right right but but the point is is
that's why I was asking you about the
Medicare for America bill because I mean
that that essentially is a buy-in and so
I mean if you think that that's what's
gonna keep the private industry going
you know is this buy-in no but Bert yeah
but John you're looking at it as these
sort of like binary type of decisions
and I don't even think that we've seen
the bill that is going to you know if
Bernie becomes president and the house
goes Democratic and the I mean the
Senate goes Democratic in the house
you know a OC caucus doubles in size I
still don't think that we've seen the
bill that is ultimately gonna pass it's
gonna be some I think you know I think
it's good for him to take this position
that we're going to outlaw private
insurance except for you know cosmetic
surgery but I don't think that's
ultimately where it's gonna land and
from a policy perspective I don't think
the point is to eliminate private
insurance
I don't think Bernie thinks that either
I mean I found this clip here about him
talking about this it's introduced what
he believes is a path to health care for
everyone often called Medicare for all
ed O'Keefe spoke to him today there are
some estimates to say this could cost
maybe ten or fifteen trillion over the
next decade others no no no of course
not
locusts 23 and I have trillion right now
we are spending twice as much for
capital health there's any other nation
what our system does is get rid of
insurance companies and drug companies
making billions of dollars in profit
every single year and what happens to
those insurance companies after your
plan if you want cosmetic surgery we
under Medicare for all we couple whole
basic health can you I suppose if you
want to make yourself look a little bit
more beautiful you want to work on that
nose areas they can do that so basically
Blue Cross Blue Shield would be reduced
to nose jobs something
yeah okay so I mean I I don't think
that's terribly different what I'm
saying medicare-for-all will cover basic
health care needs I imagine there are
health care needs beyond like cosmetic
surgery I don't know what they are but
in there and it could be that basic
needs mean like if you go to you know
nine out of ten hospitals but it's
conceivable that there could be four
really wealthy people some other type of
care where you're you know you getting
maybe medicare covers you know shared
rooms but if you want a your own room at
a hospital maybe you need supplemental
health insurance to cover that or it
would be a debauch I don't know but I
it's not hard to imagine these scenarios
John and so that is what I perceive as
supplemental we will have a list of what
constitutes the basic care that Medicare
provides and then there's undoubtedly
like you want you want an MRI and it's
not called for on the schedule that
Medicare will pay for if you have
supplemental insurance you can go get
that MRI even though it's not called for
medically then go ahead go to town
if ACL injuries need to be repaired and
it's a four week wait LeBron James is
not going to wait four weeks during the
season he's gonna get that so well he
probably has cash in his pocket that you
could pay for it but it's also
conceivable that like I don't know
somewhere between LeBron and you know
you know URI where the you know people
want some type of concierge care I don't
as long as we have a system where people
can go and see their doctor ads and and
get treated in the most medically
efficient way possible and the and
Medicare will assess you know what is
most ly efficient and what is you know
like medically recommended but look
remember that controversy we had about
mammograms a while back does anybody
remember that five or six years ago
maybe ten years ago there was a report
that that mammograms are overused in
some fashion and that there was an idea
that like
in terms of like the risk to reward
ratio there should be less mammograms up
until a certain age but there were
plenty of people who came out and said
like look I got a mammogram even though
under this under this notion that it was
being proposed I wouldn't have and it
was lucky for me I got a mammogram and
so there are there may be people who
want to get frankly what would be deemed
as statistical wasteful care and if
people want to pay extra money for
insurance for what is deemed to be
wasteful care I'm okay with that as long
as it's not something that is you know a
socialized cost like it is today that's
that's the issue if we have a you know
and and I think the reason why the
buy-in I'm not terribly excited about is
because it doesn't deal with these
inefficiencies in a clean way
and so I I would prefer not a buy-in
would a buy-in be better than what we
have today yes
but we need to have Medicare for all and
and then you know we need to be very
specific on what that means I don't
think the goal is to get rid of private
insurance I think the goal is to make
sure that everyone has free at the point
of service care that is at a basic level
that is not bare minimum that is not
catastrophic but actually encourages you
to go and take care of yourself on a
regular rolling basis so that you do not
have as many acute incidences of bad
health and so I'm not even convinced
that the outlying of private insurance
writ large is necessary for that I just
think that you take the business away
from them by and not as a buy-in but
basically just providing it and raise
taxes the problem with the buy-in is it
doesn't provide a public socialized
mechanism to pay for it in the same way
appreciate the I agree with you and him
all right thank you right in the in the
vein of this claim that he wants to
eliminate private insurance it's more
that he wants to eliminate the profit
motive that is involved in private
insurance yeah he wants to take away a
large part of the incentives now it may
be the case that private insurance is
not allowed to cover what Medicare is
covering but understand what that what
that means is it means a certain amount
of care an amount of care that is deemed
medically appropriate to the instance
having your own individual room in the
hospital is not medically called for at
least at this point I mean maybe they
ultimately may find data that suggests
that if you have your own medical your
own room you're less apt to get you know
some other problem but I don't think so
and it's nicer it's nicer you know to be
in your own room and not you know not
have that tarp that goes across the
middle yeah I mean the United Kingdom
they have something called Bupa which I
can't remember what it stands for but
it's basically supplemental insurance
for rich people I know it because
Russell Brand had had it and he
apparently abused it and used to always
go because they have really nice lobbies
and things like that for certain
like psychiatric stuff something and
that and that's a different you know
they have a totally different system
than even what Medicare for all would be
because they have government hired
practitioners and all the the people you
get care from our employees so it's a
different ballgame there all right I got
oh just actually we got to get going
in oh my gosh we got to go now all right
folks let's see I'll pick one caller to
be the final caller of the day of the of
the week let's just go with this one
you've been on hold for 90 minutes you
come from an 8-3 to area code you're the
final caller before vacation but it's
got to be super super quick
don't worry hi Josh from Houston now go
to school in DC
just wanted to leave off everyone going
on vacation with just a few reasons to
be cheerful the Finland Social
Democratic Party got the largest seats
in the last election and in Turkey the
opposition leader just got declared
mayor of their largest city Wow even in
the darkest times the opposition to
fascism and far-right across the globe
is doing pretty well and I'll just
finish with the question as a father of
two what are your off seecombe and
hiding strategies the answer affair
all right great great and final call
vacation my offi common strategies what
I try and do is I make it actually
closer to the table so a few comon as
you hide part of the matzah at the
beginning of the meal and basically the
kids ransom it they got to find it and
then you they they they find it and they
ransom it so that you can have dessert
what is it about this time of year and
religious rituals about hiding and
finding things well I mean that's a good
point I don't know the Easter eggs right
that's probably where they get it from I
mean it was all let's face it I'm sorry
without you know a little plagiarism
riester thing but that's it basically I
do it close to the table and sometimes
I'll smuggle it out too but it's a it's
a two-part hiding system
all right folks have a great time
look for me on on youtube I will try and
you can get you can sign up for YouTube
notifications at sam cedar dot-com
/youtube I mean try and get on there and
if we do anything bigger than that if I
have a conversation with somebody we'll
put it on the feed the audio feed but
that gets a little more complicated as
we on the road but check out our
interviews I know you're going to enjoy
them see you a week from Monday
to get to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
