so Heather we we've been talking about
essentially the shut down fight that has
been taking place this week and the
implications it has or are the things
that I think it's revealed in terms of
maybe the failure of the Democratic
Party to to you know develop a cohesive
immigration policy I have a feeling
that's changing you made some very good
points about the nature of the
Democratic Party and in the next segment
I want to talk it's very least touch on
just a little bit what the Democrats
introduced as their first piece of
legislation which was commendable not
only in terms of Big D Democratic terms
but also small D Democratic terms but
before we get that robert muller is
continuing on with his investigation it
was announced this week that rod rosen
sign would step down after a bar is made
Attorney General presuming that he is
confirmed by the Senate there was no
major developments on the malla front
during the winter recess as it were but
this week something fascinating happened
and I know you've done a deep dive into
this but there was a filing by the men
afford lawyers that apparently was done
amateurishly wherein redacted portions
could be easily uncovered now let's put
a pin in the question as to why do you
think that happened but tell us about
what was revealed there well it's very
interesting now you know remember that
Paul Manafort recently you know he had
struck a deal with the with the special
prosecutor and he was going to be
cooperating and that deal fell apart and
the prosecutor prosecutor said that
manna Ford had been lying to them after
they'd made the deal and by the way this
was something that Rick gates man
for its you know associate who has who
flipped what maybe a year ago now and
has been feeding a lot of information to
Muller ever since then you know he also
got into trouble with a special
prosecutor but he righted himself and
ended up being a cooperating witness
against man afford and apparently in
some other matters so manna forts
you know he his his plea deal was was
reversed and now they're talking about
sentencing him wasn't reversed it's just
that he was not given any any special
consideration or cooperation because the
plea deal fell apart so he is now in the
process of trying to you know get them
get the judge to mitigate some of his
his sentence by saying and that's what
this filing was about he was saying look
I didn't lie I just didn't remember this
what we didn't know was that what he
says he didn't lie about that he just
doesn't remember was an exchange of
information
apparently confidential campaign polling
information with a Russian associated
agent by the name of Constantine to
limnic who he worked with very closely
when he was in the Ukraine and who is
widely presumed to be associated with
the FSB the you know what he called the
secret you know the Intelligence Agency
of the Russian government and this is
the first time that we have seen any
we've seen a lot of things where there
were Russians sort of interfering in us
and that there was you know they were
trying to get the you know members of
the Trump campaigned as sort of you know
it be involved with them in some way
it's the first time we've ever seen any
any indication that there's evidence
that the Trump campaign shared
information with the Russians and that
it was information that they could have
used as part of their sabotage of the
avila of the 2016 election this is print
this is a big bombshell it's big because
I don't think any
this wasn't something anybody had heard
anything about before I mean we knew
that manna fort and Callum neck were
associates they had been for years we
knew all the suspicions about Columbus
Association and both of them with a
criminal oligarch by the name of Oleg
Deripaska who has close ties to the
Kremlin and Putin specifically and who
Paul Manafort owed a lot of money and
you know we knew that he had offered to
give briefings to Deripaska and every is
going why would some oligarch need
briefings on the presidential campaign
not just briefings on the president's
gate like why would you need polling
that like internal polling beta right it
means no sense yeah that unless this was
something to do with the campaign why
would you need campaign you know
information and you know I mean there
were there were a number of other things
that came out in that met mistaken you
know unredacted piece which had manna
ford apparently meeting with colum neck
in 2017 in the early part of 2017 and
also that they had been discussing one
of these Ukraine peace plans it's not
the first one we've heard about there
was one that Michael Cohen was involved
in all of this I mean the blockbuster
revelation in this is that man afford
during the campaign and it this has been
sort of I think through some reporting
in The New York Times which came
subsequent to this revelation they spoke
with some sources who confirmed this and
also confirmed that manna fort had told
Rick gates to share this to tell column
mnek to share this information with Oleg
Deripaska so that part has been
confirmed by someone I'm assuming it
must be the gates team I don't know who
else would would share the hell with
reporters but what this indicates and I
mean I think we can all see now that
what we're looking at is Muller has a
collusion or actually conspiracy case
that runs in some much more detailed
direction than we knew before
and it also sort of draws you to the
fact that Donald Trump himself has been
very very solicitous of Paul Manafort
and just recently I mean I get just a
couple of months ago he tweeted I feel
very badly for Paul Manafort his
wonderful family justice took a two-year
old tax case applied tremendous pressure
on him but unlike Michael Cohen he
refused to break such breaks such
respect for a brave man right I mean
that's kind of you know so the big
question of course is what did Trump
know about this and everybody who's ever
worked for Trump said it's almost
impossible to believe that he would not
have been aware of something like this
he's a control freak in his own business
that he would and not to mention the
fact that we know he was doing business
with the Kremlin at the time trying to
build the Trump Tower so this was the
kind of thing that he was eagerly
looking to do and if men afford you know
mana for tides it's theoretically
possible that they were both trying
afford and Trump separately without each
other's knowledge we're doing outreach
to the Russian government but it
actually looks more and more like this
was much more tangled web than we may
have thought before
all right maybe this is a question that
will answer when we return from the
break but the the last question that I
had about it was just what level of
unprofessionalism do you need to have as
an attorney in this situation while
you're redaction is so easily uncovered
I mean I understand why this stuff
happened 20 years ago right but we've
all read stories about this that you you
don't release a digital version of you
know like the like the actual working
document it just seems shocking and
there are some people who have
speculation that that was not an
accident all right we got to take a
quick break let's address that when we
return I also want to touch on some
things that I think the Democrats did
right in this first week back from
vacation and frankly first week in which
they've controlled Congress
in a couple years we'll be right back
after this I'm Sam cedar this is ring of
fire radio
