[Music]
there's an election campaign going on in
Israel and you could listen back couple
weeks ago with one coal there are actual
disagreements inside Israeli politics on
as an example spending on deregulation
Israel like everywhere else the world
has gone through a sort of market
deregulation privatization process
oligarch wealth concentration process
the past couple of decades that have
hurt their social safety net massively
increased inequality increased poverty
diminished job prospects and also added
to a much broader atmosphere of serious
corruption and systemic corruption
Israel Israel is a huge amount of
corruption problems the indictments
against Bibi are not just about
garden-variety corruption though that's
part of it but it's also the leveraging
of a free newspaper that was just funded
and distributed freely by Sheldon
Adelson the American far-right casino
magnate and you know with a very very
very very extreme views on Israel and
Netanyahu using that as a base to be
essentially try to extort press coverage
right so this these charges are also
about a broader unwinding of even inside
67 borders Israel's institutions no
candidates that are in the race as of
now with any serious chance of wielding
power will do anything about the fact
that Israel's an apartheid state the
fact that they control five million
other human beings the fact that there's
rampant civilian abuses and killings the
fact that there's two different sets of
laws in places like the West Bank and
the reality is politically that besides
an occasional rocket attack which of
course should go without saying but I
feel like we do need to say it of course
we condemn Israel is very secure and
there's no political price to be paid
for this and the modern
consensus in Israel is really I mean
there's some arguments about nation
branding and someone like a hood Olmert
will come out and still make noises
about a two-state solution but there's
there's a huge amount of racism there's
a very right-wing political consensus
and there's a comfort in that situation
the joint list of Arab and socialist
parties as of a couple weeks ago we're
not allowed to run even as a cojones
which can literally be called at least
actual Jewish terrorists adjacent
political party is running and and and
in a broader right effort so democracy
in Israel is in bad shape and the rights
and justice for the Palestinian people
remain at the bottom of the list of any
kind of broader project and you saw that
in all the racism and conspiracy
theorizing and bloodlust at AIPAC but
this really drives the point home this
is an ad that is running in Israel right
now everybody knows that Netanyahu and
Trump are incredibly close I would argue
that they share a broader on tendencies
of the global far-right but there's also
all sorts of specific synergies between
people like Adel sin' the Christians I
and the the Christian Zionist community
and Trump gave Bibi then note to go on
over a tweet formalized an occupation
has supported you know every step of the
way killing civilians protesting in Gaza
Jerusalem's the capital all the other
things that we know and also torturing
just generally you know pulling even
basic funding from Palestinian
institutions Bibi is running on the race
card again just as he did in the last
election when he did an emergency video
warning people that Arabs were coming
out to vote here is an ad this is
basically an excerpt from a frontline
documentary which shows Bibi just
disrespecting President Obama to his
face in the White House and then there's
reactions it's again it's it's clearly a
frontline documentary so you have the
clip and then it's interspersed with
Journal
and I think Ben Rhodes who was a
obviously Obama's foreign policy one of
his foreign policy guys basically just
talking about how angry everybody in the
White House was and how just sort of
shockingly disrespectful this display
was on a protocol level and this and the
the spin here the twist I should say
this is a campaign ad that Benjamin
Netanyahu was running in Israel so as he
hugs Trump the white supremacy president
he's literally running an ad which is
just designed purely to showcase that I
personally and directly disrespected
America's first african-american
president and this is a by the way B B's
also was a prime minister during
Clinton's presidency so there's and
there were conflicts with Clinton in
fact Clinton sent his campaign
strategist to advise a hood Barak or
maybe not personally but clearly Clinton
wan and Netanyahu out there was no
equivalent of this kind of disrespect
towards Bill Clinton let alone of course
the relationship he has with Netanyahu
watch this as an ad running right now in
Israel but this time Bibi Netanyahu
would lecture Barack Obama was taking a
hard line on the peace process everybody
knows it's not an ad and I think it's
time to tell the Palestinians
forthrightly it's not going to happen
I've never seen a foreign leader speak
to the president like that and it's
certainly not in public and I'd never
certainly never seen it happen in the
Oval Office as well obviously cannot be
asked to negotiate with the government
that is backed by the Palestinian
version of al-qaeda
you're watching President Obama there
was basis hand and you can tell it's not
going over well this is this is his
house and to be lectured in his office
rankles because these these lines are
indefensible Bill Daley standing next to
me and he's going outrageous outrageous
Makani oh you mean and that is Netanyahu
telling Barack Obama that even this
process of a two states in 67 borders
which is already stunning like the for
the Palestinians to accept that they
would have to accept you know it's a
given than hundreds of thousands of us
were displaced it's a given that we're
not necessarily gonna get financial
restitution and all of the two-state
solutions that were put on the table
still were not sort of fully autonomous
for the Palestinians all sorts of
questions about waterways and air travel
and air airspace so that was Netanyahu
just basically saying no Obama like hey
listen get it we're going to be an
apartheid state and even if I have to
fake with you some type of pseudo
two-state solution which he's still now
it won't be a real one this happened and
I look you can see Obama's rage and by
2017 the Obama administration was at
least ready to abstain on a resolution
condemning settlement expansion and that
actually of course leads to the story of
real and look I don't want to say real
cuz I don't wanna get into this argument
but in actual case of collusion that we
do know about and there's been on the
public record from 2017 which is Michael
Flynn during the transition get
connecting to Russia presumably others
at the behest of the Israelis to try to
undermine Obama's a policy of simply
abstaining not even voting for the
resolution but abstaining which was
significant but now we have a whole
other level of courage about this thug
accuracy with Ilan Omar and Netanyahu at
AIPAC personally addressed her
uh and you know again this isn't a
context obviously with their just a
massive amount of racism and sexism and
paranoia and bigotry and fear about
Muslims which is the meeting ground of
Netanyahu and AIPAC and Trump and all of
that that's the Nexus certainly I mean
if you think it's concerned about
anti-semitism then I would you know I
would like to I would like to take some
time to figure out an internet scam I
can list you in if I ever get time this
is what Netanyahu said to ill on Omar
and of course he's referencing her it's
all about the Benjamins baby tweet of a
couple weeks ago that people made a
whole ridiculous melodrama about from
this benjamine it's not about the
Benjamins
undoubtedly maybe a song it may be a
line written by his stupid son and this
led to ill on Omar Yas Queen dude I am
legitimately a grief that I will not be
able to vote for this woman for
president one day she and continues to
impress and impress and impress the
these sort of what's what would you call
this emoji this is like the kind of
thinking face sarcastic yanking face
approaching Jim scratching chin emoji
which I actually have used some decent
effect myself not a big emoji guy but I
like this one this one does a lot of
work she writes this a man face this
from a man facing indictment reads video
this from a man facing indictments for
bribery and other crimes in three
separate public corruption Affairs
corruption affairs next not have
anything ads that
