[Music]
is it dumb do we have that story of
Trump at at Mount Vernon okay it's
pretty funny what is this story Trump
was at Mount Vernon Matt yeah so I mean
it's it's a kind of a short story here
but we can just look at a president
Trump reportedly wondered during a visit
to Mount Vernon last year why George
Washington did not have his historic
compound did not name his historic
compound after himself if he was smart
he would have put his name on it Trump
said direct or domestic that he shared
with French president Emmanuel macron
three people brief exchange I'm sure
anybody could agree with that sentiment
it's Emmanuel macron we you've got to
put if you are smart you would have
named it that himself
you get to put your name on stuff or no
one remembers you yeah nobody remembers
George Washington yeah by the way Matt
your list Dorian who's George Washington
I'll get to that in a sec okay please
circle back yeah history who was George
what a keep American politician you've
never heard of because he didn't name
stuff after himself according to sources
Trump was disinterested in the first
president during that's uninterested I
don't think it was splitting hairs in
the first president during the tour and
said McCrone and his wife had far more
knowledge about the history of the
compound
Bradburn later described 45-minute tour
with compass truly bizarre
Bradburn quote was desperately trying to
get Trump interested in the first
presidents house one source said Trump
also asked where the first president was
quote really rich that is what Trump was
really the most excited about source
added awesome oh and he looked at the
bedpost is like that's a good bed to die
in Trump said according to Politico
melis is thinking about that yeah and I
actually had yeah I'm gonna try to look
for this quickly because somebody had a
good tweet which is basically like Trump
if he actually did understand the
history
Patrick bland feel on Twitter said it's
worth noting here that most of
Washington's real estate wealth came
from land schemes that flagrantly
violated British colonial law against
acquiring native land west of the
Alleghenies and he concealed them from
scrutiny using various tax tricks and
shell companies Wow Wow maybe was a
smart guy that was not so nuts
that's a dumb after all your call
everyone
