so Scott at the break you had walked us
through the history of how the Supreme
Court has dealt with gerrymandering
and this is gerrymandering of course is
not a new phenomena but the precision
and the efficacy of the gerrymandering
has moved into a new era in the wake of
or I should say basically in 2010
because of the introduction of very
sophisticated modeling and data mining
tools that computers have brought us I
mean as of 2010 that was really the
first year where you could isolate down
to not just the block but to the house
you know the propensity for someone to
vote for a democrat or republican based
upon their past voting records the
publication's they read the stores they
buy stuff from all of this data was use
and created very efficient
gerrymandering to the extent that like
in a place like Wisconsin you can have
54% of the people vote for a Democrat
and have a state legislature that has
63% Republicans I mean that is a I can't
even do the math the 14-point swing I
mean it's crazy and and so and so with
that in mind the Supreme Court has taken
two cases one from North Carolina one
from Maryland one was brought against
Democrats in Maryland one was brought
against Republicans what what do you
think the disposition of the court will
be towards these cases well it's not
going to be good and you I'm really glad
you brought up the case from last term
presbury's a 'but which hadn't has gone
long attention but really is as bad as
shelby county so you know essentially
what the court said in shelby county was
well congress can't for states the
history of discrimination from having
changes to their voting law is
pre-cleared by the Department of Justice
but don't worry under sections two and
three of the Voting Rights Act you know
you can still sue you know you can still
you know bring remedies so you know
we're not cutting the voting
Zachary's take away one memory but then
impress versus abbott essentially the
Supreme Court interpreted the rest of
the Voting Rights Act to make
discrimination almost entirely possible
improve that what Alito essentially said
is racism to such a serious charge
you have to presume that legislators are
acting in good faith so even if the
effects of their maps are to
disenfranchise huge numbers of minority
voters then that's still not enough you
know that you know that that basically
because the legislature is just you know
redoing something that was greater by
somebody else it's fine
so really the Supreme Court is you know
that there's these sophisticated
computer models are coexisting with the
Republican Party that you know is just
not offering the public anything that it
wants and so it needs vote suppression
to win and so and remember Perez resent
but that's what Kennedy on board you
know Kennedy was in the majority on
Shelby County he was in the majority on
Abbot and John Roberts is basically been
against the Voting Rights Act since he
was a functionary in the Reagan
administration so this is you know not
just you know a radical far-right
faction of the Republican Party it's an
establishment as a gap so I think what's
gonna you know I've heard some people
speculate with this mix of cases that
the Supreme Court is so unprincipled
that it will sort of strike down the
Maryland gerrymander and uphold these
the North Carolina one I don't think
that will happen the Supreme Court can
often be really inconsistent in
different cases like the way it treats
abortion providers and crisis pregnancy
centers for the First Amendment but I
see it as a little more insidious than
that that I see a Roberts opinion that
says look you know the gerrymandering is
a political question there's no standard
the courts can use but don't worry you
know we're we're allowing Republicans to
do it and we're allowing Democrats to do
it so it's not a partisan scission I
think there's going to be a lot of
language like that you know you can't
call us partisan because we're letting
Democrats do it but of course that's
incredibly disingenuous because
gerrymandering is a much bigger
advantage for Republicans as the parties
are currently constituted just as it
helps you know Democrats when they were
the rural party in the mid 20th century
I mean there's a couple reasons that I
mean the first is simply that you know
Democratic voters are
much more naturally concentrated and the
Constitution requires districts to be
continuously drawn so like in
Pennsylvania you know there has to be an
extraordinary amount of work done just
to make the maps only favor Republicans
slightly like basically in Pennsylvania
you couldn't do a gerrymander that
favors Democrats the way favors
Republicans all right for that you know
that basically more states are going to
benefit from Republican Republicans of
this gerrymandering and you can't really
do gerrymanders for Democrats in most
contexts as extreme as the ones in
Wisconsin in Pennsylvania and the second
thing is you know and this may change
but for whatever reason for a
combination of good motives and bad
motives you know Democrats just aren't
as ruthless so one of the most
remarkable facts about American
democracy in the twentieth century is
that when California passed a non
partisan districting Commission this
produced a map that was more favorable
to Democrats than the one that Democrats
themselves drawn up it was ridiculous
that because Democrats were so focused
on protecting particular incumbents you
know that whereas Republicans tend to be
focused on what's best for our policy
objectives even if one legislator gets
heard Ron you know Democrats have often
been too you know and again there's also
some you know that that there's a sense
you know Democrats tend to be more
committed to fair elections and fair
play it's not all bad faith or
self-interest but that combination of
things means that you know that you know
a ruling you know even if in this case
both Republicans and Democrats get held
the Supreme Court staying out of
gerrymandering is a huge net gift to the
Republican Party and I think that's why
they took these two cases simultaneously
all right so we have one minute left
Scott what do you think about the future
of independent commissions because I
there's a lot of people out there going
well we just need independent
commissions that'll do it we just got a
minute left yeah well speaking of Bush
versus Gore conservatives made this
ridiculous argument that because you
know the Constitution leaves it to the
state legislature to determine you know
you know how to resolve election that it
was wrong to exercise judicial review
but you know that's just stupid
like you know like even if you know
Oracle one gives powers through Congress
but the courts are allowed to say
whether they're right eating their
powers or interpret statutes but we
might get the same kind of disingenuous
argument that because of this language
about state legislators that is
unconstitutional for redistricting
Commission's to draw things that these
things have to be drawn by legislatures
I'm less sure the Republicans will buy
that than that they'll they'll get out
of gerrymandering but that as you say
would make things even worse and be even
more people outrageous in some ways and
and certainly and that's where I think
there could be a difference between
Gorsuch and Cavanaugh and and Kennedy
that Joseph is the Oh Kennedy in
O'Connor wouldn't go for that dumb
argument Bush versus gore it had to win
the 14th amendment one you know that
this is where you know the the Supreme
Court's you know shift to the right
could actually matter that you know that
I kind of you know sort of younger
conservatives maybe more find these
really radical arguments more appealing
than then that academy or O'Connor might
have so you know I don't I'm less okay
about that but as you say that would
make things even worse
Scott Lomu thanks so much for time today
really appreciate it
