there has been particularly in the last
month or so some new developments let's
maybe start with the most recent and
then work our way backwards to assess or
is it better to start with the
designation of the Iranian National
Guard in terms of their their assessment
or I should say us assessment that
they're a terrorist organization what
makes more sense because I guess implied
in that question is are we seeing a are
we seeing steps to a plan as opposed to
just simply random reactions there's
definitely a plan taking place right now
being executed and if Donald Trump's
plan is John Bolton's plan and John
Bolton's plan for the last 20 years has
been to start a war with Iran and now
he's probably in the best position ever
to be able to execute that plan he has a
president that doesn't seem to
understand your politics doesn't seem to
be too interested in details and who has
essentially delegated almost all of it
to Bolton
there's no Secretary of Defense at the
Defense Department that could put a
brake on some of the crazy plans of John
Bolton something that Matt is actually
did before he resigned or got fired and
at the same time
Trump is already bought into some idea
of a maximum pressure on Iran and within
that context Bolton is constantly
selling to travel more and more
aggressive measures all sold as being
part of the maximum strategy of maximum
pressure strategy but in reality are now
creating a scenario in which war is
becoming increasingly likely alright so
I mean and maybe we should start with
just remind people that and you
literally wrote a book on this or at
very least you wrote a book on the
predicate Donald Trump unilaterally
stepped out of a an international
agreement
Iran involving their nuclear capacity
and assets that were frozen and
sanctions that were imposed upon them
and we my sense is is that Trump went in
stepping out of that Iranian agreement
that Obama had forged that was less
about a long-term strategy and more just
simply responding to a Republican a
point on a Republican bucket list as it
were and some sense of like if Obama did
this then I'm going to undo it
but the addition of john bolton had sort
of furthered a specific agenda I think
that's quite correct I think Trump came
into this only knowing that he hated the
Iran deal for no other reason than the
fact that it was Obama's achievement and
he was in there to undo everything Obama
had done but did he have a plan for
maximum pressure strategy or a plan to
go to war with Iran I don't think so in
fact I don't think Trump actually wants
a war with Iran I think this is
something that Bolton is much more
desiring but as things have evolved what
happened was that the people from
originally had hired were all in
disagreement with Trump when he came to
the Iran deal
everything from Tillerson to mattis to
McMaster they were not in agreement that
the US should pull out of the nuclear
deal and they saw a tremendous amount of
negatives with the u.s. pulling out he
eventually fired all of them and the
only people he could hire that were in
agreement with him about leaving the
nuclear deal coincidentally also wanted
to go to war with Iran well that's not a
false leak there those who were opposing
the nuclear deal back in 2015 at least a
very large number of them were opposing
it because they preferred war and now
the only ones he could get around
himself to to agree with him on this
we're also people who then were then
starting to push him in the direction
war right I mean maybe not so
coincidentally right is is is the points
it was coincidental only insofar as that
Donald Trump has sort of a rudderless
his north Northern Star in terms of
these type of things seems to be largely
a function of doing whatever Obama
didn't do but there are other people out
there obviously so okay so alright with
that said do you think or maybe we
should go through some of the things
that John Bolton now that we have been
living in a John Bolton era and it and
it hadn't occurred to me but uh uh
you're it makes total sense obviously
that the absence of a defense secretary
means that when we're talking about
national security issues John Bolton
doesn't there really isn't anyone who I
mean is there anybody is that maybe
Pompey but is there anybody who is
senior I mean to John Bolton is there
anyone in or around the White House that
is capable or in you know the executive
branch that is both capable of assessing
what Bolton is doing have the experience
of sort of within the context of a
bureaucracy like that isolating Bolton
and his bad ideas and I guess the the
third element would we they have to
disagree with John Bolton's desire for
conflict with Iran is there anyone in
the White House who is who fits that
bill not that I know of at this point
there and if they're if they're there
they have managed to keep themselves
anonymous to certain extent and that may
not actually be a bad move on their part
but no I think at this stage it's this
is the White House that is filled with
folks who are very much going along with
this and the person who probably is the
most known and who probably does have a
different video is Trump himself and
that's not to give Trump any credit I
don't think he's against war because
he's concerned about the humanitarian
impact of it I think he just thinks that
it's something that would be back for
his face and the people who voted for
him go very much seem to he do Hillary
Clinton as being too hawkish and
remembered Trump was campaigning on the
idea that the Iraq war was a mistake and
at first he did not want to bring the
neo-cons into his cabinet and into his
National Security Council but now he has
because there's so few other people
willing to work for him but the issue
that really exists is that Trump's
instincts that likely are against war
are nevertheless secondary to his
impulses and his impulses are driven by
a whole set of other issues and if you
have a very negative domestic situation
for him if you have the congressional
Democrats calling in witnesses into
Congress and the mother probe is
continued at cetera I don't see it as
unlikely that someone like Bolton would
be able to sell to Trump the idea that
hey some escalation with Iran will
change the headlines so okay this is
fascinating so we have this there's
there's there's this dynamic where Trump
right now is shopping around for
distractions and john bolton who has a
made a career of having a desire to get
into a conflict with Iran is
opportunistically fitting this into what
seems to have been on his part a a plan
and let's take a break here and when we
come back let's talk about the elements
of those plan including a terrorism
designation for the Iranian National
Revolutionary Guard and the expiration
of waivers of sanctions once that
expired in this past week and will
expire in 90 days and then let's talk
about how it appears and I want to get
your take on this that john bolton is
setting up a scenario where essentially
he is building a context where war
becomes
putting war on autopilot in some respect
all right we gotta take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar we're talking a treat a
Parsi we'll be right back after this
ring of fire radio
