so Heather we're talking about the the
compulsion that seems to exist in the
mainstream media to always attempt to
maintain some measure of denial when
Donald Trump is at his worst the it's as
if the like the the media can many ask
meant many parts of the media you know
and not all media hashtag whatever but
the there's there's so much desire in
the media to sort of normalize
everything and to put it in this context
of like you know like to pretend that
daddy's not crazy you know what I mean
and like let's just let's just have
dinner and he gets a little bit upset
and you know that this type of thing in
terms of Donald Trump and his white
supremacy and and and the problem is is
that I mean I think part of it is that
no one no one no one knows what to do in
this situation there's this like this
there's this sense of like we should do
something right like but what what do we
do and with the media they I think they
are just afraid like what how do you
continue the conversation how do you
wake up tomorrow and do your reporting
again if you if you make these
assertions about him and and what is
your responsibility and the way it makes
things very very complicated I think
from from their perspective and so you
get things like maybe this is the day
the president you know he became
president I mean he gave that canned
speech right where I mean look he said
if you were to read the speech and not
see him deliver it you would have been
like this is the speech that he should
give you wouldn't have noticed that he
just you know said Toledo instead of
Dayton because he doesn't really care
what's going on and he doesn't need but
but then within days later we not only
had we not seen a speech of like I want
to reach out to the Latino community and
tell them that you are Americans
and even if you're not Americans you are
safe here that you you have a right to
go and go to the mall and not feel like
you're gonna be attacked you have a
right to go to Home Depot and not be
told to go back to your country you have
the right to you know to go to you know
Price Chopper and not be afraid you're
gonna get shot up or whatever it is and
not only does he not give that speech
when he's questioned as to you know what
do you think about the rhetoric being so
similar to the guy used he just goes off
on it you know on a tangent it starts
attacking people and talking about the
problems of immigration I mean this is
ugly stuff this is ugly stuff and why do
you think why did what is your sense of
why the press can't come to terms with
this well to be honest with you I'm I'm
pretty surprised at this point that they
that they are still in that mode but
there are reasons for it it goes all the
way back to the to the 1960s when you
know when there was violence in the
streets there was you know protest
against the war and what-have-you there
were a number of reporters in in
Washington who were really taken aback
by this this this idea of street
violence they just had no they couldn't
cope with it and they went out along an
anthropological sort of tour that we see
them all the time now but at the time
they were talking to sort of you know
the quote real Americans out in regular
America who were you know conservative
and they were upset by what they were
seeing on their TVs and they came back
with this idea that you know we've been
too accommodating to this protest
movement say we've been too
accommodating to these young people we
are not seeing the rest of America we
have an obligation to speak for them and
at the same time you had the Republicans
and you know laying out a very
aggressive and explicit strategy of
trying to influence the press they call
them the liberal media they were
constantly on them you know we called it
working the refs remember I mean
this was they were constantly going
after them for being biased bias bias
that's there's an accumulation of that
it went all the way through it greatly
enabled Regan people were terrified the
press was terrified of saying anything
against him because they knew they were
going to get this tremendous blowback
from conservative and well you know this
has continued to this day we saw it
after Trump was elected you know nobody
went into downtown Baltimore to see what
they thought about the election they
went out to you know the same for rural
towns in middle America or in
Pennsylvania or wherever to talk to
Trump voters and they did it over and
over again as if these were the only
people who counted and we needed to know
why you know where what is what is
motivating them and then scant attention
paid to anybody else in the country I
mean this has been going on for a long
time I would have thought however that
they would be able to see the difference
between you know what would what has
been republicanism up until now and you
know look even George Bush after 9/11 he
went to a mosque he gave a big speech
saying Islam is a religion of peace you
know he Republican presidents up until
now have known that this growth you know
violent underbelly in their right wing
movement was there they understood it
was there and they would take steps all
of them did it at various times to tamp
down any threat of violence from this
group they knew it was possible and I'm
not saying they aren't responsible for
that you know that that part of their
coalition as well but they were
cognizant of the fact that there was
something explosive that was potential
there and they went out of their way to
keep it down they don't did Trump
doesn't do that he does the opposite he
goes out and he you know he basically
you know Stokes it and and tries to you
know and and says hey I'm well you know
you're I'm with you and and you know
we're all together in this and I agree
with you I mean even as you point out
when asked about the the invasion
rhetoric by the by the shooter in El
Paso he says you know he'd assembled and
went on and on and then he says well I'm
against illegal immigration I mean he
cannot help himself so this is very
different and the fact that the press
can't
see this difference I mean this is and
again we're painting with a broad brush
there are plenty of people in the media
who are seeing it and who are writing
about it and broadcasting it but there
remains in the sort of establishment
press I'm talking about you know that
the New York Times particularly but many
of the networks and you know did
elements of The Washington Post as well
that simply cannot grasp that this is
different that we are you know maybe
maybe it's the culmination of the
conservative movement but it's different
it is Heather couldn't have put it
better and thank you so much for for
covering the news with us this week as
as horrible as it's been thanks for your
insight
