majority report Matt and Jamie in studio
today Michael may hey not yet Jamie did
you watch much of the Charlie Kirk
debate with I did indeed what was your
impression did you watch it all because
it got it got truncated on the stream I
said hey I watched it until they cut the
feed because Sam was doing too well yeah
look at that silenced again yeah I
thought Sam well one thing I will say
about charlie is it's clear that he's a
strong debater hello Michael
we're just our recouping recovery and so
tell me about it I I actually really
haven't I caught a few minutes of the
debate but I was not I was not able to I
was I was indisposed I was flying and
going door-to-door for Medicaid so Sam
was in Tinseltown exactly I was out in
the heartland trying to get people
health care well Sam and jank were or
her hanging with idiots yeah I didn't
watch the the time that Charlie Kirk at
the day before salmon and Charlie debate
that's so triggered really yeah I got
freaked I heard that he got freaked out
on the with with um he like Obon son
Hasan Mike okay sorry was gonna leap
into the audience and try to fight JQ
ger wow he's like I live like a
capitalist every day it's like yes
you're paid by capitalist a defender ooh
yeah if you ever hope you were really i
subsidized propagandist i mean i guess i
really liked how every time charlie Kirk
was lying or saying misleading things
Sam would just interrupt him like you're
lying
yes not true wrong yeah Sam Sam showed
the virtue of not you know the rules
were you're not supposed to butt in like
that but when somebody's lying the
rules right like I will break the rules
to point out that Charlie Kirk is
talking about wages as if inflation
didn't exist right and that and Sam was
really well prepared it was interesting
to see into see him so well prepared I
think this was the best
match that I've seen Sam debate charlie
is a good debater I also thought that
he's gonna age himself out of his little
you know niche here he's not gonna be
able to be the college guy forever yeah
exactly
you know why don't you ask Dan Noonan is
that the one you like pretends to be a
millennial oh yeah or I don't know
Demetri Martin
anyway that actually really rich charlie
kirk is the dan nine in the father is
actually pretty funny I just think
you're not gonna be able to talk about
the college campuses when you look like
a 30 year old right like who really
cares you'd be surprised
people's bread and butter we figure out
a pivot Jordan Peterson's talking about
college campuses and he's all the
he's a professor so theoretically well
maybe Charlie Kirk will become a
professor he was never even it's too
tight is that true he really never went
to college I don't think he finished I
think he I think he did go to college on
Foster Friess this time I might be wrong
about that
don't don't sue Charlie I know you have
some financial relationship with Foster
good old father Foster what should I say
today father he does have the vibe of a
fail son but like a fail son who's kind
of good at his job I guess but Sam tied
a bow on him I don't think Charlie had
any big moments of triumph every time
like Sam would correct him on some fact
and Charlie would say you know we agree
 yeah you Financial Regulation you
told me this in the morning and that to
me I'm not I'm not you John debate but
that is to me that's always that's a
well if you're having like an actual
serious debate I guess where you're
theoretically sincerely exchanging ideas
then noting points of commonality can
mean that you're having some type of
like intellectual progression together
but if you're at politican or on cable
news and you say I mean I know that's
just even from cable news hits like if
the dude you're arguing with is like
well actually you and I are pretty close
on that that's either um well it sounds
like he didn't do this you either could
do that as like a stealthy move we're
like oh well hey
I agree with you about I don't know
crony capitalism so I guess you're also
a socialist you could do that kind of
move which I like to do or you're just
being like totally full of which is
you're just sort of trying to like I
know that what the person I'm opposed to
is saying something popular right now or
something that intuitively resonates and
I'm just gonna claim that we share a
value set that we obviously don't and
that's what you said it sounded like
that's what Charlie Kirk was definitely
right okay I like how fair Sam was
though at the beginning when he
interrupted Charlie like that's not true
and he's like hey hey we can both talk
without interruption okay and he's like
hey if I say something that's not true
you can interrupt me too
yep and that's a really good very
disarming Wow now I live guest that that
probably did not go over as well in
Sam's divorce mediation but as debate
tactic well yeah because lying is not
Sam's debate tactic no no I know no but
that's actually an incredible that's why
I really hate to give Sam credit but
that's like simultaneously like that's a
very smart domineering move it's also
again it's also actually substantively
sincere like forget the manners let's
actually let's hold each other to
account let's hold each other to a
higher standard and then third obviously
that rule is gonna benefit Sam but
Charlie can't it what is he gonna say Jo
said you all heard it fair because I
like well yeah you say that he has to
say that but the truth is is like he
should be sitting there like going oh
 now something right why on the
moderator I can't rely on the moderator
and now somebody that knows much more
about every single policy metric we're
talking about is gonna be able to call
me on my nonsense that's a that's a
really good move because conversely if
you could you imagine if somebody was
dumb enough to say no no no the rule
says no interruption well the debates
over like you've already lost and that
one move so you have no choice but to
sale
all right let's go yeah let's do it yeah
Wow
this little Jew Kido from Sam there
