[Music]
treci Macmillan cotton was on Hayes also
with non-gear Dada's and explaining how
these this in many respects exposes sort
of the rot that's that's there it is
rule by legacy cases is it's whatever
the creepy term for that that that is
the sort of pervert that's where we are
right now like Jared Kushner is advising
his father-in-law after his daddy gave a
lot of money to Harvard and God knows
how Don Trump got him to listen right
what we're really seeing here is
historical subtext that's contemporary
text right what these wealthy parents
really wanted to buy was not just a more
guarantee point of entry into elite
higher education which with yawning
wealth and inequality just becomes a
more valuable commodity for the few who
can afford to be there so that's what
this relationship is broadly between
wealth and inequality and elite
institutions who benefit greatly I might
add from that wealth inequality wealth
inequality will probably destroy access
institutions those working horse
institutions that actually promote it
upward mobility for poor and
middle-class students but elite
institutions are going to win and that's
what we're saying we're seeing that win
but we're also seeing a culture of
wealth which anon points out to this is
about this is about more than money this
is about what can we get away with and
that is the insidious nature of the
culture of being wealthy it is not that
their children will be fine it is that
their children will not be finer than
the other children who are fine right
there is always an additional layer of
privilege and status and opportunity
hoarding to be had and in many ways it
is the entire culture of wealth that
says that is what the pursuit of wealth
is about so it's about not only getting
in through a guaranteed side door but
getting in in a way that says you
deserve to be there even knowing that
you got in through the side that's the
system in which they are trying to
preserve now who could possibly check
your feed who could possibly do
defend the idea that legacies should
have a leg up and getting in there that
who could possibly make the case in some
way that people who you know by nature
of their parents or whatnot deserve to
be in these institutions that ostensibly
are handing out the benefits of these
institutions in permit or to the most
meritorious amongst us I mean who could
actually say that in public
Oh Megan McCain is she back from
vacation not just feeling better as
legacy admissions which means if your
parents went to brown or Harvard or or
you know you pay you can go but it's
interesting because the idea of legacy
admissions is racist in nature and I'll
tell you why it started in the 20s to
keep our upwardly mobile immigrants who
had started pushing for admission to
elite schools yeah and I think that that
is a very very bad system legacy why
should your kid get in because you got
in yeah oh wait I don't have any I was
the first political million military
academies my family goes back
generations at the Naval Academy and
that's service to your country so I
would push back in that in that part of
it because my grandfather
great-grandfather my brothers they all
served there yeah but if you don't have
the grades well why should you have the
grades my brother did but I don't think
there's anything to be ashamed of the
fact that my family's legacy is at the
Naval Academy my father's buried I'm not
talking about your family I'm talking
about legacy I'm talking about the
policy of wit legacy admissions came
from I'm very very proud of it to me and
Jews probably out of the college's well
let me see ya just
my posit I just got it I'm gonna just
point out the joy knows exactly what
she's doing when she says keeps Jews out
of the college's cuz hey that's true but
be Megan McCain is God where's the crime
I thought you were so what happened to
Uncle Joe Megan by the way I love the
like again Megan McCain not the
brightest so maybe it's a genuine
confusion very like it's a sixth but it
even by a broad narrowly it's not like
but I'm saying to literally mix like
when I say get rid of legacy admissions
I don't mean dig your father's grave up
and forget your family history right
erase history it's not that you're not
allowed to have members of the same
family go to a school it's that that
shouldn't be the reason why you get in
but let's continue my brothers they all
serve there you don't have my grades
well I should why should you have the
grades my brother did but I don't think
there's anything to be ashamed of the
fact that my family's legacy is at the
Naval Academy my father's buried I'm not
talking about your family I'm talking
that legacy you talking about the policy
of where legacy admissions came from I'm
very very proud and Jews probably out of
the college's well let me see yeah my
question is will these parents go to
jail I mean the US attorney said that
there shouldn't be disparate treatment I
wonder is the American public ready for
the assignment parents who are our
parents who are in jail for food stamp
fraud yeah and there are parents who are
in jail yeah and uh Navarro nailing this
now I was a woman in jail for five years
for voting listen I am not making any
accusation here whatsoever I'm going to
just point something out the person who
could not distinguish between the
concept of legacy admissions and the
idea that you have a legacy or a family
history at a university was accepted
into Columbia University
one of the most elite universities in
the country
Christ and that was my admissions essay
for Columbia stop undermining the legacy
of legacy it was the argument about
graves do you think undermining was the
term or do you think it was stop being a
hater about legacies stop totally being
a hater about legacies and such that was
my essay that got me into Columbia
University I'm proud of my family I'm
proud of my family
what your pride about your family is
pretty goddamn anti-semitic you know I
it's really upsetting to me because
after the Holocaust and after everything
we've been through this cut you know
there's a time my grandfather had to go
to City College in a very dangerous time
in our country's history not being able
to distinguish me pretend that she's so
stupid that she doesn't understand the
difference between legacy admissions and
getting rid of her father's grave site
it's just really upsetting okay guys I'm
gonna be taking the rest of the week off
I just hope that after this scandal we
realize that we must exhume almost every
single body who's destroying records go
to the same school as them the decadence
of the ruling class folks
it really is generational because like
you know I don't like John McCain but he
did some things that were legitimately
impressive and and she just has never
had to really do anything it's almost
like it's not genetic
I love how like joy is sitting there
being like you know a hollow the Rae
this could be read honey as I have a
career that I created on my own and I
sit across from you while you talk
absolute nonsense and are an entitled
idiot every single week and I'm
wondering as with college admissions why
do I have to go through this and is
there a much more talented person who
has married who could be sitting in your
chair and making a better show for
everybody
Huntsman went to the University of
Pennsylvania by the way uh again
advocates Abbey Huntsman definitely like
we only knew clips but she seems to have
a much better understanding of like hmm
whole life handed to you by parents
I'm gonna step back a little bit yeah
exactly exactly incidentally I mean is
there you know Donald Trump is a perfect
example of all of this right I mean we
have a president who is there and in
some respects I mean this is I mean what
John Huntsman also went to University of
Pennsylvania Oh shocking believe what
Tracy cotton said was that we are seeing
the the subtext of our society played
out in the text which is exactly the way
that people describe Donald Trump and
not I mean coincidentally but perhaps
not so coincidentally you know Donald
Trump of course also bought his way and
just like his son-in-law
into college and that is aside from like
Michael says the the all the filters
that get you in a position to apply and
get into college even if that doesn't
involve your parents paying any money to
the college ranging not just from you
know SAT prep but the ability to live in
or be born into a location that has you
know a decent public school or a your
parents PI you know paying for a private
school and on and on on like this and
the the limitations of just even the
concept of meritocracy in in a society
particularly as disparate as ours is
ridiculous but is it true that John
McCain did graduate at the bottom of his
class to look yeah he says I retract my
comments at John McCain not if not
nothing he's ever done is it well I mean
I think he I'm sure that he literally
engaged in physical I mean and on behalf
of a genocide so it's not a moral
claim yes he flew planes not torture
McCain literally done nothing in her
life of any even note I'm not saying the
things he did were good I would stand by
your state it's not a moral claim and
she has never done anything
she did appear as a guest on have I got
news for you one of the pilots that did
for it so that was and that was tricky
we had to get there like four in the
afternoon she married a Federalist
writer too that's right so gel right now
just a reminder I'm going on the view
I'm owning Meghan McCain this is
happening
that's all envision it together oh I
thought you were actually announcing
that no but yes in a way
[Music]
