[Music]
we'll be with you in just a moment we
it's very exciting to have you in studio
and we said we haven't quite figured out
but well hello David
oh hello yeah how are you make you uh
well we didn't know if I was ready to
come on yet no your oh no you're ready
okay um hey I don't know David if you
remember Rex Tillerson I do yeah he was
the former Secretary of State people are
very excited that he he came out in
public - I don't think he properly
maligned Donald Trump but he did it and
that you know that's sort of like Jean
Jean teal way here he is with Bob
Schieffer of CBS News Bob Schieffer
obviously he loves these I mean he's
also from Texas but he's a big I know he
has a very good relationship it seems
like with anybody who has oil and the
bushes he was good friends with and here
he is it's unclear to me like what event
it is I don't know some some local I'm
sure it has to do with you know
get-rich-quick scheme type of suit
situation down there but here's a bob
schieffer and Rex Tillerson talking
about Donald Trump you describe Donald
Trump well most of you probably know
know some of this but I had never met
Donald Trump until the day he asked me
to be Secretary of State
Jack's on his so in other words you know
I can't be held responsible for anything
that I did I claimed I have total
plausible deniability right like he I
mean no one knew who Donald Trump was
right until at least after the
inauguration right I mean really you had
no heat the guy's sprung it on us
it was completely you know it was such a
kindly man from the TV of course as Joe
and mica said like he always used to be
in on the joke and now but let's hear
Rex Tillerson continued to try and
whitewash his culpability in this
disaster be Secretary of State he acts
on his instincts in some respects that
looks like impulsiveness but it's not
his intent to act on impulse I think he
really is trying less challenging for me
coming from the disciplined highly
process-oriented Exxon Mobil Corporation
to go to work for a man who is pretty
undisciplined doesn't doesn't like to
read doesn't read briefing reports
doesn't doesn't like to get into the
details of a lot of things but rather
just kind of says look this is what I
believe in other words he just makes
stuff up and he doesn't want to be
impulsive but he doesn't have control of
his impulses so he is impulsive right
that is definitionally that that's
impulsive acting without intention is in
fact yapping on invoke you know who also
strikes me is not quite as bright as we
might have given him credit for
respiration to be fair I never met him
no I never heard him until just now
until I can't say can't say whether he's
a complete idiot judged him in any way I
did way of calling somebody an effing
 can anybody remember the pseudonym
he was using Oh
oh yeah no I just remembered I can't
remember it no I don't I can't remember
it either
Wow was it his main break down with
Trump though Wayne tracker was Wayne a
tracker that's right huh wait now where
was he using that pseudonym it was he
like I saw it was sock puppet going into
hotels because they were his teeny
boppers were after him why was he using
a pseudonym I can't remember what it was
he was the one who got really upset with
Trump's address to the Boy Scouts which
was right a little questionable to talk
about like you know hot yeah hot tub
parties on with the Boy Scouts but this
guy could all be yours
he used Wayne trekker to discuss climate
and emails oh yeah of course there you
go
I can't wait for that lawsuit Oh folks
today one of our sponsors is Skillshare
