[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in that hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday
June 25th 2019 my name is Sam cedar this
is the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn journalist Matt Stroud
author of thin blue lie the failure of
high-tech policing also on the program
today President Trump the knot and the
White House meanwhile creating all sorts
of bizarre new legal theories to
obstruct congressional oversight
meanwhile Lula gets a hearing in a
Brazilian sir in these Brazilian Supreme
Court and on the eve of the debate Joe
Biden holds steady
Bernie and Warren gain in a national
poll beta O'Rourke however introduces
his war tax just run for Senate dude and
Steven Moore's last refuge if he can't
sit on the Fed of the United States then
he'll make his own central bank for
crypto all this and more on today's
program yes that is not a joke that is
the truth things I don't generally tease
stuff that will come up in the show
because it's always just usually just
great anyways and it would seem
redundant to do that however today we
came in there was of course a huge
blockbuster report by James O'Keefe on
how Google is suppressing the right and
little did we know and people probably
don't know about this because
it partly because it's fictional we have
a a Dropbox a digital drop box where we
can get all sorts of leaks and whatnot
and someone leaked to us the first cut
of the famous now famous Google Insider
interview that James O'Keefe did and
this one's even more devastating it's I
don't I'm not sure I want to play it
even there leaving a lot on the cutting
room floor it's amazing but we will we
will play that later in the program so
make sure you stick around for that
thank you for joining us we have a full
complement of people here today for your
listening pleasure let's go right in to
Donald Trump is attempting to argue that
well let's start with number three first
and then then we'll go to number two so
that makes sense
Donald Trump of course engaged in a war
of words with Iran and of course what
better way what better way to demean
your enemy than to forget that they're
dead
here is Donald Trump saying that he has
signed an executive order to to further
sanctions against Ayatollah Khomeini who
died over a decade ago doesn't save you
sanctions imposed through the executive
order that I'm about to sign will deny
the Supreme Leader and the Supreme
Leader's office and those closely
affiliated with him and the office
access to key financial resources and
support the assets of Ayatollah Khomeini
and his office will not be spared
the sanctions these measures represent a
strong and proportionate response to a
rents increasingly provocative actions
we will continue to increase pressure on
Turan until the regime abandons its
dangerous activities and aspirations
including the pursuit of nuclear weapons
increased enrichment of uranium
development of ballistic missiles
engagement in and support for terrorism
fuelling of foreign conflicts and
belligerent acts directed against the
United States and its allies now Oh
first of all I mean how many more
sanctions can we impose on Iran is seems
well these are distinct I mean these are
ratcheting up and getting you know
targeting specific members of the
government I don't know wow that wasn't
hardened either time well to the extent
they were they were rolled back as part
of the deal I think I mean that's what
we we had changed when we left the deal
well when we left the deal the first
things they hit were things like
medicine and others so if you know
Trump's concerned about 150 people dying
the sanctions have already killed well
over that so the Ayatollah Khomeini of
course has been dead for decades and
that's right apparently nobody knows
that the White House or well I don't
understand how that happened how many
Khomeini do you think he pronounced it
you just pronounce it wrong I think I am
I would be shocked if he nuts I don't
know if he knows the difference but it's
it's it's a close enough pronunciation
that somebody like Trump could easily
screw it up well there you go but more
importantly than Trump not really having
done a first pass read on that is that
Trump is convinced and look Donald Trump
obviously has no sense of of how our
government works so to the extent that
he has an opinion on the separation of
powers it is a function of what he's
being told by his advisers advisors who
we now know are extremely invested
in the United States attacking Iran and
here is explaining how he does not need
congressional authorization to strike
Iran I like the idea of keeping Congress
abreast but I wouldn't have to do that
sure
Nancy Pelosi actually said you must have
congressional approval so you disagree
with her on that I disagree I think most
people seem to disagree but I do like
keeping them they have ideas that
intelligent people they'll come up with
some thoughts I actually learned a
couple of things the other day when we
had our meeting with Congress which were
I think helpful to me but I do like
keeping them abreast but I don't have to
do it legally someone does not want sole
responsibility for a disaster
fact-check he's never learned anything
right and they're saying that this is
covered under the AUMF which is why
they've been regurgitating a lie about
Iran being connected with al Qaeda which
is an even more like extravagant lie
than a rock being connected with al
Qaeda and it also you know emphasizes
how what a big deal and would the
necessity the Democratic Congress
anyways the Democratic House rolling
back the AUMF so obviously not you need
the Senate to sign off on that and you
need it veto proof but that's a big deal
moving at least in the correct direction
hey folks one of today's sponsors is
Skillshare anyone who goes to sk l dot s
h slash majority report for is going to
get two whole months of totally free
access to skill shares entire library
super quality online courses and
tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant online
learning community that offers courses
on everything from design to video
editing photography business technology
cooking meditation everything in between
their skills share courses for everyone
you'll have no problem finding courses
that will be useful to you both in your
personal and professional life whether
you want to sharpen your skills with
something you already love doing or when
you want to learn something totally new
Skillshare has you covered they got
courses for entrepreneurs they got
courses on computer coding
megha of courses on web development they
got course on personal nutrition
learning new languages Photoshop you
name it now my plan was this past
weekend to get into some of that what do
you call it the the conscious dreaming
what is it what lucid dream lucid
dreaming you should know this by now and
I had the lucid dreaming
I gotta get pull this up here I had
lucid dreaming cued up for me I had 1982
in wisdom my mother was reading me a
Social Security report I was gonna use
this because I've started a bunch of
ones that I'm going to to do I was gonna
use this produce heck a product of it
productivity with Evernote cuz I've been
trying to figure out how to use that for
a long time
productivity habits that stick using
time theming and of course I got
completely waylaid because I haven't
taken these yet and by my kids so I know
what I'm doing this the July 4th recess
that will be on I'm gonna be doing a
bunch of those folks are gonna see a
market change in my productivity and now
you can get two entire months of free
access to every single course offered by
Skillshare by going to SK l dot s h /
majority report for just think of
everything at your fingertips for two
whole months
again that's sk l dot s h / majority
report for i put a link underneath this
video if you're watching on youtube if
you're listening to the podcast it's in
the podcast description check it out
really cool stuff stuff that i think
you'll be happy to learn just always
continue to learn folks very important
like trump and meetings with democrats
with trump and meeting with the fact let
me see if there's a nope not a class on
that i'm bipartisanship we're gonna take
quick break we come back Matt Stroud
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone its pleasure to
welcome to the program CEO and executive
editor of post-industrial media and to
author of thin blue lie the failures of
high-tech policing Matt Stroud Matt
welcome to the program thanks man thanks
for having me so I mean let's just start
with the the by what measure are you
measuring the success or failure of this
this element of policing this
introduction of sort of high tech
equipment well I'm not a statistician
it's more you know I'm a journalist and
so I'm relying on what I've seen in my
reporting and really the the crux of
what I started with and and a lot of the
reporting that I do in the book is built
around the Taser weapon and the company
that created that so what I'm what I'm
looking at is the promises of the taser
weapon when it was first introduced and
when Jack over the inventor of the Taser
decided that he was going to take it to
different police departments and try to
sell it and what he was telling those
police departments and how it has
evolved over time and how it's used and
so a weapon that is that his pitched as
being a non-lethal weapon and has
pitched that way for you know years and
years that ends up being involved in the
killing of more than a thousand people I
I view that as being as being negative
right ok good so I mean that is so let's
start with that the promise of the Taser
what was what was the the thinking
behind the Taser and give us a sense I
mean this is basically something that
came into
came into its own I guess around the
turn of this century but but tell us
what the what led to the development of
the Taser and then what ostensibly it
was supposed to do for us
the Taser was developed in the wake of
police incidences that are there will be
familiar to anyone who is listening to
this show right so
in the in the 60s and 70s you had
incidences of extreme violence they were
going on between you know people in the
community and the police in big cities
the Los Angeles place like that and this
guy Jack over who was an engineer and an
executive with Hughes Aircraft saw these
things happening and said you know I
think that there is a market for a
non-lethal weapon and he had the
innovation he had the idea that he
wanted to take an electric fence and
shoot it out of a gun that was the idea
and the concept beyond that was that he
wanted to give police a non-lethal tool
that could de-escalate a situation
immediately without having to kill or
beat or otherwise brutalize somebody on
the street so that's where that's where
it started
I mean those sounds like fairly I think
legit goals what tell us how it
developed well over the first you know
ten years or so Jack was not very
successful selling the weapon at all but
then after the way in the wake of a
woman being killed in Los Angeles by
LAPD officers ulil of is her name there
was a lot of consternation there were
there were protests about her her death
and the LAPD decided that they were
gonna have to look for a non-lethal tool
like this and so they went and purchased
the weapon and what happened what
happened over years though you know Jack
over had his companies which you know
largely failed and then two brothers
from Scottsdale Arizona picked up the
idea and changed the patent to
strengthen the power of the device
itself and so that's really what
happened over the years like Jack over
developed a device that seems through
his research to be safe like it was
non-lethal so he told people when he was
selling this you know there's no
guarantee if this is not going to kill
people but basically I believe that it's
going the the power levels are set the
vitter won't actually cause people to go
into cardiac arrest and police
over the years started asking for a
stronger and stronger and stronger
weapon they were finding that they would
use it on suspects and the power wasn't
sufficient enough to bring them down
bring them to the ground until they
asked for increased power and the Smith
Brothers decided to do this I mean Jack
overdid it initially ramped up the power
and then the Smith Brothers rent on the
power put a bit not 226 Watts was
eventually where they got and when it
was ramped up to that power level they
became more and more dangerous and so
that's that's where we ran into into
problems that people being tasered and
then you know dying what when was
essentially it follows that LA the
adoption by the LA Police Department
when was these sort of like broader when
did we hit fifty percent saturation
let's say oh that's a tough one so there
are about a hundred percent to have
attrition right now right I would say
that that they were going through their
biggest period of growth around 2003
2004 but I don't have this SEC documents
in front of me right now I would say
that good well I guess I am asking
because the there's a couple of things
that are going on there it seems to me
that at that point you're starting to
get Police Department's having a lot of
Department of Homeland Security type
funding how much of the how much of this
was the a function of the you know being
adopted by the LA Police Department how
much of it was a function of we have a
budget now for stuff like this
well there were they did there were
federal dollars that were put toward
this kind of weapon in the wake of 9/11
I think a lot of it was was branding
marketing like Taser International did
some really interesting work by and
sales by essentially deputizing police
officers should be trainers and so they
would go into you have a police officer
from one organization from one police
department goes into a police department
in another part of the county say
and they train officers there on how to
use the Taser and then in the process
you know it's like it's like a Mary Kay
Cosmetics thing there they're selling as
well as training how to use it like a
Tupperware party pens and so this was
happening all over the country and
because of that because of the attention
that Kaiser was garnering because it was
kind of a new and interesting tool that
was being used by the police department
and also because it was a publicly
traded company and they were doing a lot
to market the business on Wall Street
and around it you had a lot of attention
being paid to this weapon so you know
yes it was the federal dollars becoming
available that a lot of police
departments to spend a little bit more
money on it but since it was being
marketed and since police chief's around
the country remember there are 18,000
police departments across the country as
they get more and more information about
the Taser and they realized that their
police want it they start lobbying you
know city city councils and mayor's to
allocate funding for these weapons and
it spread and so I give us a sense of
its of its failure I mean do we know I
mean I guess it's hard to sort of say
like how many people would be dead if we
didn't have tasers but I imagine like I
mean do we have a sense of how many
times these things are unholstered
versus versus guns like how what are the
measures in which you use to sort of I
mean it if a thousand people are dead
then clearly it it has not necessarily
decreased I guess deaths at the hand of
cops or has it I mean I because we don't
really have enough data on all of this
on some level do we that's part of the
argument that I'm making in the book is
that we really don't know there really
aren't metrics to tell us whether these
weapons are effective or not and so all
we can do is look at the periphery so
even even the deaths like there's no
federal agency that's looking into the
number of people who were killed by
police officers using taser weapon like
the count does not exist there was the
they blog the resource right now the
main resource that had been counting the
number of people killed by tasers is a
blog made by somebody whose brother was
killed in a circumstance where a police
officer used a Taser this is outside of
Toronto and her blog is called truth not
tasers and every time there's a media
report of somebody dying after being
shot with the Taser she puts it back she
puts it there and so that's that's been
the number and then there was a Reuters
investigation a couple years back that
backed up a lot of what she had done and
came up with the wrong shopping also you
know they they verified that it was over
a thousand people who had been killed by
these weapons so that's a metric you can
look at there are also reports that have
come out from different agencies
themselves talking about the failure
rate of khazars there was a study an
internal study that was shared in a
media story out in Los Angeles through
the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department
it showed that Tasers they failed half
the time like so half the time they were
unholstered and used on a suspect they
would fail and so we have we have data
like that that show at least where the
question should be about whether these
devices should continue to be used and
we have some idea on what should be
collected what data should be collected
but you're correct there's really not a
lot of love for us to to base our
decisions on from verifiable source what
is the perspective of police that you've
interviewed as to Tasers
I mean is there a is there a general
sentiment about them do they like them
at this point
I mean I understand you write that you
know early adoption people were pretty
excited about it is that that enthusiasm
for Tasers still there I think with a
lot of police that I spoke with there
was mostly because it's another tool
that they can use it's a it's another
weapon that you know they can have on
their belt they have access to just the
circumstances should require it but most
of the cops I talked to don't use them
very Street folks and when they use them
it's
an omelet which is you know ultimately a
pretty good thing the the marketing for
by Taser International early on was
taser early and often I think enough
attention has been paid by you know
people in media as well as people in
courtrooms
I mean Taser International has been sued
many many many times a lot of this stuff
is done detention I think because of all
of that attention police officers tend
to try to use tasers as infrequently as
possible but you do still see videos pop
up all the time of people the police
officers who are in circumstances where
it really doesn't seem like they should
be using a weapon where somebody's
unarmed or you know has their hands
behind their back and they're sitting on
the ground and also an officer reaches
for a taser that's really what we're
we're trying to avoid here so alright so
tasers are I guess you would say
tactical technology right you also write
about CompStat system which is more of
like a strategic I guess a technology
tell us about that and its efficacy a
cuff that was basically the first tool
that was used to try to take police data
and use it in a way that was as you said
strategic like you know what they had
what Bill Bratton and Jack people who
were leaders in the NYPD had done prior
to taking leadership roles at NYPD's
they would look at crimes and they would
they would get crime statistics and then
they would plot those points where
crimes had occurred on to a onto a wall
on to like a map on a wall and all
CompStat was was well how's that good
two things first of all it allowed them
to use computers to map out where those
crimes are happening and then so that
they had some real strategy about how to
go after specific crimes and how to
identify once the
crimes were happening in certain areas
and how to approach those they would
have these regular meetings with
everybody all of the precinct commanders
in the NYPD where they could talk about
the numbers what the numbers showed and
how they were planning to to go about
stopping the times as they were happen
so that that is on stat on a very basic
level and how it developed and yeah so
we talked about that number and my
understanding as you write is that it
it's the sort of the the secondary
implications have ComStat that we're
really the most effective aspects about
it is it basically gave everybody it's
almost as if it asked the right
questions and it required middle
management I guess to show up and answer
the questions and think about the
questions yeah that was part of it I
mean strategy is really the is really
the key here it's got police thinking
about okay here's here's some data here
is here are actual figures that we can
look at that show us what's happening on
the street and now we need to think
about how to approach you know where
were some problems emerged after that is
in you know to be aggressiveness that a
lot of those precinct commanders would
take in trying to you know stop crimes
as they were occurring it got to be
pretty pretty brutal and to what extent
was this technology that will that
travel throughout the country I mean it
has traveled throughout the country
pretty significantly come stat is the
precursor to predictive policing and
every I said up for their 18,000 police
departments in the United States a lot
of them are really small and so the
smaller departments that I but I'm
familiar with aren't using analytics as
much as larger ones but basically every
major Police Department in the country
is using a crime statistics and
predictive analytics or you know
analytics of some sort the figure
you know which crimes are happening and
how they can deploy resources to best
take advantage of it so I wouldn't say
that it's a hundred percent market
saturation saturation but it's probably
you know seventy seventy-five percent of
police departments use data in a way
that that follows along with what
started with constant has it been
successful um I think that the use of
data has been helpful for police
departments to understand how they
should deploy their resources and so
it's been helpful in that way at police
understand it better like who they're
arresting and who they want to be
arresting I think where it has been
unhelpful is where you end up between
resources to places where you know
police officers are essentially fueling
they're sending resources to places that
are high crime areas and all of a sudden
and those areas end up becoming places
where they conduct more arrests and
you're having high crime areas that are
just being flooded with police officers
and it kind of it's a self-fulfilling
prophecy you have you know data that is
pointing you in the direction of a
particular neighborhood and then all of
a sudden you know you have many police
officers there that are conducting more
arrests and making the that area worse
and conducting surveillance in those
areas and so you know that kind of
expansion of cops that has moved in the
wrong direction I think but data is
always helpful for police so how much I
mean how much of this dynamic overall is
a function of I mean we have we have
significant drops in crime all across
the country I mean there are some spots
where it hasn't been as dramatic and
maybe some spots where you know it there
hasn't been really a drop per se but in
in almost every category of a serious
crime it has been dropping precipitously
over the past 20-some odd years now
right
how much of this dynamic and and
nobody's really quite sure why I mean
the the theories range from barring lead
in gasoline to well I mean that's legit
theory that I think you know that that
has there's some data that supports it
internationally as well that 25 years
after lead is taken out of gasoline
there's a there's a big drop in crime
and it seems to be durable and whatever
has caused this this drop in crime how
much of what we see going on is sort of
Police Department's having to I don't
want to say busy work but I mean having
to create a narrative that suggests that
that police work is really the way to
inhibit crime as opposed to other
factors I mean obviously a bunch of it
well obviously at the margins right
police work has you know obviously
implications but if the biggest drop in
crime that we've had you know possibly
ever in the context of the country is
really a function of just environmental
factors that were you know a bank shot
on something that nobody anticipated but
we're just not pumping neurotoxins into
the air how much I mean how much of what
police departments are doing today is a
function of trying to build a narrative
that their work is is perhaps more
responsible for this drop in crime than
it is and that's suggesting there's a
conspiracy but I'm just saying that like
you know everybody likes to think what
they're doing is important yeah I mean
police chief's in particular police
leaders are always gonna go to the
government leaders in the cities and
trying to get an increased budget
they're gonna try to get
funding to do more things I I don't know
that you can say like who would be in
charge of that marketing effort because
the here talking right to just make it
seem as though police are more
responsible for the drop in crime than
they are I I think that you always have
police leaders who are making the
argument that their budget should
increase that they should have more cops
on the streets that their work is
valuable and I think that happens what
is always surprising to me is that while
they could argue for increased budgets
to bring on more police officers they
have been moving in the direction of
making requests making budget requests
to get the kinds of tools that are right
about in the book those you know body
camera phasers
facial recognition technology and all of
that stuff is really expensive and so it
has surprised me in researching this
book how much of the lobbying and
marketing that police leaders are doing
is now being directed toward trying to
get funding to purchase these tools
rather than expand the footprint of the
police department get more people hired
yes and I'm not sure I'm not sure why we
I was just about to ask like I mean why
why do you think that is is it is it a
function of like there's a a a push
dynamic that's going on that there are
that union leaders aren't pushing as
hard as you know people who can come in
with smaller you know sort of
technological innovations or is it I
mean having done having had a little bit
of exposure to police there's also sort
of equality some some of the you know
elements of the police like to have a
gear and it just sort of makes you feel
good I mean I guess that was more of
what I was asking not that there's
someone who's conspiring to to make it
seem like what they do is
is having you know impact on crime but I
mean I can tell you just you know if I
have someone on my podcast theme who's
in charge of social media that becomes
the most important thing that can be
done or grow the show right I mean
that's just inevitable and and so it's
like you know we need to get this
technology to to do our Instagram
account or whatever it is I mean so I
guess that that's what I'm trying to get
at is like what are the forces that are
driving the increase in technology and
why is that not as inhibited by expense
in a way that like if we could put I
don't know 10,000 20,000 more police on
the streets and have them more just
engaged in the community and maybe less
you know surveillance and more just sort
of like service type of stuff I mean
you'd have to have a complete change in
a lot right so one of the one of the
things that I think is contributing to
what we're talking about is that there
are big companies now that are marketing
these tools to police departments and
they have meetings you know the
International Association of Chiefs of
Police has an annual meeting every year
at a different City and you go to those
events and there is an entire room like
conference room filled with all the
different kinds of tools and
technologies that you can purchase so I
think there's a bit of a geek factor
there I think there's also a bit of a
factor related to police thinking of
themselves and thinking like you know if
I you know when I retire I there is an
opportunity for me to get into this
business I think there's some of that
going on I think that police leaders are
just being marketed to so intensely and
they are thinking like you know maybe
this is a necessary tool maybe this is
going to allow me to do more with less
that kind of thinking happens quite a
bit and they're being pitched to
constantly with that kind of message and
so I you know I think that I call it a
police industrial complex and and that
is what I think it is developing in
and that is part of the reason why you
don't have the kind of you know Union
expansion and pushes for for more hiring
that replaces this this idea of
marketing shalese for these tools these
businesses there's business there and
people want to make money where is that
money coming from that they're expending
like is he coming at and spending yeah
is it coming at the expense of for me
cut what's that well you and me you know
but I mean is there been increase I mean
is it is it an increase in local dollars
is it is that there are more federal
dollars going in there I mean like
presumably are they are they doing it at
the expense of actual cops right like I
mean if they're buying an increase in
technology that there was no market for
20 years ago is that money coming in an
increase in taxes is it coming because
there's other things being caught a cut
is that taxes local or is that tax is
federal that that money's going back to
these police departments I mean you have
you have increasing budgets for police
just across the country and you know I
pull out some numbers in the book but
the the increases is astronomical in the
amount of real money and real dollars
that has been expended on policing you
know it's really it's really a lot of
money that's being spent and so you know
every government is different I keep on
saying that there are all these police
departments or on the country 18
thousand of them each one of them is
going to be unique there's going to be
different parts of budgets that are
going to be overtaken by all these
budgets all over the place but you know
there is there are additional federal
dollars that are being pumped into
police departments to pay for technology
you know one of the most prominent
recent examples being in the wake of
Mike Brown being shot and killed by
Darren Wilson and Ferguson Missouri you
have a seventy five million dollar Block
Grant that's allocated to police
departments that want to purchase body
cameras
so there is an infusion from the federal
government to pay for these kinds of
tools but it's also city leaders making
decisions that yeah well I guess we need
to spend more money
on tools and weaponry and on police in
general and so that's just that's been a
trend over the last you know 40 50 years
it's fascinating stuff
Matt Stroud the book is thin blue lie
the failure of high-tech policing thanks
so much for your time today we'll put a
link to that book on majority dot F M
like that bye bye alright folks let's do
a couple of things first off some
breaking news
it just came across my transom as it
were according to the New York Times the
acting Border Protection chief is
resigning John Sanders expected the
acting one because we don't have an
existing one anyways is expected to step
down as public fury mounts over the
treatment of detained immigrant children
comes as the Trump administration said
it was transferring children back to the
Texas shelter that was criticized for
overcrowding and filthy conditions I
heard a report from one of the lawyers
it's not the lawyer that we played
yesterday but one of the other lawyers
who apparently they tour these
facilities and they generally don't go
public with anything that they see it's
it's a way that they can sort of like
advocate for folks without it being sort
of politicized I guess in a way where
they can work with people but they said
that that what they found was so
appalling that they had to go public
with it but the story was that they were
in the facility and they had seen like
an increase in numbers and they couldn't
quite figure out how this was possible
because the facility was only supposed
to hold like a third of the number of
kids that were on the the docket and
they were going down the docket and all
the numbers of the ages were zero one
two and apparently they were they were
driving around the facility and they saw
what it would amounted to
one of those like prefab steel buildings
that you can buy right you must see
those up you know you see them in in
rural areas you can buy prefabricated
steel buildings that are basically just
hangers they you know will be the size
of like a large hot house type of thing
but no windows and apparently that's
basically where they were warehousing
these kids and this is you know what our
country does so we're number one good
when right-wing ghouls are quitting and
or getting fired because they don't want
to enforce this stuff you know it's bad
well that's the question it's unclear
from this story whether this person is
resigning in protest or is resigning
because they say we have to make it look
like we're doing something like the pot
the problem isn't the policy it's the
the personnel so we're getting rid of
you as some type of like sacrifice to
the gods of here it is this is there's
more here the official confirmed his
resignation who requested anonymity
because he was not authorized to discuss
the matter said it was not clear whether
the impending resignation was connected
to recent criticism over the agency
management of large influx of migrant
families across a long the border even
that even if it was associated with the
criticism it's not clear whether this is
someone who had a conscience or someone
who was like oh ye this is gonna be bad
for me how am I going to advocate for
this private prison gig that I had lined
up if I'm associated with the guy who
puts babies in steel hot houses or if
it's just a matter of
Mick Mulvaney saying we got to make this
story go away who do we got a fire to
make it look like we fixed the problem
here's the you know and I don't think
this is gonna come as a surprise to
anybody listening to the sound of my
voice right now there is no getting rid
of middle management personnel to take
care of this problem we're getting rid
of an acting person who's probably the
second or third acting head of whatever
division this is there is a problem that
obviously this is an ideology this is an
ideology Donald Trump those people who
elected him are promoting and are
encouraging which is not to say that
there wasn't deep problems with our
immigration policy prior to Donald Trump
but the sadism the the impetus for this
stuff it's horrific
it really is horrific we may talk a
little bit more about that as thing but
what we will obviously follow this story
and if should we do the I would we do
the we should probably do the the scoop
yeah the scoop but also this is amazing
take a look at this there's a contest I
don't want to if I want to get into this
oh my gosh you're all gonna freak out
you're all gonna freak out you see this
so just as a public service
let me just read off this Andrew yang
tweet I will give $1,000
a month for the next 12 months free to
someone who retweets this and follows me
by July 4th
let's show why money is the answer and
why this is the campaign for people no
purchase necessary US citizens only I
just don't know how much I want to spend
you know having my Twitter mentions yeah
careful they ganking could be very
menacing oh whatever don't be like that
they're fine they're fine I just feel
bad for all the asthma attacks were
causing when we criticize them but you
know III wanted to give him credit
because he has come out sympathetic to
Bernie's debt relief proposal but then
he's got to do this huh Andrew did you
Andrew Andrew
hey hey at least they took SSDI off the
table did they you saw that he they
clarified that it's gonna be SSI but not
SSDI so you know what look why can't you
just say I'm if you in addition to
Medicare for all free college and a
complete universal system funded by
things like Wall Street taxes I say add
ubi on to it I'll meet you halfway
yeah but he's the reason he said
disability instead of specifying at the
beginning is because he wanted to talk
to both people well look I don't I don't
have any sense of why he did this but I
mean did we misinterpret what he said to
Dave Rubin oh no no he's since clarified
that when he said disability he wasn't
SSDI is safe so he just means SSI Social
Security insurance yeah he wants to get
rid of Social Security one of the things
that he's gonna get rid of but eyes I
said I said SSDI I'm sorry a second he
wants to get rid of Social Security
insurance that's one of the things that
will not stack with yang bucks Social
Security as in Social Security SSI I
don't know I know cuz it's just I don't
think it's just basic Social Security I
think so SSI is a separate program I'm
not an expert on it I have to look at
make only like this stuff that like Paul
Ryan god I'm not sure like it like
orphan and and widow could be stuff like
that I think there's about 6 million
people that exclusively get SSI and not
and the
other of those programs and if Paul Ryan
who he used direct cash transfer he
would have killed his dad
so ship lament 'el Security income
oh that's those are welfare programs
right yeah they're unapologetic about
counselor knows well right yeah and
that's the libertarian kind of
right-wing tinge of it it seems you've
engaged in quite a bit of discourse
about this subject while I was away that
referring to when he said when when Dave
Rubin said all these welfare programs
are boondoggles sure Quebec oh yeah
let's go back over this again I mean I I
really didn't want to do this oh my god
this is a godfather three moment but
wait a second again yank pulls us back
in I just want to know if I follow him
right now - I am I eligible for the
thousand bucks you got a retweet yeah
and it can't be like a smartass quote
tweet it's good just be a straight-up
guy - I feel like I would do it for not
five grand or a guaranteed two hundred
and fifty dollars a month like I would
even do it for like to go into the
lottery for five grand or if you gave me
a guaranteed 250 a month I would do it
but yeah let's let's just listen to it
again maybe maybe I misunderstood
because I I want to be you know like I
I've been quite clear about my problems
with the ubi Michaels sort of alluded to
it there is that I am totally down we've
giving cash universally to everyone as
long as it doesn't eliminate and yes
there are programs that I think are
problematic AFDC was better than tant
because we had a problem we realized
when there was in too many just as many
jobs I have a problem with block
granting this stuff and allowing certain
states dealing with it yes I do but the
idea that it's conceptually like you're
not even going to talk about the program
just the idea of providing things
like automatic economic stabilized
stabilizers that kick in during times
when the economy is gone south when
people lose jobs or stabilize when
people have you know other sort of
financial I don't know catastrophes or
just broadly support for folks who have
a higher need I have a problem with
eliminating that generically speaking
but maybe he said something more
specific in this and I just missed it
give or take all right so why not take
the 600 billion that are on programs
that we know are creating as many
problems probably as they're fixing if
not more and then do it that way like do
you think because it almost feels like
it's a like a little bit of a stopgap
that you'd still have to get to that
problem eventually oh well that's the
beauty of this the freedom dividend
proposal is that you have the six
hundred billion or so and then you're
saying hey guess what like it's now a
new right of citizenship everyone gets
it and then what's gonna happen is
you're gonna dramatically reduce the
enrollment in these programs very very
quickly because a lot of people would be
like I prefer the cash and then then
this new incoming population would just
opt for the dividend and then never end
up on these welfare programs so you
would end up shrinking the enrollments
over time and the way you describe you
just wouldn't do it all at once because
you know there are a lot of people in
very distinct situations and this is
actually much more politically feasible
and popular than going and trying to
tear these programs up and and you know
from from the roots up yeah are you
worried though okay hold on for a second
so let me say there are people in
difference so you said they're the
reason why you wouldn't you would do it
this way because there are people in
distinct situations and it also is
politically more palatable to do it this
way yeah it's a non reformist welfare
reform but he says as you describe so I
think that seems like it yeah it seems
like an agreement with the frame and I
always this is where I always come up
with the New York slumlord example which
is you hear stories and it's a common
practice in the city that aggressive
landlords get people out who are in rent
stabilized apartments but maybe they're
totally not liquid and cash-strapped and
they offer them something I've you know
seen things like insane like sure five
grand to leave an apartment I've seen
much bigger I'm or what I'm saying even
less right I'm saying as the point of
like the long term play for a family is
it's is it's is it's better you know if
you can to keep that apartment in that
housing security but you're so strapped
for cash that you might take that
short-term deal that makes more sense
so when I could just knowing like being
in a position where maybe cumulative lis
housing programs food stamps and so on
is what's literally keeping a roof over
your head but if you have absolutely no
cash flow the appeal of the immediate
sort of payoff is gonna be very strong
and it might be a really bad long-term
bargain for people that are really
vulnerable and that's why I have a
fundamental problem the long trap is
that you're weakening these programs
precisely and so it's a political one I
mean look I'm trying to figure out what
the six hundred billion dollars is that
they're referring to right I mean
because this guy I'm gonna give him the
benefit of the doubt he either knows
what Dave Reubens talking about when
dave rubin says six hundred billion
dollars annually or he doesn't and if he
doesn't he should go ahead let's go
before that so why not just blow apart
so I think the best libertarian argument
that I've heard for ubi is that
basically if you want to do a ubi it's
got the right idea why not just blow
apart the social safety net as is take
well because we know it's just a
boondoggle of middle management nonsense
with all the whacked-out incentives
incentives that you're talking about why
not just take all of that money which I
do we even know how much money is
actually put into these things of course
so how much right now six hundred
billion give or take give or take all
right so why not take the six hundred oh
okay so his six hundred billion dollars
so what I want I'm curious what he's
talking about because I I mean it's is
it's not Medicaid and and it's not
Medicaid presumably it's not chip right
which is children's health insurance
programs
our add-ons to that tamp is federal
block grants
I don't like blocker ants that's
problematic because you're leaving it up
to the state to distribute it but that's
basically the best they could do you
have the Earned Income Tax Credit which
is basically a payment you have the
child tax credit you have WIC
which is special nutrition program for
women infants and children right like
when you have babies
it may be your need for money is more
and may be different than it would be a
couple years later when you get that
extra grand and I guess maybe the idea
is like well you should have saved too
you know in anticipation of this I don't
know
SSDI is not part of that according to
according to what you've just told me
Matt that's about a hundred and forty
billion dollars
you have snap which is food stamps and
we had a record number of people who
needed snap in the wake of the financial
crisis that may drop down from like 40
some-odd million people down you know a
million or two which is based upon the
growth of the country you know a lower
percentage of people but that kicks in
automatically Social Security a
Supplemental Security Income SSI
provides need-based assistance to
disabled or elderly people with little
income and few assets now maybe giving
them $1,000 a month would be better than
what they get under that but III don't
know I mean I look I have no problem
with giving people cash it's just not
quite clear let's just say what it is
here this is one of the big yang gang
proponents talking about how SSDI will
exist on top of the freedom dividend SSI
will not and she has this graph here
okay so in thousands so I guess about
five million people they'd get rid of
payments to 5 million people who are on
but over two and a half million people
on yeah I don't know if you got like say
700 and SSI I mean it's you know like
here's the thing what I think is so
problematic about this is that so much
of the value of this program is
contingent upon the being able to do
this with precision and my complaint
with the ubi is exactly what it was two
or three years ago
which is there is a political process
and to ignore a political process like I
can tell you right now
Bernie's planned to forgive all debt it
goes through the meat grinder of you
know the chances of him being able to go
in there without obviously without a
Democrats in in in control of both
houses is you know him getting that past
is obviously very low it creates a a
political movement and maybe you get
there but let's just assume that they
were able to get something passed that
bill gets into the Senate in the house
and it gets completely mangled if the
worst-case scenario is like only half
the people get half of their debt that's
feel good like you have a lot of
latitude when the policy is we think
there should be less college debt you
have a lot of latitude as to where it
lands where you're not gonna come out
with something that is worse right like
there's no way
Bernie's proposal or Warren's proposal
or even the like Julian Castro's
proposal is gonna come out being more
problematic my fear with the ubi is is
that five years down the road you've now
according to yang found a politically
palatable way of getting rid of these
things people have opted out of them by
their own choice their own free will
they have opted out of them and then
five ten years down the road it's all a
payment system and then they start
working on cutting that absolutely and I
think the other thing that I mean just a
couple of things to note that are very
concerning to me is that one I'm not
trying to question his motives honestly
I know that this will be the way it's
interpreted but he say there's different
tunes depending on who he's talking to
there's definitely some times where it
sounds like he's pushing a plan that is
what we're talking about which is on top
of an addition to when he's talking to
Ruben right there he sounds like charles
Murray to me he's buying into and yeah
but but I think the other thing is like
again let's just be blunt this guy is
not gonna be elected president and if he
wants to run a campaign that is about
you know robotics replacing workers
which i think is questionable too there
needs to be some interrogation of some
of those assumptions and that a ubi is
the answer then you don't need to get
into all of the various Meccans of how
you're gonna undermine other programs
you can really just run an issue
campaign because that's the purpose so
when you have that you know when you're
just running a media issue campaign and
you're insisting on putting other things
on the table to pay for something that
isn't gonna happen that to me is also
very questionable well what Sam did just
described reminds me in gross and creepy
way of the concept of the non reformist
reform right which is something often
used by the socialist left to mean a
reform that somehow picks up its own
speed and moves us closer to a socialist
horizon right the horizon that he wants
to move us closer to seems to be some
kind of dystopian techno libertarian
horizon
so the ubi I like you said would be used
to sort of abolish the welfare state in
more of a gradual way which is why I am
referring to it as non reformist welfare
reform because welfare reform was a
horribly cruel program of austerity
implemented by Bill Clinton in the 90s
and it seems like that's the horizon
he's looking towards yeah I mean I'm
just gonna buy his what you know what he
said that's what he did
I mean I'm not even to make making any
assessment on why he said it or what
he's doing or if he has some other
agenda I have no idea I'm just going by
what he said and I don't like the sound
of it I don't like the sound of you know
you could also that's what they were
going to try and
you frankly with Social Security they
were gonna try and privatize it give
people the option of putting their
Social Security money in the private
stock market again leaving it up to the
individuals and it would be a disaster
from a policy standpoint I also frankly
don't think we should do this that with
the with vaccinations either there's a
whole host of things that I don't think
that we should allow people to choose in
terms of what the government does
[Music]
because the individuals best interest is
not necessarily the best interest of
society that's just the reality it also
seems like a way around the labor issues
that come with increasing automation
like Michael was saying that you know
he's skeptical of the idea of automation
I think it's a really great idea but if
we don't accompany that with real
political changes and changes in the
social relations of how we make things
and how we reproduce our society it's
not gonna be good well I always say
worry about capitalism not robots but I
mean like I said the problem that people
like it should be a good thing that
robots are replacing workers because it
means we have more leisure time but if
we still have the same system where we
all need to have jobs in order to
survive and work 40 hours a week then it
becomes sinister right well there's a
theory that's way the theory with all
technology that's introduced on some
level right like this is gonna make me
so much more efficient it's also going
to make me on call 24 hours a day and as
everyone else gets just more efficient
I'm going to be expected to have X
amount of percentage more efficiency and
more productivity and that's basically
the way it works
all right look should we do this now or
should we go into the fun half with this
yeah let's just do it well yeah we have
a little bit of conflict look I don't I
will more willing to stand down I'm not
invested in
numbers we're gonna do this yeah we're
gonna play the blockbuster Project
Veritas video and wonder why we're
playing this frankly and then well
because it's important and because we're
we're pursuing the truth
well of course cut out certain names
that we don't like appearing in it but
we will do this in the fun half folks
just a reminder you can support this
program by going to join the majority
report com it is your membership that
makes this show possible
and when you join you get access to the
fun half you well I guess that's more or
less about it I mean you get bragging
rights it's I don't know who you're
gonna find where that carries any huge
weight but you could do it and just
enjoy how people looking at you like
what are you talking about but you know
and that's really all that's important
so go in become a member join the
majority report com going to work the
next day brag about it to everybody
they're all gonna look at you like
you're weird but you know that you're
not it's a day they're the weird ones
hey it might get you weighed at the
Netroots nation conference I mean I can
I can I can tell you from experience
that it probably won't but but it could
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off today is Tuesday oh
how you doing good what are you doing
dead well tonight you what are you gonna
do now that it's summer you can't wear
your your adidas track suits while I
wear my free Lula shirt on the day of
Lula's hearing at the Brazilian Supreme
Court or she would say why is he at the
American Supreme Court I asked you what
I said I thought Supreme Court was kind
of self-explanatory that it would be the
country Supreme Court I would imagine
yep he said why is he at the American oh
I said the US Supreme Court and you said
yes
I said yes because I thought it was an
intentionally stupid question and I was
joking with you I was talking about the
US Supreme Court US Supreme Court Lula
is coming tonight sounds like it's gonna
be a great DJ Harvey K is here in studio
we're talking about the Wisconsin
uprising Bernie's speech Brian Mayer
from Brazil wire and tell asuras joining
us as well to talk about the Supreme
Court hearings and how the Guardian the
New York Times and Jimmy Dore the US
Supreme Court's hearings on Lula exactly
Sam and how The Guardian The New York
Times and Jimmy Dore failed the lava
jato coverage and what that has to teach
us about how to cover quote-unquote
corruption moving forward particularly
in places the u.s. is invested in Latin
America this Sunday for patrons Bill
Fletcher jr. on the Democratic Party and
the Grampian war of positions and how
the progressive movement relates to it
all so get your tickets to our Chicago
live show patreon.com slash t MBS see
you tonight at 7:00 Jamie this week on
the anti Fattah so I feel like it's been
a million years since I've been in the
office the studio but I'm going to do my
best at this plug here so last week we
spoke with our friend Sophie Weiner
night editor of splinter news about her
very cool socialist techno zine that she
started called plural it Ariat about
nightlife socialism and how to use
nightlife as a radical space to spread
socialism Friday we released a bonus for
our patrons that if I if I if I do say
so myself was pretty funny we read the
infamous crime think essay washing dot
dot dot or brain washing about how
cleanliness is a capitalist conspiracy
wrong bad about yourself and sell you
things thickness and coming up this week
we have a chat vigorous aka pretty bad
lefty for a wide-ranging conversation on
race identity politics and even a little
bit of electoral stuff
so check it out Matt well yeah literary
hangover just under three hours on
Nathaniel Hawthorne's the Blithedale
romance on the utopian socialists and y
both Nathaniel Hawthorne and the guy who
founded the New York Times were against
them turn it I guess I have my Wow on
the other one don't I can do the Wow
after the three hours all right six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the funny folks six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty see
you in the
[Music]
[Music]
just wanna we bring back the yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation these
you dance well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough with a break
Markinson I'm the alpha male psyche
what
[Music]
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blackmail
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100
birthday to meet you boys
I have a thought in Spanish to foil the
alpha males of alpha males
[Music]
some things to pay the price replies to
be around here I am a total
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen there is a
new Blockbuster video from Project
Veritas you have seen dave rubin
incessantly claim that he is being
shadow banned on twitter and on YouTube
and in fact I think it's hard to imagine
how well what Dave Reubens Twitter feed
would even look like if he wasn't
complaining about how much YouTube was
de monetizing him and how little he
needed YouTube and how much he needed
YouTube and on and on and now we finally
have proof Dave Rubin has retweeted out
definitive proof how do we know this is
definitive well of course there is a
person who is in silhouette who tells us
it's true so it must be true the idea
well let's just play this video here we
go but it was a special occasion to talk
about the future of the company for
YouTube and they described that they
were going to pause it for one second I
think this is important it's important
to note that whenever Google does
anything like this they will have their
employees go to a Masonic Temple of
course because the Masons have been
engaged in this type of subterfuge for
right since the original no platformers
right weren't they how long is the
Masonic temples been around right I mean
this is like where they breed vampires
too I really started in the
Enlightenment comment okay continue
me for YouTube and they described that
they were going to have more content
filtering and right after that happened
a lot of the content creator started to
get demonetised
and they just had to get the events I'm
talking about Dave Rubin talking about
pipe ATM talking about Tim Tim pool and
a lot of the other content creators
YouTube ecosystem just saw their view
counts just go through the weight so
just to clarify he's basing this off of
a trip to the Masonic Lodge not like
internal emails or something well of
course of course because they would
never send the point they would never
ever do have this meeting at Google
because then they could actually be held
to account if they have it at the
Masonic Temple now here's the other
thing that is interesting and and
partially why I think that that I I
think that this guy got played we can
see the view counts you can go to social
blade and see the view counts what they
would have done would have been
demonetized and had a lower rate of
monetization but the view counts are
obvious they have not dropped through
the floor but continue so how is it that
Google is able to target its people the
way that Google is able to target people
is that they take videos and then they
do a transliteration through using
artificial intelligence specifically the
insider verified that Prager you how the
conservative educational YouTube channel
and talk-show host Dave Reubens videos
received heightened analysis in the
artificial intelligence an arrow Graham
vaya con vaya con police's YouTube
distribution singling Prager and Ruben
out as right-wing and News Talk
at the translated text of what those
people are saying and then they assigned
certain categories to them like right
here or or or news talked and then
they're able to take those and apply
their algorithmic read biasing
unfairness algorithms to them does
everybody have the unfairness algorithm
ready we're meeting at the Masonic Lodge
we're gonna be drinking wine from Skull
goblets and I want everybody to have the
unfairness algorithm ladies and
gentlemen I give you the unfairness
algorithm don't make don't make I've
been creating for decades yeah don't
meet you will find it's extremely unfair
it's easy to dismiss the you are you a
is the algorithmically biasing
unfairness they thought they've merely
oh my god you're listening yes listen to
the guy who convinced project Veritas
and what's the guy whose project very
tense James okay James O'Keefe to you
who I I imagine it's one of the perfect
Liars or is a yes man or somebody
similar like this like look contact us I
will keep your name secret I will keep
it secret that we've even contacted us
and I will double whatever Andrew yang
ends up paying out to we just want to
hear your story yes just like just
amongst guys yes seriously
the assigns certain categories to them
like right here or news talked and then
they're able to take those and apply
their algorithmic we biasing unfairness
algorithms to mention that they're
continously passed across the platform
you see they're coming in and they're
putting your thumb down and the deciding
which content the users are allowed to
see what's scary about this to you
what's scary is that Google's deciding
what's important
it's not important they are going
through and they're effectively deleting
conversations from the the national
narrative it reminds me of a book I know
our estimation skills is low but how how
could you by hey wait don't we have the
tweet no no before I think we need
though G we have Dave's tweet I just I
am the to you guys I think that that's
an important part of the story here and
see this important because we're talking
about over under estimating somebody's
cognitive ability I just want to get
everything down on the record even if it
risks oh I wanna chat is that it yeah we
had that up we had that out all right
all right so the so ladies and gentlemen
to put code 1984 I never heard of it but
listen to me wait what is that wait
what's that book it get eliminated from
the algorithm we've had our lab we've
had our laugh and for when we first saw
this we thought okay this is this is
obviously you know some type of hoax or
whatnot but ladies and gentlemen we here
have received even more footage and I
think we owe it because we are truth
tellers to show you this footage that we
have discovered there's more to this and
it's not just Google doing this it would
be one thing if Google was functioning
as some type of editor on their platform
and deciding what was important and what
wasn't
but it's far more nefarious play the
video
so who gives you your marching orders on
who to suppress basically what we do in
suppressing Dave Rubin and all the other
right-wing showers every morning we can
enlist every response and suppress every
tiny and then we drove in report and the
writer legs and her bike breaks out fine
Michael black soldiers and Oh pants
pitcher hang tight hang over as well
thanks very much of it and the anti
father thanks - nice of whom we suppress
because third on the left and we do one
right here whatever that talents to do
so that's where I'm a direct basically
and redirect for money then just for
algorithms and ideologies and also my
damn daughter that's why we do so
because we're doing dog buns
[Laughter]
waha wife
why did we play that we're busted now
Jesus Christ super just don't let us why
Sam you're so selfish instincts are
profound I I know a lot of people would
have said hey why are we going to blow
the lid on ourselves but I'm sorry it's
the truth
and somebody in this office obviously or
someone at Google obviously squealed on
us
and and we know how humiliating is when
you censor the truth out of your show
that's the thing you got to get out in
front of it we could have cut out the
names majority report we could have cut
out the names Michael Brooks show and a
fade to white the anta fada literary
hangover but we wouldn't do that because
that would be embarrassing for us so
it's the truth the truth is out there
and we just played it so I don't you
know we had to do that and you know I'm
proud that we did oh I accidentally took
a call so let's just go with it you're
calling from a270 area code who's this
where he come from hello can you hear me
yes I can
who's this my name is Christian I live
in Tennessee and I just want one
question with you and that was um I
don't know if you've heard but uh this
year's Oerlikon will be happening in
Nashville Tennessee which is I'm excited
for because I actually live in
Murfreesboro and it's a lot closer for
me to attend so I'll be attending and I
was curious if you've done an email from
the people at put akan if you'll be
joining this here you know I don't I
don't think I have I didn't know that
about Tennessee and I didn't know and I
feel like it that we had heard from them
by this time last year hadn't we is it
that is it is it in September I think it
is October actually oh yeah maybe I I
don't know what but it wasn't in October
last time - yeah I think oh I don't know
you know I just don't know I maybe I'm
not invited this year
man I hope so because like I said it's
happening right here where I am and I
honestly wouldn't be able to make it to
Los Angeles because it's a little too
expensive for me I'm actually a college
student I just recently graduated from
Middle Tennessee State University with a
degree in English and I kind of
understand how all this since the on the
news recently there's all this stuff
about a proposal for ending tuition for
public colleges and all that and I'm
just going to be a real wreck once I
start having to pay the loans off yeah I
can imagine
well I I if if if I get invited to go I
will probably go although I was sort of
I thought it was in LA which was part of
my incentive but Tennessee sounds like
it'll be pretty cool too I guess it is
really nice actually yeah cuz I heard
good things I really loved I really
loved how you took down just last year
and it would just be amazing if you
could actually get on stage with
Crowder but we all know how much of how
he is essentially yeah it's true we know
how that we do all right why knows to
let you know if if I end up going if I
end up getting invited no idea I feel
like we should all go and do a cage
match with like Charlie Kirk and friends
I hear Tennessee is beautiful - yeah I
like Nashville a lot they've got a great
music scene there alright appreciate the
call it really is yeah I didn't know
that oh they changed my well we'll see I
haven't heard I it's quite possible that
I was not invited back because who knows
maybe I maybe I told you owned too hard
possibly everyone's afraid of you
calling from a to10 area code who's this
where you calling from
good afternoon Sam it's John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio
let me guess let me guess what you're
calling about John can I
will you give me $1,000 a month if I can
guess no all right well I'm gonna guess
anyways are you calling about the
Emerson poll John yeah I mean that's
part of my call yes burning at a
triumphant rile rollout of his a debt
cancellation salon yesterday warns a
debt cancellation plan helps a propellor
to double digit polling more than any
other plan that she introduced it will
affect more people sensible effect more
people now bernie is top warns plan by
bringing universality to his plan which
will cancel 1.6 trillion and student
debt I'd love to see some of the
congressional co-sponsor for Bernie's
plan Zao CEO an Omar and Premier Jaya
Paul and orsa Bernie soon so this
morning's Emerson national poll put
Bernie at 27 percent which is the
highest vote totals since a Biden
entered the race Bern Biden sits at 34
percent the combined total of Bernie and
Biden is the highest total since
mid-march and when you add Warren's 14%
you get you know seventy five percent
which is the highest total of the
campaign so so if you if you had just
Bernie and Warren together it's 41
percent are supporting the top two
progresses which is also the highest
percentage of the campaign and you could
help and it could help one of them win
at the convention on the second or later
ballots considering there probably will
be a brokered convention for the first
time since 1952
so Biden is getting most of his support
from people who think that he has the
best chance of beating Trump Bernie's
numbers are very similar to Biden's in
that metric but Bernie's been mentioning
how well he's doing against Trump in
various interviews and even offering a
sticker that says Bernie beats Trump if
you donate to his campaign I've talked
about how irrelevant this is many times
on this show because hypotheticals this
far out have little predictive quality I
don't think Bernie should talk about
this considering by
the numbers are slightly better against
jump and you need to move people away
from talking about this metric well in
the debate now hold on for one second
John let me let me just address that
because I was with you on this several
months ago but it but it but it
definitively seems like the horses out
of the barn as it were right and so I
think you do you you do engage in this
because one of two things are going to
happen from this point literally from
this point forward may happen in the
debate may happen in future debates may
happen in Iowa but there's going to be
something that's going to make Biden
look weaker than he is now
right it's like there's no way to make
Biden look stronger against Trump he is
at the peak assessment of his abilities
against Trump right there's no short of
like him walking up to Donald Trump and
shoving him right or smacking him around
or there's just no scenario that I can
come up with maybe there is one but I
can't contemplate one but there are many
opportunities for Biden to look weaker
right because now he's about to get
exposed more he's gonna be onstage
there's gonna be more interest
increasingly more interest in the
campaign if he goes to Iowa and he loses
then he starts to look like he's losing
so Biden has everything to lose in terms
of an assessment as to whether he can
beat Trump everyone else in the race
including burning have to gain in that
in that column and so I think that I
understand why they're engaging in this
three or four months ago I would have
said no because I didn't anticipate that
people thought Biden was gonna beat
Trump but I guess that was just a
vestige of people like you know
associating him with Obama I think we're
going to just see progressively more and
more people questioning can bide and
really handle this because if Biden
can't handle
this guy or that woman or this you know
whatever it is people are gonna start to
question whether can handle Trump and so
you know III guess it's also conceivable
that Biden is gonna do great in the
debates he's gonna come out there he's
gonna seem completely with it he's not
gonna fumble anything people are gonna
appreciate his policies he's gonna have
an answer for everything he's not gonna
come off as you know condescending or
whatever it is or defensive but I just I
find that hard to believe
and so I think we're gonna start to see
once that is a weak spot for him because
it is where all of his support lies so I
understand why if I was Bernie or really
if I was warned to and if I was anybody
else but Biden I would be talking about
this now because what Biden has to shift
to is like you want me to win not just I
can but you want me to and that's gonna
that's a much harder transition for him
to make I'm just gonna put in the plug
as always that the synthesis of this
point for Bernie is trade and she should
hit Biden so hard on that both on the
merits and also how are you gonna middle
class Joe it through the industrial belt
the Trump won when you supported these
bills that he knows how to attack dad
ass but go ahead John continue please
sorry no those are excellent point I
mean so in the debate itself I mean I
think that the the number one thing is
Bernie needs to promote his agenda first
of all because there's a lot of people
you know who's gonna be tuning in for
the first time and so I mean that should
be his main thing and then then
essentially you know like Michael said
it's attack Biden on on various issues
and then third you know maybe talk about
Trump a little bit I mean you only have
60 seconds to answer a question with ten
people in the debate thirty seconds for
a rebuttal if somebody addresses you so
I mean I know Bernie will say this is my
guess at least once
Joe and I both pull well against Trump
he will say that he'll say it at least
once because that's the way you present
this right you don't make you make the
argument like okay we're in the same
class together he wants to exclude other
people from that class of course and say
that we can we we're the two that can
beat and then he puts it on that that
plain ground that you're talking about
which is which one of us do you want
which one of us has policies are you
know you're gonna like more and that's
what he's gonna do and Joe Biden I don't
know what he's gonna do he's just gonna
be what do you think good what do you
think about like you know Warren has
been running these videos you know just
in the last couple of days saying you
know why they switched to Warren I mean
I think that Bernie should run something
like something like a you know come back
to Bernie campaign saying and you know
how he won 22 states 12 million votes
and then you know talking about how the
issues you know when he first brought
these up where we're considered extreme
now their mainstream do you think that
that's that that could be an effective
means of you know promotion I I mean I I
don't know if I would remind people that
they've left and come back to Bernie but
I think I think the there is something
to the idea that what Bernie has done
for the Democratic Party as evidenced by
all these people coming out with
proposals that are at the very least in
the spirit of proposals that he
introduced to the Democratic national
stage at least in this era right I mean
there's obviously a history of these in
the Democratic Party but in modern times
you know there was nobody carrying the
banner for Medicare for all who was at
you know the leadership of the party
there was you know things like student
debt all of these things he introduced
them and sort of legitimized them as
positions that everyone need
to follow and I think the argument from
Bernie is you can adopt a plan whether
it's like mine or anybody else's but the
question is how do you get other people
to adopt that plan and I've done that
the fact that everybody on this stage in
one way or another is echoing the plans
that I have is not an indication just
that the plans are good although they
are it's an indication of what needs to
happen on a national level you need to
not just present a plan you need to get
people to adopt the plan and that's what
I can do if I mean this is the way I
would I would do it as birdie is that I
understand we need a movement that is
bigger than me that we need to go out
into communities and get people to buy
into our program and then push for it
and everybody on this stage who's gonna
echo the plans that I've been talking
about they're not just validating the
plans themselves they're validating my
ability to help all of us move in that
direction that's what I would sell if I
was Bernie because Warren has
successfully I think branded herself as
having plans she's done a good job of
branding herself that way and I think
the way that she was able to do that is
because she's known for for you know for
doing this stuff and and and for having
a lot of skills you know
bureaucratically and whatnot well the
burning South Carolina just two days ago
I mean said just to your point he's
already testing this he said there's you
know he's there's a lot of good people
there proposing to do good things and
they intend to do good things but I'm
the one that basically has a movement
behind me and yes annex of actually
being able to put the pressure on the
system to achieve those his sales job
has to be not only do I have plans
that's just a function of getting good
people around you but I have a plan to
implement the plans
and that's that's what Bernie I think
yeah I would expect it he's going to try
and sell so he's going to basically
pocket the idea that he and Biden can
beat Trump mention it dismiss it move on
to like and not only do I have the
ability to be Trump because of what I've
learned from however you articulates us
in a way and hopefully it's as you know
sort of like as much about the movement
as himself which I think he's pretty
good at he will articulate that's what I
that's what I bring to the table an
understanding that I can have the best
plan in the world but if I don't have a
movement behind me I won't be able to
implement it and I expect that's what
he's gonna say and then I think Joe
Biden's gonna go all excuse me well
bless me bless me father a plan what
about you sit down and you say rebate on
a private jet tax and we phase out
Social Security right and then we have a
drink together that's right although I
don't drink here's my plan
it's to call everybody son here's my
plan remember Tip O'Neill and Ronald
Reagan well if you don't I have no
empathy for your college debts all right
thanks everybody
uh you there Sam yeah I am okay that's
how it would be if Joe and I are hanging
out yep
are you still there John yeah I'm still
here all right I'll see you tomorrow
and then we just walk away take care we
would just say we that's what that's the
way we would have very sweet you go get
coffee together and just sit but not
even be aware of each other's presence
just be talking I don't think that
that's specific to your interaction with
John no sure calling from a an eight for
seven area code who's this where you
come from dude hi Sam it's Josh and I'm
on my way to Boston to see my White Sox
beat your Red Sox on Monday click yeah
dream on Joe
Hey go out to the bleachers and wear
your White Sox cap that'll be fun I'm
sitting in the bleachers good anyways
first of all anyone in New York
Queens specifically please get out the
vote Tiffany Caban if you're not in
Queens and you're in Brooklyn or you're
in any other borough
please help get out the vote by
volunteering or canvassing uh I did an
early shift this morning and I've been
touched banking on my phone so everyone
needs to do this because she's a it's a
landmark election potentially but
actually wants to pick up on something
that John talked about when he talked
about how you wanted ill on Omar and she
the tiller and a privilege I Paul and
Alexei oc2 endorsed Bernie already and I
think they kind of had have when they
signed on to his bill because I think
this is in a way drawing the lines I
mean the student debt those weren't
signature bill and they've signed on to
Bernie's proposal and I think in a way
this is I mean not that you know someone
like jayapala necessarily are
self-identified socialist I think this
is them drawing the lines in the sand
between like a more liberalism or a more
liberal approach or a reformist approach
I or the liberal approach like warns and
I think signing out to something that's
more progressive like Bernie and so I
think I think it's to Josh in I think
that's pretty astute I mean I it leads
me to believe that we're not going to
see an endorsement from those folks that
this is that what they're going to do is
associate themselves in this manner and
I mean I I frankly like I I don't see it
as crucial that they endorse and I am
more concerned about like they're you
know maintaining their their power
frankly going on going forward rather
than you know then then some desire to
to to endorse because I'm not I just
don't know I think there's value in it
and when they come out and they co they
cosign on to legislation because I think
it's much more valuable in terms of like
our politics I just don't like how many
votes is it gonna make a difference to
Bernie to have those people sign you
know endorse one or the other I think an
official endorsement I mean just because
of the amount of sort of propaganda and
lies about his campaign would be helpful
but I I think you know I haven't been
convinced one way or another think that
it will be endorsed Bernie or probably
stay neutral as my sense I don't think
that they would not warn over Bernie
what I did but actually in so and I
thought that was where it was heading
but I actually think this is a good
catch though that Josh is making about
the debt plan because it's kind of one
thing to move in between and say I'm in
a partner with Bernie on something good
I'm an apartment Warren and something
good I think it it is an interesting
kind of shot across the bow that he
comes out with something that's so much
more kind of transformative and
aggressive and they sign on to it like
that and give him all of that shine I
mean because even like things like Jay
Paul going back to 2015 and thanking him
for talking about this when nobody else
talking about this that's a more sort of
right campaign style thing that isn't
this is good policy let's do it i I but
I would prefer them do it this way then
come out on say like some type of
endorsement that just ends up you know
creating acrimony and doesn't really
give you any material benefit you know
this type of stuff signals to the people
you know in in a sort of very sort of I
think a thinking the worst mints are
helpful for like local races like Caban
when AC endorses Gabon that yes you know
cuz it gets out votes so I mean I mean I
think he will endorse Bernie but she's
also signed onto his credit card bill or
they did they co-create that yes not
landing on their indifference but they
she's done the House version and for me
that also means
again Warren is known for getting into
politics through the credit card stuff
with Biden for me I think that's another
indication at least well I think like
obviously if you think about what
Bernie's arguments gonna be and I'm
quite convinced that it's going to be I
can get people I can move people like
literally not just come out with a plan
I can get the plan implemented and
that's what he's doing right like he's
getting people to sign on to his program
and on some level he's already done it
with the other candidates so and I think
like things that that push that
narrative that enhanced that narrative
are far more valuable it seems to me
than an endorsement
now AOC is sort of like in a different
league I think in many respects yeah
because she's a national figure but III
think this is I I would be surprised to
see any type of endorsement out of folks
like that until like you know February
March at the earliest but yeah he knows
oh can I get some wrecks yeah root for
the Red Sox how's that for a
recommendation right all right all right
to be honest with you like actually
seriously go to the ratskeller which
closed probably 20 years ago I don't
know is the rat still there Kenmore
Square I've know I've met the Boston
only 10 years get one Fenway Franks
those are good and then literally don't
root for the White Sox too aggressively
with no joke good luck Josh nice knowing
you all right we don't want your
canvassing fingers all knotted up - all
right let's get into some of this here
we mentioned Donald Trump saying that he
does not need congressional
authorization to strike Iran and now
john bolton is in some semi retreat the
Iranians have played this pretty smart
some time ago there was it was sort of
there was reporting that part of their
agenda was to basically peel john bolton
off of donald trump and certainly bolton
and Pompeyo failure in venezuela has
helped in that project there was
reporting i guess last week that trump
was a little bit pissed about that - i
thought it was gonna be easy
well now I look like an idiot again I
don't know if Donald Trump has any
ideological grounding in any of these
things I think he wanted to get rid of
the Iran deal because Obama had done it
and it had been perceived as a signature
achievement of Obama's and in many
respects was certainly was from a
foreign policy standpoint I think it was
you know arguably his Camp David Accords
and so now john bolton is in some
measure in retreat and here he is
arguing like look i i start this thing
with with virgin eyes it's not like i
came in with an agenda can you tell us
what is your endgame regarding Iran is
it a regime change perhaps a new nuclear
deal oh it's not regime change not the
policy of the United States
so go ahead what's your next call turn
ative posit incidentally what you just
witnessed was a guy answering a question
that was not asked they were asking what
his agenda is and he answered what the
policy of the United States is
ask me if I'm a fascist and I will
answer I am NOT a communist alternative
because you you stressed in the past
that you think that the United States
should push for regime change okay stop
there let me just address that because
it's been six months since I've been in
Israel so I have to do it periodically
you know when I was a private citizen I
said and wrote many many things they're
all out there I still believe in them
but that's not my function here today
not not to be a commentator on what I
said before versus what the policies of
the US government are the president sets
the policies I'm the National Security
Advisor not the national security
decision maker go ahead look if if Iran
gave up its pursuit of nuclear weapons
its ballistic missile development
program which is designed to create
delivery vehicles for nuclear weapons if
it gave up its support for terrorism it
could stop this other malign activities
across the region we'd be very happy
secretary Pompeo last year gave a speech
where he listed 12 things I've given you
four it's sort of an expanded list
that's the endgame we want now of course
when Donald Trump entered in an office
like two of those things that basically
been ticked off and dealing with support
for terrorism and hostile regimes even
if I stipulate that they do this that
all the regimes that we perceive as
hostile are legitimately hostile we were
halfway there in fact some people would
argue halting the nuclear capability is
more than halfway there
that's like two-thirds of the way there
but that was punted so there's john
bolton
really basically trying to explain to
president trouble you could trust me i
believe me i no one would be more upset
than i if they just didn't capitulate
and avoid a war want to just say i it's
not just that as a quote
whole private citizen that he was this
relentless war monger about Iran and
also regime change advocate across Latin
America and even a warmonger of North
Korea he took money from the m EK which
is a cult i mean you know it was taken
off of the terrorism list because of
that type of sort of political activity
they have a people as diverse as bolton
and howard dean yeah but that was just a
lined interest and there were being
money there right very popular group in
iran i mean the the the group that
fought on the side of saddam hussein
while they were while he was deploying
chemical weapons against the iran is a
great group to rely on to ease a regime
change
so we reported earlier that that the
acting board of protection chief is
resigning in response to people's
response of how we are treating children
and warehousing them here is brian
kilmeade
fox and friends albeit prior to this
resignation defending the failure of the
US government to treat these children
humanely to do things like get them bets
or to provide them medical care or food
or lice combs here he is
just amazing that these got these news
outlets seem to be on the same page of
the democratic talking points what they
say on sunday all of a sudden is parotid
and featured on monday and tuesday and
it is look at how bad these conditions
are for kids at the border keep in mind
so you don't build the border patrol
wasn't in charge of building a marriott
or a hyatt they're in charge of
detaining people that come across and do
the best they can but they're trained in
law enforcement so what do you want
their accommodations to be it's not
George Bush's fault or Bill Clinton's
fault of Barack Obama's fault
the accommodations haven't changed
the number of people coming through at
yeah well the number of unaccompanied
minors has increased because they've
changed the definition of what
unaccompanied means and they have kept
reunification of these children they
have deprioritized it they are not
getting these kids to family members
they have in the country we know this
this is their stated policy their stated
policy is to omit these people as a way
of basically she of firing warning shots
that's what their stated policy is
that's what they're trying to achieve so
this isn't a failure it is mission
accomplished to the extent that there is
a failure it's that they haven't been
able to keep it from the public in the
way that they had hoped that they have a
problem how do we make these people
suffer so that they actually make the
decision to stay in some of the most
violent situations in the world the most
dangerous situations in the world for
their kids the most desperate situations
in the world how can we make these
people suffer enough and get that
message back to people in those
situations that the suffering here is
going to be equivalent to the suffering
that you'll go through there so you
might as well just stay there without
the American public finding out that
we're doing this that's their dilemma
and of course there's no way to do that
not over time and I think we're also
finding that you can make these kids
suffer but they're not going to be dead
or some of them are I guess but they're
not going to be subject to the same
measure of violence but I think there
are at least a decent a number of
Americans who sort of feel like that
shouldn't be the bar for us
that we can't maintain our sense of our
exceptionalism if we are literally
treating kids in this way we just we're
not that inhumane now there are some who
are we played video the other day of
Trump supporters saying like I don't
want to be made to feel bad for these
kids it's the parents fault they're
using bad guy the bad guys are using
kids yeah I mean that's basically it
right it's like it's all about the
children unless you decide that you
don't want it to be
so there's kilmeade it's not it's not
the it's it's just the fault of these
these kids as if like getting beds is
that difficult or as if saying you know
what we're gonna go back that the
best-case scenario that we can do is
just to make sure that family members in
this country aren't afraid to come pick
up these kids or that we allow and
enhance their ability to connect with
these people they could do that but the
problem is that's not their sales pitch
to get reelected that's what's going on
here you know we talk about
externalities in the context of chasing
profit this is an externality that is in
in the context of chasing votes kids are
gonna suffer and that'll earn us some
more votes that's the plan so pretty
effing disgusting here's Lou Dobbs
going to further provide you know that
you know like everybody all the people
in the right-wing ecosphere they all
have sort of their bailiwick right that
they use to to justify the way that
we're treating these children and
treating immigrants and you know Trump
it's the murder murder in the mayhem and
m13 whatever happened to those guys took
care of them
m13 done m13 in the rapist and the
murder and then with someone like lou
dobbs it's because of the corruption of
our political process because you have
millions of undocumented immigrants
going in there and saying heck with it I
like being in this country it's great
only if I get to the opportunity to
dictate who will be the County
comptroller I'm gonna vote in this
election I'm gonna make sure I can have
my kids live in safety and work a to
actually let's be real probably two
full-time jobs look if I don't have a
stay over town selectman forget it
forget going back to Guatemala right I
don't care if they have a contract of my
life a cleaner election across the
country the president talking about
voter fraud and and the left-wing
national media you know absolutely
mocking him for doing so and it turns
out time after time after time as we
learn more and in part because of your
organization's judicial watch's efforts
and those of other groups we're seeing
real results here the president again
proved right yeah you know and it's tied
to the border crisis we've got tens of
millions of aliens both legally and
unlawfully present and the idea that
they they don't register the vote and
then be vote is just ludicrous so
there's a large number of aliens who are
illegally voting it's pretty clear
numbers and Texas have borne that out
numbers in Pennsylvania have borne that
out and you know frankly Lou the left
wants to be able to steal elections when
necessary
I think from the point of view of most
Americans every stolen vote is a civil
rights violation yeah and I don't know
about you but one stolen vote is too
many in my book well I mean all
unnecessary one stolen vote might be the
only one that you can come up with and
so it better be too many if the left is
trying to steal elections they're doing
a terrible job well that's the thing too
this just goes to show the undocumented
not only are they illegally voting but
they're also lazy wouldn't be funny if
though the undocumented and us in
general we are as egoic and as
short-sighted and stupid as the Clinton
campaign because what we do is we just
want to run up the national totals
through fraud we don't pay attention to
actually winning it's a it's a poor use
of our manpower though because we're
trying to take senate seats in texas
Texas is a massive state we could take
our thousands and hundreds of the
Masonic Temple
yeah I was like why are we taking all
these undocumented immigrants in Texas
and having them vote in Massachusetts it
doesn't make any sense that all the
illegals were like I like bade oh man
I'm not gonna go somewhere else to vote
he's got charisma and then once again
you're gonna get lost in the celebrity
culture yeah you get leftist infighting
among yeah it's really I think
coordinated all the undocumented people
that voted for Jill Stein and Wisconsin
I just I just find it amazing when you
see these guys they both dress up in
suits lou dobbs have been going down to
the office for a hundred million years
and this other dude coming down there
written a whole book the based
completely on a total lie but he surely
must know is a lie because he there's an
absence of data and he could say like
one is far too many as far as I'm
concerned and the reason why he says
that again is because there may be only
one there may be literally only one case
of this happening when someone thought
they could vote and didn't realize they
couldn't like they had a green card and
they thought oh I'm allowed to vote well
wait if we're working
including that I mean isn't there
actually is that totally obscene story
in Texas of a woman who what did she
vote in the wrong district or some well
she was on parole well I don't know the
specifics but the point is is she's in
prison for voting yes so there's no
doubt in my mind that there is one or
two and it's conceivable that it's
conceivable there has been a small town
supervisor position that has gone to
someone else because of that one or two
vote that has ever taken place but I
doubt it but these guys know they're
lying and they dress up to go on
television and put to have frickin
makeup on there just to lie I don't want
to go to Michigan and land it for
Hillary let's run out the total the
california lou dobbs is maybe the most
shameless liar of those hosts oh yeah to
invoke civil rights in this is
disgusting it's an asset e it's amazing
what should we play here oh yeah here's
bill o'reilly folks o'reilly getting it
are you bill o'reilly tweeted out a
piece on reparations but i think is
really astute slavery reparations is a
far left favorite he wrote because it
does a number of things it reinforces
the radical belief that the United
States was founded by racist white men I
think this is true who installed a
system whereby white guys white guys and
run everything right and blacks women
and others would be exploited
if those white guys get him get him
I mean I think the idea that black
people women had second-class
citizenship black people really I would
say probably close to
I don't know even fourth or fifth I mean
not even citizenship right just they
were literally machines to make money
capital investments yes definitionally
exploited women I'm gonna go make money
you stay at home and make sure that I
have the ability to come home and eat
and have progeny but in terms of
economic and political rights no I don't
think so I'm just going to I mean I
don't know if people back in the day
would say like hey sweetheart do you
want me to exploit you for the rest of
our lives but that's basically what is
the reason they call a farming the act
of mating animals husbandry right there
you go so I think Oh Riley's getting it
and he goes on to say it also suggests
that personal responsibility does not
count when the legacy of slavery dropped
a curtain of oppression on the black
race and there is no recovering from
that I mean I don't think that there is
no recovering from that but I think it's
pretty close at least in the context of
the time scope that we've been dealing
but aren't they saying reparations is
the way to help recover from that well I
think he's saying without reparations I
think he gets it I really do I think
analysis is exactly an individual thing
it's a structural thing exactly the
radical left says our society remains
unjust to this day
forget personal responsibility I mean
the only thing I would say is that
people aren't saying forget personal
responsibility I think they're saying it
is much much less important in this
critique and analysis and I just I don't
know what it is maybe it's because Bill
O'Reilly has been away from fox for so
long but he is getting it do a lot of
reading today in the Jacobin magazine
there was an amazing piece centralizing
race I was using the formation of early
slave states what do you think of that
Miller really enjoy it debate between it
all freed and kianga your mana Taylor oh
we have footage of Alon Omar yeah this
is weird
because I've been told that Al on Omar's
plan is to have us all engage in Sharia
law and something we need to take
seriously and here she is at Pride Day
Twin Cities I believe it's Gay Pride
dancing she's dancing at some type of
like sharia signal she were telling them
through this dance that they are gonna
be beheaded in approximately nine years
yeah oh this is oh I know it's an
invitation to the Saudis sheesh it's a
targeting mechanism she's there to to
plant targeting devices yeah everyone
everyone she shakes her butt at it's
gotta go we need to consider the
possibility that each person that this
woman is undulating towards Allah Nomar
is actually signaling to a Saudi death
squad that they should be beheaded and
to not consider that possibility the
thought experiment would be politically
correct and irresponsible we need to
really consider the question whether
Muslims are compatible with democracy we
need to really serious about this oh
let's play this to bet O'Rourke came out
with a proposal want to be fair here mmm
he's got a plan he's got a plan too oh
he is not looking happy whoa all of the
carefree I'm born to do this is not here
I mean this is a great plan if you're
getting ready to go run for Senate in in
Texas and I'll take it on the road in
Texas buddy but here he is I think well
listen to the plan this is for his war
tax I am somewhat sympathetic with maybe
the idea behind this
to me the most interesting idea in your
plan was this concept of a war tax I
think that'll turn heads when people
just hear that phrase what does that
mean to you
it means that before we go to war again
after we've ended the wars that we were
already in we're gonna make sure that we
understand the full cost and consequence
of going to those wars it's not just
deploying the women and men the missiles
and the bombs it's their care when they
come back I'll give you an example it
took us 40 years to recognize exposure
to Agent Orange as a presumptive
condition for the cancers that Vietnam
era veterans were dying of it's more
than 28 years since we first heard about
Gulf War Syndrome and we have yet to
fully pay the cost for the research and
the innovation and the care for those
who served in those wars the toxic burn
pits in Afghanistan in Iraq I want to
make sure that before we go into the
next war we've set aside a fund a
veteran's trust fund that will pay for
the care of those who have borne the
battle in those Wars 1 it ensures we
fulfill our commitments and meet our end
of the obligation and 2 it might make
America pause before we enter that next
war because we'll fully realize the full
cost of waging those wars that's the
idea right to make someone like me who
doesn't have anyone in their immediate
family serving actually stop and think
about the cost of what our servicemen
and women are doing right that's right
the wars that we're fighting today we're
asking the children of tomorrow to pay
for we've racked up nearly 6 trillion
dollars in debt for the post 9/11 wars
we've asked the military service members
their families veterans to bear that
cost and importantly they would be
exempted from any war tax but we allowed
the rest of America to pay for these
wars on our credit cards and have our
kids pay it back or crowd out other
funding priorities or even threaten the
security of those who paid in to Social
Security and Medicare their entire lives
it's time to pay for these wars as we
fight them and to ensure that those
families who do not have us service
members who are not composed of veterans
paid their fair share now there's
there's a kernel of something in here
that I appreciate and that is the idea
that you know certainly during the Iraq
war in the Afghanistan war it was very
easy for people to walk around
not even have any clue that we were at
war that we were creating this much
misery with particularly the people who
lived in those countries but also
amongst our own service personnel and uh
the problem with this is I just don't
think it works I like the idea like look
yes we should fully fund and do more for
people we send to war and having a more
transparency about that cost might might
might in some way implicate the decision
to go to war but for everything else
like households making less than 330
thousand dollars a year would pay 25
dollars those making less than 40 would
pay 57 those making less than 50
thousand would pay ninety eight dollars
those making less than 75 thousand would
pay 160 for those making less than a
hundred thousand would pay two hundred
and seventy those making less than two
hundred thousand would pay four hundred
and eighty-five dollars and if you're
making more than 200 thousand you'd pay
a thousand dollars these are not numbers
that I think are gonna make people say
like a wait a second should we invade
Iraq it's gonna cost me ninety eight
bucks I don't think so
like III think if if you really so yeah
I think that the idea that we're gonna
we're gonna pre-fund paying for our vets
is is good if it doesn't actually in
some way enable more war I don't see why
it would necessarily but I don't think
it in any way raises the consciousness
of Americans and in any way inhibits the
impetus to go to war if you want to do
that then say here's my war tax the war
tax are all these numbers and everybody
serves in the military we're gonna
conscripted er gonna restart the draft
well we're gonna take everybody from
ages 18 to 60 we're gonna we're gonna
put in the military you're gonna serve
two years starting now and then I think
if you really are interested in getting
the American public to say whoa wait a
second but otherwise I don't think it's
gonna have any of that other impact well
even if it did somehow raise awareness
awareness of war is not the problem here
because the government doesn't need the
support of the population to go into war
I mean Trump just said he doesn't even
need the support of Congress so without
the political power behind it it's like
a ridiculous tail wagging dog neoliberal
tax credit solution but you know what
that's all just fine with me because I
see sad bado up on the screen and you
know what I have to say about that
what the bigger the frown the more I'd
be down bait Oh call me Wow who knew and
it's it's just as surprising to me as it
is to you guys when did this happen Matt
will you put up my intimate wearing gag
I didn't realize I never picked up on
this what's going on oh it's going on
and maybe I got come to a recording of
the anti Fattah if your husband's out
nailing something I mean this is clearly
not happening anyway and I don't want to
actually run for Senate
people in Texas aren't we reclaim this
DIY art space as a political plan
we can't reconnect me with some of
contacts from the punk scene and early
vice prototypes oh I I can't use my
trust fund to forward a whole different
thing that risks the imagination of a
different kind of possibility you're
gonna apply that same ingenuity to
helping the Punk see now you know we're
gonna listen to Fugazi I'll show you the
new spots that'll be great folks I'm not
going to get to any more calls today I
don't think because we're gonna be
wrapping up shortly but
here is let's play this from Stephanie
cutter because this is important to
understand how this is breaking down
you're starting to see and this is the
way they roll out campaigns Donald Trump
was hitting Joe Biden because Barack
Obama hasn't endorsed him yet
and that should not be a surprise to
anybody because it would be highly it
would be very strange for him to endorse
at this at this stage but what we are
seeing is a lot of the people from the
Obama world I think the other day was
David Axelrod now it's Stephanie cutter
and which is not to say that Axelrod is
still welcome in that world in many
respects but maybe he is a little bit
Stephanie cutter but they're all talking
about pooh-poohing Bernie Sanders in
some way they're all running some type
of interference in in the areas in which
they can I will remind you and you know
what we should actually look to try and
find out who that a reporter was do you
remember in the run up to the 2016
primaries some reporter I think a
contacted you and to get to me
yeah I don't run a good name but I did
yeah a much we could find it and you
know wait for it but a report from a
leaplet yeah a reporter from Politico
wanted to oh it's interview maybe was on
background or just to get a quote or
something he was doing a an extended
piece on Martin O'Malley and the way he
put it to me was martin O'Malley wants
to know what he has to do to edge out
Elizabeth Warren and I was like
Elizabeth Warren what are you talking
about she's not running for president
Bernie Sanders is and he's like habit
he's not worried about Bernie Sanders he
just like the popularity of it Elizabeth
Warren hats I'm like what are you
serious
Bernie Sanders is going to do very well
in this primary and he's like haha I
mean literally laughing there's a level
of cluelessness in some circles they
just don't get what's happening on the
ground and right now regardless of how
you slice it there is a left lane in
this primary and according to this
Emerson poll 41% of people supporting
the two candidates in the left lane here
is Stephanie cutter at the health equity
summit which is sounds like fun well it
sounds like we're actually gonna provide
equity for everybody but I think is that
a name of an insurance company or what
is maybe it's more like people have
equity by investing and a health
insurance company
let's hear House Democrats are having a
hearing on Medicare for all most of the
candidates on the Democratic side all 24
of them I don't know if anybody has
joined the last 24 hours
have either commented on Medicare for
all or have signed on to it but what
does that really mean that's a really
good question because nobody knows
exactly what Medicare for all means the
only one with a very distinct Medicare
for all plan out there is Bernie Sanders
and he wants to replace the entire
healthcare system including Medicare and
put a universal plan in place along the
lines of Medicare for everybody that's
not gonna happen
first of all I I don't think Bernie will
be president don't tweet that because
there'll be a lot of hate on my Twitter
one of the sad things about Stephanie
cutter is that she's not aware that
video exists and so health equity
incidentally is literally a company
that helps provide services to
administer health savings accounts which
are not going to be terribly useful in a
an era when you're going to have
single-payer so I mean the the idea that
they're gonna poop who this is
I think healthy like that's exactly what
I want those people at that health
equity poor it's the absolute one I
think we don't have to worry about it's
not worth spending a dime that's not
worth spending a time on and Bernie's
the only one who's gonna do it
I'll take that message as well if the
opponents of Medicare for all were smart
they would launder their message a
little bit more before it got to the
public I also think the other thing too
I mean I just want to you know say I
think that obviously people across the
board can be really ridiculous on social
media and I think the key Bernie
campaign is is definitely trying you
know even if at times I think there is a
extreme double standard to to have
people you know behave in a way that
helps the campaign but you know a little
sympathy to people's anger there I think
that is where the legitimate part of
people's serious frustration comes out
is a highly compensated consultant
basically laughing off their ability to
have health insurance it's pretty
disgusting
yeah well that's a big problem with the
Obama people broadly speaking is that
there was a lot of like we there's a
little bit of lip service but now it's
cashing in uh let's just play one more
clip I haven't heard from Ben Stein in a
long time last time I heard from Ben
Stein was that he was he was getting
rolled by by women who wanted funding
from him right he was a pay Pig right
something like that that was the whole
design of win Ben Stein's money he like
got off on giving people his money
that's weird
little did we know we were witnessing
something very kinky on girls grow stop
here is uh
trish regan
she is she's strange she is strange
she's like it's a it's almost like she
says like hey I want you to put my my
what do you cut what do they call that
that goes up thing you read you humped
her I want you to put half my stuff on a
prompter over there half my stuff on a
prompter over there half my stuff on a
prompter over there cuz I want to make
it look like I'm just trying to think
about things as I say I'm starting to
think she's just like a fembot being
operated by Steve Bannon let's see here
we go let me ask you this though been in
this environment where you're now
looking at the lowest unemployment rate
for black Americans in the history of
the United States of America under none
other than President Trump is any of
that loyalty starting to shift I mean
our traditional black Democrats saying
hey maybe the Democratic Party has
failed me maybe I need to rethink this I
wish I could say that that was true but
I don't think it is true I I don't know
why it isn't true but there is a very
deep attachment to black people feeling
like they're the underdogs and the
feeling it's like they've been
victimized and for a very long time they
were the underdogs and they were being
victimized so you can see why they feel
that way but why they would attach
themselves to a person who means nothing
with trouble where everyone he touches
for everyone who comes around and like
Minister Farrakhan is a mystery to me
this this guy is a very very bad guy
this guy is Hitler this guy is Goebbels
he would if he could do all the things
that they've done he's talking about
termites what do we do with termites we
gas them so that's what he's talking
about with Jews as long as he's not
generalizing about all the blacks who
surround themselves with Louis Farrakhan
who once again not of the left so this
is this is prompted by Booker saying
that he would meet with Louis Farrakhan
after people were getting mad at him for
saying Biden should apologize for the
segregationist stuff yeah so it's a
gotcha
there you go Ben Stein of course spends
a lot of time in the black community
trying to figure out how everybody's
feeling you guys used to be underdogs is
that right yeah I wonder when he thinks
that stopped exactly when did he think
that systemic racism stopped like what
year and after after which anyone who
complains about it is just being a
whiner at Barack Obama you know we
should just address for people who don't
know this but assume most people do that
the labor force participation rate for
black people has been going down on a
fairly straight trajectory through the
Obama administration into the Trump
administration alright folks that's all
our time for today we will see you oh
yeah yeah listen
so tomorrow Michael's going to do the
show and then we're gonna do another
show and that is going to be the debate
we're gonna be doing the debates live
both of them they start at 9:00 p.m.
we'll probably come on about five ten
minutes before then we will be drinking
through the debates I would imagine
though that though and we hopefully will
have some guests and so see you tomorrow
twice
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
