so Digby we're talking about and you
know it's possible to to overestimate
the implications of this I think and to
sort of exaggerate the the size of the
shift here but Brad DeLong a is no you
know he's not a backbencher when it
comes to sort of democratic online you
know self-described neoliberal
economists you know in that world he's
pretty well-known and so this is not
this is this is not this is not nothing
as it were that he has come out and
renounced the neoliberal programmatic
agenda from a political perspective
saying that it is politically failed and
we can't go back and we must turn to the
left for our coalition and our solutions
because that's the price of admission to
to get any type of progress and even if
they are flawed in some respect but he
was talking about the neoliberal Rubin
wing of the Democratic Party as having
been unsuccessful politically but it
really was also unsuccessful
economically right like the whole
premise of this movement was that growth
in some way brings benefit to everybody
and the these folks you know presume
that their process was going to increase
growth it did not and to the extent that
it did it did not have the suppose it
effects that it was supposed to have
right I mean it was supposed to be a
rising tide lifts all boats and in fact
what happened was the tide didn't ride
as much rise as much as they said it did
and to the extent that it did it didn't
rise all boats it rose some very narrow
subset of boats as it were and they
further go on to say that if we
deregulate and get rid of of antitrust
there's going to be like a an outbreak
of
innovation and dynamism in the the
market and just the opposite happened we
got less new businesses starting we had
less businesses existing and all of that
sort of like mergers and acquisitions as
it were cut down on the dynamism of our
economy and hurt workers so there was a
big failure on both Accords what is your
sense going into this 2020 election of
the implications of a guy like Brad
DeLong coming out and saying we were
wrong and we should look to the left for
our solutions both you know from as a
practical political matter but also from
a policy perspective well I think it's
going to make a difference because what
that does is it sort of it validates the
the argue the argument within the
Democratic Party in a way that makes it
possible I mean I'm you know look
there's going to be an argument this is
not going to be just so ok well you know
Alexandria just tell us what to do and
we'll do it I mean that's not that's not
going to happen and it shouldn't happen
honestly I mean you know there's to be
hashed out within the party there are
you know a number of point of views but
but what he's saying and I think this is
true on both policy and on politics is
that let's let us stop assuming that we
have you know that there's anything to
be learned from the you know the
conservative views on these things they
have failed even worse than the
neoliberal did so let's you know let's
not let me look at the George Bush
administration there you know so they
have failed even worse than the Liberals
and to the extent that neoliberals you
know sort of compromised with them and
worked with them and did all that that
was a tremendous failure so we no longer
have to take that into account so the
argument then turns to the left and what
that means is that you know the more
center-left types we'll be arguing with
the more leftist types and you'll be
coming up with with you know policies
and politics that are leftward focused
and I really think that that's a huge
because throughout I mean I don't
remember a time since yeah I mean I
think it's since Reagan really that
everything in American politics both
policy and and politically has been
focused on the right every you know
everything we looked at you know people
just said outright this is a
conservative country that's what you got
to do and it you know that did not work
and it is not a conservative country you
can see I mean I think that Donald Trump
is the absolute you know nadir of the of
the conservative movement and we can see
what that has become and it that is not
a majoritarian view so it's a huge
opportunity if if the the Democrats and
and the the coalition within it which is
it's very big you know I mean there are
a lot of different factions within the
Democratic Party all with their own
concerns all trying to push their own
these you know this is not easy and
coalition politics isn't easy but it
does mark a change from the idea of
being this sort of defensive posture and
looking at you know how do we you know
how do we fight off the right you know
how do we how do we sort of keep to our
principles but try to accommodate them
and don't make them too mad and try to
figure out what to do that seems to be
falling away and you know I'm not saying
you can ignore them they are going to
exist and they're going to be as
malevolent as ever I don't think they're
dead yet but as far as the way that the
the party is going to be looking to this
next election and Beyond I think it is a
different focus looking into the future
and and a better one to be honest I mean
assuming that that Donald Trump doesn't
somehow you know come out of this on top
and get reelection I think this new era
is is potentially a very positive one
there were two things that struck me two
was that Brad DeLong had to say about
the never Trump errs like where were you
over the past 25 years as you realized
all these people around you that you
were taking meetings with we're horrible
that I enjoyed and I also have to say
that I think you know what's going to be
fascinating is the implications for like
a Biden or a Cory Booker or Chlo Bashar
in many respects yeah in this wick
because they no longer have the
intellectual cover for their positions I
mean you know they've just lost a very
big voice it seems to me that at the
very least that you know this idea of
Joe Biden getting up there and going
like you know Mike Pence is a good guy
and bless me father I have sinned
because I like Republicans that no
longer has like some type of like
establishment sort of credibility and
cover and I think that I think stuff
like that's going to be very problematic
particularly Obama yeah even the Obama
people are saying that you know I read
another thing with a bunch of them are
just going hey you know Joe Amy or the
other guy John Hickenlooper no we tried
it it didn't work so you know I think
that that hopefully that much at least
is over with I mean I hope when you know
the funny thing is I know that you and I
lamented this six years ago probably to
the day or you know as we saw the Obama
administration move in this manner but I
dig me we can talk more about it next
week for better for worse
I appreciate it as always thanks so much
for joining me
