[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I was simply trying to fix the culture
in many ways
[Music]
Wow that's kind of a I don't know that
kind of that's amazing
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday October 25th 2018 my
name is Michael Brooks and this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we're broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Nick
Guttman he is a director at our future
our progress our blue future which is a
youth oriented political action
organization dedicated to helping the
Democrats take back control the house
through the youth vote we're talking
about what they're doing and how they're
mobilizing bombs have been sent to Joe
Biden Robert DeNiro Maxine Waters in
addition to the Clintons Barack Obama
CNN and debbie Wasserman Schultz as
Donald Trump blames the media federal
judge blocks Georgia from throwing out
absentee ballots based on a voter on
signature mismatches in one small
reversal of Brian keps apartheid style
war on voting rights in Georgia as he
attempts to save himself from the stacey
abrams surge trump denies that he
is talking on his iPhone unsecured
iphone and that the Chinese are
listening to his every conversation what
new information would you learn maybe
slightly more overt admitting of crimes
or something the more interesting
question for me is how you would
translate it was a tough deal and they
were unfair and it was a bad deal get
Carl I cut on the phone into Mandarin
Saudi Arabia acknowledges that the
killing of Jamarcus yogi was
premeditated but is still denying any
involvement from senior leadership as
the crown prince says it was a horrible
thing that has touched every human on
earth and must be addressed family
separations at the border started last
year before everybody found out
apparently Donald Trump attacks
freeloaders on drug prices and 15
million people will lose pre-existing
condition coverage or see a premium
increase if a Republican lawsuit which
the Trump administration is not fighting
against goes through even as Republicans
from Donald Trump to Scott Walker are
lying fluently blatantly and daily on
pre-existing conditions as we head into
the midterms the world's most prominent
political prisoner Lula da Silva has
released a note to the Brazilian people
saying that Democrats those who believe
in democracy from all political
persuasions must unite to avert a
fascist adventure as Brazil heads to the
polls on Sunday in light of a massive
slush fund scandal where corporations
were buying information from whatsapp
users to spread fake news and propaganda
on behalf of the bolsa narrow campaign
and Workers Party candidate Fernando
Haddad calls bowls and arrow a fascist
barbarian Bernie Sanders took took to
the op-ed pages of the New York Times
demanding an end for the US support of
the Saudi UAE
a brutal war on Yemen which the United
States and UK participates with and
supports every day and Andrew Gilliam
shows how it's done all that and much
much more on today's majority report
boys club edition was myself Matt luck
Brendan Finn Jamie is taking her her one
day off today
Samantha is out and about I was thinking
of uh
right-wing Mandela like who I think I
think right-wing Mandela who many of you
may not know that character but it goes
back to Rick Santorum comparing the
struggle against Obamacare to the
struggle against apartheid when Mandela
died and then we decided but basically
Mandela
I decided Mandela would just become a
right-wing pundit I think the next
iteration for Mandela the next place for
that character go as he becomes Joe
Rogan right I think like you couldn't do
that on DMT and that's the same you saw
a double helix we're not trapping the
other person who the other person would
fill that lane would probably be
libertarian Gandhi but he hasn't been in
rotation libertarian Gandhi hasn't been
in rotation as much and I feel like
libertarian Gandhi would be the one like
the guest like the awful gas is like
like what we discovered when we let
children work in a factory was that
everybody had more money and the left
won't tell you that and I mean I feel
like that's super complicated
because on one hand you would say you
don't want kids like working making my
shot like that's that's up but
you're saying everyone makes more money
Wow
sometimes things are just like
complicated you got to think about GDP
anyways did you see this clip of this
rhinoceros pissing on a boa
uh yeah but I wanted to I was thinking
of right-wing Mandela because I wanted
to do like a budget of like bothering
Sam with the broad Reid like really it
was the last time you snapped up a
Samantha
Andrew Ghulam is leading in the polls
against odd racist Ron de santis there's
actually something in this clip here I
don't want to bring up this whole class
race debate I actually find a lot of it
really very useless and as I've said I
think the synthesis that we need to have
is actually operationally pretty clear
and I would recommend that everybody
read and listen to interviews that I've
done with Bill Fletcher jr. who I will
be talking to against soon
I think he is actually probably this he
has the best view of this sort of
overall in terms of integrating
perspectives but this is a good example
of how of course in a context like this
race where there are robo calls being
run that are you know overt racist
appeals where Ron de santis has a in
addition to obviously the sport of
Donald Trump has his own extensive
background with racist and xenophobic
groups
Andrew Gilliam would make history as the
first black governor of Florida and
there's also a huge amount of civil
rights issues including of course voting
rights which hang in the balance in this
election and there's also just a
principle of politics here that go on
the offense make yourself look good and
your opponent look bad and in this
exchange in addition to the rightness
and the beauty of how well Gilliam own
DeSantis here think to yourself outside
are that core of Republican voters who
are white identity politics driven what
normal person including people who they
might not be is whoa cos you whatever
this is where I get annoyed with the
identity side they might they might not
be on board with everything they might
not use the right terms whatever but
they're not they are very you can appeal
to them on justice and rightness
and also just who's a more appealing
human being what normal person outside
of that white identity politics base is
going to watch this exchange and not
come away backing Andrew Gilliam let's
watch this from last night it was
incredibly impressive a live TV in
August on the first day of the general
election campaign you said of Andrew
gillum's run for governor quote the last
thing we need to do is to monkey this up
by embracing this socialist agenda Fox
News quickly disavowed your words saying
quote they do not condone the language
now you called some of this response
absurd you've made appearances at four
of David Horace's Freedom Center events
again four separate times for speeches
among some of Mister Horowitz's
statements quoting here this country is
the only serious race war is against
whites you know I'll ask the questions
it's not a McCarthy game and I'm giving
it wait for the question I said okay he
also said if blacks are oppressed in
America why isn't there a black exodus
now in 2015 in your speech before the
Freedom Center you said of mr. Horowitz
David has done such a great great work
and I've been an admirer I've been to
these conferences in the past I've been
a big admirer of an organization that
shoots straight tells the American
people the truth and standing up for the
right thing those are his words here's
Mike there's my question he hadn't even
made those statements then yes he had
sir the first statement was made to know
everything my statement somebody makes
yeah look at the way the way Gilliam
looks at him when he squeaks like that
yes and this by the way this is all this
is all Jordan Peterson dominance
hierarchy stuff and he's right about
some of this so look at the body
language look at who looks better on TV
look who's whiney and defensive look
who's calm collected and clear and made
those statements then yes he had sir the
first statement was made am I supposed
to know every single statement somebody
here's the deal let me just say this let
me just say this right straight up you
know I've lived my life whether it's
athletics whether it's military whether
it's serving as a prosecutor you know
when I was down yeah
serving as a Florida prosecutor would be
a great indicator for the sensitivity to
racial justice issues like that going to
the Kavanagh like I played varsity
sports with blacks yeah right
actually if you read Christian piccoli
nice book we have on the show he talks
about one of the first and it one of the
first disconnects he had between being a
skinhead and as in high school was
playing football with black players and
he was able to put aside his literal
skinhead membership to win some games
Generac we work together as a team
regardless of race we had the American
flag on our arm we wore the same uniform
and we fought for the country when I was
a prosecutor I stood up for victims of
every race color and Creed that's the
only way to do it in our country it's
something I believe in and as governor I
will represent all the people everyone
will get a fair shake but I am NOT going
to bow down to the altar of political
correctness I'm going to not let the
media smear me like they like to do with
so many other people are certainly not
going to take anything from Andrew
Gilliam who's endorsed the dream
defenders which says Israel is an
apartheid state and which says the
prisons have no place in justice this is
Roger
and I mr. DeSantis all for now I wish
you would waited for the question
because I had a question it's not what
you think it is mr. Gilliam I'll give
you a chance to respond let me first say
my grandmother used to say a hit dog
will holler through this room mr.
DeSantis has spoken hey first of all
he's got neo-nazis helping him out in
this state he has spoken at racist
conferences he's accepted a contribution
and would not return it from someone who
referred to the former president of the
United States as a Muslim in igg er when
asked to return that money he said no
he's using that money to now fund
negative ads now I'm not calling mr.
DeSantis a racist I'm simply saying the
racists believe he's a racist
that's mr. DeSantis boom if I would ask
the audience to please let mr. DeSantis
now respond the conference I attended
was keynoted by a Medal of Honor
recipient and of course it's perfect
because he goes actually to the most
pathetic form of identity politics there
there's one person playing identity
politics the way people use the term
pejoratively in that clip and that's him
the pejorative critique of identity
politics is that everything else is
subordinate purely to your identity your
positions don't matter your arguments no
matter your identity is the only thing
that matters and to the extent that
that's ever true that of course is
either an incomplete picture or just
wrong and the only person that's doing
that is him I was played sports I was in
the military I prosecuted there was a
vet
there was a vet there Andrew Gilliam is
appealing to a broad set of people who
even if they aren't they might like to
think that they might want to actually
get to a place that's from ethical and
correct with regard to opposing racism
and that's going to be part it certainly
anybody who's susceptible to voting for
a Democrat in that race is going to have
that perspective so he framed it as you
know you're the one who's out of the
mainstream normal people don't run
around with neo-nazis normal people
don't go to freakish far-right divisive
conferences it's the
same way that the residents of
Charlottesville came out and they
confronted that little scumbag Jason
Kessler like don't come with your
terrorism your racism your toxicity and
ruin our town that is how it needs to be
framed and that was perfectly done and
absolutely right and also it took it out
of the morality game which these guys
love to do okay I don't know what is in
run DeSantis is heart I don't know what
the particulars of his you know how he
self justifies his support for Donald
Trump his associations with disgusting
people his advocacy of bigoted
xenophobic policies I don't care the
racists think you're a racist boom
that's it and no person who has any
pretension of leadership to a position
like governor's state of Florida in the
country that we have to create not the
country that it is now and certainly not
the country that it's been historically
should that ever be acceptable
Andrew Gilliam nailed that and that's
how you do it it's perfect we're gonna
take a brief break and we're gonna come
back with Nick Guffman and talk about
how young progressives are laying the
foundation to take back the house
[Music]
you
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Nick Guttman he is the co-founder and
executive director of our blue future
Nick thanks so much for being here thank
you for having me pleasure to be on so
Nick what is behind our blue future talk
about the stakes for young people in
politics and how did you guys come up
with this idea sure so the future was
started about a year ago a little over a
year ago by me and some friends from
school
we all went to American University and
were heavily involved in the College
Democrats there at AU and realizing you
know that 2018 was upon us we wanted to
see what young people could do and what
we could do to support young people who
wanted to get involved in political
campaigns knowing that there would be so
much energy so much excitement and so
much at stake because basically as you
know every issue is on the line and you
know our democracy is on the line and so
we knew young people were going to step
up and at the same time we felt that
young people weren't being supported and
haven't you know didn't have the
resources to really effectively mobilize
and organize their campuses for
political campaign so we got together we
started to think about this problem and
our own experiences doing political work
on college campuses and we said well why
don't we try to start an organization
that can really engage and equip young
people with the resources the tools the
network they need to be effective
organizers directly for some of the most
competitive congressional campaigns yeah
and you make the point and maybe you
could talk a little bit more because I'm
assuming you know when you look at the
polling and you talk to young people
whether it's issues that are very direct
like the student loan crisis and the
abuse of students through the student
loan industry and the federal government
with all its loans also the broader
questions of structural inequality and
diminished earning opportunities and the
other issues that result from extreme
wealth concentration and Oleg are
gee and also younger people's most
younger people's views on whether it be
marriage equality transgender rights and
things like that that there is a fair
amount of pretty left pretty um you know
a very least center-left views with
young people and also that younger
people are this is a very very diverse
generation and then on the flip side
obviously you have the traditional you
know oligarch influential Republican
donors like Sheldon Adelson dumping huge
amounts of money into far-right youth
organizations or as an example you know
Sam cedar of course of this show debated
Charlie Kirk the other day and turning
points USA doesn't focus electorally but
they do focus heavily obviously on you
know propagandizing for extreme
right-wing views on college campuses so
it was that sort of like where the
genesis was was on one hand you you're
doing this great work you know that
there's all this sort of energy for as
an example taking back the house which
we'll get to in a second but then all
this money is being dumped in from the
far right to skew the influence when it
comes down to young people yeah you've
got it you hit it right on the nail
there I mean you know to start we
believe that young people are with are
with us we believe young people can play
a critical role in helping to elect
progressive candidates Democratic
candidates who will stand up for the
values of our generation overwhelmingly
young people want to see bold action on
climate change on student debt on gun
violence prevention criminal justice
reform voting rights in that you know
our democracy and and and more women's
health health care for all and so young
people are with us on these issues and
at the same time the party and the sort
of institutional infrastructure of the
progressive movement does not do a
terrific job of funding and supporting
young people who want to dedicate their
lives to the progressive cause and to
you know improving the lives of folks in
their communities and we think that
electoral politics is just one tool in
our toolbox to be able to effect that
change and
you know we looked into the research
seeing how much money the college
Republicans get seeing how much money
turning-point USA had from these donors
there really isn't anything of the sort
on the left and so we said well we
should try to fix that problem we should
see what is possible and we've had you
know a good amount of success here in
our first year raising almost one
hundred thousand dollars supporting over
25 students across 19 different
congressional districts who are you know
mobilizing hundreds of thousands of
volunteers registering even more voters
and getting out into the field but you
know at the core of why we started this
as you mentioned is because there were
the lack an infrastructure to really
support young people who want to be
involved who want to be civically
engaged and who want to work for what
they believe in and they want to work
for progress and that's that's what
we're trying to trying to do with blue
teacher so talk about that specifically
how you guys have been going for a year
where is most I'm assume obviously in
contrast to these other you know the
right-wing groups which can just go to
these big donors and it you know it's
just like investing in your own future
basically if you're you know if you're a
donor who's current concerned about
bright removing environmental
regulations and getting more tax
giveaways and then you can kind of fund
these kids to go you know basically do
your work which will end up making you
more money in the long run where are you
getting your money from and then talk
about how you chose and how to deploy
your people and what raises specifically
you guys are focusing on organizing
around yeah so you know we started with
a grant and we were very grateful and
fortunate to receive a grant from the
volkl foundation earlier this year at
the beginning of 2018 and that grant
enabled us to really start working
full-time to develop the program to
develop our impact plan to develop
connections and networks with students
across about 17 different states and
design our program taking sort of a user
design a design thinking approach to
figure out what it is that students need
and
we're entirely youth-led I graduated in
2017 half of our co-founders are still
in school and the rest just graduated
last year and so we had a lot of
experience coming into it knowing how we
could best support students and we
wanted to you know make sure that
everything we were doing was in the in
the service of what students actually
needed and so we got started we had the
plan and then we started raising money a
lot of small dollar event we've had
three different fundraisers sort of
happy hours mostly with young people
contributing 10 15 20 bucks and we've
received the support of a couple other
PACs and organizations who are working
to elect many of the same candidates
that we're working on in terms of those
pains in the book as I said in 19
different congressional districts from
California to Florida Nebraska to New
Jersey and everywhere in between happy
to go through the list but we chose
these district based on the the network
that we established earlier in the year
connecting with College Democrats groups
around the country connecting with
student action groups around the country
and even some high school clubs as well
which we're really excited about and at
the same time we took a look at the
Center for information research on civic
learning and engagement the acronym
there is circle and they do research on
on youth engagement youth civic
engagement and they put out a list I
think back in April of 2018
of 50 districts around the country where
young people vote and higher than
expected percentages and if we really
make our voices heard young people will
make all the difference in helping to
elect one candidate over the other and
so all the districts that were in are
these sort of circle target districts
where young people can really make a
difference and so we're excited to be
supporting folks in those districts and
getting the word out that these are
places where if we all band together if
the young people unite the young people
will win I know you I know this is a
hard question because you don't want to
you know pick amongst all your kids
right so yeah all these are great
candidates and great races but can you
give
a couple of examples of a couple of
specific races you guys are targeting
who the candidates are what you guys are
specifically doing for them and what the
sort of dynamics of the races are like
yeah and it is a tough question in to
all our students if you're listening we
love all of you physically in tremendous
or absolutely
I apologize for asking the question I
just want to I just want to give some
texture to it for people just to kind of
fill it out a little bit but it could be
any any of the 19 races yeah and yeah I
could I mean I could go on for days
about the incredible work a couple
places that that come to mind is in
California's 49th District in San Diego
we've got two student organizers at UC
San Diego who have just been really
really organizing on an incredible level
they're connected so closely with
Michael Evans Democratic candidates
campaign and you know always hosting
phone banks during the week and then
going out on the doors on the weekend
and sort of our role is both supporting
those lead organizers who Reece typin so
that they can focus on organizing and
don't have to take you know a part-time
job working at the cafe or the library
on campus and that really goes a long
way for young people and we also support
with you know funding their uber rides
out to the districts or train tickets
out into a different part of the field
so 49 is looking really good and we're
really excited about that another
district that comes to mind just last
weekend I was up in upstate New York for
antonio delgado new york 19th district
Ulster County and what our students that
there was very innovative very unique
they you know understood fundamentally
that politics has to fuse with culture
and so what they did with some of our
funding was put together a youth voter
Corps to register voters to get people
excited and what they did just this past
weekend was host a community-wide
benefit concert with a lot of local
artists all of the candidates running up
and down the ticket
from state assembly to two to the
Congress and there were over 1500 people
from the community there they used our
funding to help galvanize that event and
they ended up raising over fifty
thousand dollars for the local Planned
Parenthood and local immigration group
and it was such a joy to be with them
and to be you know to witness what that
community is doing around such an
inspiring candidate in Antonio Delgado
and maybe just the last one that I point
to is down in Florida in the 26th
district Debbie mucosal Powell as well
as the 27th district with Shalala and
we've got high school students down
there who are just so engaged so active
in a way that I don't think that
narrative really gets out there that
high school students are taking
ownership certainly after parkland
after that tragedy we see a lot of high
school students stepping up and our
students down in Florida have been doing
that and the same thing we're funding
you know these kids can't even Drive so
we're funding their uber rides to the
field and then they're knocking on doors
for the whole day and making an impact
and when you send a young people to the
door and you you know they're pitching
you on this candidate and they're saying
this is about our futures it's about my
future
it's about your you know your children
and grandchildren's future it's a really
powerful narrative and we're really just
so lucky to be connected with these
incredibly talented organizers all
around the country and as I said I could
go on about Nebraska about Illinois
about Iowa Michigan up and down
California more high school students in
New Jersey and all the rest it's awesome
and and next as you guys as Juneau
spreads out to more places you can pay
for Juno rides instead of uber rides
there are some of the scooters we'll get
a partnership with bird and people can
canvass quicker that's actually really
good a bird that's what that's really
really smart
yeah you should write that one don't see
productive interview man okay um moving
forward I a two-part question I want I
do want to get to you know plans for
2020 in a second but
the other thing that I think people
really learned you know particularly you
know if for some people who go back to
you know had maybe a similar experience
or may add a more inspiring one in some
way or at the time because you know a
lot of young people obviously helped
Barack Obama become the first
african-american president in 2008 and
obviously he was this you know
incredibly appealing candidate and
talented candidate in a lot of ways and
so many people still have so much you
know appreciation for him in so many
ways and you know if you're like me you
like Barack Obama and you just have
fundamental disagreements on whether
it's you know policies towards Wall
Street the banks inequality global you
know drone warfare projections of
foreign policy I could go down the list
and it's I think one things that people
learned was you need to have some type
of constant and antagonistic but also
supportive relationship with those in
power whether you're you know Young
Democrats and then certainly I think
groups like DSA's growth is incredibly
helpful for this that's another group
that I think would be great if you guys
you know we're talking to as part of
this really broad out center-left
through socialist coalition that we need
and you know so that you could really
play a smart game where you're getting
Democrats into office which absolutely
needs to happen but then also having a
strategy for accountability so that
student debt relief happens so that
serious climate change plans happen and
so on and so forth so do you guys kind
of have like a thought process for say
even just the next year I mean and
obviously you know 2020 starts and this
is one of the problems is everything
just gets compressed into these
electoral terrariums and maybe this is
even more relevant after 2020 if we do
what we need to do and elect the
Democratic president but how you guys
can continue this in a way that means
like almost just like sort of the the
youth side of a left movement holding
power accountable so that real things
happen for people
yeah it's a great question and thanks
for raising it and you know we should
say that you know the Democratic Party
is not perfect but elections have
consequences and I think we saw that
especially in 2016 and we felt that most
recently with Brett Kavanaugh of
nomination to the Supreme Court and so
our students you know are totally fired
up around these Democratic candidates
whether they're perfect or not is a
different question and we're you know
really excited to be able to be in a
position in 2019 to hold them
accountable but we you know we support
our candidates and we believe in them
because we know that they'll stand up
for our values most of the time it's not
all of the time and in terms of our sort
of plan for accountability certainly
connecting with other youth-led advocacy
groups you know we're new we're still
learning and our focus has been mostly
on the election so we want to connect
with others you said advocacy groups
like DSA like the Alliance for youth
organizing and youth action just to name
a few
and and figure out what you know how
what we can advocate on and go back to
our candidates and say hey remember we
helped get you elected we dedicated you
know over 2,000 volunteer hours to your
campaign what can we do about student
debt what can we do about democracy
issues and voting rights and expanding
the franchise for all people and
especially young people how can we get
same-day registration so that students
who often have a million things going on
and realize oh I can't vote if I'm not
registered well why don't you go down to
the poll and register the same day so we
came out with sort of policy proposals
around mostly democracy and civil rights
issues although certainly expect to be
advocating around a host of different
issues as they come up
climate change gun violence healthcare
and the rest but in terms of 2019 we we
want to put that into play and this year
we're finding a lot of you liked well
with next year we see the model being
the same and we want to fund students to
organize around the issues and have
lobbying meetings what there can't you
know what the candidates that they help
to like bring them out
dc4 a youth-led day of action on Capitol
Hill or something of the sort and so we
really see it as a continuation
continuing to build political power for
young people continuing to trust young
people to be civic leaders in their
communities to be demanding a better
system and you know expanding the base
of young people who we can then circle
back to in 2020 and say okay well now
it's really all on the line this is our
chance to put our country back on the
right path and here's how we're going to
do it
how can people connect with you you know
obviously particularly students and
other young people there are a lot of
watch to the show how can they get
involved now and moving forward with our
blue future yeah that's a great question
and thanks for raising it and we
encourage everybody to follow us on
social yeah on facebook on Twitter on
Instagram like a blue future on all of
those platforms and we should pop right
up folks could also email us at hello at
our our future us was very responsive
and would love to connect with young
people old people every people to
discuss how we might be able to partner
collaborate and expand our political
power as young people and as
progressives so how about the hello at
our blue future dot us Nick Guffman is
the co-founder and executive director of
our blue future check it out they're
doing really important works and key
races I was actually just talking with a
good friend of mine last night about
Anthony Delgado's race upstate and it's
really important work thanks for what
you're doing appreciate your time Nick
thank you Michael
Mike you can take care bye bye I would
Anthony Delgado fellow Colgate grad yeah
also- shout out to a Claudia tinny also
Colgate grad who called the school crazy
left-wing school which is also not true
it's not what he call it I was hollow at
any she's the Trump GOP congresswoman in
central New York
oh she's who
you still got his running you know he's
running in like Upper Hudson Valley he's
all stirring right yeah okay and Anthony
bris Denny is Oh brandy she is running
yeah anybody she over here what's this
guy a rapper is Colgate to do with the
toothpaste well so Colgate toothpaste
came after Palmolive the soap the dish
soap but was it the whole family the
Colgate yeah it'll be Colgate or
something like that and it was a Baptist
school and he was like we will create
with this toothpaste fortune and extreme
leftist center of indoctrination
Wow young men and women can explore
gender fluidity they white patriarchy
how to be victims Lord how to be
professional victims study why there is
no absolute truth and really the only
truths are that white men are evil it
was so we almost 30 years ago has been
as bell hooks as so rightly noted I'll
be really funny College stuffy oligarch
college foundings that are all like
Charlie Kirk propaganda you got a
fortune based on like a salv
yeah we need to fund agenda studies to
yes like oh it's becoming a Mandela
impression to I be founded Palmolive
because I wanted a sensible soap for the
American consumer I can't
I found it Colgate because toxic
masculinity is running amok
I can't satirize like college culture
from a right-wing perspective without
going into right wing Mandela and the
point is not like that we shouldn't be
nice to each other and yeah we like
be good people but then it's like the
sjw's they're not good people if they're
 yelling man did you see this
video of Conor McGregor actually never
looked up the
the motto of my school but it turns out
that Alba Ho Mina's destructor means
white men are canceled and I have
receipts actually I did go I went to a
horrible Bates was co-educational and
abolitionists from the beginning so
there was obviously an extreme communist
engine yeah I mean I have a problem with
Bates sauce slavery would have ended
naturally I feel like the Northeast has
some better like better schools when you
go I feel like Virginia and Virginia's
that's that's tough stuff because I
don't mean the waivers to Colgate minute
now but Richard Spencer started out at
Colgate and then was like this place
isn't racist enough for me went to UVA
he literally transferred from Colgate to
UVA
yeah yeah the but on the other hand
Harvard's wealth was also built on
slavery so at any rate that I'm liking
men don't hashtag taxi endowment yeah
exactly hashtag tax the endowment indeed
I'm liking the I like Mandela Rogan I
think that works on the Michael Brooks
show on Tuesday please listen I mean
obviously I want you to listen watch and
subscribe in general but what's
happening in Brazil it runs directly
parallel to what's happening here it
couldn't be more important it has
massive regional implications and
there's no doubt that when US corporate
interests and intelligence services turn
their attention back to Latin America it
was to reverse the pink tide and it was
to target even a president like Lula who
was very social democratic and moderate
but wouldn't give over Brazil's oil
resources as an example to Chevron and
Exxon and fascism is being literal
fascism is being facilitated there and
also I will continue to cover Lula he is
absolutely a political prisoner and this
has really big ramifications and Brian
Mayer and I did to sort of I would say
that was probably the
you've covered a lot but I think we sort
of we covered most bases of it from the
howl of the D legitimization of the
Workers Party to the role that whether
it's the Atlas Network or other groups
that have actually been operative in
Latin America for a long time on behalf
of US business interests undermining
democracy are playing out in Brazil
right now I mean the Lula thing is sort
of what the show exists to cover in a
certain way right like the reason we do
wider context on that show is for
moments like this exactly exactly
I mean TMDs is you know contextual deep
dive and things run in concert globally
this Sunday elicit history with Julian
sorry Julian brave noise can really
embrace now Scott on indigenous
conceptions of property and global
indigenous rights struggles and actually
the really interesting policy
implications from New Zealand to India
that could have huge effects on both the
environment and ecological justice
patreon.com slash tmb us would you mind
Matt real quick just throwing up our
YouTube page because if you haven't
subscribed yet the michael brooks show
YouTube page has a hell of a lot of
clips up there and we haven't been
promoting it that much but we have been
steadily kind of building it up and once
it becomes hopefully we monetize soon
that's when we're gonna livestream to
Michael Brooks show over there and we're
gonna also do some distinct live events
that will be fun and totally separate
like maybe some video games maybe some
movie viewing some some shows with other
youtubers and podcasters and so on but
if you look like about a hundred away
from ten thousand and about a hundred
there yeah yeah let's get there that's a
big that's a big number obviously so I
think actually literally when you hit
10,000 it does something to algorithms
YouTube's algorithms are they graduate
based on followers and time watched so
right and so yeah you could see like
there's a lot of deep dives here there's
a lot of global stuff but also there's a
lot of um we're sort of like doing the
definitive anti intellectual dark web
channel
there's more pop culture there's more
sports it's you know it's very obviously
it's in the majority report universe but
it's we're doing something different
there and it's a great way to get the
flavor of the show and there's a lot of
clips with you know Matt Taibbi and a
Noah Chonga and other great guests and a
lot of Jordan Peterson and Dave Rubin
dunking so I'll take a little bit extra
time today to say which woody trying to
show oh yeah yeah good good stuff so
yeah please go to Michael Brooks show
YouTube hit that subscribe button and
share away and yeah get literary
hangover up there too that's another
great YouTube channel and Matt take us
through literary hangover well the new
episode isn't quite on YouTube yet it
takes a bit of time for me to to make
the videos for those but the new episode
is actually one that I did on my own
it's about an hour on the Pequot War or
I think is better literally known as the
mystic massacre it's basically the to
summarize of the first genocide in New
England and yeah check it out I'm really
happy with how it came together I was
pretty nervous stitching together a
couple documentaries a couple academic
articles and a couple of audio books so
a wide range of media to help that I use
to understand the the incident and yeah
I hope people and let me know how you
reacted to it too I'd be curious but yet
you're on comm slash literary hangover
and I would really recommend especially
if you haven't checked it out yet I
would listen to the Corey Robin pot
because that's a good transition I think
if you're a politics head to kind of
getting into the literary hangover frame
of mind and also at some point there's
gonna be we're gonna do some type of
literary hangover /tm vs youtube
crossovers so those will be like fun not
too long but you know fun standalone
events like watching Matt and I do drugs
together as an example of course also
check out the anti Fattah yeah it looks
like there's a new episode up six hours
ago the Battle of the Andes
shyam kana and Andy battle so episode 26
yeah check that out Jamie we'll talk
about it tomorrow and become a member of
the majority before today that's how
this show happens majority dot F M slash
become a member
slash join this actually forget the URL
is it slash become a member I thought it
was slash become a member join the
majority report calm well that's a whole
other URL is joined the majority report
calm join the majority report calm more
majority dot F M slash become a member I
believe it is there's also a link to it
if you're subscribing on iTunes and on
YouTube in the show notes and you can
click there directly and for pennies a
day get five day a week left politics
talk news and entertainment show also
like it on iTunes subscribe to it on
YouTube and spread the word we're going
to go to the fun half now Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you're idiots
we're just going to get rid of you
alright but dude dude dude dude dude
dude you want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur good
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's a win-win-win hell yeah
now listen tonight two three four five
times eight four seven nine oh six five
oh one four five seven two 38 56:27 1/2
5/8 3.9 billion
Wow the ultimate math nerd don't you see
why don't you got a real job instead of
spewing vitriolic hatred you left one
bomb everybody's taking their I'm hoping
that more moves to my repertoire all I
have is the dip in the swirl fine we can
double dip yes this is a perfect moment
no wait what you make under a million
dollars thank-yous me you you
 little leaf I think you belong
in jail thank you for saying that
you're a horrible despicable person all
right gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already hood Donald Trump can
kiss all of our asses hey it's a free
speech issue if you don't like me thank
you for calling into the majority report
them will be with you shortly
Ernest and it's very practical which I
like and it was sort of like to me it
was a way of giving a little bit all
right welcome back to the fun half when
was I back people didn't hear that death
threat right welcome to the fun half
everybody let's start if we're ready
we're gonna take a call out of the gate
you're calling from a 266 I think Skype
who are you where you calling from hello
give me me yes hey this is a map from
London a little Matt how are you yeah
I've got a couple of crushing questions
in her but I just also wanted to say for
some reason I've gotten a note from
Brett Kavanaugh and he thought that I
should be the medium to deliver it to
the majority report crew okay so I'll
get on for that later hey what can we
say bros before hoes am i right
sure yeah what's your question
my question is when fam goes through to
visit a Ronald Reagan for that DT event
do you think you'll be taking his own
Brooklyn or will we be boring Brian
Stevens I don't know I don't what what
DC event I don't remember that Devil
strike oh okay Matt it's a bit
inscrutable Matt you got it all right
Matt do we got im
what do we got here yeah question
yeah my question is going on my language
um who do you think is the more scary
and dangerous autocrat would you say
both Inara or Trump ball scenario I mean
right I got agree with that partner yeah
Trump because I mean look obviously
Trump controls the United States and so
there I mean the reason noam chomsky I
think no Chomsky said the Republican
Party is the most dangerous thing on
planet Earth and that's true because you
know it's this far-right extremist
oligarch identitarian party and whether
it's I mean we haven't even covered we
got to do that soon Trump talking about
tearing up these arms control treaties
too you know yeah all of the ode to thee
you know yeah so so it has global
implications but bolson arrow is quite
literally a fascist
he has consciousness show he's advocates
a return to military rule and he's
running explicitly he's not dog
whistling he's talked about increasing
police murders as an example so yes
anything else it's very very bizarre was
just quickly want to say I'm there's an
interesting link I'll send you on
Twitter about that treaty it's not that
our support Trump but um there's good
evidence that Russia's moves are based
on fears that they have about China or
jocking in their military industrial
complex about who has nuclear weapons
because nuclear weapons is a kind of
status game amongst most on forces
around the world but I often join link
it's interesting reading needless to say
the US
be leading and not not leading a
withdrawal but should be leading you
know staying in or calling for a better
treaty if this one is not fit for
purpose if you will I think your reading
of all scenarios right I mean the thing
is like Trump gets distracted so easily
the ball Senora is like his he's had the
same agenda for like 25 years
yeah part of there's a there's been a
lot of comments from current military
leaders in Brazil that and in his vice
presidential candidates of retired
military guys so it also fits into a
larger power grab and in Brazil you know
through a demonization of the Workers
Party and through the political
persecution of Lula and the lawfare crew
of Dilma they've really been managed to
poison a lot of the middle class and
also play on their own resentments I
mean look at some just utterly pathetic
disgusting figure like Henrique Cardoso
who was the president of Brazil in the
90s and was you know a former academic
and he was very popular and you know
lauded in the United States he was close
with Bill Clinton and Tony Blair and the
Third Way movement and even though and
even though bolson arrow has literally
said in the past that Cardozo should
have been killed by the military
Cardoso will not endorse Haddad and is
in Europe and remaining neutral and
there's no doubt that in addition to his
you know obvious interests and in
business and right wing economic views
it's also just the fact that you know
Cardozo is the type of guy like I'm a
PhD I come from an elite family and Lula
is a metalworker and has no college
education and he resents the hell out of
blue lobbying smarter better president
far more popular nationally and
internationally the and that is where
you know I emphasize so much that you
need to understand class as a function
not as an identity there's literally you
know in and I do take the Marxist
reading of that but there is class
identity politics from the wealthy and
the Oleg arcs and overlaps certainly
would race and gender and in Brazil the
part of the hatred of Lula and part even
of like the person
in by Sergio Moro obviously comes from
just an enormous resentment that a guy
who comes from the poor and then labor
background is better than they are
and it's really disgusting yeah and it's
really visceral yeah I agree if you're
reading and I mean I lived very briefly
well for two years with Brazilians in
the United Kingdom and they're really
nice people but I'm some of their
political views I found a little bit
shocking when we we got on to it I mean
it's interesting because South Africa is
the same but and I always had this idea
that Brazil was more ok on race but I
guess maybe scratching the surface or
depending which class people are from
they have quite a different feel for it
you know I was I was quite shocked at a
kind of anger towards left-wing politics
you know and it's just vote-buying
which in a sense it is but I mean it's
both lying all good policies right
everything so look we wanted to find it
like that
everything is vote-buying right-wing
politics is clear vote-buying
I mean I don't that that that phrase it
doesn't mean anything and it's and it's
used to delegitimize social program so
you know I completely agree look I had a
shaky start so thanks for giving me the
time but at polls when I wanted to say
to you Spears I'm Joe Rogan bat chick
did you there was a clip of recently I
also send it to you where basically he
was talking about the young Christine
Brasi full day with comedian actually
respect I can't remember the guys name
and then basically they all got it wrong
they both got it wrong as to the
evidence supporting her case and so
Rogen's like all you said she said do
and but he proved faced the whole thing
with I'm just a guy I don't know
anything and I just guys you don't know
anything yeah that's a move that's a
yeah you know then you should learn
something because you have a used
platform I appreciate the call brother
thank you yeah I mean that that
rhetorical and jimmy dore actually does
that to jimmy dore dozle I maintain Jack
Kafka mean now here's a totally
stupid view of politics that you should
do and if you don't do you're a sellout
here are some people in suits talking
about suing the government for
corruption right exactly
I should just take that credulous
we um and that has nothing to do with
being snobby or any of those stupid
arguments you know what I think that
door and Joe Rogan are actually smart
guys who are able to reach it
yeah come be honest competency is a
different question yeah my dumb dumb
comment is nothing to do with innate
traits it's a practice it's a practice
of aggressive and bold and stupidity
alright let's do a little bit of funny
here let's start with laugh at and then
we'll go to with Ted Cruz video of him
buying beer warning has always fault Ted
Cruz clips there's any children around
you might want to take them out of the
room
[Music]
[Laughter]
watch the way he says hi to people who
didn't say anything to me what are the
guys say I don't know but we have a
victor ger at it it's mainly thickburger
let's shall we say enhanced the sound so
[Music]
[Applause]
that's how Ted Cruz should be already if
I ever I mean I don't understand how
even if you're voting for him you don't
see him and go lying Ted like what other
way would there be to greet Ted Cruz
besides lyin Ted I'm I missed those days
when the guy I did you got to replay
that clip some time with I'm looking for
it on this compute those biker dudes who
supported Trump and then all of a sudden
out of nowhere we're just like you're
talking about killing innocent people in
Syria I don't think that's very decent
of you lyin Ted you've got damn
immigrant alright and this is this is an
important we should cover this more
there's an important ballot initiative
in California to create a public bank
every state needs a public bank and of
course all the Wall Street banks should
have been nationalized after the crisis
should be nationalized today but I vote
YES on B for a public bank this is an LA
rally and James Adomian the
Impressionists took his Bernie
impression out to support the initiative
and this is pretty funny sing with me if
you know the words when we find
ourselves in economic crisis Franklin
Roosevelt comes to me
urging public banking measure B when
Wall Street institutions favor the top
1% of 1%
of 10% of 1% total mess appeaser be
measure be measure be a public baking
option measure B everybody now measure B
measure B measure B Missouri public
banking option measure P boom boom boom
thank you thank you very much if
anybody's got bus fare I'm going into
the in tracks that's great
another thing that you're voting on in
these midterms and something that
absolutely will be make-or-break with
Democrats taking the house in addition
to Mitch McConnell gearing up to slash
Medicare Medicaid and Social Security is
of course protecting people pre-existing
conditions and I think it should go
without saying that of course you know
if you know that ultimately we need
single-payer universal government health
care in this country that you never risk
people's lives on the road and
protecting people pre-existing
conditions I I know personally of people
whose lives have been saved as well as
significant amounts of money and
Republicans are out aggressively lying
about this and the lead liar Donald
Trump put out this tweet yesterday that
of course like so many things he says I
mean this just doesn't this contains
literally no truth I know very funny I
know how to reassure them I know to
reassure them this is definitely this is
this is definitely the fascist big lie
category Donald Trump tweets out
yesterday Republicans would totally
protect people pre-existing conditions
Democrats will that exclamation point
third Republican now what I mean is will
protect them from migrant hordes coming
over the border exactly there's all
sorts of the first people that the
people from the Middle East in Mexico
want to attack are people with
pre-existing conditions and Democrats
and Venezuela funding it so this is a
complete lie
on every level I'll just take three
levels one level is of course the repeal
that Graham Cassidy as one example that
the Republicans tried to put a muscle
through last year would have in addition
to devastating Medicaid cuts jeopardized
people with pre-existing conditions or
created higher premiums and worse
insurance options that's the sort of
goes back to what they were trying to do
last year when they were trying to
devastate tens of millions of American
people's lives more recently there is an
insane
utterly without merit Republican
Attorney General backed lawsuit that
Jeff Sessions Justice Department is not
defending in court even though it is US
law and the court case on the mandate is
is laughable and you still have
Republicans including Republicans from
states that are literally supporting
this lawsuit suggesting that they will
protect pre-existing conditions it's of
course a complete lie and I just want to
read briefly now from a Democratic
analyst analysis that came out of the
House Oversight Committee if a Trump and
this is reported on the hill if a
trouble administration back lawsuit
against Obama care succeeds more than
fifteen million people could either lose
their health coverage or face premium
pre premium increases as a result of
their pre-existing conditions gender or
age according to a new report released
by congressional Democrats on Wednesday
the report released by the Democratic
staff on the house alvaro House
Oversight Committee serves as a
counterpoint to claims by report by
Republicans heading into the midterms
that they will protect people
pre-existing conditions the Trump
administration is supporting a federal
lawsuit brought by twenty GOP state's
attorneys that seeks to overturn
Obamacare protections for people with
pre-existing conditions in his letter
informing Congress of this decision not
to defend Obamacare in court attorney
general Jeff Sessions said he was acting
with approval the president United
States he did not offer any alternative
protections for individuals with
pre-existing conditions so make no
mistake this court case as well as the
legislative agenda for the future and
we're just banking on frankly at this
core cases that this case is so flimsy
so naked Lee ideological that the courts
are going to have to you know ignore it
essentially but no make no mistake there
kind of comeback not only for people
with pre-existing conditions but for the
what puny remains of the social safety
net and these are the two three poles of
Jess sessions as Attorney General he's
pissing Trump off because he's not being
aggressive enough in shielding Donald
Trump from criminal investigations then
he's working with Trump and the
Republicans to gut health care and then
the rest of his agenda is a savage and
systemic attack on civil rights and
giving the door the green light for
police departments to commit greater
acts of racism to top brutality and
abuse across the country and now and
those are all vital reasons why these
elections matter immensely and people
need to get out and vote for Democrats
across the board in the midterms no
 no nonsense and I have to say
speaking of no no nonsense Eric
Holder does a good job here we don't
play this game of because somebody has
been wrong in fact Eric Holder in many
respects has a awful record as Attorney
General his record with a wall street is
abysmal his record with civil rights was
good and we cover everything and we
recognize the importance of everything
on this show so with regards to a
broader coalition that spans from the
center to the center left to socialists
I'm looking for areas where we make
inroads and can align where we don't
align I have no problem critiquing I
actually defy I don't think anybody
actually pound-for-pound has done as
much coverage of the failure of the
Obama administration to hold Wall Street
criminally regulatory accountable as
this show when I first start on the show
in 2012 which was Obama's reelect Sam
was still covering that aggressively
even as obviously he was advocating
voting for Obama over Mitt Romney so you
know save it and look at these things
Mitch
early in this context when it comes to
voting rights and when it comes to the
midterms and specific vital races like
Stacey Abrams in Georgia where there is
a vicious full frontal assault on civil
and Voting Rights Eric Holder's in the
right and he's also articulating it well
on television here he is with Don Lemon
you said earlier this year the Blue Wave
will hit a gerrymandered seawall
presumably districts drawn by
Republicans to keep Democrats at bay
just two weeks out can the Democrats
overcome that I think the Democrats can
overcome that if we have a really
substantial turnout but I'm concerned
that this see wall of gerrymandering
might stop that blue wave from getting
to the shore and I point to Virginia
where Democrats beat Republicans by 10
percentage points last year but were
unable to take back the General Assembly
so then what what's to do then because
oftentimes when these go these cases go
to the court they lose well there are a
number of things we at the National
Democratic redistricting committee are
coming up with ways in which we put in
place these independent Commission's to
draw the lines as opposed to having
politicians choosing their voters we're
filing lawsuits where that is
appropriate and then again it's there's
a direct electoral consequence you can
get past some of this gerrymandering if
you have really really substantial
turnout but you shouldn't have a system
where you have to have substantial
turnit it ought to be whoever gets the
most votes should win but surprising
that people who the smallest number of
people's I should say it's not the
majority who is actually running the
country it is the minority and states
where there are fewer representatives
fewer people are actually deciding
what's good or what's bad for the entire
country well I think there are a whole
bunch of things that we need to focus on
I mean with regard to gerrymandering and
voter suppression you are seeing a
minority in this country taking power
that is not legitimately there's a
minority of people are taking majority
power and running things for the rest of
the country and frankly taking positions
that most of the rest of the country
does not does not favor in a really
simple way that is where you could track
obvious parallels between ikan
Micke power and oligarchy racism and
structural oppression gender and
structural oppression it is quite simply
small groups of people concentrating and
taking unearned power and that is the
common dynamic and Eric Holder's
absolutely right about that now this
will illustrate exactly what we're
talking about this is Steve Bannon
speaking to a very sparsely and frankly
sadly attended event in Staten Island
let's take a look at sloppy Steve that's
it there's no real constituency for this
stuff I mean this is a guy he lives on
earned media Steve Bannon is an Elmore
Leonard character who's funded by weird
racist oligarchs who want to strip your
money and resources away to enrich
themselves and also structure the courts
in the economy so that they and their
heirs can have power into perpetuity
this is where piketty's work on
intergenerational wealth and the stage
of capitalism or at we will either break
to a post-capitalist highly democratized
economy which harnesses technology to
generate broad-based prosperity and
human flourishing or we're going into
neo feudalism and make no mistake that
the Koch brothers and the Mercer's and
all of these other people that's exactly
what they want that's what Peter Thiel
wants it's futile it's fascistic it's
anti-democratic in favor of markets and
it's not even pro market in any sense
that people might use it in a vernacular
in terms of competition it is structural
setting of monopolies that are insulated
from any type of labor legal or policy
challenge that's it and there's no doubt
Steve Bannon does a good job at times
with a sort it with a with a fake
populism
and how you respond to that super simple
you disaggregate you say hey I'm not an
idiot I know that the subtext of all
this stuff is racial and on the flip
side where you're right about elites and
money concentration and condescension
and arrogance and lack of opportunity
for people great I agree with you sloppy
Steve so do you support Masri
unionization of America are you rallying
those 15 people in Staten Island to go
protest the Supreme Court overturning
collective bargaining rights I thought
not as I actually think you're taking
money from the most dangerous people on
the planet who want nothing more than to
concentrate wealth and power for
themselves and this is just a marketing
exercise and with a proper left
Democratic message on all issues we can
defeat that with with confidence and
clarity moving forward the market
rhetoric is very interesting like they
like the market more and more especially
when their relative buying power becomes
more and more greater relative to
everybody else right like yeah you'd
really like markets to if you were a
billionaire yeah exactly markets are
great if everything's preset for you and
don't ever believe any nonsense about
that there oh yeah they're gonna sure
they're gonna they really believe in
competition get the out of here
Peter Till's whole book is on how to
build yourself a monopoly in the Silicon
Valley economy at least in my reading
yeah and like and the idea that any sort
of generic libertarian economists who
would for instance probably still be at
George Mason University that they would
be that they would come to their ideas
about economics especially like
inheritance and tax and that sort of
thing and that it wouldn't be any
inflected by race at all like I don't it
doesn't really matter because the point
is that like those policies are
incredibly cruel and in order to not be
aware of that you have to have some sort
of dumb insulation from rate like your
own racism basically yeah we're just
structural disregard yeah like well we
talked I mean James Buchanan
who Nancy McLain did really important
work on a democracy and change democracy
and chains is a fundamental you got to
read that book if you don't understand
what's happening in the country today
and you know James Buchanan not only the
James Buchanan and and people in
Virginia perceive in the 1950s they got
it they understood that even if they
were less personally upset by Brown
versus Board of Education which a lot of
them were because they were racists but
even ones that say Buchanan didn't have
any sort of particularly personally
affective attitudes about race he
understood that the principle that
federal power in that instance could
intervene to protect civil and
individual and group in human rights
well guess what that has major
implications for labor power that has
major implications for feudalistic top
down apartheid economy and it did and of
course first and foremost it was black
people but it also absolutely affected
workers and poor people across the board
and they saw that so see what they see
and then with regards to normal people I
think there's plenty of people that can
be persuaded with a simple non jargony
relatable justice oriented and
self-interested message and then you see
what works and then yes there is a chunk
of voters that are they're voting on
identity issues and and it's
gross and maybe some of them will change
I think that's where the Civic space
comes in there was a great piece about
that guy I forget his name black was his
last name I think but he was the son of
that storm front guy and he went to
college in Florida and a new school
which is funny cuz it's a new school
Florida's a very hippy school and they
started inviting him to Seder dinners
and through this process now he's you
know voted for Obama and I think is
doing some type of PhD in history and
totally left the movement and it
happened through dialogue and engagement
in the Civic space and that's great and
at the same time like when you read
about this guy I don't think necessarily
all members of the you know of those
movements or is intellectually cure
or as ready as he was but being that as
it may those are much longer-term
projects than election in election out
cycles Donald Trump is threatening to
tear up arms control treaties this is
enormous ly dangerous obviously on a
number of levels there was some progress
under Obama with disarmament although
Obama also spent about a trillion
dollars in upgrading and and improving
infrastructure on our Arsenal it has not
been seriously discussed since the 1980s
where believe it or not Mikhail
Gorbachev and Ronald Reagan meeting in
Reykjavik actually said that we should
get rid of all nukes and set that as a
goal and since then there have been sort
of maintaining the order of arms control
and slight improvements under Bill
Clinton and Barack Obama and under
george w bush usually jeopardizing that
order by doing things like pulling out
the ballistic missile treaty so you
could bring back a renamed Star Wars and
now Donald Trump is getting on the train
in and taking this in in a very reckless
direction but trying to play off
China and Russia against each other
don't people come to their senses we
will built it up
don't
Russia has not adhere to the agreement
they should have been done years ago
until people come to their senses we
have more money than anybody else by far
we'll build it up until they come to
their senses when they do then we'll all
be smart and we'll all stop the landlord
and by the way not only stop we'll
reduce which I would love to do but
right now they have not adhered to the
agreement it's a threat to whoever you
want and it includes China and it
includes Russia and it includes anybody
else who wants to play that game you
can't do we can't play that game on me
the nuclear war game the nuclear war
game uh Russia has not stepped out of
any treaties and Russia like us has
definitely maintained its fleet playing
game by Stan and Tweety I don't know
what specific accusation he's making
there we'll do more more on that
certainly in the future it's nice to
have both climate change and nuclear
explosion anxiety right it is well it's
not only climate change that I have the
death instinct on it's also nuclear got
two different ways we can destroy the
planet I mean I just feel if I'm gonna
die it's totally unfair if not everybody
else dies there is something else about
the generational flavor of today's show
which is like you know Eric Levitz out a
piece recently saying look look like
with all of the caveats that it's about
the economy and it's not all old people
it blah blah blah all that stuff that's
actually really important I don't I'm
mostly I'm not a fan of
intergenerational politics but on a
super basic level you have a lot of
people running governance right now who
are like in their sixties seventies and
eighties acting very much like you might
act if you knew you didn't have much
time left on this planet like let's have
an orgy of extraction and abuse and burn
the down on the way out and if
you have if you're looking at more of
your life and obviously this is of
course I not tons Bernie Sanders right
he's in his 70s he's been fighting for
good things and justice and he's the
best politician we have in American life
so I'm not making that comment but
if you got more life ahead of you than
behind you uh you might want to think
about that cuz these people are
kerosene enos on the way out I mean
Donald Trump might be crazy and
delusional enough to think he'll be
immortal but on some level I mean I've
been on someone he probably ran for
president because he's freaked out about
dying honestly yeah I would not
underestimate sort of personal neuroses
planing to I mean I wouldn't
underestimate Freud and the death
instinct when you watch a clip like that
I'm just gonna talk about this briefly
in Brazil yes Sunday
jay-ar bolson ro leads in the polls last
week Mark Zuckerberg pulled down these
whatsapp things that were happening what
basically happen was a group of
companies illegally purchased bulk
whatsapp addresses and used it
apparently in conjunction with the bolsa
narrow campaign which is totally illegal
to spread fake news and lies to
brazilian social media users including
you know fake pictures from protests to
make protesters look like they were
having like public orgy Santa mists and
they worship Satan and that there was
all a lot of similar agenda that you
would hear here in terms of lies about
gay and transgender people to trigger an
evangelist response in that case Lula
this Silva's been in prison for over 200
days this case again and I'll say it
flatly he maintained as completely as
innocence and I certainly believe him
over any of his opponents and others
I'll also add that even if he did take a
condo after he was president the nine
twelve years in prison is an insane
punishment and nothing compared to the
sorts of regular corruption that you'd
see for many political leaders across
the globe the guy was the most
successful president of modern times he
lifted 40 million people out of poverty
reset global relations in ways including
of which if you look into it actually
help and where as a precursor for things
like the Iran deal and he would have
governed Brazil in a national unifying
way but also would've indulged every US
corporate demand on things like Brazil's
oil reserves which is part of why the
United States government and the US
Justice Department back this sprawling
corruption investigation which seems to
only snare left in nationalist
politicians and there's no doubt the
corruption goes across the board in
Latin America but why is it that there's
an Interpol notice on Alexandre Toledo
from Peru could have to do that he
didn't want to privatize why did they
try to bring in Michelle bascially a
moderate social democrat from Chile you
have to look at these things for what
they are and not have a sort of
decontextualized naive view of just pop
corruption as such corruption exists in
many different ways and it functions in
many different ways
that being said Lula was imprisoned and
on the case specifically against him
that judge Sergio Moro who in a rule
that goes back to the Inquisition in
Brazil there are still cases where the
prosecutor and the judge is the same
person let that sink in judge Sergio
Moro prosecuted and judge Lula his
wife's an oil attorney and has I believe
endorsed bolson arroz campaign and he
has regularly illegally released
wiretaps and other recorded
conversations and attempts to influence
electoral outcomes and the Lula
conviction rests entirely on the
testimony of a business executive who
got a reduced sentence there's no legal
documents there's no proof that Lula
ever lived in the condo there's no proof
he never paid bills in the condo there's
no proof that it was ever transferred to
him and basically Morro at the end of
the day just said well he's getting
sentenced because I truly believe that
he took it so and in addition to that
he's been completely silenced there have
not been press interviews with him he's
held in solitary confinement this is a
country where
drug cartel heads and murderers have TV
crews visit them in prison and they give
national press interviews Lula led by
over double digits in the polls and very
likely would have defeated balsan ro and
as if tracked precisely the kind of
social democratic national unifying
candidate that resistance people here
and elsewhere claim they want but I
don't see them you know crying for the
release of Lula see Bernie Sanders they
see some good Congress people here and I
see former heads of state like öland and
Zapatero in Europe as well as several
heads of state in Latin America and
former heads of state so let me just say
this is something you should be tweeting
people like AOC I'm surprised she hasn't
called for freeing Lula yet and in
solidarity with Brazil that's something
that every single self-proclaimed
progressive should be talking about in
the United States and following Bernie
Sanders lead on but also moderates
Kamala Harris and Cory Booker should be
talking about this in fact and he's
released
Lula released a letter to Brazilian
people where he called for a United
Democratic Front and to vote against the
fascist adventure Lula
call Lula called on quote-unquote
Democrats to defeat a fascist adventure
we've arrived this is Lula we've arrived
at the end of the electoral process with
the threaten of enormous setback for our
country for democracy and for our
suffering people it's the moment to
unite people the Democrats behind
Fernando Haddad is candidacy and then
just to quote briefly from france24 Lula
would have been the man leading the PT
challenge to bowls an arrow and was
widely and widely expected to win having
previously led the country from 2003 to
10 he remains widely admired but
likewise it loathes by many and it goes
on to talk about his accomplishments and
so on
we cannot allow despair to lead Brazil
towards a fascist adventure and Haddad
is campaigning aggressively the margin
is
is not looking good at all this is a guy
who will do all of the oil industries in
Wall Street's bidding which of course
will be incredibly harmful but also will
even increase police murders in Brazil
and has made comments about beating gay
children told a fellow congresswoman she
wasn't attractive enough to rape and has
made a number of racist comments against
black Brazilians and indigenous
Brazilians and there's connections to
Steve Bannon so anybody with any
connection to Brazil it couldn't be more
important to vote for Fernando Haddad
and save Brazilian democracy and we here
really need to start leaning on our
leaders and our civic networks to free
Lula da Silva and to have solidarity
with Brazil's left but also anybody that
still believes in democracy in Brazil
and labor and human rights Wow that's
kind of a I don't know that kind of
that's amazing ya know that's amazing I
want to get a lot of a Giotto t-shirt
Thank You Jimmy oh I love a javo t-shirt
actually you know what uh no no
like uh yeah Jimmy Dore should do the
right in your wheelhouse dude this is
about Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama
look terrible
they played an awful role in this going
back to the law fair coup against Dilma
getting removed on a technicality that
had nothing to do even with the lava
jato investigation and you have left
leader that's been imprisoned by a
corrupt justice system and oligarchs and
is supported by um you know a lot of
people that I think you'd you'd sort of
say you liked so why don't you do a few
of it why don't you why don't you take
one video of I don't know debbie
Wasserman Schultz saying something
stupid
take that off the rotation and do a
little bit of solidarity with Brazilian
democracy and the most important
political prisoner in the world how
about that maybe maybe maybe maybe you
could even just do a tiny little
correction on the uncritical propaganda
video that
played in support of the investigation
which is d legitimize not only the
Brazilian left but has been using new
attacks center-left leaders across Latin
America and has imprisoned Lula just a
thought but again I'm a sellout
so what do I know you're calling from a
3-5-2 area code who are you where he
calling from Keith calling from Florida
hey Keith what's going on hey so earlier
you guys were talking about the gilliam
debate and you know you played the clip
of the you know the the clip that's
going around on Twitter and everything
mm-hmm and basically so I'm a part-time
postal worker and almost every single
yard time where there's a DeSantis sign
there's also like you know a truck with
a rebel flag or a rebel flag in the yard
sure so it's not like so it's not just
like on the national you know it's not
just these robo calls or anything like
that like there has been a serious
uptick in like overt racism um you know
these were right the stuff that was
never here before so yeah I just thought
I'd kind of clarify that point 100%
there's no doubt and that's true
nationally it's actually you know who
had a useful phrase about this Mitt
Romney of all people when he was
pretending to have a conscience and
warning of the dangers of a trump
presidency he talked about trickle-down
racism and what you have right now is
you have obviously these things are
long-standing and in America's DNA and
courts the Republican Party brand but
also by it being so overt under Trump
it gives permission it gives permission
and so that's why you see that stuff I
appreciate the comment let's I love F
Mary kilts one of my favorite games
I thought F marry kill would probably
stay pretty firmly inside TM yes because
I didn't know if we could pull that off
on the majority report
I don't know this show it actually look
kind of funny it's called the special
without Brett Davis it's I don't know I
haven't heard of it but it looks nice a
it looks like it judging from this it
looks like a pretty cool show he had on
our buddies or some of our buddies three
of the Chapo boys on Mac Chrisman Virgil
Texas and well menaker something point
out I apologize the other day we're
doing the Aqua Deena job and I used
Texas's a tweet I called them virgin
Texas I apologize so this is them
getting asked of question a very
interesting question about f Marik kill
but I have to say it seems to me that
the answer is so obvious here that it's
really just kind of a softball but we
did want to play this what do you think
about the podcasting landscape right now
like I'll put it this way marry
kill pod save America Sam cedar majority
report come town okay this is easy
 come town Mary Sam cedar kill pod
save America absolutely how could you
not them there's so much come
there's so much they're not marriage
material
Nick Mullen he's a gym rat he's got a
mustache
very handsome you've got a snob you know
an epicurean a guy who enjoys all the
pleasures of life and then you have Adam
who's sort of the intellectual absolute
marriage material yeah the one you end
with yeah count on you know after you
ran through Nick's oven at it but you
won't appreciate him unless you've kind
of taste it exactly and then kill pod
save America I mean that that should be
on it obvious it's because they deserve
to die had such a well delivered lied
because they deserve to die calling Adam
freed linen intellectual with a straight
face is really funny too
I really like stop that just cuz II the
jus I stop is an epicurean he is
I think I like I I don't listen every
episode I like I enjoy come town and I
think they're all funny and dynamic
really works but I have a very big soft
spot for stuff Stobbs dope yeah I worked
with that that month or so this year
when I was out I was working on a pilot
and was booking a lot of the talent on
it and ended up getting stuff involved
and he was wonderful to work with
that's awesome he's super funny it's a
funny show I guess we're shouting and
then we always got a shout out bodega
boys if we're outing out of the pots big
up so bodega boys yeah I think bodega
boys is the funniest podcast there is
right now and let me also just say young
and a bomb subscribe to bomb black
opinions matter on iTunes which is part
of the counted dings Network and we are
now going to start being releasing woke
Bros with Waze and I is it still bummed
that made the transition yeah black
opinions matter made the transition and
now it's its own feed on iTunes so it's
like gonna be the daily ding which is a
basketball round up and then bomb is
gonna have black and pinions matter on
Mondays and woke Bros on Thursdays with
Waze and I and then what else
revolutions mic Doug Duncan your
Kickstarter socks the redirect of course
with the great Ronald actually I do want
to say that the redirects with Ronald
Reagan is a really good immigration
podcast people gotta listen to that
dissident peasant as well just in a
peasant well that the problem with
bringing that one is I don't know it was
like oh and uh historic historically
with Esha
yeah is that it I think that's it
historically that's a good one too a lot
of creativity in the old community okay
that was such a softball though like how
what if obvious answer yeah there's no
notable a spot like that I know they
would answer no I think no cuz I think
was Bri we did like what did we do we
did like James Carville and I forget who
yeah that's we all kind of the same yeah
mr.bad yeah we did one that
like legitimately tricky at the table
next to me when we Sam and I are sitting
prepping for the debate with Charlie on
Sunday there was a table of Bill Kristol
James Carville and Tucker Carlson all
sitting next to each other it was WOW
crazy I've got a soft spot for Carville
but I don't carve I mean that's a
I wouldn't I'm not proposing that as oh
yeah yeah no no don't even go there
whoa Matt you just tortured yourself
there for a second even I asked the moms
it's funny it's my escape hatch then
David Griscom mom text us the other day
and say ask the moms yeah mom I'm at
this drop is mom approved yes as the mom
all right let's actually do that on Fox
News james lankford drew exactly the
type of ludicrous comparison that you'd
expect to hear from fox news ask you
senator sort of turning the page here
looking at the the threats that we see
across the country to some of your
Democratic colleagues former Vice
President Joe Biden now was targeted
with one of these suspicious packages
others sent to Hillary Clinton the home
of former President Barack Obama Maxine
Waters and others what are your thoughts
this morning as we continue to learn
more and and and we all pray that that
law enforcement is able to find whoever
is responsible for this but was we await
that what do you what are you thinking
as you see this play out it's atrocious
it's unacceptable for anyone to actually
carry out acts of terrorism or violence
to be able to put some sort of political
message and we don't know what the
message is here but clearly they're
targeting individuals pipe bombs that
have a liberal point of view that that
is not who we are as Americans it wasn't
appropriate last year when we had a man
walk up to baseball practice and say is
this where the Republicans are playing
and when they said yes he opened fire
and started shooting Republicans on a
baseball field in Washington DC it
wasn't appropriate when they sent white
powder to Ted Cruz's office to try to
help intimidate him during the campaign
time period it's not appropriate now it
wasn't appropriate during the Cavanagh
hearings for people coming and screaming
at people this is
we should handle our differences as
Americans as Americans we will disagree
on issues but we should be able to talk
it out and still receive each other's
Americans so I think you caught the
incredible outlier there right so
everything else he said for a Republican
even acknowledging that these bombs are
targeting liberal people is a step I
guess in the right direction if
specially for grading on a curve and
then he brought up two examples which
you know okay that fits fair enough
I don't know as much about the white
powder exams I never heard of that but
okay and then woman protesting and
everybody protesting because the
Republican Party is muscling through a
guy that there were a seating lis
credible allegations of sexual assault
on without any type of proper
investigation while their operative
smeared and attacked a woman who risked
her life to speak on something that
happened to her so you could confirm an
extreme far-right fifth member of the
Supreme Court who will among many other
things in terms of shortening American
lives and harming people's well-being be
a regular vote to attack women's health
that exercise of protest is analogous to
pipe bombs really and you know not only
is that rhetoric obviously ridiculous
and nonsense that's the type of thing
that leads to the criminalization of
protest and watch very closely if a real
actual attempt at terrorism which is a
word I really try not to use but that
literally is an attempt that terrorism
how much it's used to even further
encroach on Americans ability to protest
and speak freely of which has already
been steadily undermined particularly
right after September 11th with the Bush
administration aggressively used
homeland security protocols to monitor
and and and and go after civic activists
and if you look at the history of the
FBI's infiltration of the environmental
movement it's a disturbing and ongoing
history and policy reality
you know we criticize the big tech
companies all the time but the general
way the media landscape has developed
especially technologically speaking is
not entirely helpful to authoritarianism
and they would love a reason to come in
and try to clean it up and and yet you
know angle it to be better for their
purposes without a doubt Oh without a
doubt without a doubt this is also true
Stovall what about the David Feldman
show he has great guests and deep dives
Dave Feldman does a great show he's a
really funny guy I've actually been on
there a couple times I always had a
really fun time and he's got it's
somewhere it's actually kind of in the
majority report room because Dave
Feldman's are real like he's a comedian
and a writer he's written for a lot of
really like good TV shows and stand-ups
and he does stand-up himself so he has
on you know journalists and politico's
then also has on like Judy gold and Andy
Kindler and stuff like that David
Feldman shows really good I think
there's a reason comedians are good at
talking about politics which is a punch
line is sort of making someone arrive at
a place they weren't expecting to at a
faster rate than they were like but
given the a certain amount of
information in the setup that they could
have gotten there anyway right so it's
it makes you better able to untangle
things right you can give people to just
better because that's sort of like what
a punch line is - yeah they're all so
twisted yeah exactly how I stood they
are they were all up yeah so the
goods for understanding politics
Cocco tough I work next door to project
Veritas and they're about to record
something about Christians christened
cinema they have all their video
equipment set up and her campaign
posters all over the place and extras
that they must have hired have been
trickling in to my job all day looking
for project Veritas that calls her
campaign office in DC in Arizona warned
them that project Veritas is probably
about to drop well I mean budgetary toss
is whack project where it does my advice
to be if any like comes in looking
for project Veritas to your office give
them a wrong address or do something
funny otherwise or just be like what do
you guys up to waste their time
yeah waste their time that's definitely
that's what yes
whatever way you can to waste our time I
don't think they've done everything the
wrong way trap their time though yeah
they'd be like Oh like when they took
minutes on a DSA meeting exactly oh my
god they're idiots she believed should
you should do an investigation on my
office boss said that I could sexually
harass people and then give I said I
can't make my jokes anymore yeah yeah
exactly
should you undercover recording and then
you give them a wrong address and sudden
the out another side eyes left is a
great podcast I don't know that one also
it's not a podcast but everybody should
be getting high and watching contra
points
yes contra points good I hope everyone
gives a special gives the special I hope
everyone gives the special without Brett
Davis a look I believe it's an NYC
public access but their YouTube shows
get a couple hundred values and thousand
views each and it blows my mind that
people haven't discarded discover it yet
great show
I'm gonna check it out actually that
looked really funny that's awesome that
it's on New York public access to I will
definitely watch that the special
without Brett Davis but they gave but
they go boys is the funniest podcast I
just wish you could get the kid marrow
as the Kindler style guest on Fridays
well those guys might be there there is
a there is a woke frozen TMDs connection
I will say that but we don't know yet
we'll see AJ at I am if we had a
left-wing government in America here in
the US with the current Brazilian
situation warrant a military
intervention not that it's it's reality
but my question is more just curious
thoughts no of course not a lot of other
things you can does a huge amount of
other things you could do I mean call
off the dogs of the intelligence
services and the DOJ I might do I would
probably do targeted sanctions for
things like freeing Lula on individuals
what industries are really behind ball
scenario is it is it petrochemical
petrochemicals Wall Street Wall Street
Journal endorsed Boston ro everybody
should know that that's money brakes
fascist
JB maybe Russia wants out of the treaty
this is how they do it no no I don't
think that that's how this I I do not
think that's how the dynamic is working
with Trump but I guess it could be wrong
so Sebastian Sebastian Ming Chuck I
don't get it what do you think the
effect would be if right-wing media ends
up being proven correct that these bombs
are a false flag by some deranged person
who wants to make the right look why
worry about I would you yeah why I'm not
even gonna answer that question we will
cross that exceedingly unlikely bridge
when we come to it there's a there's a
phrase used by British builders when
they want to hit on women walking down
the street which is they say cheer up it
might never happen which is a way of
saying basically smile right so actually
there you go but cheer up in mind
exactly bad idea society Michael was the
book you mentioned about self-help
ignoring structural problems in society
I forget there was a woman that we had
on a couple years ago wrote about Oprah
and the secret neoliberalism but I
completely forgot the name of the book
I'll try to find it Disco's do okay I
emailed about coming to the live show on
Monday need an address email us and
majority reporters at gmail.com somebody
we'll get back to you Steve
stiva this is not a Maine moon and Lake
Michigan it is a voting sea wall I know
it's not 100 but it's still pretty
strata tragic sand Sam's de minimis
penis have any of you read sacred
economics and what do you feel about the
idea of the gift economy are we still
fighting on the same terms as
capitalists or we just focus on
alternative technocratic solutions
things like the environment nationalism
or income economic inequality I think I
don't remember sacred economics I do
think that uh framing and forwarding and
centering the Commons as an alternative
structure of how of things we preserve
and how we preserve them is really
important there's a really good article
by
Julian brave noise cat on in the
Guardian on indigenous conceptions of
property and how they are countervailing
to capitalism and that actually is
showing up practically in places like
New Zealand in India giving specific
legal recognitions to rivers as an
example that's a really important
potential policy and I do think that
some of these I don't think more you
know I don't think Marxism does exactly
fight these things in exactly the same
terms because when you're talking about
a sort of collective stakeholder ship
and use that's different than just sort
of ramp and exploitation and
disregarding but I do think that there
are some very important epistemic shifts
that people that is part of the equation
with relating to other living systems
differently yes and so I would yeah
start start with that Julian brave noise
cat piece in The Guardian Keenan hey
Michael do you think bowls narrow looks
like Sousa from Scarface a little bit
Sousa looks better but it's within the
room albino ninja just voted in Georgia
also PS public service announcement
about high round up levels in cereal
dozens tested damn congratulations Mr
Crew Kentucky Fried Cameron
congratulations mr crew and hitting four
hundred thousand subscribers
here's to streaming ahead to four
hundred and twenty thousand subs blaze
it do you know what year we hit two
hundred thousand no I do not
2018 january on it we're
coming for certain people i just being a
bastard there wow that's amazing that's
amazing Wow there was a DOJ supported
political persecution of the left of the
left's party in Brazil which led to a
former metalworker president going to
jail on charges that's amazing
that's amazing I went a lava Channel I
feel proud of myself about that yeah and
when I first criticized them the main
response was we we did 2015 nobody could
have knowed it's like uh you mean a year
after DOMA was in peace
do a Google read and then also
and they'd also be mean they'll be mean
no it's super then you were in Shapiro
right the facts don't care about your
feelings fascists fascist coos with the
help of American Justice Department yeah
doesn't care about your feelings okay
and also well this is also a funny
inversion that happens in a lot of
different like how about this like I
actually for all my criticism have the
respect for Jimmy door to say yeah dude
I think you are perfectly capable of
reading and thinking about stuff and
that's part of reason I'm so critical if
I actually thought that Jimmy door was
somehow like just literally unable to
process information I probably would
talk differently and that's what you're
saying when you come to me like don't be
mean to him he's just an enormous ly
influential YouTube personality and
you're acting like he should know what
the he's talking about before he
uncritically plays propaganda yeah what
a dick I am maybe you're being the dick
to Jimmy when you say that kind of
 nonsense new human I remember an
article by noise cat last year about how
he felt an taifa undermined the Trump
resistance would be curious to hear if
his views have changed since then look I
don't know I'll tell you I think there's
plenty of very legit criticisms of anti
feh and at the same time when you're in
a actual situation where there's
solidarity to be had with anti file you
have solidarity Matthew feh
I think that video of well I'll get into
some other time but yeah it would be
interesting I would be curious to read
both of those both of those pieces
buried wise imagine if you had magical
powers and you could either make bowls
narrow lose this election or ensure both
Bernie and Corbin win there's which do
you go for a plea s I stole this idea
from the discord Bernie and Corbin are
gonna both win because that will have
huge implications for what happens in
Brazil exactly yeah yeah I mean that's
just if it was if it was Corbin and and
Haddad winning versus Bernie winning
that's a tougher question that's a much
to her but she stack you stack Bernie
incor
yeah if you stack Bernie and Corbin you
have that's pretty significant now if it
was Bernie and Corbin versus Lula is
helicoptered out of jail
punches balsa narrow in the face and
then as you not honestly proclaimed
president again then you could then he'd
get some mileage off of that one Jake
whole I've been waiting for an M R
breakdown of trumps plans on ripping up
weapons treaties I know Sam is pawning a
kirk has been a huge story but can give
us your thoughts well we did a bit
earlier but I will do Rami do more next
week on my show on mr I'm gonna look too
and maybe Brendon maybe you and I could
work on I'd like to get an arms control
guest the AP is saying that Mattea
mattis is about to announced 800
military personnel to be deployed to the
border yes
what did are the odds are a massacre of
happening before the end of trumps term
that's petrifying although I have
to say in this in this specific
situation they might be the ones who
bring a professionalism to it that lack
from the other agencies dealing with it
to be honest
yeah those other agencies those other
agencies are much worse where they
recruit from where they recruit from now
that being said just the literal idea of
deploying the military like that in that
situation is we'll use this word again
it's a fascist yeah societ is
authoritarian psyops
and terrifying Theodore rose among
crowds as a live stream tonight at 7:30
Eastern might be cool if nation
showed up in the chat just to talk
left his best do it he's afraid he's
afraid can't handle it come on Steve
face your fear hold the beats the cold
feet stick cold feet Steve it's cold
feet Steve Cosby Crowder Coffey Crowder
I don't get it there's one as mine
changed : as well as mine changed hey
Alexa is
it's louder afraid hey LexA what is
bitching Miguel Miguel ex cago gritty
the New Flyer hasn't gritty the new
Flyers in the same bearded mascot has
become new mascot of socialism yep Josh
from Houston if you can keep driving
home hopefully we can get them to answer
what that system can accomplish and
we'll know that there is only one answer
Nick from Oklahoma do you guys do you
guys have a very first do you guys have
the very first phone half jingle not the
one you guys just played the shorter one
it had more of stamp Sam stammering I
don't know is that the diner key one I
don't know you're calling from a nine to
eight area code who are you worried
calling from hello 9 to 8 are you there
yes hello what's your name where you're
calling from hello my name is Joseph
calling from Navajo Nation hey Joseph
how are you thanks for calling hey first
time caller been a patreon supporter for
almost a year
oh thanks so much appreciate it yeah and
on the Michael Brooks show thank you
very much so yeah I just wanted to call
in and say no I like your guys's show
thank you and I also did appreciate you
guys talking about the you know how the
North Dakota Republicans are basically
trying to approach you know Native
Americans from voting they're you know
absolutely with the the peel box thing
because out here it's kind of like a
similar story growing up on the
reservation we don't have any physical
addresses at all no street addresses I
don't know anyone who has one so we use
peel boxes as well so that is concerning
and also just wanted to voice this
because they don't really see it
mentioned very often but basically it's
kind of been concerning ever since the
Cavanaugh confirmation because of his
you know history with Alaska Natives and
already kind of starting this be the bad
 happening like with that you know
that a voter ID thing that happened in
North Dakota but there's also the
currently there is the Indian Child
Welfare Act it's one of the most
important pieces of legislation for
American Indians in the United States
and it regards you know family
protections and adoptions were Native
children in the u.s. recently was struck
down by a federal judge in Texas and as
the result a bunch of tribes like the
Cherokee and yo nada are trying to
challenge it so that means that my go to
Supreme Court a Supreme Court where you
know
Cavanaugh will be the swing vote on
right so yeah yeah yep and again it's
this is everything they do is self
reinforcing right you yeah right a piece
of legislation targets the Native
American community you disenfranchise
Native American voters then you get
people like Cavanaugh who attack Voting
Rights on the court then that helps win
more elections to see we we got to adopt
the left-wing version of thinking
structurally like that and the
triangulating Bill Clinton moved to the
right take corporate money is not going
to work strategically and then
conversely the moralistic you know
people just need to vote for you know
Jill Stein it's not gonna work they have
a plan they have a strategy and we need
to think in those terms with regards to
elections with regards to the courts and
with regards to the self-reinforcing
decisions I mean that was one of the
things that you know made card checks so
important it was great it was vital for
labor unions which would make a big
dent in fighting inequality in helping
workers and then it would also give more
money to Democrats and also make Union
people more excited to vote and it would
just be self reinforcing and then you
would get more good judges which would
protect labor rights like that's why you
need to do it and of course a lot in
that case when they didn't do it back
then because obviously a lot of
Democrats are absolutely you know in
that case that was about them being
compromised by corporate money for sure
yeah because it's like I said it does
feel like there's we're in dark times
right now yeah and I did appreciate how
you guys and you know you and Sam we're
talking about how important the courts
are because for Native Americans the
federal courts are very very important
it's it's one of those weird cases where
your best and worst friend is the
federal government because you know they
do it is their responsibility to keep a
lot of our tribal sovereignty and rights
intact and in this case this guy um I
didn't get his name but this judge in
Texas he just he just basically just
kind of threw it into the turbine so now
we I guess we just have to wait and see
because I usually follow these cases
because the the ICWA it it's not
something that's brought up well it's
thought it quite frequently especially
with adoptions and states like Oklahoma
and South Dakota where you know American
Indians make up a very small percentage
of the population in South Dakota I
think it was like less than 10 percent
but Native children there make up almost
50 percent of the kids in the protection
and adoption agencies so yeah it it is
pretty important and I yeah I just want
to say a good that you guys talked about
how important the federal courts are and
you're right there is no structure for
it because there is no left-wing the
equivalent of the the Federalist Society
right now yep right exactly
yep like like it was it was brought up
by Sam
and that you know we have a lot of less
when you're saying you know pack the
courts but like he and I were wondering
with who because unfortunately the
structure just isn't there and you know
I'm not I'm not professional life I
don't really follow it I don't really
follow this thing very closely and not a
lot about the people feel but otherwise
yeah I just wanted to air that out and
thanks I think you guys this shows great
I really appreciate Joseph hopefully
hear from you again soon thanks so much
yep
Josh from Houston slowly convincing my
liberal mom to be a socialist the best
angle I found his climate change a tip
to anyone trying to convert people out
there most well-meaning liberals who
aren't in DC circle know deep down that
their current economic system won't stop
climate change and they believe the
Christ to be in crisis time yeah that
makes a lot of sense hotline Mike please
address Ronald Reagan's quote-unquote
retirement from the show I don't know
about this quote-unquote retirement I do
know that you know Ronald Reagan's
obviously an incredibly busy man and
there's a lot of things to do and I'm I
certainly hope he'll be returning
because he is obviously a major MVP of M
R and in the meantime if you're missing
his calls subscribe to the redirects on
iTunes or become a patron yeah because
that's a just in it you get to hear
Ronald Reagan which is great but I mean
he's does the smartest emigration show
I've ever heard
yeah that should be a big show should
really be big that the redirects is one
of the most important pot he s out there
right now
so subscribe Dom in regards to the bomb
Maxine Waters said I ain't scared I
think Michael Tracy just paint his pants
what was amazing was how I mean yeah I
like just the just the the just brutal
beatdown that Maxine Waters laid on
Michael Tracy I think show tonight
afford it yeah that was reminiscent of
the worst sort of fascist violence
against the lugan press yeah no that was
exactly what happened I thought when
when he was trying to ask her about her
health care proposal and then all of a
sudden you just there wasn't even video
of it you just heard audio Mike
glasses and then she body slammed him oh
wait no that was Greg Gian Forte what do
we actually have can we just do we have
that gift or whatever
I don't know but shout out for him not
being employed at TYT anymore escalier
I really love the way that our roles
have at time shift now because I think
it used to be pretty clearly that I was
pretty much always the one on the show
who would go there wherever that there
was and now there are times where I'm
like let's just dance on the
Michael great like I really I did
addition that I'm glad that
was fired or just this contract wasn't
renewed yeah okay I I don't want I don't
I don't wish anybody fired
I don't want certain people platform by
TYT fair enough pause it pause it pause
it I do want to say we're playing this
with Maxine Waters Michael Tracy I just
want to say trigger warning because this
was the the physical beatdown that she
put on Michael Tracy was oh
hashtag faces of death faces of death oh
my god did you see that and you can look
at his face he clearly is recoiling cuz
of the physical pain of I don't even
know sort of for barely grazing his hand
with his mic knows exactly what you're
Monica Shaggy went through that was
literally what Jamal went through they
went into the embassy and the Saudi hit
squad were like I don't know what you're
doing but we are supporting the Prince
and then they moved his hand and then he
left embassy and that's what happened we
support them by us okay that was that
like when they tried to make hay out of
that that would definitely got to a
point where I was embarrassed for him
that was that was one of the most like
totally unnecessary
that was the that
might have been the most unnecessary
cellphone I have seen in the modern
internet because because what I first
heard it I actually thought because I
heard like some was like did something
like they they they hit uh you know
Maxine Waters hit Michael Tracy and my
first thought was actually like he
shouldn't be whining about it and that's
really really funny and he probably
annoyed her and like you know she hit
him right like that's what I thought I
was like and I thought that was cool too
like I thought that was hilarious
I was like oh my god like Maxine Waters
needed to slap a it's Maxine
Waters or Rand Paul's neighbor but yeah
yeah yeah and so and I was like dude you
know and I really was like all right
like even it like okay all kidding aside
we're all I'm not kidding all that aside
if Maxine Waters hit you legit it would
be totally fair to say I guess I pissed
her off that's a little bit of a crazy
reaction obviously I'm not gonna make an
issue of this but I will say you know he
could have easily but it was like so it
was like and then I was like oh my god I
gotta watch this because I was looking
forward to watching Maxine Waters met
Michael Tracy and I watched the video
and I did I had to like it was like the
Kirk cedar debate I was like did this
get cut off like where does the thing
happen and then and then um like I had
people coming up to me I actually felt
worried about TYT because I definitely
had one or two people that like did not
know what TYT was and then they were
just like here you you you're in media
do you know what this thing is from the
guy who like clay got brushed gently by
Maxine water
okay else was pretty funny
representative Maxine Waters just shoved
me and angrily stormed off their answer
question it's not a violent shove but
she initiated physical cons oh you
can watch for yourself shortly the
questions were reasonable extremely
suspect for a member to shove anybody
well I don't think I think a microphone
this is like this is like in basketball
where the ball is part of the hand yeah
or like the hand is part of the ball
when you're shooting right like the
microphone you can move
microphone out of your face if someone's
putting a microphone in your face just
if they're putting like an ice cream
cone in your face get that out of my
face
yeah this is just and this was after
Gian Forte correct I don't remember I
don't remember round yeah that's a good
question for that time line I think it'd
be I think it's like all right I'll take
her call will we do that you're calling
from a five six one area code who are
you where you're calling from
it was after oh okay all right
vacci watershed smack them you're
calling him a five six one area code who
are you where he calling for him she
would in my movie version it would be
like she didn't and then he did all that
 and then he's like walking down
the street on his way to like go get a
bagel and like tweet out like while
David Dukes comments were abominable
many liberals you know like the classic
like you know Michael Tracy tweet or
whatever and then like or Donald Trump
you know he shouldn't have said that
Mexicans ate dog however we should
remember that Barack Obama was a war
monger or whatever the that what
about ISM tweets are and then he's
walking and all of a sudden Maxine
Waters is in front of him and she's just
like I'm here to finish what I started
young man to paraphrase the great
Chappelle show what did the five fingers
say to the face slap you know I I know I
said it was this was after it was about
two weeks after June 14 Ben Jacobs like
you know and it it's funny because we
made a cash-in we make the point a lot
like like they're like yeah people
people's inability to desegregate
disaggregate between different kinds of
bad behavior is pretty awe-inspiring and
widespread in today's society this is a
pretty amazing example of it you're
calling from a five six one area code
who are you where you're calling from
are you there yes not you're calling
from the hello five seven one area code
who are you where he calling from I'm
Fox hey travel Indians
hey um I just wanted a question I don't
know if you ever had him on your show
before but what do you guys think of
Chris Hedges yeah I remember never Chris
I've read Chris Hedges in the past I've
liked some of his books um he had some
comments recently that I just I didn't
think we're historically sound I'd have
to look into it more but he was talking
about Fred Hampton and Black Panthers
working across racial lines which they
absolutely did as a Marxist group and
they worked with a group I think called
the young Patriots who were leftist
southerners leftist economically
oriented white group that was definitely
opposed to racism and he seemed to draw
some analogy between that alliance and
what could happen today with an alliance
with you know the types of peoples that
went to Charlottesville and I just it's
just not sound it's not accurate it's
not even the right it's not even the
strongest version of the argument that
there might be some people who are who
actually are seriously economically
disenfranchised and also have some bad
racial attitudes and might be persuaded
on economic grounds but the types of
people that were in Charlottesville were
actually disproportionately middle-class
economically privileged absolutely
driven by racism and you know just
sloppy I mean I get again Chris
Hedges he's written some great books in
some ways like fart you know I'm not far
be it for me in some ways to criticize
the guy I guess but I thought that
specifically to be super questionable
and I also find you know I I'm more
interested in Marxist critiques overall
than sort of you know I think we have a
different political orientation I think
war is a force that gives us meaning is
a great book and
I've appreciated him seeing him debate
you know people like New Atheists yeah
yeah that's why I asked I was when I was
younger I guess younger before I was a
Lance Corporal I was a young atheist but
then going to Iraq sort of changed my
attitude and reading he picking up Chris
Hedges changed my attitudes about that
cool that's why I asked what you thought
about him yeah but there's only only my
only beef with Hatch's is that he is
kind of going towards that jimmy dore
area of the camp saying like democratic
parties messed up in his kool-aid i
don't agree with that yeah i don't agree
i don't know i don't practically it's
sort of like like Christopher Hitchens
said something once like I have of
course I have free will I have no choice
but to believe that I'm paraphrasing and
it's like I mean you've got to believe
that the Democratic Party is something
you can do something with or were
because these other scenarios like is
more likely you know we talk about like
how the idea of arming up for some type
of armed insurrection on the left is not
realistic okay that's more doctrine
that's stupid that's more
realistic than the idea you're gonna get
a third party tomorrow let me tell you
that yeah and that's wrong all right but
there ain't gonna be a national third
party without the types of radical
reforms in place which actually would
only Minoo it's like lookie my point you
need meets something's gonna need to
happen through Democrats and anybody who
says otherwise I think is just an
utopian fantasy land or basically just
you know givin up hit you know putting
on Irish shoot ironically use a pirate
analogy for this that imagine if there's
two ships the Republicans is one ship
Democrats the other and we say the
Democrat ships not good enough let's go
make another ship on the shore it
doesn't make any sense take over the
goddamn ship I mean do what the
Republican Tea Party the Republican
Party let's take over the Democratic
Party and there there's already a
constructed and infrastructure for us to
implement our will I mean it makes more
sense and it might not work and it's a
hard it's a hard job but it's the only
one like that's the play get you closer
to shore that
to play it's sort of like it's like you
know like that's the thing it's it's
it's like you know I can't think of the
right analogy but it's sort of like you
know hey what's the strategy that you're
gonna do to you know deal with the fact
that you know I don't know you have a
disease well I'm gonna do X Y & Z I'm
gonna do this with my diet whatever do
this treatment and then it was like well
I'm just not gonna have it all right
right sure I guess you know thanks for
the call brother appreciate it
no problem thanks doc all right do we
have any more sound that's it all right
let's do a few more okay let's then take
another call sorry we won't get to all
calls I apologize you're calling from a
nine 700 area code who are you where
you're calling from hey my dad from Fort
Collins how are you good how you doing
Adam what's on your minds I actually
have a lot to say when you covered in
some of the bone one of the things I
want to tell you about the the polls
that I've been if they were select a man
I know I hate myself outside goodbye
thank you Michael what yeah a little bit
too nervous
whoa or you add a joke that he us
I was too heavy though don't don't get
all there you're calling from a 7-3 to
area code who are you where you calling
from Jimmy from Central Jersey hey Jimmy
what's going on hey I've been listening
to a lot ever since I got my new job
with a bunch of maggots oh thank you so
much
nice pain during work pleasure uh also
engineers so two weeks ago you said
something about scientists probably have
could have better politics engineers
definitely a bad fall more and more
immersed in their class right sir it is
right the adage that University sort of
reconstruct the class they're immersed
in they're like I'm you know I earn this
so but on the more substantive point I
wanted to ask you exactly about the
future of the last more broadly am you
this came up a bit in the conversation
today we we have multitude of areas we
need to tackle so we have to sort of
walking to government seems like climate
change our political infrastructure arm
foreign policy all these sorts of things
and they have a crossroads but it which
you guys believe are the first three
things if we ever find a way to get a
more radical form of democratic firing
by radical I just mean you know a
redblacks action of the Democratic Party
a more like the policy steps B what
would the policy steps be well um what
would be the next steps because you
could have policies arm or you can have
sort of communication chops to us a way
to reform arm our democracy from the
bottom up so that you know you're you're
able to have more votes one one version
of this is something like having a pure
democracy versus having something like
the German system where they do it by
percentages mm-hmm certain party gets a
certain percentage if you want to move
to the second one well how are you
actually going to change anything now
you just have a German system and
they're barely able to commit themselves
to red bull well let me say this I'm not
super I think setting aside things that
we need to do for as a basic matter of
both civil rights and delivering for a
smart strategy for a democratic party so
that's statehood for Puerto Rico Guam
Washington DC that's universal
preclearance so that voting rights are
set you know as just a national standard
a national preclearance all of that
stuff needs to happen it's vital for
civil rights and it's vital for
Democratic Party the second thing and
and and I'm very and I actually do think
it's worthwhile especially in a local
level looking at things like what the
Progressive Party was able to achieve in
Vermont and you know like there's no
reason why or there's a lot of reasons
but it would be great in New York City
if there was if the DSA ran against
Democrats both in and outside of the
party because it's a one party town and
we should have a Socialist Party that
takes on these real estate Democrats but
that being said part of the paradox of
my politics at least is inside the realm
war end I am NOT it's like both you got
to be more radical and not Nesler Attica
but you got to look at the real ways
that we're gonna actually change things
I don't know how this happens but like
people get obsessed with these reforms
some of which are really good but
they're actually not gonna implicate the
distribution of power in society right
so in a fundamental way so even if we
really cleaned up elections and even if
you did public financing in a capitalist
society you know things would be better
but private sector would still dominate
politics it would still have a massively
disproportionate influence on
institutions policymaking and policy you
know and and and just politics across
the board so I think that that's why
when you're in the realm of electoral
politics you need to think aggressively
and strategically and look at the
openings and there's a and we have lanes
with Bernie Sanders with a Oh C and
these great and larry Krasner there's a
lot of openings and I would and
definitely Gilliam and Abrams are part
of that and then on the flip side and
we're still formulating this and
figuring this out we don't know like
even just like the efficacy of protests
like Brian Mir was telling me other days
like there's protests going on across
Brazil all over the place the media just
doesn't cover them it doesn't register
in the same way so that's all right you
know that's becoming a kind of less
relevant tactic right but
rikes are still a very relevant tactic
and and and also and then that's why I'm
doing more things like covering the mods
or going collectives and the coop
economy because we need to think of
concrete and tangible ways of really
radically changing the economic system
but that stuff is not it it's connected
with electoral politics but it's not
really electoral politics in some ways
it really is genuinely radically outside
and so the two-front process I advocate
for is engage in electoral ism in the
Democratic Party in a leftward but smart
non non
sort of fantasy based and real way don't
get lost and you know the Green Party
don't get lost in all this electoral ism
will save you stuff don't get lost in
personal moralism but also play it
smartly and see the opportunities for
progress that are there now and then on
the flip side
look at how there's actually ways to
legitimately undermine capitalism
frankly if I'm being blunt in the
economic and in the technological
spheres and those two things run
parallel and then what you skip in the
middle is the you know the Green Party
the Jill Stein and all of that stuff
because that just isn't gonna do
anything at least I'm for any context
I'm with you on those that what we have
to skip the arm my curiosity and I'll
take this offline arm is this strategy
and the way we sort of have that cool
coordinate between workers having new
worker conditions voters and having new
voter conditions along with other no
other coalition's that we have to build
do you think there is a sort of step by
step here's what needs to go on first
second third or a way in which we can go
about it which is as methodical as
possible sort of and again I mentioned I
do engineering
so sort I mention in the beginning that
you yeah sort of like an engineering
plan toward trying to gain power change
it so we can maintain power in a sort of
democratic sense
I appreciate the Coleman let me think
about that I'm I mean not entirely I
think that there are things like a
universal public housing and universal
federal job guarantee and single-payer
which if those things happen they would
have huge ancillary effects on
empowering labor and on minimizing
extreme forms of human suffering that
they could open opportunities for a lot
more aggressiveness and engagement and
on this and on and connected in the same
continuum statehood for Puerto Rico and
DC of robust clear commitment to civil
voting rights and democracy access would
also structurally reach change the map
to advantage the broad Left coalition of
the future so that's the closest I could
come to you're calling from a NATO three
area code who are you where you coming
from
hey this is Dustin from South Carolina
hey Dustin what's on your minds uh just
quickly I wanted to mention now last
week our revolution and Bernie Sanders
came to State Capitol here in Columbia
mm-hmm
and I both went to both events actually
got to meet a few people like Dave
Weigel and very briefly Briana's your
gray which is great um nice but also uh
like I said Bernie Sanders when he spoke
it was a medicare-for-all rally mm-hmm
but it his speech was on everything you
could be forgiven for thinking it was
that basically a twenty twenty uh stump
speech hopefully and basically what I'm
saying is I'm I'm totally sure that he's
running
great from your lips eyes ears man
and you know it's it's also just also I
live in I live in a very rural area I
don't get to talk to other progressives
like in person pretty much ever so you
guys are very important to me in that
regard awesome okay but if you if you're
I know there's a lot of people out there
like me if you have a chance to just get
out there and you know go and meet
people like jump on that opportunity it
gives you new life it's it's amazing
absolutely yeah you um put your hand up
there by the way my twitter handle of
DUI loops like fluff on waffles or
something like that actually
if he doesn't I don't actually have my
Twitter um I'm on twitter handle on them
right but uh um but speaking that I
don't know if I want to approach this or
not uh I mentioned a meeting Brianna
Joey gray uh she and another friend of
the show Ben Dixon are having this kind
of disagreement I don't want to bring
this up it's like a beef between them
I'd rather talk about it as a as that
the actual issue that they're talking
about which is a kind of a strategy
thing of how we reach people um it's
kind of uh do we do we approach people
who may hold some racist views and try
to try to appeal them on where they're
struggling like economically it's like
it's that economic anxiety issue right
mm-hmm versus I believe white uh Ben
Dixon is a thinking is that taking that
approach it's kind of like um I don't
slap in the face to the people who are
already on our side so look I don't know
if you've been following that if not
just a little bit let me just say this
briefly and I'm sure well nobody will be
satisfied with what I have to say first
of all as I said earlier read and listen
to Bill Fletcher jr. he's better on this
than anybody he synthesizes these views
and I'm definitely going to be half
him on both shows soon TM BSN mr he's
brilliant
obviously I'm well I mean I'm a little I
think a doff read is the most important
person that we have in many ways in
America in many many ways in American
political theory but here's I mean
unfortunately it's turned its Twitter
 so you have two people that I
think are both very smart and
well-intentioned and I like and respect
both and you know they're not having a
debate they're not writing essays for
each other they're having a Twitter
argument and I think if I had to push
them on each just from what I've seen to
be blunt I think what's happening is I
think that Bri has a very smart and
accurate analysis of the misuses and
fusion of a certain type of identity
politics with neoliberalism and even
down to what Bill Fletcher jr. does when
he his joke is he critiques
you know the extreme form of what he
calls postmodern politics is you know
only a whale could critique Moby Dick is
his line right and there there is a so
breeze identifying some very real
problems and she's correcting a lot of
her assessment
conversely and we're even I've bumped up
against Brie
I don't understand the specific fixation
of reaching out to quote-unquote Trump
voters seems to me that there's no
disagreement at least there's no
disagreement between her Ben and myself
on things like single-payer health care
so my banking is is is the following one
is partially those people that don't
vote and it's not gonna be all of them
and might not even me a lot of them but
even if it's a couple percentage points
to them that's a huge goddamn difference
and then that there's another group of
people that I think genuinely have mixed
and incoherent attitudes and that's what
I tried to say earlier with Andrew
Gilliam right Andrew Gilliam the way he
owned DeSantis they're in the way of
he's the mainstream one he's the cool
one is gonna appeal to some people who
might not otherwise have particularly
lighten attitudes and I think again as
as everybody in the debate would
acknowledge that racism in America ain't
relegated to Republicans it is a cross
the board thing is a highly racist
society and so I think and I also think
that you know you have to and that's why
I think some of the jargon and some of
the sort of like ways that people do I
guess I'd poll what are the hell's being
called online that's never gonna be a
winning national message right
conversely I think that I don't
understand hesitation to be clear and it
doesn't mean that you dismiss people's
humanity it doesn't mean that they're
totally hopeless or whatever but I don't
understand the hesitation on Brie's part
to be clear that obviously from every
piece of empirical data we have to all
of the you know campaigns that win in
the Republican Party to the governing
strategy of the Republican Party from
the courts to the presidency to Congress
is built on racist white identity
politics and we could have a whole other
debate about you know the origins of it
and this and that but the reality is is
that for a vast majority Republican base
voters they are not going to make that
migration based on economic issues there
is a key margin of people who will both
of people who haven't voted and people
who are genuine swings and also it just
happens to be by the way the right thing
to do is Adolph Reid pointed out the
Bernie Sanders plan alone would be one
of the largest maybe the largest
transfer of wealth from white to black
in American history now I wouldn't frame
it that way I would frame it's a
universal thing that will benefit all
working people but the rebut the idea of
disconnecting economic justice from
every other form justice is ludicrous so
I guess I think that you know
unfortunately they're getting to a point
where you know it's just not in a good
place and where I really have to be just
neutral is I like and respect both of
them but I think that
if I had to criticize either maybe Ben
is slightly over correcting in reaction
to some things he sees I mean Ben to be
fair to Ben he was making very similar
critiques to Bree but now he also sees
 videos comparing black
lives matter to Charlottesville people
saying we should build some type of
fascist left anti-war coalition which is
a historical politically illiterate and
racially insensitive so I get why he's
pissed I think and then conversely I
figure and then conversely I don't I
don't understand all of Reason alysus so
much of it is correct incredibly
intelligent well argued and I don't
understand the hesitation you know maybe
the more fully acknowledge that of
course the Republican Party is white
identity based and that there are plenty
of people who vote on those issues who
don't have a an economic basis upon
which they do it because as we always
say a lot of Trump voters are wealthy
white suburban Heights and it's about
keeping and taking and hoarding not a
fear that can be exploited by right-wing
populists so that's kind of my take on
it and I it's sucks I like both of them
and I wish it was playing out
differently that's really all I have to
say about it
yes I'm yeah I was gonna add I I think I
noticed like a change in Ben well around
the time when Alex Jones was being daddy
platforms and he was getting so
frustrated with all these people on the
Left who were just sticking up for
someone like Alex Jones and I'm okay
yeah
alright that's really yeah I don't want
to speak for me I guess yeah all right
brother I appreciate the call thank you
the final call the day I feel I'm almost
scared that I already said too much but
I hope that people get where I'm coming
from and my regard for everybody
involved and as you and Joe would you
say you're gonna it's a Coen show on
show see that's how it is
this is what we do and and also I think
you all know that if I didn't like and
didn't respect either of them I would
tell you that too I happen to but I'm
not politically correct
you have any genocide Michael could we
get a shout out for South Florida vote
Gilliam eat pork fried rice there you go
there you go vote Gilliam and definitely
vote Gilliam I'm a pork right or pork
fried rice fan pork fried rice I don't
eat pork but it does not surprise me at
your pork fried rice fan secret identity
politics also behind the news of Doug
Henwood is marriage material it's
another good podcast wreck I mean I feel
like that's like feel bad I mean there's
a ton of other pie that we shouldn't
even be doing podcast wrecks there's too
many good ones and people I know I'm
inevitably leaving out like another
several that I listen I only listen to
bodega boys and your Kickstarter
I only listen to bodega boys basically
every episode but I don't even finish
every episode there so yeah they are
long well they've stopped doing the ak's
always still like to our shows and the
final I am of the day goes to themes
Darwin piggybacking on the caller's
short of a change in the first in the
first-past-the-post system and or a
Theodore Theodore Roosevelt level third
party candidate the only route to powers
to the Democratic Party we need to
constantly repeat this point we're back
tomorrow everybody thanks in that state
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
[Music]
I wasn't when I just got cut could see
the truth
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I just seen where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid for
the rubber bands before
brakes fear I guess I fell off sweet
ride between the one
takes you
[Music]
