it seems to me that every single time
there's a new trade agreement that a
Democrat pushes I looked into Clinton
and I obviously you know was here for
Obama they always say that whatever
fill-in-the-blank new trade agreement is
has unparallel side protections for the
environment labor and public health
and it's gonna do great things for you
know union workers in Indonesia and to
protect the world's oceans if it's TPP
or if it's NAFTA you know Bill Clinton
talked about putting rigorous side
agreements on and we know from the
merits in the substance of these of
these agreements both in the written
form of TPP which thankfully hasn't been
implemented as well as what we've been
living through at NAFTA thanks to
analysis and reporting from people like
you that you know this is just simply
not true
but it's highly technical it's hard to
figure out and so my question for you
and and this will be you know definitely
geared towards Democrats or people
likely to be voting in a Democratic
primary which I'm sure is over like 95
percent of this audience how do we get
really specific in the sense that we
could say look Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren yes they're probably I
mean Bernie definitely is Warren seems
to definitely be she has a shorter
career obviously but I think you could
confidently assume they're on the right
side of these issues sherrod Brown gets
in he's definitely on the right side of
these issues and then I you know pretty
clearly Joe Biden has consistently been
on the wrong side of these issues but
for candidates and frankly I guess this
for any of them they're all gonna say
that these that oh I'll only support
agreements that have great green and
Labor Standards but because it's so
technical and because Democrats always
say that what are the kind of specific
questions that as an example if you're
out of the Canada Town Hall or something
like that to really narrow down what a
candidate actually means when they talk
about their stance towards trade so we
can get highly specific and know where
people are actually coming from on these
agreements yep very good question
so the first of all one of I think the
the best sort of overviews of what is a
progressive set of rules of the road for
a trade agreement and this is not to
toot my own horn but something that I
wrote with Jared Bernstein who after
after he had been a couple years after
he was Vice President Biden's chief
economist he and I were having a
conversation about you know what would
be the thing we should be calling for
let's let's help summarize that so it's
called the new progressive rules the
road on trade and it's on Jared's blond
so if you look up Jared Steen you can
see this new rules of the road
progressing the rules the rules for
trade and that lays out in you know 15
pages what it looks like the trigger
questions folks can actually get talking
points sent to them with those questions
specific to NAFTA the renegotiation
but broader if you go to our action page
which is WW replaced NAFTA dot org
there's a sign-up form where it says you
want to be part of the team that makes
sure we replace the corporate rig trade
agreement and we actually are helping
people lots of people did it in this
last election cycle go to town hall
meetings and ask the right questions
that's W WH afta dot org sign up on the
Action List because literally you can
sign up and then you can say what you
want you can say I want to know what
questions to ask that the short answer
is the things that that can
differentiate clearly between who's for
real and who is not is a question about
investor state dispute settlement hmm
well you look hos any trade agreement or
if you're president will you ensure
every future US trade agreement does not
have investor state dispute settlement
that's a bright line question about
corporate power same thing if you are
elected president will you ensure that
our trade agreements do not contain any
new monopolies and powers for big farmer
bright line questions he either have the
patent rules or you don't have the
patent
on environment and labor specifically
the question to ask is will you ensure
that environmental and labor standards
the way it's written is tough
environmental and labor standards can be
triggered automatically so that
enforcement is Swift and certain and
that sounds like a complicated question
all it means is the difference between
having standards that can be actually
enforced by unions or the public
bringing up a problem versus having to
rely on trade officials to start the
process and there are a bunch of
commercial rights and trade agreements
that can be triggered for instance
here's what this means practically a we
have these intellectual property rules
and trade agreements and domestic law
gets changed so that is a copyrighted
product if a pirated you know CD comes
in if a pirated a safe knockoff of a
movie comes in there can be that can be
stopped at the border and if a product
comes in that is supposed to be made in
Germany but really it's from China and
it's it's a lie the way the customs
forms are filled out to live that can be
stopped at the border what we need is a
system where products that don't meet a
trade agreements environmental and labor
standards can automatically be stopped
at the border but you don't need to go
through a whole special rigmarole to try
and enforce those standards that's the
same level of enforcement like
intellectual property rules or other
trade rules that's that's what it boils
down to but how you ask the question
again
sign-off at WWF lace NAFTA org and we
will get you the specific talking point
awesome and of course we will link to
all of that on our homepage at majority
dot F M lori wallach you are so
important and this work is so important
I really appreciate I hope everybody
will follow up on all of those fronts
and if you are participating in this
primary in any capacity get really
really specific because these trade
agreements
our I mean it's one of those things it's
definitely a 1% verse 99% issue unless
you're on a boardroom for you know
Pfizer or something these agreements are
not good for you they're bad
so lori wallach she's the director of
public citizen's global trade watch lori
thank you so much for doing this i
appreciate your time a thousand thanks
to you and folks if you feel you want to
get more comfortable at the details the
other place to go is trade watch org and
we literally have as a as a report card
what the demand was from progressives
and then how the agreement measures up
and it's in language for civilians you
do not need to speak now to ease so
please get involved and thank you so
much for doing the show appreciate it
