[Music]
so the green New Deal like I say is
gonna head up on the Senate it's gonna
be interesting to see how people vote on
this so we've got a lot of I don't know
how many four out of five five out of
six of the so far declared presidential
candidates have have you know said
they're supportive of the green New Deal
there's a lot of stuff in there that
we're gonna see the right attempt to
scare monger with and here is a little
this is a little teaser I guess of
coming attractions in terms of what the
Republicans are going to say about the
green New Deal
it'll be interesting I mean this is my
prediction
all of these memes that we're about to
hear from Senator John Barrasso from
Wyoming are going to be ones that we we
hear in the right wing echo sphere but
hopefully we'll be sequestered there in
fact I think the more insane they get
the the because of the Trump effect
mainstream media is just a little bit
more resistant to the stuff a little bit
but here it is John Barrasso giving you
a coming attractions of all the things
they're going to claim will go away if
we get a green new deal there's another
victim the green New Deal it's ice cream
livestock will be banned say goodbye to
dairy to beef to family farms to ranches
American favorites like cheeseburgers at
a milkshake will become a thing of the
past
fun millions of American workers will
lose their jobs living this green dream
is actually a national nightmare just
the energy portion of the plan alone
would cost at least five point seven
trillion dollars and it's feasibly
impossible the government handouts
health care and other giveaways will
cost tens of trillions of dollars this
Green Deal will bankrupt the country
well as you know it's impossible to
bankrupt the country because we print
our own money but a
died from that it's gonna stuck I I mean
why would the Democrats promote it get
rid of ice-cream deal cuz aoc sooner
she's like we don't I think it's gross
burgers and I mean you're all gonna be
eating tofu tea yes all the political
capital I have is gonna be spent on
wasabi tofu
I want a trademark soy boy ice cream
right now they're gonna get rid of
puppies too
that's that's that's next no more
puppies livestock things you like
