honey book is a one all-in-one business
management platform for creative small
businesses that can help you spend less
time handling the administration work
and more time doing what you love they
make it easy to streamline your
processes all within one easy-to-use
online system over 75,000 entrepreneurs
have saved thousands of hours a year
with honey book you can get started
today at Honey book.com use the promo
code majority for 50% off your first
year
again that's honey book.com promo code
majority
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report it is
Wednesday February 27th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today we're
gonna do some live coverage of the
michael cohen hearings as he sings and
Jim Jordan wrestles with the testimony
department of homeland or I should say
the DHHS has been sitting on thousands
of sexual assault allegations from
immigrant children for up to three years
Familia jeyapaul drops the mother of all
Medicare for all's bills DSA Medicare
for all caucus says it meets all
conditions it's a great bill
Jumaane Williams wins the public
advocate office in New York City Chicago
will see a runoff for their mayoral
they're mayorality
which will end up with the first
african-american woman elected to
Chicago's mayor's office meanwhile Mitch
McConnell to call for a green new deal
vote as the Kids Are Alright DYFS I
pulls her weak T bill Pakistan says it
shot down two Indian aircraft that's a
little scary
House votes to terminate Trump's
emergency declaration and Congressman
John Lewis introduces a bill to restore
the Voting Rights Act lastly
look at the Warren daycare plan versus
the Family Fun Pack day care plan all
this and more on today's majority report
alright just quickly a programming note
we had planned to do a different show
this this morning up until about an hour
or so ago we were going to talk to Chloe
Thurston about the boundaries of
homeownership credit discrimination and
the American State but just found this
Cohen hearing just too much fun and we
will do a recap at one point over the
next hour or so
but what's tune in to this we're gonna
just do some rolling coverage the
Republicans have been flailing in
attempting to a question Cohen look I am
NOT a huge Michael Cohen fan I'm
becoming one but he is I think basically
you know the tough thing is is that when
you're willing to go to jail for three
years he brings some type of moral
authority to what you're saying like
every time we see people who are coming
up there and are all self-righteous
about their testimony they're all people
who have gotten pardoned they're all
people who are going to pay no basically
held to account not at all but this
guy's up there saying I'm going to jail
for three years we also saw I don't have
a book deal this is not yet but I'm very
much looking forward to the movie forget
book I want Michael Clayton meets Burn
After Reading and I want to see how well
George Clooney can do Jew well what just
happened we lost the signal they'll come
right back yeah it was dark so I had to
reset it alright so we ready to go here
yeah okay
there you see Republicans aren't doing
so well at this it's sad they fascists
are dumb dangerous just a reminder and
this uh we got off Twitter Michael Cohen
is not the first admitted liar to
Congress to testify in front of Congress
this month
not ever this month Elliott Abrams
famously lied to Congress was actually
convicted of perjury and I'm gonna say
are on contra war row things in building
a country yes and at some point you
apparently changed your course of action
there's Jim Cooper from my Tennessee
testimony that says and yet I continued
to work for electrifying public presence
but at some point you changed what was
the breaking point at which you decided
to start telling the truth there are
several factors Helsinki charlottesville
watching the daily destruction of our
civility to one another putting up silly
things like this really unbecoming of
Congress it's that sort of behavior that
I'm responsible for I'm responsible for
your silliness because I did the same
thing that you're doing now for ten
years I protected mr. Trump for ten
years and the fact that you pull up a
news article that has no value to it and
you want to use that as the premise for
discrediting me that I'm not the person
that people called at three o'clock in
the morning would make you inaccurate in
actuality would make you a liar which
puts you into the same position that I
am in and I can only warn people the
more people that follow mr. Trump as I
did blindly are going to suffer the same
consequences that I'm suffering so smart
how he keeps flipping it back like
you're doing what I do right give young
people who are tempted as you were would
you encourage them not to wait ten years
to see the light what advice would you
give young people in particular young
lawyers so they do not abuse their bar
license as you did look at what's
happened to me I had a wonderful life I
have a beautiful wife I have two amazing
children it's a nice van I can do
financial 39 I didn't go to work in case
that's wrong to eat next my dad does a
little when they go to the Union because
I wanted to and I've lost it all so if
I'm not a picture perfect that's the
picture that should be up there if I'm
not a picture perfect example of what
not to do
that's the example that I'm trying to
set for my children you make mistakes in
life and I've owned them and I've taken
responsibility for them and I'm paying a
huge price as is my family so if that in
and of itself isn't enough to dissuade
somebody from acting in the callous
manner that I did I'm not sure that that
person has any telling right I think I
really is concerned for your family's
safety what specifically are you most
concerned about well the president
unlike my Cohen for Trump that has a
thousand followers he's got over sixty
million people and when mr. Trump turned
around early in the campaign and said I
can shoot somebody on Fifth Avenue and
get away with it I want to be very clear
he's not joking he's telling you the
truth he said you don't know him I do i
sat next to this man for ten years and I
watched his back I'm the one who started
the campaign and I'm the one who
continued in 2015 to promote him I so
many things I thought that he can do
that it is great and he can and he is
doing things that are great but this
destruction of our civility to one
another is just it's out of control and
when he goes on Twitter and he starts
bringing in my in-laws my parents my
wife what does he think is gonna happen
he's causing he's sending out the same
message that he can do whatever he wants
this is his country becoming an autocrat
and hopefully something bad will happen
to me on my children and my wife so that
I will not be here and testify that's
what his hope was it was to intimidate
me and again I thanked everybody who
joined and said that this is just not
right
have you ever seen mr. Trump personally
threatened people with physical harm no
one he would use others he would hire
other people to do that I'm not so sure
that he had to hire them they're already
working there everybody's job at the
Trump Organization is to protect mr.
Trump every day most of us knew we were
coming in and we were going to lie for
him on something and that became the
norm and that's exactly what's happening
right now in in this country and it's
exactly what's happening here in
government sir Thank You mr. chairman
it's also more says thank you can we
take a break well I would have
appreciated that all right really
because I wanted to do a recap you guys
the majority report just started stream
is there yeah we take a break is there a
chance that Sam cedar could do a just a
one library for liquid I bet okay thank
you hoping that please do that and maybe
Michael Brooks do it right well thank
you all right thank you thank you
liquid IV I want to thank I think mr.
Cohen folks with 110 percent daily value
of vitamin C b12 liquid IV is a great
way to stay healthy and hydrated during
these cold winter months we lean on this
heavily here
do we even have any left just a couple
liquid IV is not your average
electrolyte drink mix it uses cellular
transport technology and a specific
ratio of glucose sodium and potassium
which when mixed with 16 ounces of water
helps your body absorb more water and
nutrients directly into your bloodstream
in fact it can provide the same
hydration as drinking two to three
bottles of water it's the
fastest-growing hydration brand you can
find and and you can find them
everywhere now even at Costco liquid IV
is I mean it's really it's the official
hydration system of the majority
port I with these guys when when I take
long plane trips when I drink too much
alcohol occasionally it some mornings
that come in here I need them feeling a
little bit dry mouth I sound a little
woozy I had a lot of drinking any more
liquid IV left so I could power up to
talk about social security somebody hits
those things hard in his office I love
my big very hard and I know you will too
right now my listeners get 20% off at
liquid IV calm when you use my code
majority a check out that's 20% off
anything you order at liquid Ivy's
website go to liquid IV dot-com and to
my promo code majority to get your
savings and start getting better
hydration that's liquid IV dot-com promo
code majority don't wait get hydrated
today all right let's go over some of
the recap some of the things that have
happened so far in this hearing I mean
look this is primarily this hearing in
fact I think like initially the
Democrats that we're not gonna bring up
Russia here because he's going to you
yesterday went to the house or the
Senate Intelligence Committee tomorrow
he goes to the House Intelligence
Committee
these are closed-door sessions they
weren't gonna bring up any Russia stuff
but the Republicans wanted to ostensibly
to I guess to exonerate the president
the do we have okay yeah this is the
most interesting part we're gonna start
and not quite at the at the beginning
because to me in terms of the the
concept of of collusion and whatnot it
has always been you know my assessment
that to the extent that any collusion
happened that they weren't aware of it
or this and that I think they're you
know over time I become a little bit
more convinced of that they maybe had a
little bit more of a sense of what was
going on of who they were dealing with
but and and one of the things that I had
said over and over again during the
campaign was my genuine belief that
Donald Trump did not want
Wynn was not running to win didn't think
he was gonna win and Michael Cohen
[Music]
basically confirmed that with his
testimony but what also becomes
interesting here is that in some ways it
makes the idea of collusion whatever
that means but the idea that Trump was
working was aware of what the Russians
were doing and was encouraging it and
there was a quid pro quo involved here
in some ways it makes it in my mind a
little bit more likely because in some
ways it reduces the stakes instead of it
being like you're gonna help me become
president and I'm gonna be a nefarious
agent for you it's gonna be I'm gonna
carry your water with some things and
I'm not gonna be president I'm just
gonna own a building for a hundred you
know several hundred million dollars
that to me is a much more likely
scenario than someone being a Manchurian
Candidate it's just him doing another
corrupt business deal which in fact is
something that he basically had done in
New York real estate for decades decades
here is Michael Cohen saying in this
clip number three that oh yeah Trump
just ran as a marketing exercise Donald
Trump is a man who ran for office to
make his brand great not to make our
country great he had no desire or
intention to leave this nation only to
market himself and to build his wealth
and power mr. Trump would often say this
campaign was going to be the greatest
infomercial in political history he
never expected to win the primary he
never expected to win the general
election the campaign for him was always
a marketing opportunity and so the
campaign is a marketing opportunity and
this is from his prepared opening
statement the campaign's a marketing
opportunity and later in the in the
hearing he talks about he would do
anything to win and it's it was a little
bit unclear in the way that he phrased
it but I think what he was saying was
that
winning was not winning the election
winning was getting this multi hundred
million dollar deal for this building in
Moscow and so that's I think what they
were talking about when they were saying
winning and when you think about it in
those terms like yeah of course try I
mean remember Flynn lied because about
his dealings with I think it was Turkey
because they didn't think they were
gonna win and so that this just becomes
like you know completely transactional
it's over perform so you don't lose in
an embarrassing way and then cash in
it's across the board I mean we don't we
don't even what I'm talking about
the Emirati and Saudi stuff right and he
Israeli stuff I mean it's open shop for
everyone and this is also just a way
more outsized and stupid and overt and
less legalized form of you know
basically what happens across the board
anyways right and he didn't need to do
any of this stuff to be rich right like
Trump was the rich kid but he wasn't a
billionaire I've never been her one
billionaire and I do think that there's
a psychology of is also this is the
opportunity of maybe actually getting
like he knows he's lying about his
earnings so I think there's some
psychological need to actually get there
but it's not driven by any rational
material need right it's like what
you've always written you know a little
bit thrilling but is there any is there
any amount of money over I don't know I
mean I I don't know what that figure is
but I assume it's got to be somewhere
between 10 and 50 million dollars where
like every dollar after that is just I'm
never gonna know there's actually
studies from Sweden track on your mentor
what mental well-being and you really
only need about a hundred K to feel good
with your life that's but no no no no
thickness all right it's actually 55
million dollars a quarter
here's how materially satisfied here's
how Coen answered opened his testimony
today by basically saying and this this
this theme of him saying that he's
ashamed has been incredibly effective in
dealing with the Republicans and I gotta
say the Republicans are not good at this
they're just simply not good at this or
this this crew no one person pointed out
actually on Twitter which might be true
I mean in addition to them also just
being unlikable and ridiculous and
stupid and and bringing up you know
we'll get into it but I think the other
problem they're having is that they have
their they have to be so careful about
how they implicate him and lying in
crimes without bringing Trump and right
cuz it's always on behalf of Trump
that's another big needle they have to
thread they have to thread a needle but
the the the hardest thing they have is
that he is seemingly holding back
nothing and he is assuming all
responsibility and that gives you very
little oxygen to sort of like you to
start this and so this is indicative of
where he went with this I am ashamed
that I chose to take part in concealing
mr. Trump's illicit acts rather than
listening to my own conscience I am
ashamed because I know what mr. Trump is
he is a racist he is a con man and he is
a cheat now you know throughout this
some of us at one point and it may just
be that he got in trouble or it's
unclear to me exactly what the impetus
was but I do know that this is a guy
whose kids go to a private school on the
Upper West Side in New York I know
people who know people who are in those
social circles and it's quite possible
that the vast majority of people that
he's surrounded with are just like
really and at one point he just found it
easier he just like looked at his kids
and said like they're gonna have it
easier time of this I think that's try
go up and change this way because I'm
already screwed and so this is the best
I can do I mean I also think that people
and maybe this is kind of in New York
thing but like I'm not saying it's right
but I think that people sometimes
underestimate the difference and it's
showing up in the hearing cuz
republicans are big oh well if he was so
sleazy and it was just about money and
you know why did you work for him and
his real-estate empire and it's like
well there's a pretty big difference in
some people's minds like like the
difference between a Michael Cohen and a
complete sociopath like Donald Trump is
maybe it's like fun and games when we're
doing real estate hustles but maybe I
actually do have a certain conscience
about occupying the Oval Office and you
know he keeps mentioning charlottesville
which is interesting no one follows up
on well I think that really apparently I
think it actually effect I mean well
contrast that with minuchin and whose
and Cohen I think oh yeah I mean they
you know they they did a little back
channel pontificating right Cohen had to
at the very least felt pressure to you
know to put out there that he was
troubled right I don't this actually
affected this guy yeah all right in here
we are back live
ok we're zooming shortly all right so
let's go there's a couple of things that
are pretty funny revelations about
Donald Trump that you know I think are
not shocking but it's fun to hear about
one is of course how he hired a sock
puppet essentially to bid up the value
of his self-portrait at an auction to
make it seem like it was the most
valuable picture that anybody could buy
it then had his charity this has been
somewhat reported at his charity payback
payback this sock puppet a bitter and
then you know he hung it in his in his
house Wow
president ever can we all admit that and
he apparently also threatened his high
school and elementary school and SATs
not to release his scores you got a
college boy down a copy of an article
with mr. Trump's handwriting on it that
reported on the auction of a portrait of
himself that he arranged for the bidder
ahead of time and then reimburse
the bidder from the account of his
nonprofit charitable foundation with the
picture now hanging in one of his
country clubs and copies of letters I
wrote at mr. Trump's direction that
threatened his high school colleges and
the College Board not to release his
grades Wow
if you can abstract away from all the
very bad outcomes like you got to admit
Trump is the most hilarious president
we've ever had it's true I mean you
could to get that petty this is after
he's in office and everybody says I
attacked Obama about his test scores
ever heard of best defense is a good
offense
I mean how like psychologically damaged
what is it zero fall off her momma gets
oh yeah it says here we go there's more
when I say con man I'm talking about a
man who declares himself brilliant but
directed me to threaten his high school
College's College Board to never release
his grades or SAT scores as I mentioned
I'm giving the committee today copies of
a letter I sent at mr. Trump's direction
threatening these schools with civil and
criminal actions
if mr. Trump's grades or SAT scores were
ever disclosed without his permission
and these are under exhibit C 6 the
irony wasn't lost on me at the time that
mr. Trump in 2011 had strongly
criticized President Obama for not
releasing his grades as you can see in
exhibit 7 mr. Trump declared let him
show his records after calling President
Obama a terrible student I swear to God
when you when when when you hear stories
of like they you know they lived under
the Mad King this is this is what it was
like just like completely you're
President of the United States
you're a 70 year old man you worried
about your high school grades being
released yeah uh yeah Oh fancy Jew with
his nice high school grades meanwhile
you're hosting an Internet show I'm the
president if I was in Congress I swear
to God I would ask subpoenaed I would
submit that hundred percent number one
they got to be subpoenaed and I asked
Michael Cohen did he ask you to
initially approach these universities or
high schools to falsify transcripts and
then after being rebuffed is that when
the threats began I would want to if I
sat on a committee I would want to see
those grades just to establish whether
or not they're low enough for him to be
embarrassed about
all right here is one thing people like
about Trump though like he pisses off
all those great grubby nerds who worked
their whole lives to have a fancy job
and then he waltzes in like hey I'm a
total dumbass and gets elected no but he
doesn't I won't he copped yeah got a
problem art if he came out and he was
just like I'm a C student and I'm
smarter than you that would be great
right but you know yeah I call it's
cruel just like a Limbaugh because he
gotta be screwy in two worlds when I
cross Virginia frogs are in North
Carolina scible book deal and I have and
I've spoken to people who've sought me
out regarding a movie deal no I didn't
ask you I said can you commit under oath
that you will not that you have not and
will not pursue a book deal and I would
not do that No okay can you commit under
oath that you will not pursue
opportunities to provide commentary for
a major news network based on your
experiences working for the president no
one can you commit under oath that you
will not pursue political office in the
state of New York
nope so you don't commit to changing
your ways basically because you want to
continue to use your background as a
liar a cheater a convicted liar to make
money that's what you want to do and
that's going to get me a book
a movie deal and television and a spot
on television I don't think so
well it appears that it will I'd yield
my time remainder of my time mr.
chairman to me thank the gentlelady for
yielding mr. Cohen and your sentencing
statement to the court and is in
December of last year you said I want to
apologize that the people of the United
States you deserve to know the truth
approximately months later BuzzFeed news
ran a story that was the story in the
country for a couple days
BuzzFeed story ran January 17 2019 On
January 18th your counsel went on TV and
wouldn't confirm or deny the story the
next day the special counsels office did
something that's never happened never
happened they said the description of
specific statements to the special
counsels office and the characterization
of documents and testimony obtained by
this office regarding Michael Cohen's
congressional testimony are not accurate
why didn't your lawyer the day that he's
on TV when this story is the biggest
thing in the news in the country why
didn't he deny the BuzzFeed story
because I didn't think it was his
responsibility to do that we are not the
fact checkers for BuzzFeed
he's not on TV to talk about the very
story you committed to the courts when
you were trying to get your sentence
reduced that you that the American
people deserve to know the truth you had
the golden opportunity to give them the
truth on a false story the BuzzFeed
story and your lawyer didn't say a thing
he acts actually he said this I can't
confirm I can't deny you had an
opportunity to do exactly what you told
the judge you were going to do one month
after you said it and you didn't do it
why not again it wasn't our
responsibility to be the fact checker
for the news agencies there please let
me the president says so far
approximately I'll count him and he's
finished something they've never done
they said that or thorry was false now
you can respond to my response the
president has told something over 9,000
lies to date do I ask mr. Davis for mr.
Monaco do I go on television in order to
correct his mistakes the answer is
big subject you know and I would like
that all the time as a listen up the
gentleman's time has expired
you may finish answering the question
and then we're going to go to mr.
Connolly all I wanted to say is I just
find it interesting sir that between
yourself and your colleagues that not
one question so far since I'm here has
been asked about President Trump that's
actually why I thought I was coming
today not to not to confess the mistakes
that I've made I've already done that
and I'll do it again every time you ask
me about taxes or mistakes yes I made my
mistakes I'll say it now again and I'm
gonna pay the ultimate price but I'm not
here today and the American people don't
care about my taxes they want to know
what it is that I know about mr. Trump
and not one question so far has been
asked about mr. Trump mr. Connolly you
get when you get scolded by Michael
Cohen to quote myself you're a bunch of
disingenuous based emoni and your 10
year experience I think you can
recognize the behavior you're being
subjected to on the other side of the
aisle discredit slander that is a job as
a good opening use any trick in the book
to prevent your testimony from sticking
the idea that a witness would come to us
who's flawed and you certainly are
flawed means they can never tell the
truth and there is no validity
whatsoever to a single word they say
would discredit every single krug
criminal trial of organized crime in the
history of the United States because all
of them depend on someone who's turned
it would make Rico
null and void we couldn't visit anymore
exactly Rico's unfair this Congress
historically has relied robach Rico who
turned one of the most famous who led to
the decapitation of the organized crime
families in America Joe Valachi
congressional hearing he was a witness
and he committed a lot worse crimes than
you're convicted of mr. Cohen
so don't be fooled by what my friends on
the other side of the aisle are trying
to do today it is do everything but
focus on the principle known as
individual number one in the Southern
District of New York as I recall is that
correct mr. Cohen that is correct
now mr. Cohen I want to ask you about
something that's not in your testimony
and that so far has not been made public
in our committee staff search of
documents provided by the White House
that were otherwise redacted or already
in the public you might guess the White
House Bunny
it is life--my they made one mistake the
White House there was an email from a
special assistant to the president
because it to a deputy White House
Counsel and the email is dated May 16
2017 and it says and I quote POTUS
meaning the president requested a
meeting on Thursday with michael cohen
and jay sekulow
any idea what this might be about end
quote do you recall being asked to come
to the White House on or around that
time with mr. Sekulow May of 2017
off the top of my head sir I don't I
recall being in the White House with Jay
Sekulow it was in regard to the the
documents the document production as
well as my appearance before the House
Select intel but I'm not sure if that's
specifically well that front but what I
will do is I will check all my records
and I'm more than happy to provide you
with any documentation or a response to
this question well that that's you sort
of touch on the presumably the purpose
of the discussion at least among others
this occurred this meeting occurred just
before your testimony before the Select
Committee on Intelligence here in the
house is that correct I believe so yes
was that a topic of conversation with
the President himself if this is the
specific instance that I was there with
mr. Sekulow yes so you had a
conversation with the president United
States about your pending
testimony before the House Intelligence
Committee is that correct that's correct
what was the nature of that conversation
he wanted me to cooperate he also want
to just ensure by making the statement
and I said it in my testimony
there is no Russia there is no collusion
there is no there is no deal he goes
it's all a witch hunt and it's he knows
this miss stuff has to end did you take
those comments to be suggestive of what
might flavor your testimony sir he's
been saying that to me for many many
months and at the end of the day I knew
exactly what he wanted me to say and why
was mr. Sekulow because he was going to
be representing mr. Trump going forward
as one of his personal attorneys in this
matter sort of a handoff meeting correct
in any way final question did the
president in any way from your point of
view coach you in terms of how to
respond to questions or the content of
your testimony before a House committee
again it's it's a difficult answer
because he doesn't tell you what he
wants what he does is again Michael
there's no Russia
there's no collusion there's no
involvement there's no interference I
know what I could've been around him for
so he said the G knows you're asking me
whether or not that's the message that's
staying on point that's the party line
that he created that so many others are
now dynamic is like when that he wanted
we're in this office and I say Michael
I'm not a shill for MSNBC
I'm not a neoliberal show right there is
no MSNBC show here at times yes that's
what you say when did you decide he was
a I don't know if I would call
it intuition
as much as I would just say God I do
advise mr. mathias were you a good
lawyer too mr. Trump I believe so when
you arranged a payment to miss Clifford
you say in your testimony I'm a quote
from your testimony that you did so
quote without bothering to consider
whether that was improper much less
whether it was the right thing to do you
said that unquote that's your testimony
today you said you didn't even consider
whether it was legal how could you give
your client legal advice when you're not
even considering whether it's legal I
did what I knew mr. Trump wanted this
conversation with mr. Trump I just
started I didn't ask whether you're a
good fixer I asked whether you were a
good lawyer
whooo sometimes you have to melt both
together I needed to at that time ensure
and protect mr. Trump so if I put my
which I'm clearly clearly suffering the
penalty of I clearly of wrong so you
feel like by without bothering to
consider whether it was proper much less
whether it was the right thing to do by
ignoring any conscience if you have one
that you were protecting mr. Trump I'm
sorry sorry you feel that was how to
protect as his lawyer you feel that you
did a good job you said you were a good
lawyer right
does that being a good lawyer to not
even consider whether it's legal or not
but I didn't work for the campaign I was
working and I was trying to protect you
exotic campaign i sat with mr. Trump and
this goes back all the way to 2011 this
wasn't the first scenario with Miss Dana
let's go back there
so wouldn't my point my point is this is
this was an ongoing situation it didn't
just start in all right let's our please
but you have to let me finish
well this
started enough it didn't started not let
me I started they many years early when
were you disbarred yesterday from what I
read in the paper yesterday when should
you have been disbarred based on the
legal counsel you were giving your
client I I don't have an answer for your
question how long were you counsel for
mr. trout
since 2007 when is the first time you
gave him bad legal advice or failed to
inform him of his legal obligations as
you as you testified today you did in
the case of the payment to miss Clifford
when was the first time you did that
would that qualify for disbarment I
don't know sir I'm not the bar
association I think you should consult
with it maybe occasionally seventy's
there's no longer now I lost my Lois
[Laughter]
the closest is calm you know cuz Cohen
should have said upfront
I'm not your lawyer and so far it's like
I didn't fight but I'm a better fixer
consider for the Democratic convention
you became privy to a conversation that
some of Hillary Clinton's emails would
be leaked is that correct correct okay
was that in you said late July do you
know the exact day I believe it was
either the 18th of the 19th and I would
guess that it would be on the 19th but
it was definitely July I believe so yes
did you know that was public knowledge
in June this was yeah mister I'd like to
submit this you know guardian reported
to the media the only guys well I think
those emails would be leaked so I'm not
saying you have fake news I'm saying you
have old news and there's really not
much to that I would like to yield the
remainder of my time to mr. Higgins that
is the least relevant going art of this
story on some level really not I was
there unless there's boxes where are
those boxes are in your garage or
storage and these not boxes they should
have been turned over to investigative
authorities during the many criminal
investigations
you've been subject to sir these are the
boxes that were returned to me
they include data pertinent to crimes
that you've committed should they not
have been turned over to remand it to
investigative authority did mr. Lanny
Davis know of these boxes did you answer
the question I don't understand his
question sir well that was bizarre
morning Thank You chairman Cummings for
convening this hearing and Thank You mr.
Cohen for voluntarily testifying this
morning mr. Cohen you were the executive
vice president and Special Counsel for
the Trump Organization correct I was the
executive vice president special counsel
to Donald J Trump and special counsel
means you were the attorney for him is
that right just means I was there in
order to handle matters that he felt
were significant and important to him
individually and those included legal
matters yes sir sir as a former attorney
you're familiar with legal documents
known as non-disclosure agreements or
NDA's is that right yes exist I'm sure
you know that NDA's properly written in
scope can be reasonable in certain
business contexts but they can also be
abused about to break your dealing
effect to silence people as we've seen
in the me2 movement and in other places
isn't that right mr. Cohen yes and mr.
Cohen the Trump Organization used NDA's
extensively isn't that right that's
correct mr. Cohen I'm reading from a
recent Washington Post article regarding
the language in one of these types of
NDA's where the terms were described as
very broad for instance the terms
reticulated the information was defined
to be anything that quote mr. Trump
insists remain private or confidential
including but not limited to any
information with respect to the personal
life political affairs and/or business
affairs of mr. Trump or any of a family
member
close quote no proposed terms
sound familiar to you I've seen that
document in fact there's a class-action
lawsuit filed this month by former Trump
campaign worker Jessica Denson that this
NDA language is illegal because it is
too broad to vague and would be used to
retaliate against employees who complain
of illegalities or wrongdoing would you
agree that in the use of the n DS of
these types of NDA's with this type of
language and later when Donald Trump
sought to enforce them that he intended
to prevent people from coming forward
with claims of wrongdoing yes would you
agree that the effect of the use of
these NDA's and their enforcement was to
have a chilling effect on people or
silenced them from coming forward I
apologize if you wanted to find chilling
I'm not sure oh just that he would in
using these NDA's or trying to enforce
them would basically try to keep people
silent
that was the goal and nothing at the
Trump Organization was ever done unless
it was run through president Donald
Trump correct that's a hundred percent
certain okay mr. Cohen do you believe
that there are people out there today
either from the president's business or
personal life who are not coming forward
to tell their stories of wrongdoing
because of the president's use of NDA's
against them I'm sorry sir I don't know
the answer to that question okay sir I
have a couple other questions for you
when was the last he's not wrong with I
don't have the specific date but it was
a while ago
okay do you do you have a general time
frame I'm gonna open up the IMS folks
who can IMS via the app at times I
suspect it was within two months post
the raid of my my home okay so tell her
Lee fall of last year generally
generally and what did he or his that
mention about his hotel he was not
living
unfortunately this time he was separated
with someone that's not investigated
right so I think the threat from Matt
Gaetz and then they might have been not
- but we all get that issues fair enough
is there any other wrongdoing or illegal
act that you are aware of regarding
Donald Trump that we haven't yet
discussed today yes and again those are
part of the investigation that's
currently being looked at by the
Southern District of New York sir
congressman Cooper asked you about
whether you or you were aware of any
physical violence committed by President
Trump I just have a couple quick
questions do you have any knowledge of
President Trump abusing any control
substances I'm not aware of that no do
you have any knowledge of President
Trump being delinquent on any alimony or
child care payments I've done aware of
any of them do you have any knowledge of
President Trump arranging any health
care procedures for any women not in his
family I'm not aware of that No thank
you I yield back
thank you I'll be interested I mean it's
a cloud surprising actually
yeah that last one's surprising you
wouldn't me - yeah Thank You chairman
mr. Cohen can you tell me the
significance of May 6 it's the day after
May 5 a couple months from now that's
the day they need to surrender yes the
federal prison could you for the record
state what you've been convicted of I've
been convicted on five counts of tax
evasion there's one count of
misrepresentation of documents to a bank
there's two counts one dealing with
campaign finance for Karen McDougal
one count of campaign finance violation
for stormy Daniels as well as lying to
Congress thank you can you state what
your official title with the campaign
was I did not have a campaign title and
your position in the Trump
administration I did not have one
okay in today's testimony you said that
you were not looking to work in the
White House
the
Southern District of New York in their
statement there are sentencing memo says
this Cohen's criminal violations and the
federal election laws were also stirred
like others crimes by certain degree of
red go to Cohen privately told friends
colleagues in including sees text
messages that expected to be given a
prominent role in the new administration
when that did not materialize Cohen
found a way to monetize his relationship
in excess with the president so were
they lying or were you lying today I'm
not saying it's a lie I'm just saying
it's not accurate
I did not want to go to the White House
I retained a I bought an attorney in and
I sat with mr. Trump with him for well
over an hour explaining the importance
of having a personal attorney that every
president has had one in order to handle
matters like the matters I was dealing
with which included say like some some
reserved for me Daniels as dealing with
Stefan a swing and miss concern other
personal matters that need him oh excuse
me this is my time thank you
ask unanimous consent to submit this
sensing memo from me calculon's really
chance you'll become a congressman from
from Texas okay this memo states that
you committed four to stand metal crimes
over a period of several years you were
motivated to do so by personal greed and
repeatedly used your power to influence
for deceptive ends it goes on to say
that you were that they each involved
they were just at that point their
comments right there it's gonna be the
big talking point this investigation but
here's what we do know we know that you
were expecting a job at the White House
and didn't get it you made millions
lying about your close access to the
president you have a history of lying
the personal gain including that's banks
your account she'd gone Utley dropping
ask the monger C miracle
about the desired work you said that you
did all this at a white rump but your
sleeve wanted to make a lot and acted by
a desire to further ingratiate himself
with potential future president for whom
spittle set success Cohen himself
claimed credit for now we're in a search
for truth and I don't know chairman how
we're supposed to ascertain the truth in
this quagmire of a hearing when the best
witness we can bring before this is
already being convicted of lying before
us and what's sad is the American people
have seen this play out before we have
people in prominent positions fail and
then a couple years later they get a
book deal now you're set to go to to
jail for a couple years you come out
with a multi-million book deal that's
that's not bad living and so my question
is today that will be one of our main
chocolate animalic drops donated
proceeds to book deals to film reviews
if I could just go to jail for a few
years
better come out while mr. meadows may
finish mr. Cohen he's yielded me and so
I didn't hear my response listen every
minute made mr. chairman may I finish my
response mr. mr. Cohen
everything's been made of your lies in
the past I'm concerned about your lies
today under under your testimony just a
few minutes ago to me you indicated that
you had contracts with foreign entities
and and yet we have a truth and
testimony disclosure form which requires
you to list those foreign contracts for
the last two years and you put n/a on
there and it's a criminal offence to not
have that accurately so when were you
lying either and the testimony to me
earlier today or when you filled out the
form gentleman's time has expired mr.
Coyne you
may answer his question and then
whatever you wanted to say on it his
questions fortunately I I don't have an
answer for his question but as well no
no no no no mr. chairman as it relates
the gentleman is out of order I said he
does not have an answer but mr. chairman
when we were in the majority with all
due respect mr. chairman hold on over
your time he's one of them he's under
oath to tell the truth one of them is
not accurate mr. chairman you won't have
time dance we need the guy from
Parliament to go oh uh mr. Raskin I
actually like tereska Cohen thank you
for your today our colleagues are not
upset because you lied to Congress for
the president they're upset because you
stopped lying to Congress for the
president now you've ties back you see
last night money my wife said it was
really well infomercial of all time I
think you said and this may be the most
wrenching observation of your whole
testimony law do you think the Trump
campaign were presidency ever stopped
being about making money for the
president his family and his
organization yes when did it stop being
that when he won the election and it
what did it become about at that point
then it had to be about figuring out
what to do here in Washington can you
carefully explain to America how the
hush money payments to Karen McDougal
and stormy Daniels worked can you
carefully explain what catch and kill is
sure yeah we already know I received a
phone call going toward AIIMS
water vote from Kazmir is supposed to be
a tip of the hat to a mat they're upset
that I don't pronounce their name
correctly Bugatti the pettiness of all
Cohn is spilling like tea like a
pissed-off homegirl but I'm here for it
Jonathan I'm stead Sam I want to kind of
I kind of want to start calling the New
York military academy daily and asked
for Trump school records
ideally I'd love for the school to hire
a full-time person to handle these
requests much like the hospital in
Hawaii did after Trump
Obama wasn't born in America word Donald
hello thanks for all you guys do
political jargon
I don't like Cohen but it's hard not to
be on his quote side during this one
weird trick Trump's fixation on
accumulating more wealth than he will
ever spend his more evidence for how
capitalism is a religion to the
capitalist class indeed Jeffrey why
would we believe Cohn when he says he's
a liar when we can prove that he lied
before he could be lying about lying
which could make his lie about lying not
credible Sam knows people who knows
people in Cohen circle is he trying to
say he's in the Jewish mafia look I know
a guy
Winnipeg Craig forget Cohen let's talk
about Sam cruising Twitter to pick up
chicks I haven't seen my man this
thirsty since before Mr started stocking
liquid IV Wow agates lair important to
note that addition to there being a
Chicago mayoral runoff there are three
DSA endorse candidates that will also be
in runoff sir aldermen as well as one
DSA endorsed aldermen that won
re-election mr. Trump paid so which
brings us to the Karen McDougal he was
supposed to pay he was supposed to pay a
hundred and twenty five thousand dollars
for the life story of Karen McDougal for
whatever the reason may be he elected
not to pay it David Becker was very
angry because there was also other
monies that David had expended on his
behalf unfortunately David never got
paid back for that either
so David Becker had done this in other
cases of other mistresses or women other
circumstances yes okay not all of them
had to do with women are you aware of
anything that the president has done at
home or abroad that may have subjected
him to or may subject him to extortion
or blackmail I am not know okay are you
aware of any videotapes that may be the
subject of extortion or blackmail I've
heard about these tapes for a long time
I've had many people contact me over the
years I had no reason in December 2015
Donald Trump was asked about his over
the years you'll exceeder a convicted
felon and real estate developer any
reply
Felix ater boy have to even think about
it I'm not that familiar with him
why did Trump endeavor to hide his
relationship with Felix ater and what
was his relationship well he certainly
had a relationship Felix was a partner
in a company called Bay rock that was
involved in the deal of the Trump Soho
hotel as well as I believe the Trump
Fort Lauderdale project why did he want
to distance himself that's what mr.
Trump does he distances himself when
things go bad for someone and at that
point in time it was going bad for mr.
Seder
exactly you said you lied to Congress
about Trump's negotiations to build his
Moscow Tower because he made it clear to
you that he wanted you to lie one of the
reasons you knew this is because quote
mr. Trump's personal lawyers reviewed
and edited my statement to Congress
about the timing of the Moscow Tower
negotiations before I gave it so this is
a pretty breathtaking claim and I just
want to get to the facts here which
specific lawyers reviewed and edited
your statement to Congress on the Moscow
Tower negotiations and did they make any
changes to your statement there were
changes made additions Jay Sekulow for
one were there changes about the timing
the question of Netherlands time has
expired you may answer that there were
several changes that were made including
how we were going to handle that message
mr. Wickes was yes so the message of
course being the length of time that the
Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and
remained alive that was yes growth yeah
first of all I like to clear up
something I just all of something it
bothers me
he started off your testimony and you
said I think in response to some
question that President Trump never
expected to win I just want to clear
clarify that I dealt with President
Trump several times as he was trying to
get Wisconsin
he was always confident he was working
very hard and this idea that somehow he
was just running to raise his profile
for size
mr. Wisconsin to my expenses
preposterous little defensive when
anti-trump people imply that he just did
this on a lark and didn't expect to win
but so be it as it me um my first
question concerns your relationship with
the court do you expect I mean right now
I think you're you're sentenced to three
years correct that's correct do you
expect any time using this testimony
other testimony after you get done doing
whatever you're going to do this week do
you ever expect to go back and ask for
any sort of reduction in sentence yes
there are ongoing investigations
currently being conducted that have
nothing to do with this committee or
Congress that I am assisting in and it
is for the benefit of a rule 35 motion
yes so you expect and perhaps what you
testify here today will affect going
back and reducing this my weaving is a
relatively light three-year sentence you
expect to go back and ask for a further
reduction based off of my appearance
here today well based upon whatever you
do between now and in your request for
the rule 35 motion is in the complete
hands of the Southern District of New
York and the way the rule 35 motion
works is what you're supposed to do is
provide them with information that leads
to ongoing investigations I am currently
working with them right now on several
other issues of investigation that's
interesting concerns them that they're
looking at if those investigations
become fruitful then there is a
possibility for a rule 35 motion and I
don't know what the benefit in terms of
time would be but this congressional
hearing today is not going to be the
basis of a rule 35 motion I wish it was
but it's not I'd like to yield some time
to congressman Jordan man that is a huge
whiff
that's a huge whiff mr. Cohen I'm gonna
come back to the question I asked before
with regards to your false statements
what does it mean any on
it was very clear it asked for contracts
with foreign entities over the last two
years have you had any foreign contract
yes whether it's no Boris or Kazakhstan
bt a bank your testimony earlier said
that you had contracts with them
in fact you went in peace I'll believe
it talks about lobbying I did no
lobbying on top I'm not asking about
lobbying mr. Cohen they are not
government agency or individual traded
companies do you have foreign contracts
I currently have no foreign did you have
foreign contracts over the last two
years foreign contracts contracts with
foreign entities did you have your dress
yes yes why didn't you put him on the
form it says it's a criminal offence to
not put him on this form for the last
two years why did you not do that
because those foreign companies that
you're referring to are not government
companies it says non-governmental mr.
Cohen you signed they told me as being
non-governmental and right it says
foreign agency it says foreign contracts
do you want us to read it to you I I
read it and it was reviewed by my
counsel and I am a non-government
employee it was not lobbying and they
are not it has nothing to do with
lobbying it says it's a criminal offence
to not list all your foreign contracts
that's what it says oh then I'm gonna
take a look at it before I leave oh
you've burned I will and hopefully I
will amend it prior to leaving because
that's not the way I read your document
you know it's just one more example mr.
Cohen of your skirting the truth okay I
want to ask one other questions were you
advised what was your time to advise to
withhold your written testimony to the
latest possible date as John Dean said
last night on CNN was it my what were
you advised was your counsel advised to
withhold your written testimony to this
committee at the latest possible date to
get it to this committee at the latest
possible day as John Dean said that he
advised
you we yes or no no we will be never
advised we were John Dean I've never
spoken with John has he spoken to your
attorney
III don't know I've never spoke your
attorneys why we were working last night
Oh Hotel 11 12 o'clock you've known that
you've been coming for some time I I
hope this guy gets a heart attack you
were working till 11 12 o'clock last
night to finish every so you were
writing it last night mr. going to dig
into that ball we were making edits all
the way through the night I'm sorry
Thank You mr. chairman mr. Cohen put it
in a lawsuit related to the failed real
estate project so tell and tower in Fort
Lauderdale during the deposition CVD
straw was mainly just a little recap
earlier the Russian mafia all right
what's it I was here one more time
manipulation scheme
Felix senator and it's worth noting as
well publicized the direct relationship
between the Russian mafia and the
Kremlin over the years president Trump
was asked how many times he interacted
with convicted Russian mobster Felix
sader
in 2013 President Trump testified that
quote not many if you were sitting in
the room right now I really wouldn't
know what he looked like
unquote this is the guy that mr. Cohen
robot you previously testified isn't it
true that President Trump knew convicted
Russian mobster Felix aider in 2013 when
he made that statement yes isn't it true
that because of mr. seeders were
relationship to the Trump Organization
that he had an office in the Trump Tower
and on the 26th floor mr. Trump the 26th
floor is important why because it's mr.
Trump's floor so he had an office on the
same floor as President Trump in fact
his office when he left became my office
it isn't it also true that convicted
Russian mobster Seder
even had business cards indicating that
he was a senior adviser to Donald Trump
as reported by The Washington Post yes
did convicted Russian mobster Seder pay
rent for his office no he did not
so based on those facts isn't it true
that President Trump misled at best or
worse lied under oath yes
in December 2015 President Trump was
asked again about his relationship to
convicted Russian mobster mr. Seder by
reporting for the essential dice he
stated quote Felix Seder boy I have to
even think about it unquote he added he
quote I'm not that familiar with Felix
mr. bone where would we business record
explain every time I hear a rushing
around things of you bury those are you
giving the Trump organizations files
they'd be in the Trump organizations
files there would be CC's to Bey rock
which was the name of mr. Saders company
I suspect on mr. Saders email address
possibly hard files in possession of mr.
Seder and when you say in possession of
the Trump Organization where
it depends upon who the attorney was
that was working on it now it would
probably be in a box off-site they have
storage facility that they okay but old
files in addicted in addition to
convicted Russian mobster seder do you
know of any other ties to convicted or
alleged mobsters president Trump may
have I am not aware is it true that many
people with ties to Russia ultimately
bought condos and Trump properties
usually for cash and if so how many are
we talking 10 20 50
I'm not honestly sir I'm not aware of
any the statement that was you're
referring to I believe was made by the
Eric or Don and I don't know really it's
so are you aware of any cash purchases
by Russian oligarchs and family members
of Trump properties I'm not aware of
that I can tell you when you say cash if
you mean walking in with the satchel of
rubles of the answer is I've never seen
that happen I've never heard of it I
will tell you when we sold mr. Trump's
property in Palm Beach the home for
ninety five million dollars
it came in by wire and that came from
mr. Riebe Aliyev's bank account one
other question you also talked about
President Trump he may negotiations
we're out the campaign involved in the
trumpet power and he she's not in there
we go what I feel is involved out how do
you know well the answer is yes it as it
relates to negotiations it was merely
follow-ups as to what's currently
happening what's happening with Russia
let's go to some of the earlier things
from his opening statements IOC down in
front yeah are you gonna do a wait for
her to come up that's what I want to get
this new deal I think spying and I could
dim racism well here is in fact a
speaking of racism and going back to
Cohen's opening statements this clip
number five
we're Michael Cohen you know and I think
I don't know what's in Michael Cohen's
heart but it's it seems to me very
conceivable based upon the the social
circles he moves in in New York that it
would be rather embarrassing after
Charlottesville etc etc for him to be
going about and if it is the case as he
opened up in his statement that
basically his kids are his number one
concern being offended at the overt
racism of Donald Trump would be
consistent with and exposing that would
be consistent with wanting to try and
protect his kids this is what he said
about Trump as a racist mr. Trump is a
racist the country has seen mr. Trump
court white supremists and bigots you
have heard him call poorer countries
shitholes his private in private he is
even worse he once asked me if I can
name a country run by a black person
that wasn't a hole this was when
Barack Obama was President of the United
States and while we were once driving
through a struggling neighborhood in
Chicago he commented that only black
people could live that way and he told
me that black people would never vote
for him because they were too stupid and
yet I continued to work for him there
you go and this is all part of it yeah I
think this is all part of his sort of uh
of his repentance and that's more about
the obviously the motivation of him
coming forward and trying to you know
rehabilitate himself I mean that's what
he's doing other people who should make
any mistake about this he's trying to
rehabilitate himself but he's doing it
in a way at least that I think makes it
hard to impeach what he says because
he's taking full accountability for it
he's been seems to be for the most part
being completely frank he's certainly
not look we have no way of knowing if
he's being
frank about all things but he's
certainly not denying his role and the
things that are obvious he may claim
certain lack of knowledge about certain
things that the trump organization and
others were doing but he's not denying
his role in this stuff this was also fun
and i think at some level this could be
if used properly certain areas of the
country i don't know that it's gonna get
anybody to flip their vote but if used
properly in certain areas of the country
may depress some votes frankly when you
got michael cohen talking about Donald
Trump's bone spurs mr. Trump claimed it
was because of a bone spur but when I
asked for medical records
he gave me none and said that there was
no surgery he told me not to answer the
specific questions by reporters but
rather offer simply positive we should
say this is in regards to why he didn't
go to Vietnam or the specific questions
by reporters but rather offers simply
the fact that he received a medical
deferment he finished the conversation
the following comment you think I'm
stupid
I'm not going to Vietnam Farah now I
find that one writes either but the no I
think that that does have something to
it because I think that he revealed like
nobody nobody cares about like the
sanctimony about John McCain but that
one is against his audience it is not
it's not like today Nam you're a sucker
Pierre and that's a different that is
different than I'm sick of hearing about
John McCain and he's a soft you know
like John he was part of the establish
yes John McCain helped him up is some
type of himself as some type of Saint he
was a tall poppy that Donald Trump was
cutting down was going man-to-man
exactly getting out there and saying if
you went to Vietnam you're a sucker and
I'm no sucker you are you
is a different thing I could hear
Vietnam vets who was sympathetic Trump
liking like like haha yeah he did he
failed he crashed planes right sucked
right but if it just goes to like oh you
weren't rich well you think I have bone
spurs my brain right exactly and I mean
in some of us wrecks the reason why
Trump got away with criticizing McCain
and not paying a price with his own
people of that was because um they
perceived McCain as looking down on them
and Trump not this is a case of Trump
looking down on those people who did go
that's basically what kind of dude I
admit this one is also a fan favorite
around here when Michael Cohen confirms
that even Donald Trump senior thinks
that Donald Trump jr. is an idiot I
remembered being in a room with mr.
Trump probably in early June of 2016
when something peculiar happened Don
Trump jr. came into the room and walked
behind his father's desk which in and of
itself was unusual people didn't just
walk behind mr. Trump's desk to talk to
him and I recall Don jr. leave leaning
over to his father and speaking in a low
voice which I could clearly hear and
saying the meeting is all set and I
remember mr. Trump saying okay good let
me know what struck me as I looked back
and thought about the exchange between
Don jr. and his father was first that
mr. Trump had frequently told me and
others that his son Don jr. had the
worst judgment of anyone in the world
and also that Don jr. would never set up
any meeting of significance alone and
certainly not without checking with his
father there you go
I'll tell you what if you ever you know
because we all know Don jr. is this just
you know disgusting on Fox and
Twitter but if you ever forget who wrote
it I couldn't even get through all of it
but it was a GQ piece and just the first
couple of graphs about how Don junior
was treated by his dad it's like uh you
you will feel for Don junior shortly it
has the worst judgement on planet Earth
by the way I agree with Trump's senior
shortly after he said that Cohen in the
hearing Donald Trump jr. retweeted
somebody who was writing about Cohen
saying that saying that this is clearly
a guy who's broken who's humiliated and
has no reason to lie that they'll drop
Judea retweeted Garrett Graf saying
incredible to see the hubris drain from
Cohen I've been personally screamed at
by Cohen on the phone before and know
how much bravado he once had this is a
man with nothing left with no reason to
lie
someone hacked my retweet I mean that's
like reading a book that's a long tweet
for Don jr. yeah he only got through
like the first like line like oh he got
all the hubris drained like hearing
Claud dad didn't say that said it about
Eric yes what did the president ask or
suggest that you say about the payments
or reimbursements he was not
knowledgeable of these reimbursements
and he wasn't knowledgeable of my
actions he asked you to say that yes
ma'am great in addition to the personal
check for $35,000 in July 2017 is there
additional corroborating evidence that
mr. Trump will a sitting president of
the you know
States directly reimbursed you hush
money as part of a criminal scheme to
violate campaign finance laws there are
11 checks that I received for the year
the reason why 11 because as I stated
before one had two checks and you have
copies of all of those I can get copies
I have to go to the bank so we will be
able to get copies of all 11 checks that
mr. Trump provided to you as part of
this criminal scheme it's either from
his personal account as what was
demonstrated in the exhibit or it would
come from the Donald J Trump account the
trust account Thank You mr. Cohen I
yield back the remainder of my time
skips Thank You mr. chairman
you know I'm just been sitting here I'm
new to the committee I'm not an attorney
sometimes your answers you're a
competent or a liar I think may I could
be a better attorney I don't know I'm
looking through this
I'm coming Ortiz and usually rail on the
United States commercial not a comedian
across the Pacific Ocean Shaffer pretty
bad snaps - let's just have this
committee at this time for many of your
community I think a new president yeah
but you could call a racist a cheat you
know you know you talk his character and
I've been with the president a little
bit and and I don't I didn't see that
the president is the president you're
the president
you spent 10 hours so let's go up
head-to-head don't don't come back with
your rationalizations towards a man you
can't that's just an she 8 now I'm
looking at the prosecutor the southern
I'm sorry I'm really rolling you here
false statements debate with Jason X
Cohen guilty are form some isolated
event there's one of the long stories
self-serving lies I hope Cohen just at
the end of this goes
say the only there's a home equity loan
but apparently the prosecutors in New
York think that there's other financial
things that you did you also they said
managed to commit a series of crimes all
withholding self I was a licensed
attorney an upstanding member of the bar
also the Southern District prosecutors
said that wrote that your consciousness
of wrongdoing is fleeting that your
remorse is minimal and that your
instinct is to blame others is strong so
I'm kind of left here why it's why I
hate him you worked for the president
for ten years before you as president if
you have any sense of integrity that
you're trying to tell us you have now it
was that bad why didn't you leave you
weren't you weren't stuck there for
financial reasons you had ways to leave
your attorney and you know come up a
little bit know the conversations
without the topics and because there
were things that originally we could not
speak about at the request of whether
was the special counsels office with
Southern District or any of the other
agencies including the House Select
Intel or the Senate Select Intel sir
just for your personal edification here
I was asked to come here
your Chairman sent a letter to mr. Davis
and I accepted so I'm here voluntarily I
understand that but and if you believe
that I'm like I understand I think it's
the political theater or if you believe
it's not political theater for me and I
take no please I hope you just think
they can
his performance has been pulling for a
short time with him it doesn't stand it
feel good about what's going on here who
died and got funded bomb kills how do I
[Music]
win my election in Ohio as I ran against
a guy with no mouth Jordan 2011 was my
idea
I saw a document in a newspaper that
said who'd you vote for in 2012 6 % my
people said Michael Michael Owen 6
percent of my people turned around and
said they'd vote for Donald Donald Trump
as president so I brought it into his
office and I said to him mr. Trump take
a look at this as well wouldn't that be
great
and with that is where it all started I
believe the story only trouble is that I
recover child molester chef about I
spoke to mr. Schiff about topics that
were going to be raised at the upcoming
hearing whoa not just what time to show
up actually what you're going to talk
about crazy things but that also I
guarantee you that that that segment
will be pulled for Hannity tonight I
know the other side is suggesting that
you are that's what they to do with
Blasi forward to our survey today I
can't think of anything you have to gain
at this point from lying I mean talk
about the tribals Corollary want to do
but I see a lot more that you could
by telling the truth today given the
threats and other things that have been
made against you and your family so
that's how I'm interpreting it and of
course you brought documents with you as
well to bolster the credibility of your
testimony I did want to go back to an
earlier line of questioning regarding
the preparation of caring for guests
moving before the Intelligence Committee
you've talked about a meeting at the
White House where the testimony was
being reviewed I think you said that
there was at least one White House
attorney Jay Sekulow who was there and
you acknowledge that there was some
edits that were made to your testimony
so on that topic who at the White House
reviewed your testimony I don't know the
answer to that the document was was
originally created by myself along with
my attorney at the time from McDermott
will in emery and there was a joint
defense agreement so the document
circulated around I believe it was also
reviewed by Abby Lowell who represents
Ivanka and Jared Kushner why did you
hide it was pursuant to the defense
cooperation winter the boys what were
the edits they can Jews because I'm
sorry I don't know sir I'd have to take
a look at the document did you have a do
you have a reaction to why there might
not be no that their whole protest what
was gonna be you also testified possibly
no sir goal you stay on the su the
challenges limit and you the
relationship
so Russia obviously there's no rush
already old man jizz that is the bad
horse that's the same mental that
existed well before my need to come and
testify so it's an example of of where
this idea this this mentality of you toe
the line
whatever the storyline or the narrative
of the day or the month where the year
is going to be you tow that line whether
it results in false testimony or not i
towed the party line and I'm now
suffering and I'm gonna continue to
suffer for a while along with my family
as a result of it so yes let me switch
gears from what quickly before my time
it's from one low gear to another may
not really very little gear knowledge
very helpful right perspective on how
for and it's a trumped world operates
and frankly another reason and I think I
break ass is fairly compelling
incredible is because a lot of the
things you've described boring
grievances rhyming it's very consistent
with what we all see every single day so
it's not it's not a leap for us it's
arrived in the same place of perspective
that you presented I'm interested in in
some of the activities around the
inaugural committee the inauguration of
the president there was a article that
appeared in ProPublica it's a watchdog
group about some negotiation on the
right Ronson mother Joe hotel it looks
like the the rental that was being
quoted was substantial even double what
you would expect to pay according to
what that afterwards should bear and
it's an offense L was up charge and so
Laurel even I couldn't afford to stay
there knitting yeah and so I'm just
curious which ever said whether that
interactive some Sacha Baron Cohen
country bacon is it possible that that
kind of of charging could be done just
was there anything illegal that happened
during the it did it did happen
well I can say to you is I wasn't part
of the inaugural committee I raised a
lot of money for the inauguration but I
was not part of it and there was a lot
of things in that actually that issue is
something that's also obviously we've
read about in the paper being
investigated encouraging that you guys
you made him just listen to this guy
hard to tell you who this family's going
through I feel for your family the word
tells us clearly that a man's mouth is
his destruction and his lip oh geez for
the snare of his soul about the pubic
onion I'll see you a man trapped in that
however I must tell you that I've
arrested seven thousand two men this guy
and you remind me of many of them the
ones that immediately become humble and
remorseful at the time they're actually
booked and while they're incarcerated
they're quite penitent and then returned
to their former selves this guy like
pointed back on its reasoning for a
remake of go high or something
respectful to your family and what
they're going through the honesty to
tell you that that's my sense of you
good sir I'm gonna give you another
opportunity to respond
 you hillbilly what you brushed off
earlier regarding your own statement
during his testimony from c-span
notation at two hours and fifty seconds
in you stated regarding your credibility
that you're being accused of having no
credibility that is exactly for that
reason I spent the last week searching
boxes to find the information that I did
so you don't have to take my word for it
I want you to look at the documents and
make your own decisions now the
documents you're referring to Mr Norrell
the doggie embarrassment in dispute with
your testimony today is that correct you
believe they did those
to be worthy of evidence for this
oversight hearing today I leave that to
you to decide I'll ask you again sir and
please don't be incredulous it's a
serious question where are those boxes
that contain documents worthy of
evidence to be presented to Congress and
why have they not been turned over to
investigating authorities looking into
some of the many criminal activities
that you're allegedly cooperating in
where are these boxes who knows of the
where is this treasure of evidence the
boxes that I'm referring to were boxes
that were in my law office when the FBI
entered and seized documents mr.
chairman I was an investigating
authorities have noted what the
gentleman had just stated and that
actions be taken for those boxes he
seized and reviews they have proper
warrants on by setting judge you noted
earlier today he doesn't calling or does
he not entire other boxes haven't been
to Cohen each press one feast that your
predicament could possibly get you on
television it certainly got you on
television today has it not sir
sir I was on television representing mr.
Trump going back into 2011 well I didn't
know who you were until today really
until what how many attorneys you think
mr. Trump has had through the course of
his career had an official job with a
lot of you right out imagine you're
you're just one that's in a trap right
now and I understand you're trying to
get out of it you're in a bind financial
did I ask you good sir have you
discussed filming book deals with with
your your stated current attorney mr.
Davis Lanny Davis with mr. Davis you
know but I have been approached by many
people who are looking to do book deals
movie deals and so on says he ain't a
riot as the American but it it it leads
me back to my instinct
that compares you to many of the men
that I've arrested during the course of
my career with those that are that our
primary hearing to introduce the
Oversight Committee 116 Congress to the
American people has manifested in the
way that it obviously is this is an
attempt this the best president to lay
some sort of soft corner time for
picking up Pietschmann proceedings had
to apologize your lives house where the
ranking member are you serious screaming
that statement is not accurate you stand
by that yes I did not want a role in the
new administration the courts right
certain okay can I please I got exactly
the role that I wanted there is no shame
in being personal attorney to the
president I got exactly what I wanted I
asked mr. Trump for that job and he gave
it to me all I'm asking and I appreciate
mr. chairman you're saying that
statement from the Southern District of
New York attorneys is wrong I'm saying I
didn't write it and it's not accurate
all right thank you thank you
one of the most significant events in
the last presidential campaign of course
was the dump of email stolen from the
Democratic National Committee by mr.
Cohen during your opening day he did to
height of the election you testified you
were actually meeting with Donald Trump
in July 2016
when Roger stone happened to call and
tell mr. Trump that he had just spoken
to Julian Assange is that correct those
correct all right you said that mr.
Assange told mr. Trump about an upcoming
quoting your opening statement quote
massive dump
females that would damage Hillary
Clinton's campaign so I want to ask you
about Roger stones phone call to the
president first of all was that on
speakerphone is that what you indicated
yes so mr. Trump has a black
speakerphone that sits on his desk he
uses it quite often because with all the
number of phone calls he gets now in
January of this year 2019 the New York
Times asked President Trump if he ever
spoke to Roger stone about these stolen
emails and President Trump answered and
I quote no I didn't I never did was that
statement by President Trump true no
it's not accurate and can you please
describe for us to the best of your
recollection you were present exactly
what mr. stone said to mr. Trump it was
a short conversation and he said mr.
Trump I just want to let you know that I
just got off the phone with Julian
Assange and in a couple of days there's
going to be a massive dump of emails
that's going to severely hurt the
Clinton campaign and whereas mr. Trump
and mr. stone aware of where those
emails came from that I'm not aware of
did mr. Trump ever suggest then or later
to call the FBI to report this breach he
never expressed that to me
did the president at that time or ever
since in your knowledge indicate an
awareness that this conduct was wrong
no the reason I ask is because on July
22nd on the eve of the Democratic
convention WikiLeaks published as you
know the 20,000 leaked internal DNC
emails could your meeting with mr. Trump
have been before that date yes
so mr. Trump was aware of the upcoming
dump before it actually happened yes
right and as there any reco sir I don't
know whether he knew or not and I don't
believe he did what the son of substance
of the dump was going to be only that
there was going to be a dump of email
and he was aware of that before the dump
occurred yes sir all right
you know there are any records that
would corroborate the day of this
meeting calendars perhaps I'm not in
possession but I believe again this is
part of the special counsel and they
probably better go for lunches in to
corroborate that information was anyone
else present in the room during the call
I don't recall for this one no sir is
there anyone else the committee should
talk to about the president's knowledge
of the WikiLeaks email dump well again
when he called Rona Graff yelled out to
mr. Trump Rogers on line one which was
regular practice and that's his
assistant that says yes all right and
during a news conference on July 27th
2016 then candidate Trump public
publicly appealed to Russia to hack
Hillary Clinton's emails and make them
public he stated and I quote Russia if
you're listening I hope you're able to
find the thirty thousand emails that are
missing now going back to mr. stones
phone call to the president do you
recall if mr. Trump had knowledge of the
WikiLeaks dump at the time of his direct
appeal to Russia I am not but did call
with mr. stone you believe was before
yes this 22nd yes I'm sorry if you
I thought you talking about a different
set of documents that got dumped so I
was in mr. Trump's office was either
July 18th or 19th and yes he went ahead
I don't know if the 35,000 or 30,000
emails was what he was referring to but
he certainly had knowledge right thank
you just one last question mr. Raskin
had been asking you some questions and
one of the things in your answer was
that mr. pecker expended other monies to
protect I love fact the Trump rate sure
was the story about mr. Trump having a
love child with an employee with an
employee it wasn't love tell you that
right now works for not a love
if it's not learned there was a elevator
operator who claims that he overheard
the conversation taking place between
one of mr. Trump's other executives and
somebody and the end of the pain like
$15,000 in order to buy that story to
find it was true or not and that's just
one example of things that David had
done over the years it was the reason
why in the recording when David was
looking to become the CEO of Time
magazine we were concerned about we'll
call it the treasure trove of documents
that have been created over the years
that if he left somebody opened up the
key to a drawer and find all this
information so we were going to look to
buy all of those life rights and so on
the understand expired mr. Noreen let's
go and thank you for testifying I joined
mr. congressman Higgins and feeling for
your family
they have no part in this
you know I've heard all the testimony
and I'm trying to decide what clays
trying to society is are you really
sorry Felicity just go home and go gotta
go anyways you know State Lord that's
your dude is that right
last fall I pled guilty in federal court
to felonies for the benefit of at the
direction of and in coordination with
individual one was that present yes sir
okay your your crimes were of your own
to benefit yourself much yes no go
through all the ones with the real
estate with the banks on your HELOC long
you failed to disclose more than 20
million dollars in debt you failed to
close disclose seventy thousand and
monthly payments on your 1414 million
line of credit you failed to disclose
that you had drawn on that so this was
all for yourself this wasn't for the
benefit of President Trump this is the
benefit Michael Cohen so that's what
asked my question did you just get
halt and you work for this man for ten
years mr. Cohen you came in here with
these with these he's a con man he's a
cheat this is a very man that didn't you
wiretapping illegally did you not
wiretap President Trump without his
knowledge I did record mr. Trump in a
conversation yes
is that lawyer-client privilege is that
something that an honest guy would do
honest lawyer I actually never thought
that this was going to be happening and
that that recording even existed I had
forgotten but you did it yes I did
have you ever I had a reason for doing
it what was your reason because I knew
he wasn't going to pay that money and
David pecker had already chewed me out
on multiple occasions regarding other
monies that he expended but this is a
man that you trusted you take a bullet
for you secretly recorded let me ask you
this what's going have you done have you
legally or illegally recorded other
clients
I have recordings of people yes lately
or illegally I believe that they're
legal did you tell there is third party
in New York State you don't have to do
that that's right no I did not okay
sometimes I also use the recordings for
contemporaneous note-taking instead of
writing it down it I find it easier if
the shoe were reversed would you like a
your your trusted lawyer recording you I
probably would not no no sir it's
untrustworthy it's just gonna be used
now your bank loans that I just ran down
did you ever have all these lives no sir
so the bank didn't take any loss no no
no bank has I am NOT in default I've
never followed the pancreas II the key
lock you're referring to I replaced that
from a different HELOC I paid it off
there is I know no banks any money how
about your medallion taxi cab they you
have to sell them still well the ones in
Chicago yes I do have to sell however
New York and the answer is no I don't
and they are the industry is going
through a major major
correction because of ride-sharing it's
changed a lot of things that you have
yes sir come as so no bank with the
bank's IQ alone against based on record
actually they did they did post the yes
the the bank actually redid and they
refinanced the entire package currently
right I don't know what they did but
it's still the same amount I didn't get
the benefit of it no sir
most likely they did it I was on an
audit committee me he may have done that
sir but that's for their own banking it
not familiar smile I know if they
suspect you of lying which you admitted
to if they suspect you of maybe not
being able to make a loan payment they
have a have to have a loan loss reserve
that's 125 percent of what you is 20
million they have to post in their
account 20 million plus so they get no
interest on and you know who pays that
he pays for that the American public who
deals with that bias but sir
I'm not in default and I'm current on
each and every one of those medallion
loans and I've never owned any money to
First Republic Bank in fact at the time
that I had the HELOC I had more cash
sitting in that same Bank then last
question he like oh and my Morgan I'm
buying have you ever been to Prague I've
never been to Prague never I've never
been to the Czech Republic
you might bounce my time no Pete eight
Democrats must have known the answer
there yeah nested mr. chairman and thank
you mr. Cohen on page five of your
statement you say and I quote you need
to know that mr. Trump personal lawyers
reviewed and edited my statement to
Congress about the timing of the Moscow
Tower negotiations
who were those attorneys Jay Sekulow
from the White House
yes Jay Sekulow I believe Abby Lowell as
well and you have a copy of your
original statement that you can provide
to the committee I can try to get that
for you all right if you would do though
do that okay my letter of intent where
the watch tower was in the fall of 2015
correct correct
was there an expiration date on that
letter of intent
was no expression so it could
technically still be in effect today
no it's been terminated it has been
German yes ma'am okay
did mr. Trump tell you to offer Vladimir
Putin a free penthouse no ma'am
so that was that was Felix a der it was
a marketing stunt that he spoke about so
Felix aider has suggested to you that
mr. Trump offer a penthouse to mr. Putin
yes because they would certainly drive
up the price per square foot no
different than in any condo where they
start listing celebrities that live in
the property in 2016 did you travel to
Europe yes did you meet with persons
associated with the Moscow tower project
no it was for personal personal my
daughter was studying at Queen Mary in
London so you did not meet with any
Russians no there is an elevator tape
that has been referenced as a catch and
kill product it was evidently a mr.
Trump and a woman presumably mrs. Trump
is that correct are we talking about in
Moscow or the Trump Tower elevated tape
there's a there's an elevator tape that
went up for auction ostensibly in 2016
yes I've heard I've heard about this and
who was on that tape it's mr. Trump with
Melania and what happened in that
theatre the story goes that he struck
Melania while in that elevator because
there's a camera inside which I'm not so
sure
actually I'm certain it's not true I've
heard about that tape for years I've
known four or five different people
including folks from am I who have so
but there was a tape that went up for
auction correct I don't believe that
auction was real and I don't believe
anybody I don't believe mr. Trump ever
struck mrs. Trump ever I don't believe
it and are you aware of anyone
purchasing that tape then I don't
believe it was ever you never saw this
tape no ma'am and I know several people
who went to go try to purchase it for
catch and kill purpose
it doesn't adjust that mr. Trump would
never do in my opinion it's that that's
not some now if you get to know is there
a love child there is not to money to
the best of my no you would pay off
someone I love love wasn't me more it
was am i it was David pecker so he paid
off someone about a love child that
doesn't exist
correct it was about $15,000 okay
how many times did mr. Trump ask you to
threaten an individual or entity on his
behalf quite a few times 50 times more a
hundred times more 200 times more 500
times probably over the over the 10
years over the 10 years he asked you
that's right now with litigation telling
about average or average f-150 look
amazing these guys to a mother a week
well for my writing an article for a
month it's once a week
nothing what do you know about let's go
to your tape maybe Tuesday a hundred
tapes just doing voice recordings and
will you make them available to the
committee if you would really like them
please did mister don't you have to
gavel that sir we would re mr. Trump did
mr. Trump tape any conversations not
that I'm aware of no were you involved
in the twenty five million dollar
settlement to Trump University I had had
a role in that yes who paid the
settlement I believe it was mr. Trump I
don't know the answer to they don't know
the answer but you were involved in the
yes in a different aspect there's some
reference to a businessman in Kansas
being involved in that are you familiar
with them I'm not familiar with that no
all right finally near my 13 seconds
left what do you want your children to
know that I'm sorry for everything and
I'm sorry for the pain that I've caused
them and I wish I can go back in time
thank you I yield back
don't leave Simon Claire should
definitely do it up in the billion to
the members of the committee before we
go to mr. Miller for your so that you
can plan properly plan there's a vote
apparently coming up in about ten to
twenty minutes and what we will do is we
will recess and we will come back listen
up 30 minutes after the last vote begins
got that not it ends 30 minutes after it
begins and we'll do that promptly all
right all right miss Miller
so we we're gonna probably stick with
this for another 5-10 minutes I am very
disappointed to have you in front of
this committee today quite frankly this
isn't the reason the people of West
Virginia sent me to Congress get Frank I
find this hearing not in the best
interest of the American people this is
another political game with the sole
purpose of discrediting the president if
it was not already there are singular
guys president favorability rating which
they will waste not only precious
taxpayer did save this hearing is also
time in this
and in fact they will go so far as to
bring a comprise aren't a lot of
questions we're even we are supposed to
take what you say mr. Cohen
categorically saying not only does that
keep a presence but I really don't think
you really do that in terms of hitting
Milan you're about to go to prison for
lying really believe it answer one
question you got it you can't why aren't
women anymore the sciences sort of your
energy everybody thought she knows how
Paul I just screamed at her for 30
minutes instead don't cameras now she
could snap a picture of my bald head at
any time basic illegal campaign
contributions I mean I don't and make it
you know I think if you had asked me
last night I would say the same thing
maybe this is worth a point in the
general election you know shows how
Craven the Republicans are to be one of
their own like this well I don't even
know that I just think honest I mean I
think people expect that but you know
you'd expect a lot more like a few them
like both oh it's a real bummer the
Republican vote did you under the bus
exactly yes that that happened early on
when I was still
even part I believe of the RNC and this
book deal which you had with hatchet
that is also a $500,000 is the real
question you know why we don't hear the
Democrats behind every 150 but this guy
was the co-chair of the RN so and funny
guys did turn it down given that you
continue to profit from publicly
discussing your time we're giving a more
ivory defensive Jenny for any event
Majority has given you will only serve
as a platform for you to continue to lie
and sensationalize and exaggerate
wherever it suits you do you plan to
pursue another book deal about your
experiences yes
ducks women water this book would be a
little different than your latest Pat
pitch but your new angle might please
some new fans anything to sell books mr.
chairman anything to sell books what a
waste of time drumsticks his own name
another chapter to his book thank you
and I yield the gentlelady from
California talked about this this tape
I'm sorry sorry can't hear you earlier
the gentlelady from California talked
about this tape this elevator tape that
you said it does not exist that's
correct
I do not believe it exists but it was
also your testimony that the Trump team
was willing to pay to make sure a story
about a non-existent tape never became
public no sir that's not what that's not
what I said they were willing to stop a
false tape we looked we learned that
this tiene do due diligence entually on
the market and that it existed and so
what we did is exactly what we did with
all the other catch and kill we looked
for it and if in fact that it did exist
we would have tried to stop it
I would have done Boston but it's a
false age I've never heard it and I can
assure you one thing about mr. Trump
joinings he would never ever strike out
King I don't see it he really has
welcomed we would like to ask you more
about the details of the one hundred and
thirty thousand dollar payment you made
to Stephanie Clifford the adult film
actress known as stormy Daniels in order
to purchase her silence shortly before
the 2016 elections first according to
documents filed by federal prosecutors
in New York you created a shell company
called essential consultants LLC is that
correct it's correct and you created
this company for the purpose of making
the payment to miss Clifford is that
correct
amongst other things yes you then use
the home equity line of credit to fund
the account in the name of essential
consultants LLC is that correct that's
correct
you then wired a hundred and thirty
thousand dollars to the attorney
representing mr. Clifford at that time
and wrote in the memo field for the wire
the word quote retainer is that correct
correct can you tell us why you decided
to use this complicated process to make
this payment well starting an LLC is not
a sophisticated means LLC you call up a
company you pay for it and they open it
for you and the reason that I used the
home equity line of credit as opposed to
cash that I had in the same exact Bank
was I didn't want my wife to know about
it because she handles all of the
banking and I didn't want her coming to
me and asking me what was the hundred
and thirty thousand dollars for and I
was going to be able to move money from
one account to the other ever ever paid
off of that because I didn't want to
absolutely blame to her thank you what
that payment was about I sent it to the
Iola account the interest on a lawyer's
account to Keith Davidson California
miss Daniels attorney he would hold it
in escrow until such time as I received
the executed NDA non-disclosure
agreement mr. Trump know you were going
through this process to hide the payment
yes why not just use mr. Trump's
personal or company bank account
make the payment why was the distraction
so important beside you not wanting it
whites know what his concern was was
that there would be a check that has his
very distinct signature on to it even
after she cashed the check all you need
to do is make a photocopy of it and it's
kind of proof positive on exactly what
took place so here he the goal was to
keep him far away from as possible can
anyone corroborate what you have shared
with us absolutely that is Keith
Davidson Allen weiselberger president
Trump okay
so just two people according to federal
prosecutors and I quote after the
election Coen sort reimbursement for
election related expenses including
three hundred and thirty thousand dollar
payment prosecutors stated that you and
I quote presented an executive an
executive of the company with a copy of
a bank statement reflecting the $130,000
wire transfer is that accurate that is
accurate do you still have a copy of
that bank statement yes it's actually
made part of the exhibit so you go
provided to the committee yes ma'am
according to federal prosecutors
executives at the company then and I
quote agreed to reimburse Cowan by
adding one hundred and thirty thousand
and fifty thousand grossing up that
amount to three hundred and sixty
thousand for tax purposes and adding a
sixty thousand dollar bonus such that
Cowan would be paid four hundred and
twenty thousand in total executives of
the company decided to pay the four
hundred twenty thousand and monthly
installments thirty-five thousand over
the course of a year is that accurate is
accurate what was the purpose of
grossing up the amounts is essentially
doubling what you had paid to missus
miss Clifford another because if you pay
a hundred and thirty thousand dollars
and you live in New York where you have
a fifty percent tax bracket in order to
get you 130 back you have to have 260
otherwise my what if he gave me back 130
I would only then I'd be out sixty-five
thousand what was the purpose of
spreading the reimbursements to you over
the twelve monthly installments that was
in order to hide what the pain was I
obviously wanted the money in one shot
I would have preferred it that way
but in order to be able to put it on to
the books Allen weiselberger made the
decision that it should be paid over the
12 months so that it would look like a
retainer and did mr. Trump know about
this reimbursement method oh you'd know
about everything yes Thank You mr. Cohen
so the president not only knew about the
payments he knew and helped to hide the
payments and the reimbursements to you
yeah we discussed that everything had to
go through mr. Trump and it had to be
approved by mr. Trump and now you're
going to prison and he's and I'm going
to prison yes ma'am I yield back
because makers takers Thank You mr.
chairman earlier yes I yield my time
earlier you'd said I'm assuming nor New
York's a one-party consent say one
person can record the other one without
it being illegal correct but you also
were a member of the New York Bar I was
yes how would you rate recording clients
in the ethical realm of being a lawyer I
know it's it's not illegal and I'm not
asking if it's illegal I'm asking if
it's out I don't I don't know okay we'd
have to leave any judgment of the Bar
Association
so well I think every other lawyer and
here knows exactly where it is and the
ethical standard when you say no like
whatever no yes and I think this is
pretty amazing Alf I really do didn't
any of them waive privilege nope so five
minutes ago the first time I've seen it
all there's an oversight you just
immediately respond to you hand over
tapes to this committee without any of
your previous clients waiving privilege
I'm not the only one in possession of
those documents those documents are in
the heights of all whoever else is in
charge of those documents is not my
concern
I can form a zero I know lawyers that
would go to jail before they would
violate attorney-client privilege he's
no longer a lawyer absolutely I will
turn those over just trying to cooperate
sir at the expense of clients who have
never waived privilege they are already
in the Hanser of all of the agencies as
was I didn't ask me what
law enforcement determines to do with
something and what you determined to do
is something client privilege and an
attorney trust accounts are about the
two most sacred things that you can ever
do in your entire career as a lawyer and
and but a matter of a second and the
table with mr. tone please lean it's out
there because Rudy Giuliani waived
approve I'm not talking about Rudy
Giuliani I'm talking about you and I'm
and this is I don't know who's on those
tapes only you know who is on those
tapes there's a hundred of them the
other one is also subject to a go my
point is within a matter of a second one
second you took no absolutely no
calculation of your role as those
clients counselor they roll that plays
in privacy and in the role that plays in
the sambal you took when you pass the
bar when you signed on to the bar until
recently we're a member of the bar and
you just immediately said if it if it
helps me out in the two day in front of
TV yes absolutely mr. chairman you can
have that he said it and I think about
these tax these indictments on tax fraud
and bank fraud as if they are isolated
incidents but they're not isolated
incidence of bad judgment
these were intricate elaborate lies that
created an ear that needed to be held
with constant miss I mean just constant
deceptions of banks businesses and
associates accountants potentially your
family you received over 2.4 million in
personal loans from taxi company taxi
medallion company one and those are
those those were of loan payments for
threesome I am here this guy's George
hates war Bush Sam where the boxes of
snuff films in your garage Nick from
Manitoba Sam I just want to know if you
do with Jimmy Stewart impression no
that's no I thought lastly can I get a
shofar I just got accepted my histories
master's program at the University of
Manitoba risk the imagination mr beauty
right about now what's up with
Congressman Massey's hair snoozin
sarandon why isn't he started yelling
about how much he likes beer yet bad
bunnies tinder profile hey boys you a
nebbish Jewish podcaster in Brooklyn
with strong feelings about social
security swipe right and let's make a
new deal for root Milky Way I haven't
seen the testimony of this compelling
since Frank penta gala
Frank vent Angele Angele that's Omar I
can't wait to see FoxNews spin this
Cohen testimony yeah
Andrea reminders seniors in Japan go to
jail so they can collect collection
pension payments while not paying rent
for a few years Space Ghost panas cedar
cedar wrists nobel prize for michael
cohen the world's biggest political
prisoner soul rebel GOP I yield my time
to the Honorable Alex Jones mint I'm
pretty sure that when Trump was a young
guy with a regular person here regular
person skin which warned him that if you
went to Vietnam a soldier would end him
spag seed are not isolated incidents of
attack these were constant deceptions
whether it's rolling over a 20 million
dollar line of credit to a 14 million
dollar credit you went through great
lengths to conceal that from one bank
while at the same time you are reducing
your net income to another bank these
aren't things that happened on January 1
of 18 January 1 of 17 January 1 of 15
these are things that were constantly
involved on a coin my question is was it
exhausting keeping track of all the lies
you were telling all these people Sammy
Kennedy a narrative Thank You mr.
chairman mr. Cohen
good luck on your road to redemption
thank you gonna be a long way the
opposite of that is perdition is I
remember particularly hard on your
children so I wish you well and I wish
your family well
come where when the moment was momentum
excited you needed to change it strikes
me there is a transition that you have
eliminated here your period of time the
ten years working for somebody who you
admired as a developer and then when
charlottesville happened and quite
frankly when a special council called
you called you and obviously was a key
part of it or you wouldn't be here
but the in-between part I find really
interesting and troubling at least in
terms of appearances and confidence that
the American people would have in this
institution and and democracy quite
frankly so during that period of time I
want to ask you about two specific if we
have enough time first the Trump Tower
so you were negotiating for this as you
said it was to be the tallest building
in Europe in your guilty plea with a
special counsel you quote say it create
quotes Cohen asked individual one is
that President Trump yes okay about the
possibility of injury
president Trump traveling to Russia in
connection with the Moscow project and
asked a senior campaign official about
potential businesses traveled business
travel to Russia what when did this
conversation happen do you recall early
on in the campaign and who was a
campaign official Corey Lewandowski what
did I discuss in this beating
possibility of which dates that mr.
Trump would have availability if in fact
that we were going to go over to Russia
to take a look at the project I'm sorry
sir so go ahead I'm unfortunately it
never came to fruition because we were
never successful in getting the first
prong of what I needed which was
ownership or control over a piece of
property and until such time there was
no reason to come up with a date but
when I first received the information
requests to go to Russia what I decided
to do is spoke to mr. Trump about it he
told me to speak to Cory and see what
dates might be available if I got the
information I needed so it stopped
because of appearances or or did stop
because
the party's decided and had to pursue it
I'm so sorry I was English so why did
the pursuit of the Trump Tower that mr.
mr. Trump has now said of course he
pursued it because he thought he might
be going back into the development
business
why was the reason that the deal stopped
because he won the presidency okay so in
that interim period of time he must
admit it looks like rumbling my quinoa
how that you know what at the same barn
influence was attempting to go whether
there was collusion it certainly appears
troubling that you were mr. Trump was
part of this negotiation at the same
time what we know perhaps separately
that the Russians were engaged in our
election well I don't know about them
being engaged in the election I can only
talk for myself here I would say to mr.
Trump in response to his question what's
going on with Russia is I'm still
waiting for documents and then that
night at a rally he would turn around
into his battle cry of no Russia no
collusion no involvement witch-hunt okay
a separate subject but somewhat related
on January 17 of this year The Wall
Street Journal published a story stating
that you hired John gauger
the owner of a consulting company who
works for a Liberty University in
Virginia to rig at least two online
polls related to Donald Trump did you
hire a sexy man those were back I
believe 2015 2014 14 2014 so you did
hire yes I spoke with mr. gauger about
manipulating these online polls and did
he use bots to manipulate the poll he
used algorithms and if that includes
BOTS then the answer is yes
yes that's accurate did the president
have any involvement yes in directing
you to do this yes what were the results
of the poll bats exactly where we wanted
them to be the CNBC poll we came in at
number nine and the Drudge Report he was
top of the Drudge Report as well okay
Paul and Lee Sun Sentinel so the CNBC
poll was called the contenders and it
was top 50 that game was in hold those
days he the top 10 most influential
just finished with earlier today that
don't record a comment there's a tough
day my colleague million people quota my
grades great correct me if I got this
wrong you said the more people who
follow mr. Trump the more people will be
where I am your expectation that people
in the administration will end up where
you are sadly if they follow blindly
blindly like I have I think the answer
is yes when I ran for Congress I talked
about how Washington was broken but I
certainly did not expect the level of
political gamesmanship partisanship and
fear stagnation of policies that would
improve the lives of Americans that I'm
a witnessing today this is terribly
disappointing to me that this it's and
chose to spend our time in questioning
an individual that has zero probative
value and zero credibility instead of
spending our limited time focusing on
improving the lives of Americans
creating jobs or streamlining the
functioning of our federal government
those guys here we are taking testimony
from a convicted liar and not someone
who has just lied to his clients or
family or friends but testimony from an
individual deliberately and
premeditatedly lied to this body
he lied to Congress through false
statements and written statements he
lied to Congress through his testimony
he then amplified his false statements
by releasing and repeating his lies to
the public including the other potential
witnesses yet now we own this committee
and the American people are expected to
believe mr. Cohen's testimony I don't
know a juror in America that would
believe anything mr. Cohen says given
his past actions and lies mr. Cohen you
stood before multiple congressional
committees before today and raise your
right hand and swore an oath to be
honest is that correct that is correct
and you lied to those congressional
committees is that correct
previously correct yes sir you stated
that Trump never directed you to lie to
Congress is that correct that's correct
therefore you lied to Congress on your
own accord and then admitted to lying to
Congress correct I've already stated my
piece on that I knew what he wanted me
to do I was staying on party line but he
never directed you to lie to counter he
did not use those words no in your
evidence that you provided this
committee a mere two hours before
hearing started where payments made to
you by mr. Trump correct
amongst other things yes yet other than
your testimony here today there is
absolutely no proof that those specific
payments were for those specific
purposes is that correct
it's my testimony that the cheque that I
produced as part of this testimony the
35,000 and then the second check that's
signed by Alan weiselberger in dongseong
jr. or two checks out of the eleven that
were meant for the reimbursement of the
hush money payment to stormy Daniels so
in your testimony on page 13 you claim
and I quote mr. Trump directed me to use
my own personal funds from a home equity
line of credit to avoid any money being
tracked back to him that could
negatively impact his campaign do you
have any proof of this direction just
the payment sir so no email mr. Trump
doesn't have email so no recording I do
not have recordings no no text message
mr. Trump doesn't text message so no
direction other things your testimony
today that that's what the payment was
for and the fact that I paid on his
behalf at his direction the money -
Keith Davidson's Iola account you're
right there's no other test there's no
other documentation I have so nothing
that you produce as part of your
exhibits prove that President Trump
directed you in any way to make that
payment I don't even know how to into
that sir well it's it's pretty simple
there's nothing in the evidence that
shows or the exhibits that you provided
today that show that Trump directed you
to make those payments
other than the non-disclosure agreement
that has been seized by government
authorities and is widely shown I don't
believe there's anybody out there that
believes that I just decided to pay
$130,000 on his behalf well you were you
were his attorney for Overton that
doesn't mean that I pay a hundred thirty
thousand well it doesn't mean that he
wasn't paying you for representation of
counsel okay
can make your own how did president
trouble of this Greg Stube Agassi how
did President Trump even know you had a
HELOC because we discussed it because I
told him the same thing that I didn't
want my wife to find out about it and as
one additional Rudy Giuliani himself
came out and expressed that mr. Trump
reimbursed me for the for the money that
was spent
Rudy McDaniels knew it didn't come with
it you had no access to mr. Trump during
October in November of 2016
I don't know what you're referring to
this guy's not gonna make the Hannity
cut I I would need to see the document
no more that you made these payments
without telling mr. Trump as you wanted
to protect mr. Charlie and I was
protecting mr. Lloyd or uncomfortable
and you told him that you made these
planted a frame that's what I said it
was Cuomo yes that was my that was my
line and if this unsupported claim was
true then it would be part of an ongoing
investigation as evidence of a crime and
the Department of Justice would not let
you discuss it during your testimony
here that there is a correct I don't
know yes I did want to say one last
thing not only go you did I lie to
the American people I lied to the first
lady when the president called me and I
was sitting in a car with a friend of
mine and he had me speak to her and
explain to the first lady get my god
speech although the answer is there
you're you're not you're not accurate
and I don't feel good about any of this
and this was not mine in the world I
just want to put on the record as being
a black American and having endured the
public comments of racism from the
sitting president as being a black
person I can only imagine what's being
said in private and to prop up one
member of our entire race of black
people and say that that nullifies that
it's totally insulting and in in in this
environment of expecting
president to be inclusive and look at
his administration speaks volume so I
have some questions I want to talk to
you about this intimidation of witness
mr. Cohen you were initially scheduled
to testify before the House Oversight
Committee on February the 7th but your
legal team delayed your testimony
quoting ongoing threats against your
family from the president an attorney
Giuliani is that correct yes ma'am and
then on November 29th after you admitted
that the president's negotiations over a
real estate project in Russia continued
well through the summer before the 2016
election President Trump called you
quote a weak person and accused you of
lying and then on December 16th after a
20-18 after you disclosed that it was
the president who directed you to
arrange hush money payments to stormy
Daniels and Karen McDougal to conceal
his extramarital affairs he called you
the president a rat mr. Coyne why do you
feel or believe that the president is
repealing attacking you you are stating
that you feel intimidated asking us to
protect you following your cooperation
with law enforcement when you have
access to 60 plus million people that
follow you on social media and you have
the ability within which to spark some
action by individuals that follow that
follow him and from his own words that
he can walk down Fifth Avenue shoot
someone and get away with it it's never
comfortable when the president of the
United States what do you think he can
do to you
a lot and it's not just him it's those
people that follow him in his rhetoric
what is a lot I don't know I don't walk
with my wife if we go to a restaurant or
go somewhere I don't walk with my
children I make them go before me
because I'm I have fear and it's the
same fear that I had before when
he initially decided to drop that tweet
in my cellphone I receive some and I'm
sure you you'll understand
I received some tweets I received some
facebook messenger all sorts of social
media attacks upon me whether it's the
private direct message that I've had to
turn over to Secret Service because they
are the most vile disgusting statements
that anyone can ever receive and when it
starts to affect your children that's
when it really affects you On January
2019 mr. Giuliani called your
father-in-law quote a criminal and said
that he may have ties to organized crime
mr. Cohen do you believe that the
president mr. Giuliani publicly targeted
your father-in-law as an effort to
intimidate you can you elaborate why is
your father-in-law being pulled into
this I don't know the answer to that my
father-in-law was in the clothing
business came to this country because
they baited in the 1972-73 the expulsion
of Jews from the Ukraine he came here to
this country he worked hard and he's now
enjoying his retirement never in my life
did I think that mr. Trump would do
something so disgraceful and he's
attacking him because he knows I care
about my family and to hurt me he's
trying to hurt them interestingly enough
my father was biggest investments
happened to be in a Trump property so it
just doesn't make any sense to me I want
to be clear any efforts to prevent a
witness from testifying in front of
Congress is against the law I want to be
real clear about that and as the
chairman has said retaliate against
witnesses and threatening their families
and members is a textbook mob tactic
that does not benefit the President of
the United States for this country and I
want to be on the record this hearing is
not about discrediting the president
it's about the oath of office that we
take as members of Congress to have
checks and balances
and to meet the laws and the policies of
this country to serve thank you and I
yield 30 years
Rory US Postal Service all right let's
Lawrence let's get away do some other
some other stuff we don't know if we
need to let's just you know we'll keep
that in the background that guy looks
kind of promising this guy let's just
see where he's going with this nice to
come here is it correct you were asked
to come here yes or no yes
yeah the combined total of the crimes
for sentence would bring a maximum 70
years yes or no yes yeah you were going
to prison for three years yes or no yes
the prosecutors of the Southern District
of New York state to secure loans Cohen
falsely understated the amount of debt
he was carrying and omitted information
from his personal financial statements
to induce a bank to lend on incomplete
information you told my colleague here
today that you did not commit bank fraud
not parsing different statutes which I
understand could be only for clarity are
you or are you not guilty of making
false statements to a financial
institution yes or no yes I pled guilty
you said clearly to mr. cloud and mr.
Jordan that the Southern District of New
York lawyers are being untruthful and
characterizing your desire to work in
the administration do you say again that
the lawyers of the southern risk of New
York are being untruthful and making
that characterization yes or no I'm
saying that's not accurate okay so
you're saying they're being untruthful I
did it I'm not using the word untruthful
that's yours I'm saying that that's not
accurate I did not want a role or title
in the administration I'm sure the law
I've got the title that I want I'm sure
the lawyers the SDN well I appreciate
that distinction question you testified
today you have never been to Prague and
have never been to the Czech Republic do
you stand behind that statement yes they
do
I offer into the record an article in
known conservative news magazine Mother
Jones by David corn in which he says he
reviewed his notes from a phone call of
mr. Cohen that mr. Cohen said quote I
haven't been to Prague in 14 years I was
in Prague for one afternoon 14 years ago
end quote question you as my friend mr.
Armstrong rightly inquired offered to
the committee tapes information
involving clients with the batiment
perjury you stand behind that yes or no
so I'm sorry you said so first you as my
friend mr. Armstrong rightly inquired
offered to this committee taped
information involving your clients with
the bat of an eye do you stand behind
that offer if the Chairman asks me and
it's I'll take it under advisement now
and it's not a
problem in terms of attorney-client
privilege yes I will turn it over you as
my friend mr. meadows pointed out misled
this committee even today in a written
submission that contradicted your
testimony you have suggested you're
going to review that did you review are
you going to review it in our next break
to correct the record yes or no yes
question you helped out the president's
campaign or were involved in the
campaign as a representative as a
spokesman feels like there's a couple of
I want to get back and just keep an eye
on that because if Presley or Al see or
is to leave on this committee as well I
thought I saw I want to get back there
but since we're talking about hearings
this was pretty impressive from
yesterday Katey Porter I think this was
yesterday Katey Porter at that on the
House Financial Services Committee
you'll recall Katie Porter from
California she was I think the first
Democrat to represent this this this
this district in Ages in California a
disciple I guess if you you I think you
could say of Elizabeth Warren's she was
one of the bright stars in dealing with
mortgage fraud in California she studied
under Elizabeth Warren at Harvard in law
school I think she was a law professor
herself she was at the House Financial
Services Committee yesterday and the CEO
of Equifax
you'll recall that Equifax had a major
data breach I guess about a year year
and a half ago I've been through this
because I try and rent and I you know I
froze my credit and you have to unfreeze
it you thought about but here she is in
basically she's not just basically
holding the CEO to account I think she
has had a material impact on an ongoing
court case it seems to me but here is
that exchange my question for you
is whether you would be willing to share
today your Social Security your
birthdate and your address at this
public hearing I would be a bit
uncomfortable doing that congresswoman
if you'd so obliged me I'd prefer not to
well that's sensitive information
I think it's sensitive information that
I like to protect and I think consumers
should protect there's information were
provided at this public hearing what
what are you concerned about could
happen I think like every American
congressman a congresswoman my apologies
congresswoman you know I'd be concerned
about identity theft I'm actually a
victim of identity theft it happened
three times in the last ten years to me
twice with my tax returns and once you
know as a consumer of someone opening up
fraudulent credit accounts in my name
somehow they got my social security
number my date of birth and my address
and then changed the address and opened
up the account so I think like all
Americans were concerned about that okay
so my question then is if you agree that
exposing this kind of information
information like that that you have in
your credit reports creates harm
therefore you are willing to share it
why are your lawyers arguing in federal
court that there was no injury and no
harm created by your data breach
congresswoman it's really hard for me to
comment on what our lawyers are doing
excuse me but you do employ those
lawyers and you you they do operate at
your direction they're your counsel and
they are making these arguments in court
arguing on the record I have the
pleadings here from the court case
they're arguing on the record that there
was no that this case should be
dismissed because there is no injury and
no harm created by the disclosure of
people's personal credit information yet
I understand you as I would to believe
that that information that the exposure
of that information I asked you if you
would give it to the community and you
understandably said no would in fact
create a harm so I guess I would
ask you to please look carefully at what
your lawyers are doing yeah there you go
so this is an ongoing court excellence
where you basically have some tort
lawyers who are taking Equifax to court
and suing them because of this data
breach and they're one of the things the
court the lawyers are arguing is there's
no harm and they got jacked up I would
imagine that's gonna be submitted as I
don't think so I would imagine that's a
very tough to maintain if your own CEO
disagrees so this new democratic health
care package that rep privilege I Paul
is putting forward is tanking healthcare
stocks is that right oh it's right so
very good bill let's let's go over there
you can see proof of concept let's go
over this briefly the this Medicare for
all bill that Jay Paul has introduced
and not clear yet where that is in the
committee process and where it'll go but
she is the I guess it's really at this
point just a proposal but it is seems to
be fairly flushed out or fleshed out as
it were in terms of the proposal it goes
further than Sanders Medicare for all
now one thing that's that's a point of
confusion with some people Medicare
right now has co-pays right so it's not
free at the point of service it has
co-pays they're there they're not
they're not huge there's also Medicare
does not cover everything that's why you
have supplemental coverage with medicare
medicaid covers a lot more and is is is
free a lot of people want really want a
Medicaid for all but understand that
even when Bernie talks about a Medicare
for all
it's a different Medicare it goes a
little bit further this
one goes even further so under Bernie's
medicare-for-all proposal in the Senate
and under jeyapaul's proposal in the
house medical care is free at the point
of service and there are no premiums it
is all paid for with taxes in jeyapaul's
medicare for all plan it would bar
employers from offering separate plans
that compete with government-run option
it would get rid of Medicare and
Medicaid as we know them now and all of
their enrollees would go into this new
universal plan it would allow two health
care programs to exist that exist now so
there they're really four different
government-run health care plans to are
and involve delivery to involve
insurance the other two that would
remain are the Veterans Affairs Health
System which is a completely
government-run system not just insurance
not just for pay-fors but to actually
deliver the health insurance and people
should know that the the hearing is
broken up for the time being
Veterans Affairs would stay open and
this is makes a lot of sense because the
VA deals with all sorts of medical
problems that are very unique and the
system works pretty well in terms of in
terms of customer satisfaction also the
Indian Health Services which are
basically cut off from the rest because
of delivery reasons when you're talking
about on reservations are you talking
about in just in general areas it's just
a different system this would phase in
two years quicker than Bernie's year one
people under 19 and over 55 would go
into the universal plans after two years
everybody else would jump in it is also
extremely generous and has arroba
set of benefits all your hospital visits
all your primary care all your devices
and services you go get blood work
maternity care prescription drugs vision
and dental benefits would all be covered
and and this is really this is pretty
significant long-term care services
would be covered as it is now under the
Medicaid covers two thirds of people in
long-term care and depending on which
state you're in
you need to essentially spend down
virtually all of your assets so you can
retain your house for the most part but
after you die there will be a lien
against it in most states you can keep
your car but essentially you can only
have $2,000 in the bank so what happens
is you go into a nursing home it's
twelve thousand dollars a month
depending on where you are again but
that's I think the average is somewhere
around 11 and you spend that down then
your Medicaid kicks in essentially what
happens you go into the nursing home
they do an assessment based on all of
your of your assets and in many
instances they will go back four or five
years to see how you've disposed of
those assets and that will count against
the amount of money that you have so
that money needs to come back in some
fashion so it's it's a it's a difficult
process some people have long term
health insurance but that's becoming
less available so this is a a this also
like I say dental and envision and it
will health and mental health as well so
this is extremely comprehensive more
aggressive than Bernie's and good
because you basically now have the
center of the debate to the left of
Bernie's plan yep
which is
which is good that's great it's also
really important for disabled people to
be able to get long-term help in the
home because often times Medicare wants
them to move out of their homes and
medical facility right yeah okay and we
should say yes this is also a key here
to is that that's necessarily mean
you're in a nursing home Volante a
long-term care could actually be in your
home and you know with with the
technologies that people have now it's
much easier to keep people in their home
and people prefer it you know families
together what else we got here for so
that's a pretty exciting stuff let's go
on and what else do we want to cover
here cuz we don't have too much time oh
right limbo yeah it's pretty good this
is a bit of a problem you finally made
it back in the rotation listen we got to
be careful okay because sometimes when
we go out with all the best of
intentions on the left and propose
programs that will ostensibly help the
planet help our kids in the future
sometimes we go a little too far and by
helping kids in the future we want to
basically say you're not allowed to have
children is this number oh oh I'm sorry
this is oh no that's number two oh yeah
well let's do number one this is uh this
is pretty good yeah this is we got to be
this is not glenn beck this is our buddy
steve hilton enough foxnews and here is
i mean this is it's pretty upsetting to
hear but more and more honestly i don't
know whether she's having some kind of
nervous breakdown or where they're
always seeing now is the true ugliness
and darkness of her ideology being
revealed
but her statements lately i mean yeah
I'm the boss we're in charge now you got
this no child policy and it's it's
disturbingly authoritarian and it even
fascistic I mean it seems to me that she
should be
more comfortable frankly in China where
this approach to politics it fits much
better with the brutal authoritarian
regime over there I'm really frightened
of the way she's talking I mean this
isn't the first time that we've heard
this kind of very extreme progressive
rhetoric she so she wants to know let's
tally it up she wants to get rid of
children mm-hmm
airplanes and cow and health insurance
so no I mean honestly so I just want to
say that that's really unnecessary crew
you're gonna go to the countryside and
do some really hard manual labor and
maybe think and get into a more positive
headspace but honestly though but now
see but honestly I mean this is there
anybody who can justify getting rid of
children cows and airplanes I mean III
have to side with Fox and Friends
I mean outnumbered on this like it's
wrong we need to have children
we don't have broad bipartisan campaigns
yeah we do not need to have cows sorry
why we may not need to look at the begin
getting genocide all about a nice yeah
really gonna kill all the weird stop
making more of them well we can right
but I mean we're not going to get rid of
them to get rid of them what they did
ran out to wipe them off God's stop
making so many of them cuz people eat
too much goddamn is there anybody who
can defend though the policy of getting
all the airplanes and crashing them into
fields of cows who can defend it
what's amazing numbered who's gonna go
like hey wait a second what are you
talking about no I mean I've seen some
good YouTube pages where they dropped
like a axe I'm to a block of ice from
like like 250 feet up I think a plane
into a herd of cows would be pretty
awesome YouTube viewing yeah that's
probably true I would stick through that
sounds like a snuff film to me uh-oh
now you have my interest meanwhile Glenn
Beck has it figured out and on some
level I mean the basic premise of what
he's talking about I think is actually
correct that Democrats some Democrats
are realizing that it is their
important what you propose even if it's
not going to become law because you're
changing the nature of the conversation
you know people complained about the
kids who went in and questioned Dianne
Feinstein and people complained about
the video that was cut up that show that
Dianne Feinstein was being a little bit
condescending and saying that look I've
been here for thirty years I know how
this gets done I have a proposal that
I've written up and this is one that can
pass the one that you're coming in here
is pie in the sky and they were savvy
enough to say like look we're not
looking for this to pass today because
we know that Donald Trump was going to
is they're gonna veto it even if it was
to pass we're looking to set down a
marker so that people understand what is
necessary to do here
well it was announced a day later that
Dinah and Feinstein pulled her bill
because that protest showed how anemic
her bill was in how actually presenting
that bill at a time when we know nothing
can be implemented because Republicans
are gonna stop everything is actually
damaging to the cause of fighting
climate change and the inverse of that
is is pushing the green New Deal which
it would be great to get a hundred
percent of it on day one but this is
going to move the conversation so that
the center becomes something far
stronger than what Dianne Feinstein is
presenting which is basically
negotiating against yourself and that's
just presuming that it's an ago she
ation tactic on her part as opposed to
just not interested in actually
addressing the problem I don't know I
don't know what's in her head I just
know that in the 30 years that she's
been a senator she has not been part of
any solution that's been helpful that
was the time when we would have needed
to act indeed may be heard maybe her
proposals proposing today 30 years ago
would have been sufficient over the
course of those 30 years maybe I don't
know but Glenn Beck is on it
and maybe it's because he's now adopted
the three collar look of Steve Bana
Steve been catalog yep stop ripping him
off be original but here's Glenn back he
must be very cold in that studio but
here he is it's talking about the green
new a new deal and a OC s secret plot
and then of course he moves to the board
and gets all mixed metaphor on us we're
now talking about ace a new economy
based on greenhouse gases blah blah blah
but social justice and it will be driven
by the United States government it also
says a couple pages later positively
like I can also just note how far we
have fallen when he used to have a set
that was literally a complete replica of
the Oval Office and now he just seems to
be sitting on a deck with a you know I
got on a fairly I don't know anodyne
desk and you know a fake klieg light
behind him right I mean that's basically
it good
to mitigate deeply entrenched racial
regional and gender-based inequalities
and income and wealth including without
limitation ensuring that the federal
government investment will be equally
distributed to historically impoverished
low-income de-industrialized or other
marginalized communities in such a way
that builds wealth and ownership at the
community level it will also include
measures such as basic minimum income
universal health care programs and any
others the Select Committee might find
appropriate they also will deeply
involve and local labor unions to play a
leadership role scary I like the plan
where they were taking our planes and
cars better than this one which led me
to believe there's a couple of things
that move next last of all there's the
Overton Window and we talked about the
Overton Window years ago the Overton
Window is
is this idea that I say something crazy
and that's so much better than you know
what you know then what you're actually
gonna get so no how's it for one second
I mean this is like there there's a
couple things going on here one is he's
talking about himself saying something
crazy the other is that they don't have
the same production crew that they used
to have and so he had to plug in his own
mic and that's why distracted I mean I
can I can appreciate that what this
happens to me all the time around here
like oh I'm having a problem with the
computer and bah-bah-bah but so here's
his Overton Window set up on one end
it's 1790 which is as you know a date
and on the other end is Venezuela Cuba
which as you know are two places so his
Overton Window actually travels through
space and time simultaneously but also
through the total free market left it
was it was so free you could buy human
beings to be laborers that's right
that's right good and again so in other
words we have a total free market night
two in 1790 okay
total free market well we moved it to
some welfare deposit that's also not
true I don't know what first of all I
don't know what that means
if he doesn't mean there wasn't like
taxation or there wasn't postal service
there wasn't a postal service or or I
mean I don't know what he means by a
total free market he means this
imaginary and cap paradise that never
existed right exactly
okay good pretty massive but some
welfare people on the left are saying we
want to be like Sweden that's not a
communist assets so let me if I
understand the his Overton Window ranges
from 1790 and then between 1790 and
Sweden is some welfare well it's kind of
a Overton Window and the Overton
timeline right okay so it's an Overton
timeline and also it seems to be like a
map
socialist country what this is is a
country that has a welfare state it's
still capitalist Saudi Arabia still a
little bit capitalist but a total
planned economy where the government
runs the economy that's the former USSR
that's China that's Venezuela that's
Cuba now I thought originally that they
were taking this Overton Window and they
were moving it way down here so then we
would go oh thank goodness Sweden is a
break
so this confuses me because he's saying
AOC is is suggesting we want Venezuela
so that we can land on Sweden is that
what Glenn Beck is that's what he
thought that's what he thought it was
but now he's dangerous moving it way
down here so then we would go oh thank
goodness Sweden is a break I don't think
so I think it's this one I think it's
misdirection and I think that
Acacio Cortes is being used the magician
misdirection he's doing something back
here
but he's tossing you to look here at his
hand it's behind the back that matters
misdirection
he's showing you nonsense the bullet
trains no cars the cow farts showing you
nonsense but back here is the total
planned economy that's the degree new
deal he's letting her be a circus who is
this that is so confusing to me I
thought the bullet trains no cars planes
cow farts was the green New Deal don't
you need total plan ok ok no total
planned economy is the new green New
Deal but whoever the the the
misdirection magician is he's saying
that he's using aoc with the nonsense
but she's actually the green New Deal
right like I don't understand like which
hand she's in she's in both hands at the
same time that's how dangerous she is oh
my god nothing that she's proposed so
far is any more radical than what they
have in Sweden well but the bottom line
is that you're still stuck on the
Overton Window you're thinking about
Saudi Arabia
right right no excuse me she's thinking
about Venezuela I'm thinking about Saudi
Arabia except Iran because I'm Shia here
is the total planned economy that's the
green new deal he's letting her be a
circus who's he who is this yes
that's sitting back saying don't worry
about it let her shoe collapse on her
own weight she's a joke what she's a
joke we'll get it done and we'll use her
to pull it off wait now I know what
everybody's saying like wait who see
who's the he that is we don't know we
don't know it says but the hypnotist or
the magician is using AOC so this is the
thing this is this is it Glen this is
you know that you know the the first
they laugh at you that whole thing right
what the conservatives do is when they
realize they're not going to make a OC
unlikeable they now are going to make
her being a puppet she she is now the
victim that's where he's trying to go
with this she's being used
she doesn't realize it and they will
it's much easier for the right to buy
into the idea of like oh well okay yeah
right she's not as unlikable as we
thought she is but she's a woman so
she's clearly being directed by some
evil force and we're gonna have to
follow this we're gonna be on the what
happened was she was at the bar and
Soros walked in and he said would you
like a career change young lady I feel
like it could be steyr right isn't it
steyr now is the buyer she came up in
the multiple desires it just literally
burns through his bank account bleak
essentially just doing stuff that's
already like totally oversaturated on
MSNBC just like hey just to remind
everybody the main programming block is
true I'm glad I spent 40 billion dollars
on that we did discuss in the
endorsement meeting if the DSA that we
are going to support her as a Trojan
horse
or turning this country into the United
States of Venezuela there we go
where we just we need to build the
bridge right exactly
it's a transitional program no I mean
literally bridge from Venezuela to
usually we can just walk there I mean
that part's a secret still so that's the
magic part that's where the magic comes
in let's uh this is there is a report
that from October of 2014
mind you this is under the Obama
administration to July of 2018 Health
and Human Services Office of refugee
resettlement received 4,500 complaints
and the DOJ 1300 of allegations of
sexual abuse by unaccompanied minors now
understand that the number of
unaccompanied minors went up
dramatically in 2017 2018 because of the
Trump administration basically deeming
any kids that they then separated from
the parents as unaccompanied minors so
there's clearly something fundamentally
wrong with this policy period part of it
is kids are sent here without their
parents because they're trying to escape
a horrific situation in their home
country and parents assume that their
kids are gonna have a better shot at
getting in which obviously you know
they're in a foreign country maybe they
get picked up by relatives we don't know
so this is a highly poor they're placed
180 of those allegations were by staff
or the allegations were against staff
members here is Ted Deutsch this is
number four talking to the health to the
HSS Office of refugee resettlement
commander I guess on these reports which
are now just coming out now I guess of
these allegations and here we go
commander white these documents
demonstrate over the past three years
there have been 154 staff on
unaccompanied minor let me repeat that
staff on unaccompanied minor allegations
of sexual assault
this works out on average two one sexual
assault by HHS staff on and I'm gonna
company minor per week these documents
tell us that there was a problem with
adults employees of HHS sexually abusing
children when you carried out the
zero-tolerance policy for you and mr.
Lloyd when you carried out the policy
you knew that putting thousands of kids
you knew that putting thousands of kids
into a situation where they are at risk
of sexual abuse was going to be the
result did you discuss this issue before
going forward did you discuss the threat
of sexual abuse to these kids among each
other were there discussions with staff
representative let me first correct an
error those are not HHS staff in any of
those allegations that statement is
false those are no no no sir no those
are not a commander working of
allegations commander white yes again
whatever my claim my time commander
white I don't have a lot of time and you
know what I've seen you know what I've
seen in these reports that were
delivered to us buried in stacks of
documents this thick without any any
notation I saw thousands of cases of
sexual abuse if not by HHS staff then by
the people that HHA staff oversees AIA
will make that clarification
it doesn't make what happen anything
less horrific it was our obligation the
administration's obligation to help keep
these kids
save child's best interest safety and
well-being of alien children that's what
we heard this morning mr. chairman we
failed and this is just the start of
what I believe to be a very important
series of questions that this
administration must answer I yield back
I mean what's what's really devastating
about that is that is is not only that
that something like this happens is that
despite the knowledge that this was
happening that they basically ramped up
their their housing of children we're
now housing something like 14 to 15
thousand children and Health and Human
Services staff that guy is aware that
there is a significant problem with
sexual assault and their answer is to
just up the number of potential victims
essentially it's really grotesque it's
really just should be criminal
culpability for that if possible that's
that is so obscene all right we're gonna
do a couple more Iams and then I think
we'll get out of here the hearing is not
going to come back on for another 20
minutes or so and we will cover the rest
of it tomorrow Michael we'll have some
clips etc etc and I will also talk more
about this on Friday I imagine and of
course Donald Trump is in Vietnam right
now probably steaming he's a probably
he's talking with with Kim like and then
you shot your uncle out of a cannon so
brave o matic I thought it noteworthy
not a single Republican challenge cone
statement that Trump said Trump jr. has
the worst judgement of a California uber
allies Michael Brooks are you aware of
individual one Sam cedar abusing his
powers far left podcast is salmon a
liberal MSNBC talking points as directed
by chris hayes no he was a shell
out but you didn't say it was a
shall out I'm confused the lone seal pup
is all of this hearing completely
impromptu congressional baseball fan
this whole hearing has provided me some
great scouting opportunities for top
prospects that juice Dooley's ruining
everything someone get me Sammy the bull
Donny's teacher Donald Trump was an A
student who only gave the best answers
on tests made a Mindy oh my god what WTF
what's the what is wrong with Jim Jordan
could someone pass him as an exceeds
gonna have a heart attack supposedly a
congresswoman Plus get from the Virgin
Islands so I think was the last person
there we went we went to our stories but
supposedly there's a video I yes I've
seen that virgin be like shut up
right Ram State Department of Commerce
just sent out an email to all do-si
employees that through 1.9% federal pay
raise for FY 19 has not happened no
executive order signed no action in any
way this happened on that front seems
like another thing Trump spouted and
then either forgot to or was just about
straight lie
and the final I am of the day has Matt
gates this is by JJ Cole has Matt gates
been sworn in as the official White
House fixer yet see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option
rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
