the Republicans like I said at the top
of the show we're 13 days away from the
midterms in many places you can vote
early and if you have any sense that
you're going to be out of of town get
your absentee ballots in as you know I
vote up in the 19th district in New York
this is where Antonio Delgado is running
against a faso my understanding brief
conversation with a democratic election
official up there a lot of absentee
ballots which is a very good sign but
and there's very high numbers for early
voting Republicans are coming out I mean
keep in mind that only some of these
special elections we saw Republicans
come out in higher numbers than they
normally do as well as Democrats
Democrats just came out with a little
bit more higher numbers so voting is
going to be key they have been activated
in many respects by anti-immigrant
policies I mean right now you see there
is a reason why Donald Trump is talking
about this Caravan and we will talk
about it of Central American essentially
families crossing through Mexico at this
time with the hopes of getting into this
country maybe even hope some hopes of
getting asylum in Mexico as well but
here is Donald Trump at a rally where
was this rally last night this is in
Houston very well attended is my
understanding this is the one where I
think Ted Cruz went and did the sort of
simian thing where he
held his hand out like this and bite out
down Trump here's Donald Trump listen
you can't go up in front of a national
audience and say hey we're gonna put it
to the Jews but you can do this radical
Democrats want to turn back the clock
barred the rule of corrupt power-hungry
globalists you noted Lovelace is right
you noted Lovelace my globalists is a
person that wants to hope to do well
frankly not caring about our country so
much and you know what we can't have
that you know they have a word it sort
of became old-fashioned it's called a
nationalist and I say really we're not
supposed to use that word you know what
I am I'm a nationalist okay
[Applause]
national nothing use that one now I mean
Donald Trump there really it's unclear
to me that there are any policies that
he's pursued that have been you know
ones that you could call nationalist I
mean Donald Trump is for the most part I
would say the tariffs right what I was
gonna say for the most part a
functioning as a typical Republican with
the with the two exceptions of one he's
his foreign policy is slightly
differently aligned probably more
tracking his own investments like
literally his own personal investments
in some fashion and then the other one
is the terrorists now the tariffs I
don't know how you would call that a
nationalist policy it is hurting
American businesses and there are some
American businesses it's helping there
are a couple of massive steel
conglomerates who are coincidentally
also big supporters of his that it is is
helping but farmers are suffering under
the retaliation on those tariffs you
have Chrysler going to be laying off a
significant percentage of its employees
because of the tariffs and well they're
nationalists just cuz they don't work
that well doesn't mean they're not
nationalists in their orientation like I
say the aside from those policies
they're they're nationalists but if
there's other policies you can find that
are nationalist I'd be open to it
but he's he's essentially a neoliberal
still your right wing of neoliberalism
yeah like I say typical Republican
policies and is a Republican that's why
he's the leader of the
party that's why he's enormously popular
Republicans and that's why he's the same
as the Republican but the point is is
that he's also he's just a liar and so I
mean he calls himself a nationalist not
because it's aligned with any type of
policy prescriptions as much as it is
one in which it's easier to embrace that
than to say like we're gonna really
stick it to the brown people and read
between the lines yes
you know who else was a nationalist but
I'm a nationalist okay I mean I'd like
to fight and regular people Republicans
have been so trained to think like well
not all nationalism is bad just because
liberals are gonna freak out and the
negative against it right well and also
like we know how globalists have been
used by the right right I mean it's it
means one thing for the left and it
means another thing for the right
anybody doesn't just being Jews though
well like I said the opposition is the
real thing
what I said was it means one thing for
the right and another thing for the left
do you disagree with that I think it
means what it means snow well there's
like a dog whistle element to it
certainly there's there's an
anti-semitic element I think some of it
is what we would call structural
anti-semitism which is not like literal
hatred of Jews but this more esoteric
thing that moisture post stone wrote
about where Jews came to represent the
hidden parts of capital which was why
National Socialists quote-unquote so let
me ask you this when he uses it what do
you think he means I think he's talking
about economic nationalism he means it
in the esoteric sense where Jules become
a performative machinery of capitalism
Samantha so in other words the jewel
alright well we won't we will agree to
disagree on this can I thank thought
bras off with one finger I think when
Donald Trump uses the term
Louis he is trying to trigger in the
right-wing lizard brain what the way
that it's used in right-wing circles
which is to mean a cabal of people who
are trying in the same way that the John
Birch Society has used it the the
hundred year tradition 75 year tradition
that has been used on the right to imply
that there is a cabal with Jews and you
friendly people and who are trying to
create a one-world government that is
going to part of the reason why the UN
is a problem par the reason why all
multicultural politics are a problem I
mean I think that's what it signifies
now it's possible there are people who
have a more nuanced take on that when
they hear Donald Trump and they're
cheering for him that's possible because
anything's possible and maybe I'm
talking too broad of a thing but that is
pretty much what I'm convinced that he's
he is he's trying to do there I don't
think it's a coincidence that he's
introducing this concept at a time where
he's also saying that we there are
hordes of brown people who are coming to
invade this country I don't think that's
a coincidence some people might think
it's a coincidence I'm talking about
immigrants and more than he's talking
about Jews thank you okay
and who do you think they have said paid
for that immigrant throng a big Jew who
just had a bomb put in his mailbox so I
effect left/right smearing that I'd I
think I mean you can i I'm not sure what
Trump is discussing symbolic categories
Daniel smearing him yeah I guess so
is that the argument do you think I'm
smearing do you think I'm I'm I'm
aligning Donald Trump by saying this
stuff yeah okay globe emoji globe emoji
global I'm just saying it has two
meanings well that's what I meant when I
said it has one
on the right and one meaning on the left
oh wait wait I'm gonna get a little
pedantic here I'm sorry we it has
critiques of globalization of two
meanings nobody on the Left says
globalist globalist is a right-wing term
yeah sure
