[Music]
speaking of safe spaces
the man who whose biographer we had on
this program right who did a biography
of Mike Pence called him the most
powerful theocrats tree in the United
States in terms of political position
Mike Pence was at Liberty University
basically telling the students there
that Donald Trump a deeply religious and
moral man is is protecting them and also
prepared to go out and as you go into
the profane world where people think
that that women should have sovereignty
over their own bodies and sovereignty
over their own lives where people think
that people's sexual orientation should
not make them second-class citizens
where people think that people who feel
themselves to want to identify as a
different gender are in somehow
infringing upon God's will that will
implicate them be prepared to be shunned
and metaphorically burned at the stake
or in other words to have people
disagree with you my message to all of
you in the class of 2019 is derives of
the moment that we're living
today you know throughout most of
American history it's been pretty easy
to call yourself Christian didn't even
occur to people that you might be
shunned or ridiculed for defending the
teachings of the Bible but things are
different now
some of the loudest voices for tolerance
today have little tolerance for
traditional Christian beliefs so as you
go about your daily life just be ready
because you're going to be asked not
just to tolerate things that violate
your faith you're going to be asked to
endorse them you're going to be asked to
bow down to the idols of the popular
culture so you need to prepare your
minds for action men and women you need
to show that we can love God and love
our neighbor at the same time through
words and deeds yeah a lot of people
probably wonder what's he talking about
this notion of Christian oppression in
this country is stunning and the idea
that if you are licensed by the state to
provide medical care let's say or
prescription drugs and your ability to
do so is a function of Licensing by the
state and reliant upon all the laws that
are set up by the state to ensure that
the medicine you're delivering is safe
and whatnot the idea that saying you
can't pick and choose who you provide
that medical care to based upon who you
think are living a sinful life as if
that is some form of oppression to
Christians you have a choice don't go
into that profession this is this is the
the battle that he is trying to gear
them up for well I think he's speaking
of the social sphere as well because it
is true
that there are certain beliefs that
certain strands of Christianity have
interpreted to be the Christian beliefs
that are no longer acceptable in certain
places in polite society like hating
people just for being gay or thinking
that trans people are an abomination or
whatever and that's a good thing well I
mean the fact is is that you can there
is no there is no law that says that you
can't have those feelings if that's what
your religion teaches you and even if
you want to slice it as like hate the
sin and not the sinner but you don't
have the right in civil society to
impose that morality on the rest of us
and the morality of acceptance it's not
a reality it is simply the the rights
that every citizen has to have housing
the same access to housing same access
to accommodations and food and jobs and
whatnot and in in frankly we don't even
have enough protections in that regard
so if you want to live in a gated
community barter your services to your
neighbor that is certainly up to you but
if you want to engage in commerce and
whatnot in in civil society then you
have to accept that your morality does
not get to dictate who gets rights and
who's doesn't even though frankly to a
certain extent we still have that
problem but I don't know I mean you
could have said those same words when
they start to rollback
anti-miscegenation laws
