[Music]
folks big green New Deal rally AOC
Bernie others and I believe that's
taking place at Howard University I'm
not 100% sure about that but I imagine
it'll be streaming online should be
exciting it will be at Howard University
and it is being organized by the sunrise
movement which of course is that group
that occupied Nancy Pelosi's office at
the beginning of this Democratic or I
should say congressional session and all
that happening with this sort of
backdrop as you know Joe Biden the other
day said he's developing a new climate
change plan that is going to be more
more moderate try and strike a balance
between telling the world not to not to
get so hot and us doing something about
it
he's gonna try and he's gonna try and
meet nature halfway and see if nature
will compromise a little bit global luck
warming yeah he's gonna basically say
why be so so hot why not be a little bit
less hot I put his hand on mother
nature's back there you go he's gonna
say maybe I can calm down honey exactly
maybe I can help you with some of that
tension and then and then he's just
gonna saw we'll forgive me father I've
sinned and but here is Biden now folks
the reality is his lead is expanding and
in really across the board I still
contend I mean nothing's changed in the
past four days five days that I made
this contention last week that by
September democratic voters will have a
different sense of Joe by who Joe Biden
is I mean people just aren't largely
paying attention to this race largely
and the idea of a guy who's already been
vice-president under extremely popular
president sounds very very appealing
particularly one who is like a guy you
apparently want to have a beer with and
but I have a feeling and maybe this is
hopeful this is more aspirational maybe
then it than it should be but that as
folks get a better look and they start
to key in when we start to see debates
and we start to you know maybe even by
the fall bye-bye I guess late September
October that people will have a sort of
a more sophisticated understanding of
who Joe Biden is for instance you'll
recall because this happened months ago
so people may not remember it but in
2018 the Democrats had the largest
victim it'd term victory that has ever
been recorded in terms of votes and the
biggest issue that people ran on and I
think it is as in a mistake to just
assume that it was just this issue
frankly I think people were it was a
referendum on Donald Trump and there was
a lot of disdain for Donald Trump but
the vehicle in which Democrats made this
case was through the notion of health
care and about 50% of the candidates
were running on Medicare for all others
were were running on some variant of
expanding health care access to people
and affordability to people and I
imagine that Joe Biden's going to do the
same but this is a guy who clearly is
not terribly keyed into this issue
listen to his explanation as to why
we shouldn't have a Medicare buy-in I
mean I
this explanation as far as I'm concerned
covers a Medicare buy-in it covers an
expansion of Medicare for all it it
basically it's a bizarre reasoning but
apparently he feels this will suffice
here's Joe Biden being asked about
health care what do you say to calls for
some sort of universal health care there
were something like Medicare for all
from some of the other people running
III I think they're they're well
intended I think that mean it is and
it's not I'm not but here's the deal
right now you have 16 you have this
overwhelming number of employers for a
pain in the health care plan why let
them off the hook all of a sudden they
don't have to painting what happens then
- this whole thing about profit and the
rest I mean it should be part of the
compensation if you have it what well I
mean this is one of the biggest problems
with our health care is that it is tied
to the employers and I guess his
argument is you're letting them off the
hook although taxes would go up on
employers they would end up paying more
in taxes to pay for Medicare for all if
that's what he's really concerned about
I'm also really impressed by Joe Biden's
sense of what the argument is with
corporations having too much power and
too many tax cuts in his reference of
profits and that stuff yeah no idea what
the hell he's talking about there I mean
I totally get what he's saying and it is
nonsense I mean that's the worst part
about this this is not a gaffe this is
somebody who thinks that the argument
should be the responsibility of
employers to provide health insurance as
opposed to the government everyone
complains about the notion of being
stuck at a job you don't want to be
stuck at because it provides you health
care everyone complaints we use the
biggest refrain we used to hear when Joe
Biden was running for president
was that every GM car 1,600 bucks of it
was a function of healthcare that they
had to pay this is just absurd it's it
is bizarre and to the extent that Joe
Biden you know has basically shielded
himself I think from a lot of a lot of
direct sort of interviews and reporting
and questioning about his policies this
should be one man that is just a
remarkable thing to say considering the
fact that many of his votes come from
the fact that he's so experienced I mean
this is a guy who clearly has not even
engaged in the issue I mean of all the
issues you can come up with about about
Medicare for all to argue that it's
somehow let's employers off the hook
when we all know they're gonna be paying
more in taxes but that that's the
problem as if Medicare for all the
desire for people to have health
insurance that is not only affordable
but easy basically just getting health
care as if that desire is rooted in
attacking businesses is basically
adopting a conservative right-wing frame
and turning it on its head in a
ludicrous fashion I mean it it is it
beyond silly and and it's this type of
stuff why I think Joe Biden ultimately
is going to falter and it really is just
a function of of whether his
understanding of policies and his desire
you know his uh what he his
prescriptions for the American public
end up becoming more widely understood
by the general electorate so we shall
see but I'm shocked by that stuff he had
to think on his feet right to come up
with something that sounded kind of
populist and he was scrolling through
the options in his head like insurance
companies no people don't like those
credit card companies no no no bosses
yes the bosses are bad
them off I don't mean I don't think he
was thinking on his feet I mean it's
impossible to imagine that they haven't
said like how are you gonna respond to
the fact that people are confident mean
this would be the day one right it is
weird that he just gestures vaguely
populist as if it doesn't really matter
what's his what he says it's just about
tone yeah well he might be right ya know
he might
