so Sarah when we we broke you were
telling us about this project that you
embarked on a year ago I think you
probably deserve a battle for something
like this where you have looked through
approximately 1500 of 2000 approximately
2000 emergency room bills that you
solicited from your readers at Vox as
part of a project to bring some type of
transparency to the billing procedures
in emergency rooms which is not terribly
different from the billing procedures
and I guess I want to call it a system
but it's not really a system in in
hospitals the first thing that you found
or one of them I should say is that
prices are high and it's it's amazing
they're super super high aren't they
yeah and I feel like this was actually
driven home for me by just looking at
the prices of things you know I've
purchased in the past at a drug store
and how much those cost in an emergency
room and you know one great example of
that is a pregnancy test which you know
usually combined from a drugstore for
five to ten dollars or even cheaper in
emergency rooms I thought at least a
half dozen bills were pregnancy test
cost more than $100 I saw one that stood
out to me where a single pregnancy test
was billed at $400 so I think the thing
you know it is both the prices are high
and they vary vary hugely from one
hospital to another well again like my
question is like how do they like I can
understand it if you say like look you
show up at the ER you cross the
threshold and we're gonna charge you
1700 bucks that's just what it is it's
enormous but you know we're not gonna
lie about the cost of the eye drops or
the ibuprofen why do they why do they do
it this way I think because they can
like what is there any internal
rationale or they literally just go like
okay I got it I get a pair
I'm gonna roll them and if it's a 2/6
that's how much a an advil cost 26 bucks
I mean like how do they even come up
with the numbers so from what I
understand and actually you know an
article that some listeners might be
familiar with as a Steve Brill bitter
bitter pill which was a massive story
for time where he gets into this a lot
one things I've seen my reporting was
things you writes about there is a lot
of a lot of hospitals of something
called a charge master which is
basically their master list of all the
charges for different the health care
items at their hospital that charge
master might have been created decades
ago and then year after year it's just
updated so you know they say okay and
there's an inflation there's in this and
that we're going to update the charge
master by 3% or 5% and then when they're
working with insurance companies they're
negotiating discounts off of that charge
master so you often have this kind of
legacy document that might have lost all
sorta it might have lost any relation to
the actual price of health care that
just keeps getting updated year after
year because it's also okay it's kind of
hard for patients to see what's going on
or you know make the decision like I
want to go to the hospital with $30
pregnancy test instead of $400 pregnancy
test right okay and so the the the next
thing you found is that even if you go
to an in-network hospital it doesn't
mean that you're going to be seen by an
in-network doctor how does that work
yeah so that's one of the things you
actually see pretty commonly is the best
research we have suggest that one in
five ER visits there is a patient as an
integral hospital who seen by an
out-of-network provider and the way that
works is that many hospitals have people
who don't accept insurance doctors
surgeons radiologists working and
staffing those hospital units so you
know I wrote about a patient out in
Texas who was attacked pretty violently
in the middle of the night was left
unconscious and a bystander called an
ambulance uber on to the ER he woke up
in the ER he actually pulled out his
phone to track it with hospitals and
networks which the uniquely American
thing to do and he
finds out great it's a network I'm fine
turns out he needs emergency jaw surgery
and that jaw surgeon is not at Network
and so he ended up with an eight
thousand dollar bill from his jaw
surgery unless states have some kind of
legislation you know outlawing the kind
of behavior you know legislation that
says if you're going to be at a hospital
you have to be a network with the same
health insurance plans that kind of
billing behavior is perfectly legal and
pretty common okay and another point you
make it that you found is that you can
be charged for just sitting in a waiting
room and I experienced this having gone
to an emergency room I had you know one
point I thought I was having a heart
attack and made a long story I clearly
wasn't but I went in there I sat into
the the emergency room I got charged I
don't know something like 1500 bucks to
get an EKG and then I got a notice from
a collection agency like a year later
that I had owed for another $500 and I
said that's not possible I paid the
$1,700 and it turned out that was for
the doctors that were there and I was
like I called up the emergency room I
said well what if I just came into the
waiting room they're like well no you
would have been charged and I and that's
crazy
it's yeah and I mean there's this story
I wrote about that the amounts are even
higher I wrote about a woman who was
seen in an emergency room and Hoboken
New Jersey who she had cut her ear she
had fallen had blood coming out of her
ear went to the emergency room but found
out that the doctors were out of network
and decided okay I'm gonna go be seen
somewhere else
they did give her an ice pack for her
ear and for you know that experience of
finding out the doctors out-of-network
and getting an ice pack she ended up
with a bill for just over five thousand
seven hundred dollars you know they did
end up dropping that bill after I wrote
about it but before I got involved you
know they were really sticking with it
saying you know this is the price of
seeking care in our emergency room and
you know see what she was someone who
had a significant deductible on her plan
and they were saying she was responsible
for that all right so let's just step
back big picture there's
you mentioned that most countries maybe
all countries on some level their
government regulates the prices right
now obviously something like Medicare
for all is is big in the news when we
talk about a medicare-for-all does that
involve explicit price regulation or is
it just simply in terms of like well
we're going to be the insurance provider
and we're just not going to pay more for
a certain you treatment so it really
does involve explicit price regulation I
think that's one of the things when you
look at what about a Medicare for All
system saves money part of it is the
efficiency you just have one big health
insurance plan I think the real way to
save money in a system like that is that
the government is setting the prices and
you know when the government is the only
game in town offering insurance
hospitals all of a sudden have a whole
lot less leverage and asking for high
prices because all their business is
flowing through this one government
entity so you know if you go if you look
at a place like Britain you can look up
the prices of all the things that health
care systems provide and you know that
is a feature right now of Medicare which
covers Americans over 65 and it's
essentially a single-payer system for
that population so yes it is definitely
a feature of any sort of medicare for
all plan where does the Delta between
what a price controlled system would
look like and a non price controlled
system where does that extra money end
up you know some of it ends up with
hospitals you know who there are many
for-profit hospitals in our country some
ins with insurers you know some of it
ends up as medical debt that goes unpaid
from folks who can't afford their bills
so you know and some of that is going
into the salaries of health care
providers one of the things that's a
little bit unique about the u.s. is that
our providers are paid significantly
more than doctors abroad and there is a
big long discussion about the price of
graduate education and what drives that
but all that money is basically going to
all the different actors in our
care system well Sarah maybe we will
have that conversation a little bit more
in depth in the the coming months maybe
years but thank you so much for your
time today fascinating stuff and like I
say I think you deserve a medal
