Donald Trump is threatened to tear up
arms control treaties this is enormous
ly dangerous obviously on a number of
levels there was some progress under
Obama with disarmament although Obama
also spent about a trillion dollars in
upgrading and and improving
infrastructure on our Arsenal it has not
been seriously discussed since the 1980s
were believe it or not Mikhail Gorbachev
and Ronald Reagan meeting in Reykjavik
actually said that we should get rid of
all nukes and set that as a goal and
since then there have been sort of
maintaining the order of arms control
and slight improvements under Bill
Clinton and Barack Obama and under
george w bush usually jeopardizing that
order by doing things like pulling out
the ballistic missile treaty so you
could bring back a renamed Star Wars and
now Donald Trump is getting on the train
and and and taking this in in a very
reckless direction but trying to play
off
China and Russia against each other
tell people cussing at census we will
build it up
don't look up to this
Russia has not adhered to the agreement
they should have been done years ago
until people come to their senses we
have more
else by far will build it up until they
come to their senses when they do then
we'll all be smart and we'll all stop
the war and by the way not only stop
will reduce which I would love to do but
right now they have not adhered to the
agreement it's a threat to whoever you
want at an include China and it includes
Russia and it includes anybody else who
wants to play that game you can't do
what you can't play that game on me the
nuclear war game the nuclear war game uh
Russia has not stepped out of any
treaties and Russia like us has
definitely maintained its fleet playing
game by Stan and Tweety I don't know
what specific accusation he's making
there we'll do more more on that
certainly in the future
