[Music]
what is this clip of Java I mean again
am I gonna get annoyed by this
well it's him it's him saying that he's
gonna free up 720 million women for the
workforce with some program
it's wow let's his Joe Biden he's a bold
goal that's this is pretty good try to
do the math here wait a second yeah
that's a lot of women all right well
here's Joe Biden very hungover I I can
tell you that like the it is we're not
seeing it completely reflected in the
polls apparently you know in the latest
NBC poll which is a highly it's
considered a high quality poll Biden
went up Warren went up Bernie basically
would stay the same dropped a little bit
this is the national poll California on
the other hand you have Biden and Bernie
tied which is a reflects you know both
by dropping and Bernie popping up I mean
we'll see what happens in Iowa and seen
some polls out of there it's it's a
little bit tricky to tell who knows you
may get like a pee Buddha judge you know
surprise in in in Iowa that doesn't seem
impossible from looking at some of these
polls at this moment I mean I just don't
get it at all
I mean I think you know there is it is
very easy for us sitting around with
each other to forget that there are
people out there who you know have
vastly different perspectives on things
as us I mean this is chapter one in my
book blame the electorate that that I'm
formulating but I mean we'll see I think
the the
you know I think the the likelihood that
we're gonna see some type of brokered
convention increases you know every day
because there does not seem to be a any
movement you know a breakaway now of
course it's very early what happens in
Iowa and New Hampshire and South
Carolina are going to make a big
difference but if California is much
earlier than it has been the past and
the implications of of Bernie winning
let's say California are really any of
the top three candidates winning
California is huge
really huge this this time around
because it happens early enough that
it's going to impact the other states
but I can tell you this that you know
and I have conversations with people who
are journalists and it sort of like you
know Center and sometimes politicians
occasionally and you know just not not
interviews just not even necessarily you
know on background and just you know
generally just get to take people's
temperatures and to a person I have yet
to find even when they are ideologically
comfortable with a Joe Biden I have yet
to find a person who has confidence that
this guy can win now this is a real
problem
because there are clearly a cohort of
people out there who are convinced he
can win we can see it reflected in the
polls that's where a lot of his support
is from it's not even it's not even that
they like his proposals or lack of
proposals or whatnot it's just they they
have bought into the idea that he can
win and this is a very scary situation
because in someone like I used this
analogy yes it is leaking oil someone
had said that to me and the the thing
that's dangerous about leaking
well as opposed to let's say he's got a
blown head gasket is that you got a
blown head gasket you can't even make it
onto the highway
you could run on ephod a while well no
the point being that you blow a head
gasket you pull over on the side and
you're done the car you got to just call
for a tow truck it's done but if you
have a you're leaking oil you're driving
down the highway and you don't realize
it you can get a certain distance and
then all of a sudden the engine seizes
up the guessing game yes and that's what
scared a big yes he gave here is here is
Joe Biden leaking some oil you get a tax
break for a racehorse why in god's name
couldn't we provide a $8,000 tax credit
for everybody who has child care costs
it would put they would put 720 million
back million women back in the workforce
it would increase the GDP to sound like
a walk here by about eight tenths of one
percent it would grow the economy yeah
walks also are aware that it's very
difficult to put 720 million back into
women back into the workforce when we
have a population of less than 350
million is my understanding in the
country is this somewhere around 350 and
that makes it very very difficult to put
720 million back into the workforce as a
walk yeah this reminds me of another one
as you luck another one classic here as
it work is 3 million executive branch
employees versus Trump okay Trump's role
is that right that's not right okay
there's three billion million three
million executive I think they're three
million executive branch employee that
that may include the military but yeah
three three tech here I think um it's
bad but that's a lot of people oh my god
I'm totally against this government's
gotta get way too big wait a sec okay
there's only 5 billion people in America
three billion people working the
government but obviously he's just miss
speaking there aside from the fact that
like you know the the the the tax credit
I mean I guess it's it's one way to do
it the other way to do it might be to
actually just provide universal pre-k
and pre pre K do you commodifies well I
mean right D commodify it's also it just
does show though that even taking
everything else aside that Joe Biden not
just by instinct but by his whole career
is a walking embodiment of all of the
bad turns of the of the well not even
the modern Democratic Party but the
Democratic Party through the 70's 80's
90's and arts from a right-wing turn on
foreign policy and a variety of other
issues and just the fact that and this
was if you read like Third Way people
should go back and check out like you
know the Third Way archives from the 90s
it's like it's all that stuff there's a
major problem it affects some of our
constituencies obviously we're not gonna
censor it obviously we're not gonna
solve it fundamentally tax credit I mean
everything is just the tax credit scheme
or or a public-private partnership which
always makes things less efficient yeah
I also hate the idea that the only
reason we should get any help from the
government whatsoever with taking care
of our families is so that we can go off
and work ourselves to death well but
it's 720 million women who are gonna go
into the workforce there's a lot of
women wellhere's and then while they're
working that someone could come in and
tell them how to raise their kids if
they're black well this is aware of you
got the record player on that's another
40 billion I mean we could probably just
take 300 million of them and retrofit
all the pipes in America that's right
right Jamie this is thing you're not
picking up 720 million women come into
the workforce we're all gonna have like
one day a week work weeks we can all
have a woman that works for us
like welcome to your orientation this is
how you do a right wing event Ellen
price 20 women working here who would be
doing all of our jaw hi Jennifer thank
you for coming the social security
briefing book and right around 11:45 I
get extremely cranky in the prep you
will all tell everybody be quiet in the
office please ideally if you could fit
it in between a random anecdote from
Hollywood in the late 90s
how are you at laughs again I will
totally transcend women to do my job
awesome that way they don't kind of go
to the majority report every day it's a
different team every day now I'm a walk
here I want to sell like a walk do we
yeah exactly
don't worry mission accomplished
[Music]
