[Music]
the Democratic House passed a minimum
wage bill was it last week was it two
days ago I can't remember I think it was
the end of last week and raised it to
$15 an hour now there are calls from
Rasheeda to leb to raise it to $20 an
hour the politics around this are
fascinating only because we have seen
the Democrats pass 50 some-odd bills
maybe close to 60 now they're not all
incredibly substantive but many of them
are extremely significant bills they're
not going to be implemented because
they're all died in the Senate but
they're they're important markers to put
down where the party stands like what is
the baseline for this party going
forward and they have got no traction
with the public whatsoever
understandable on some level because of
the nature of our politics these days
understandable because they're not going
anywhere they're just baselines they're
sort of internal baseball but the $15
minimum wage in part because it was such
a major plank of the last campaign you
remember this was Bernie Sanders plank
that was controversial at the time we
are now three years out and just like
governor Nixon has radically changed the
dynamics of New York state politics
without ever having taken the oath of
office because of what she forced Andrew
Cuomo to do and the light that she's
shown on the dynamic with the IDW a
wayward group of Democrats caucus IDC
who were caucusing with the with the
Republicans IDW whatever that's an idea
we don't want to Medicare for all Bernie
Sanders in just in his running for
president has now able would a was able
to get the
kradic party to accept and vote on in
favor of a $15 minimum wage and the
problem the right has with this is that
I don't believe they can get their
voters or frankly anyone to care about
it in the way that their donor base does
and their way that they're wealthy the
wealthy element of their party just
hates the idea of it and so it's
fascinating to see them attempt to
undercut the $15 minimum wage and we're
going to talk more about this minimum
wage in the fun half but this is it's
always fun to watch what Fox and Friends
does because this is the softest version
that they're trying to sell to people
and it's pretty hilarious to watch them
try and do this we were all in high
school we were in college when we had
these waiting wait when I was waiting
tables unless you're a very fine
restaurant most of those people at the
fine restaurants that is their career
but they make tons of money if you're
awesome you know I should also tell you
that look the that the dynamic that they
experienced that they were teenagers and
had access to these jobs is not the same
dynamic that exists today because the 25
year olds or the 30 year olds that now
have these jobs we're working in
manufacturing or we're working higher
paid jobs so first of all teenagers are
less likely than they were when these
folks were teenagers to have
minimum-wage jobs at restaurants and
nevertheless a vast I don't know what
the numbers were in New York something
like 50 percent of the people working at
at fast-food restaurants had families
yeah like who works at the restaurants
when the teenagers are in school or
trots that is their career they make
tons of money if you're working at a
McDonald's or
a small little restaurant where you're
making tips you're right if you're nice
to the people you make a lot of money
absolutely so what do you are the
restaurants kid here about was it now I
don't know if things have changed I want
to go backwards because I want to get
kill me it's comment too but you know it
doesn't matter how nice you are to
McDonald's
you're not gonna get $1 worth of a tip
oh you don't tip it McCall's
III tip yes I leave it outside on the
speaker on the drive-through or I leave
it on my table exam and I get up just a
ten yeah I leave a ten on the table ten
for some good nuggets exactly so I get
exported out this little bit suspicious
as to whether they were ever teenagers
or if they've ever been to a fast-food
restaurant
but here's Brian Kilmeade expressing a
dynamic having worked you know and I was
I was an actor and a comedian and so I
worked in restaurants as a as a day job
I never experienced the dynamic and I
knew a lot of waiters I was in that sort
of culture for a couple years I never
explained her Dov the dynamic that Brian
Kilmeade is about to describe that
apparently happens amongst waitstaff
ahnold's are a small little restaurant
where you're making tips you're right if
you're nice to the people you make a lot
of money
solutely so what do you got the
restaurants key hear about your any
white rat so what do you think other any
challenge Scouts here today because I
would love to make the lateral move up
from the James Brown exactly I mean
every year and work with putting the
restaurant table before I think it's a
frying cedar traded to tuck in doughnuts
the Hukilau a table for a drink I think
that's the brother-in-law of the manager
from the Burger King down in central
square make sure you give him really
good service and we'll all be over there
Central Square Burger King picks up
Cedar docking trade unbelievable so like
just one option it for two first round
waiter picks in the next quarter is
hoping a no trade clause
yeah good here's the thing is that this
rhetoric hey you know it works on their
bass you know the wealthy people who
like their tax cuts who are afraid of
just like the insanity that's going on
but it's not going to bring out another
single voter that they haven't already
motivated for them it's just gonna be
the racism the other stuff is just
filler but I do think that the fact that
they're promoting that the Democrats
have passed this is actually helpful and
it's it's the only piece of legislation
the Democrats have been able to pass
that they've gotten any credit for so
it's a fascinating
I think cell phone but they need to
address it and they're not doing a great
job of it
we will cover more of this in the fun
half because there's some interesting
fun dynamics that are taking place with
them also I want to ride you I I want to
correct myself its majority report dot F
