so Mark Zuckerberg was up in front of
the House Financial Services Committee
yesterday and you know it's it's amazing
there are some one of the things that
has to be resolved about impeachment is
how are they going to let what members
of these committees are going to be able
to ask questions right there's a hundred
members of committees that are literally
working on different impeachment
questions the idea of them all getting
five minutes is useless the Democrats
should smarten up certain individuals
should swallow their egos and allow
those members of Congress who know how
to do this do it and then also have
counsel have lawyers their lawyer staff
lawyers do it there are a couple of
amazing examples of people questioning
Mark Zuckerberg and some of them were
trained as prosecutors others who are
just very smart apparently relative to
their their colleagues and they should
just suck it up and appreciate that
all right we're fortunate enough to have
someone who can really do this here is a
OC questioning Zuckerberg Zuckerberg has
already made it clear that the policy is
going to be that we're not going to
fact-check politicians ads but this is
just a stunning policy and here is how a
OSI basically explains that to Mark
Zuckerberg
and he's left basically a blubbering
mess the official policy of Facebook now
allows politicians to pay to spread
disinformation I'm in 2020 elections and
in the future so I just want to know how
far I can push this I'm in the next year
under your policy you know using census
data as well could I pay to target
predominantly black a zip codes and
advertise them the incorrect election
date no congresswoman you couldn't we
we have even for these policies around
the newsworthiness of content that
politicians say in the general principle
that I believe that but you said you're
not going to fact-check my hat we have
if if anyone including a politician is
saying things that can cause that is
calling for violence or could risk
imminent physical harm or voter or
census suppression when we roll out the
census depression policy pause it for
one second well he made that up right
like he made that up
there's no Census and voting policy he
just made that up in that moment because
they hadn't even contemplated a lie like
that
that's how ridiculous this multi-billion
dollar company is when they roll out
these policies the amount of thought
that actually goes into it or the
intellectual midgets who are are making
these policies he made that up
they didn't have a census election
policy that's why he led that's why he
led with we don't allow politicians to
do anything that's gonna harm people
physically because he died they he
didn't have the answer we have an
election and census policy he just
realized like what I just said didn't
address her question so I'm gonna make
something up but Contini also an
election and census policy is an anti
Republican policy of course of course
but they hadn't contemplated anything
like that action policy we will take
that content so so you will there is
some threshold where you will fact check
political advertisements is that where
you're telling me well congresswoman yes
and four specific things like that where
there's imminent risk of harm could I
run ads targeting Republicans in
primaries saying that they voted for the
green New Deal you repeat that would I
be able to run advertisements on
Facebook targeting Republicans in
primaries saying that they voted for the
green New Deal
I mean if you're not fact-checking
political advertisements I'm trying to
understand the bounds here what's fishy
I don't know the answer to that off the
top of my head
I think so you don't know if I'll be
able to do that do you see a potential
problem here with a complete lack of
fact-checking on political
advertisements well congresswoman I
think lying is bad and I think if you
were to run an ad that had a lie that
would be bad that's different from it
being from it from or in our position
the right thing to do to prevent your
constituents or people in an election
from seeing that you had lied so we can
so you won't take down lies or you will
take down lives I think it's just a
pretty simple yes or no congresswoman
I'm not talking out spin I'm talking
about actual yes in a democracy
I believe that people should be able to
see for themselves what politicians that
they may or may not vote for you won't
take a character for themselves so you
want to you may flag that it's wrong but
you won't take it down
congresswoman it's a it depends on the
context that it shows up Organic Post
one question one more question in your
ongoing dinner parties with far-right
figures some of who advanced the
conspiracy theory that white supremacy
is a hoax did you discuss so-called
social media bias against conservatives
and do you believe there is a bias
congresswoman remember everything that
was in the Senate in the course all
right I'll move on can you explain why
you've named the Daily Caller a
publication white well documented with
ties to white supremacist as an official
fact checker for facebook congresswoman
sure we actually don't appoint the
independent fact checkers they go
through an independent organization
called the independent fact checking
network that has a rigorous standard for
who they allow to just serve as a fact
checker so you would say that white
supremacists tied publications meet a
rigorous standard for fact-checking
Thank You congresswoman I would say that
we're not the one assessing that that
standard the International fact-checking
network is the one who is setting that
step
hmm when to wait a second hold on did he
just get the name of that thing wrong
the international fact-checking
organization didn't he just call it the
independent fact-checking network not
you wait go back I think he actually got
this guy shucks
this is unbelievable this is just
unbelievable testimony this is just how
is there no one at Facebook who says
like you know what mark honestly this is
not for you buddy go back and I think he
got the name wrong you so flustered
right congresswoman I don't remember
everything that was in this end and in
this array I'll move on can you explain
why you've named the Daily Caller a
publication right well documented with
ties to white supremacist as an official
fact checker for Facebook congresswoman
sure we actually don't appoint the
independent fact checkers they go
through an independent organization
called the independent fact-checking
network okay stop okay so it's either
the International or the independent
fact-checking network so they don't have
any responsibility for it cuz they
outsource this and if the independent or
international fact-checking network
hires the Daily Caller to do their
fact-checking
they're not responsible because they
only subscribe to the independent or
international fact-checking network I
whichever one it is I want to name our
business that like what how does that
how does that how does that how is that
in any way relieved Facebook of
responsibility for what goes up on their
site well we we subscribe to the
independent fact-checking network I mean
it sounds like it's just I I can't
that company should be broken into a
million pieces a million pieces first of
all the policy that they have worked on
he knows he's going up there they
announced the policy about politicians
are going to be able to do are not going
to be fact checked and he got stumped in
about 30 seconds not even and just
literally three seconds it took her to
give him to two instances that
apparently they had never even
contemplated could ever happen and the
idea that I don't even know that they're
gonna flag those things but how are you
supposed to know that the politician is
lying if you get your news from Facebook
and use the fact consortium who's gonna
put out the who's gonna pay now
theoretically right these ads they're
paid at their paid content so they're
going to they're going to be on top of
every other content they're gonna be
prioritized because that's the way
Facebook makes their money so how are
you gonna get this information that that
she's lying that these freshmen
Republicans House members voted for the
green New Deal or that she's lying to
the targeted african-americans saying
that the voting the voting is the next
day how are you how are you going to get
this how how we as consumers of
politicians rhetoric supposed to know
that these politicians are lying because
he wants to do a big service I want the
citizenry to be able to know what kind
of character their politicians have this
guy's so full crap it's unbelievable
this is about people power yeah Sam
we've still got like six or seven more
closely yeah I know I'm just I'm trying
honestly like I feel like they should
have been and mr. Zuckerberg behind you
is a Capitol police squad they're going
to put you into a car now and take you
to prison
