[Music]
back on the majority report on the phone
it is a pleasure to welcome back to the
program as our now our chief youth
correspondent for the majority report my
Lassiter Milo where are you right now I
am near City Hall and what what's going
on there any other people there yeah
there's like basically someone I can
tell maybe a million coming like there's
so many people here
it's insane well just give me a sense of
like where are you looking out on like
are they all students well around the
the city there's yeah I'm saying how
many kids I saw like like there's so
many high schoolers here and there's so
many um there's so many kids here and
there so there's like everyone's here
and some people are just trying to get
through and like and I feel bad for them
but it's truly amazing and so what our
people are they're people carrying signs
I mean what what are people oh my gosh
yeah so many people are carrying signs
right now it's insane and we're trying
me and me and my friend are trying to
find write a song bird oh wait yes I can
okay you can hear all the screaming I
think people are starting to move I'm
not sure where everyone is and so are
there are there speakers there or what
whoa yeah so I think I think people are
waiting for Greta Sundberg I'm not sure
where she is that's what me and my
friend are trying to do right now and
then like I know famous celebrities are
gonna be here like Jaden Smith Willow
Smith that's all I know
right now but there might be other
people and well let me get a sense so
why why are you doing this aside from
obviously seeing some of your top
celebrities but what why why are you
doing this because I feel like it's like
we're the next generation yeah and like
we have to kind of like we can't just
like sit back and let it happen because
we're clearly like we're gonna end up
stuff gonna happen and we're gonna end
up like I don't know like we
yes like if we don't do anything about
this like the world's gonna go into
crisis not necessarily in like I don't
know 17 months or 12 years but if we
it's gonna keep getting worse and worse
and worse so what we're trying to do is
just kind of make a statement that like
more than that were the future we're the
next generation and we're not gonna let
this slide you know and I mean are your
what what was the how excited are your
friends and and and the other students I
mean to do this or does everybody sort
of have that share that that sense and
everyone shares that sense it's amazing
it's amazing everywhere I go it's like
ever there's like the enthusiasm is just
like 100% like 155 billion percent it's
like so many people are just so like
it's so much in power like from our
generation like there's so many kids
from like all over in New York cities
it's like coming here to protest and
stuff do you guys I mean do your friend
how much do you guys fret about this
like how about what do you mean like I
mean how much when you you know all the
difficulty in being in eighth and ninth
grade and stuff like that how much of
how much of an extra burden is this on
you guys I mean do you guys talk about
this like when you're hanging out or I
mean how much does it come up in between
your conversations with your friends I
mean like it's honestly like it's insane
like like many people are like talking
about it many people are excited about
it you know it's just like it's not it's
insane it's a great movement and
everyone's really happy about it
but I'm not I'm not talking about this
particular protest or the movement but
but when you guys are hanging out when
you're hanging out with your friends or
when you're at school and you're just
you know shooting the the stuff with
each other how often does this come up I
mean do you guys is this is this an
ongoing concern or is it just something
that's you know in the background
well honestly like I think that it's not
necessarily in the background but it's
like it's like it is it is one of my
main concerns is one of millions many
concerns and like that's what people
care about a lot but like you know like
a team being a teenager is difficult and
you know it's like it's like you have so
much to worry
worry about this too because of your
future so I would say many people are
super aware of it and super caring about
it because there's honestly there's so
many you can hear there's so many people
here everywhere I'm walking like they're
just like like crowds and yelling and
screaming it's the most it's so
interesting and it's crazy how many
people you see here and it's like you
run into people that you haven't seen in
ages it's like it's an amazing thing
it's so amazing just like seeing
everything so what do you think you're
gonna do I mean after this I mean what
what do you guys have a sense of like
what the next steps are I mean like
honestly I think that like I think I
hope that this time this protest time
makes people realize like makes art the
older generation realized that like
there is an issue going on and that like
the new generations not afraid they got
for it we're about to be in a huge crowd
so I might lose you okay well is there
anything else that you wanna you want to
tell us about what's going on down there
or just in general it's like ten times
the size of the climate March 10 times
the climate March from March of 2019 so
it's amazing it's super cool all right
well good luck stay safe yeah I will all
right I'll talk to you later I'll see
you probably all right in a couple hours
okay okay hi good job there she is
chief the kids are all right kids are
all right
and I hope they like you know it's a lot
to ask of a of a ninth grader to start
organizing there are
some kids who you know who are you know
more in tune with that but I think this
is good it's going to be interesting to
see what comes out of something like
this because I don't remember another
instance of such a student dominated
protests with this many people and I got
to imagine it's going to I mean I
brought my lid down to occupy a couple
of times and it was intimidating for her
just to be around that many people
protesting we got caught up in a couple
of marches occasionally and that may be
white dreadlocks would also be
intimidated there was a whole whole a
whole bunch of stuff that was
intimidating but you know you get to a
certain age and then you feel a little
more confident and I wonder the I would
imagine we're gonna see some some
organizations and some organizing and
some and more protests coming out of of
what we've seen this week and I don't
know how much the message will resonate
we watch these this fox news report and
everybody's just like I can't believe
they're seven hours I mean well the
scary part is the people in power free
to ignore it you saw that with the Iraq
war millions of people protested and it
didn't do anything that's true that's
true but hopefully this will resonate
more and I hope I hope there are you
know campaigns out there I mean I guess
there's not a lot of people to register
because these these a lot of these
people are not gonna be voting age
although I would imagine the seniors
right will be 18 by by next year by next
November I mean certainly and it'll be
interesting to know whether what
percentage and we're talking about a
million students supposedly in New York
City I don't know if they're all down
there but a million students you know I
don't know how many what the percentage
of that would be seniors but a hundred
thousand yeah and even if they can't
vote there are lots of different ways
that they can
get involved obviously I mean why DSA
has chapters all over the country kids
as young as high school there you go all
right
