this week we saw a Paul Manafort stand
in front of a judge in Washington DC one
that was a little bit less cynical or
critical of the idea of white-collar
crime I think she sentenced him to three
and a half years in prison this is on
top of his his other about four years
more or less that he received
I guess now a week or two ago and this
was for his fraud and in conspiracy she
made a point of saying that she was not
ruling on the question of collusion this
was not brought up and that to me was a
direct message to Donald Trump don't do
to me what you did to the last judge in
terms of trying to spin this but what
was also amazing about that moment was
not just that Paul Manafort at age 69 is
going to go to prison for seven some odd
years or ostensibly will but what
happened almost literally seconds later
which was an announcement from New York
City why don't you pick it up from there
because this the the implications of
this are fascinating and we have
certainly speculated about this for
years as to whether there were other
charges that could sort of I guess
protect the initial federal charges from
a trump pardon well that's right and the
fact I mean it's looking more and more
like this is this pardons issue is very
central to what's happening and I don't
mean that necessarily just in terms of
the Muller investigation or although
clearly it impacts it because if if
there were charges to be made in that I
think that part the dangling of pardons
which by the way Richard Nixon was
charged with and impeachment articles
back in the 70s that you know that that
would clearly be something that would
fall under you know obstruction of
justice abuse of
power however we don't know that yet
whether any of that's coming down the
pike but just from what we can see
visibly Trump has been dangling pardons
to various players in this and basically
all players right because he goes public
with it he does this on his Twitter feed
he does this and so it's very
interesting to have seen mana forts
lawyers actually just pretty much come
right out I mean they they came out of
the case in in Virginia right after the
judge who had by the way said nothing
about collusion or or any of that in his
innocence a despite the fact that he was
very sympathetic to mana for obviously
and hostile to the Muller investigation
he didn't say anything about collusion
the lawyers came out and their statement
immediately was this disc in this case
it was not shown that there was any
collusion there was no collusion
they used the exact words of Donald
Trump doesn't Trump in parroted that the
next state of the press and he of course
lied and said that the judge had agreed
with that although he hadn't now the
same thing happened in the DC courtroom
where mana fort was sentenced on
Wednesday and the lawyers again came out
and said the same thing I mean you can't
be any more obvious than that that they
are looking to trump for a pardon which
is you know the fact that the New York
DA's office came out instantly I mean
obviously they had it prepared they just
hit Send right and that was it
to you know basically just kind of put
up a big blaring you know stoplight on
this and say go you know basically
they're saying to the president go ahead
pardon him you know his troubles aren't
over if you think that's actually going
to going to make a difference and I
don't think it's specific just to mana
for it I think the idea is is to sort of
make it clear that Trump you know if he
decides to use this pardon power to try
and cover-up which he clearly is trying
to do but if he actually you know trips
that wire there are going to be
consequences you know it's not all these
people have you know various exposure
not just in New York mana Ford has
exposure in Virginia to he's got
exposure in California big Florida
there's a whole bunch of places in
United State
where these people have got you know
they're criminals they're all a bunch of
criminals so you know they're all
exposed and and so it just said it just
sends out this message immediately that
no you're not just going to be able to
get away with murder here and we're
going to you know that the sort of the
defenders of law and order on various
levels are whether or not they're
consciously coordinating together or
whether or not this is just you know
they can see what's going on and they're
deciding to take action they're making
it clear that that's not going it's not
going to heat they're not going to make
it easy for him let's just put it that
one well yes and and I mean it's it's
fascinating science Cyrus Vance the
Manhattan a district attorney came out
and said and and announced 15 sealed
indictments that deal with fraud and and
and other issues these are state charges
like you said they are inoculated
against a federal pardon from the
president and there's so much that's
fascinating about this one it is clear
that there was some measure of
coordination right in this announcement
now I don't know I don't know I I
imagine that prosecutors on a federal
level in a state level certainly can
communicate and can coordinate I don't
think there's any issues with that but
they made a conscious decision to have
there be virtually no time between the
Manafort sentencing and this
announcement - it seems to me the timing
and and and I think you're right about
this is specifically to preclude a
pardon by Donald Trump right because now
Trump if Trump was planning to pardon
which I think it's quite obviously was
he has to wait to find out about the
disposition of these of these city
charges because there's no value to him
- pardon Paul Manafort if man afford is
still looking at five ten years more
to go to prison because mana forts going
to if he wants to if mana fort wants to
get himself off the hook he's going to
have to provide actual material you know
what I mean so I don't think Paul
Manafort is going I don't think the idea
of of you know let's just hypothetically
say amongst those 15 indictments that
maybe he's looking at 10 years maybe
he's looking a lot more but I don't
think he's saying to himself well 10
years is so much better than 17 that I
you know that I that I'm going to keep
my mouth shut for a pardon on the seven
I have a feeling Paul mana fort this is
sending a message to this basically
freezes Donald Trump like you say it
sends a message to Paul Manafort and it
sends a message to any other players out
there that Muller the Southern District
of New York they know what they're doing
and they understand and just because you
know we've been asking for for for two
years are there gonna be parallel
charges on a state level and honest and
it's been relatively quiet and and it's
been an open question well now that
question is resolved and it creates an
entirely different reality for those
people who might turn on Donald Trump
regardless of what the the question is I
mean even folks who are you know
skeptics about the collusion and whatnot
Donald Trump seems to have been running
a criminal enterprise in New York State
but let's take a break we'll talk more
about this on the other side I'm Sam see
to ring a fire radio talking to the
great Digby
