where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage or a rapport with Sam Sita it is
Friday March 1st 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
joining us from TYT am a Vig line will
be in studio talking about the week that
was then Andy Kindler via the telephone
will give us the latest update on the
blockbuster tour by Dennis Miller and
Mark Steyn making its way across the
country meanwhile Donald Trump gave his
son-in-law top security clearance for a
Hanukkah beaming
Bibi Bibi facing an indictment fraud and
bra bribery and betrayal of trust I hope
his delicate mental condition can take
it yes meanwhile breaking turns out
Donald Trump incredibly Petty and his
kids huge liars Jeff Merkley seeks to
prevent the u.s. Mattila US military
intervention in Venezuela and Felix
Seder an Alan weiselberger next up for
the house Intel committee worse than
Pruett former coal lobbyist Andrew
wheeler confirmed by the Senate to head
the EPA
and ladies and gentlemen Sheldon Adelson
in dire health on his deathbed let's to
set up a foundation ready looks to set
up a foundation to do horrible things
after he dies so in liquid meanwhile
Democrats will reintroduce a DREAM Act
and temporary protective status
protections and Bernie about to have his
first rally of the 20/20 campaign
tomorrow in Brooklyn as jay Inslee
enters the race a lot of us say we'll
talk about that in a moment and Pelosi
calls for Democratic unity and AOC
provides the muscle all this and more on
today's program
apparently emma is going to the rally
tomorrow I think the entire office is in
one form or another going to the rally
are you going to rally Michael course
Emma you're obviously going and covering
for TYT gonna be live yeah we'll be live
we'll be streaming the rally live on
rebel HQ which is my channel and then
hopefully I'll get a word in with the
man himself
there you go and will you be doing like
comment commentary on the rally probably
not I mean I think I'm gonna interview
supporters cuz I did that with
Trump supporters as some people know and
it would be nice to talk to some sane
people for a change
I'm be I would be curious as to what the
difference is when you talk to a trump
supporter like I mean was did you ever
hit a streak of like oh I've talked to
ten normal Trump supporters in a row no
I mean there were a few yeah and there
they were semi-normal I think a lot of
my approach was being extremely non
confrontational so they felt comfortable
saying the outrageous things that they
did end up saying and it was a
successful you know a few months where I
was going once a week to cover these
rallies because I was just looked like
some kind of I kind of look like a Fox
News correspondent right like I couldn't
fit in there you could and when I was
just being neutral and non
confrontational they would just open up
more but I think at the Bernie rallies
we can have a little bit more fun yeah
that's true and now so what did you do
for self care after spending that much
time with Trump what am I gonna do for
self care after hearing you use that
phrase protip no I mean I I guess I just
I like wine right there you go yeah so
wine that was what I was asking whether
it was hard liquor or wine
Brendan Matt are you guys going I think
so yes
okay I'm feel a bit under the weather
all right it's Bernie so right and it's
supposed to rain so oh is it really
oh it's raining I will not be there oh
yeah it's it's like 33 and raining it's
just right on the cusp of being snowing
Bernie's awesome I'll be my god not
gonna be excited I don't know if it's
indoors I don't think it's at Brooklyn
College I just don't know what the venue
is yeah I'm not sure either at this
point and we should say aye
Jamie is out of town but I would imagine
she would have gone but I think she's
now with this opposite Zapatistas right
is that right so yeah
all right well let's start with this
it's one remind you folks this program
relies on the support from its members
you can become a member by going to join
the majority report calm before we get
into some of the bigger stories of the
week this is just too too good
the as you know AOC introduced the green
new deal with Ed Mackey now a couple of
weeks ago and it is it has been the
focal point I think of the of CPAC which
is the conservative I didn't even know
what the name of it is
now political action committee action
committee but it's just not it's just it
is some conference with with
conservatives that we've been a pack
it's not a pack it's just a copy
Woodstock and but the thing is it's
gotten more boring as the years have
gone on in part because it's no longer
shocking the and I will say this you
know we may cover a couple a couple of
clips from it that are interesting but
used to cover CPAC quite a bit on this
show and even on the radio program you
know over a decade ago and it was always
like oh well we get some pushback why
are you just covering the freaks and now
they're boring because the President of
the United States basically is a half a
step ahead of these people diamond and
silk opened the CPAC and the other
standing ovations there you go I mean
that's not even a joke no it's it's I
mean look it's been just as bad in the
past it's jeffer just like dominance of
course they did of course they did
they've been brought in to testify in
front of Congress by by Republicans on
you know deep platforming they're
bringing back in their performance I
mean did you hear that that song they
wrote about Cory Booker sounds like one
I might actually like it was about
eating meat one of them beatboxed
because he's a vegetarian he's a vegan
which is very triggering for them and
they performed this number on
Fox streaming show and Cory Booker does
have like you guys well I'm glad you
mentioned vegan and it being triggering
because on Fox and Friends the F&F
viewers weigh in on the green new deal
they have assembled a crew of Fox and
Friends viewers to comment on the green
new deal and who is this host I don't
know who she is
Ainsley oh okay I just have never seen
her not you know like up and walking CD
but we do see yeah there's never been an
on a hole named Ainsley I would imagine
that in the the proportion of Ainsley a
hills is pretty pretty one trippin
Ainsley alright but here she is and for
the life of me we have we've gone over
this tape multiple times cannot figure
it out Gary our farmer friend I see you
shaking your head what are you thinking
about Gary many environmentalists lots
of now understand that there are two
types of farmers there's one that
realize like hey climate change is going
to fundamentally threaten what I do
because I can't move my property I can't
move my land and there is already there
already if you know anything about
growing zones in this country in New
York we live New York State largely a
five the growing zone five in just the
past fifteen years we have like slid
into like a five point five growing zone
in this in this region so if you're a
farmer you're a little bit concerned
because of of what this means for your
future ability to raise crops or on the
other hand you're just upset because the
EPA doesn't allow you to use basically
Agent Orange
many environmentalists and OAC being one
of them do not realize that America is
covered in grosics one second
incidentally OAC
is not a thing I like how he's dressed
like he's going to a Mad Men cosplay
convention why is he so dressed up yeah
he went to the Banana Republic Mad Men
OAC I think he meant Deo super good Oh
AC being one of them
do not realize that America is covered
in grass and 75% of a cow or a beef
animal's body weight is made up of grass
which we cannot eat so we would be
eliminating a livelihood a huge portion
of America or United States anyway and
their production of beef thank you all
for your comment they were so excited to
talk to the farmer and he made
absolutely no sense first off I would
also refute the idea of that he has a
full understanding of what constitutes a
cow in the context of the American meat
market because the one of the biggest
problems is that the a huge percentage
of our cows don't eat grass as their
primary feed why there's grass-fed
exactly that's why grass-fed is such a
unique product because the best thing
this guy for not reading Michael Pollan
well I mean he's a farmer and he
obviously is not aware that the vast
amount of so-called farming when it
comes to livestock in this country is
our corn-fed everything about Fox News
is elder abuse on some level it's
unbeliev by them but what's his argument
that there's so much grass that without
the cows to eat the grass what are we
gonna do not make that grasp turn into
cows that it will make a lot of cows
unemployed it will leave them reducing
comprehensible totally incomprehensible
but but sort of funny alright well let's
turn to the to the hearings this week
I'm curious from your perspective what
was the
out of all the things that came out of
that hearing what were your your top I
don't know two or three takeaways I mean
Michael Cohen came off very credible
more credible more credibly the other
word more credibly than I would have
initially thought the more fun
revelation and I guess we kind of knew
this but I really love the story about
Trump getting that bitter to buy his
self portrait for the highest amount of
money and then buy it back with charity
money and then hang it up in this golf
course it's like the most Trump story
I've ever heard in my life and it's
gotta be a crime people donate to the
Trump foundation they don't but do it
well I guess his like bylaws must be
just completely laxed there's no doubt
that you are not that that there is some
violation of a statute in terms of you
know for a taxation statute you get your
the planing will inspire the kids that
go to the golf course it'll be a bit of
help them think positive for their tests
but yeah that sounds like such a narrow
one of the criminal violations that we
heard during the hearing here is a
moment that I think was perhaps the most
relevant in terms of what happens with
Trump the the hearing was largely devoid
of discussion of of conspiracy to
defraud the United States right and the
underlying crime for what collusion is
largely I mean there was some of it
talked about it in terms of stone
calling and supposedly knowing about
WikiLeaks I also am not convinced that
the the story about Trump not wanting to
win didn't in some way make the idea of
Trump in some fashion colluding with
anybody because he didn't think he was
gonna become president this was just a
business deal for him right which is why
I think the you know this line of
questioning as well as Acacio Cortez's
was more fruitful because it focuses on
the taxation elements which are really
were the meat and potatoes of the whole
investing
I believe righty exactly and this is
representative Raja Chris Nam or a fee
and he this this brief exchange is I
think on some level the most relevant
it's only 16 seconds but here's the
question here's the answer is there any
other wrongdoing or illegal act that you
are aware of regarding Donald Trump that
we haven't yet discussed today yes and
again those are part of the
investigation that's currently being
looked at by the Southern District of
New York so we know Michael Cohen is is
working with the Southern District of
New York to on on at least multiple
other cases that of of criminal activity
buying the president like it's almost as
if and I can understand the strategic
reasons and the tactical reasons and
maybe there is stuff there in terms of
Russia but it's almost as if in setting
the bar about Donald Trump that he was
some type of Manchurian Candidate and
there was some type of like massive
undercutting of our national security
and all that may be true but focusing
exclusively on that we just heard about
enough crimes in that hearing the other
day that they would have impeached like
every other President Bill Clinton was
impeached because he lied in a
deposition about having sex with
somebody yeah I mean this is what I
think some progressives I don't have
been saying for a while is the over
focus on the Russia stuff to the
exclusion of or to the detriment of his
tax crimes is a political mistake I
think that it seems to them because
they're in the Washington DC bubble that
you know the foreign policy apparatus
the national security apparatus and
undermining that is a far bigger crime
than financial ones which they see on
the day to day basis but those are more
easily provable this guy's not smart
enough to cover his tracks and I think
that that's what we're going to see
also Muller is clearly limiting his
scope to collusion and being
conservative in that way so I don't know
if he's gonna come back with any smoking
gun about collusion like what you're
saying and that that you know
Republicans may rejoice but then we have
the Southern District chipping away at
those other crimes yeah
and I think that's totally true and I
also think that these broader sets of
crimes and broader atmosphere of
corruption is the type of stuff that
he's a egregious and incompetent and
extreme example of because that's who he
is but it reflects systems problems and
that's another difference in approaches
here inside the Democratic Party the the
only thing that I would say that that
would be I think a legitimate response
to that critique of the overemphasis on
is that in three months from now we're
gonna have two or three or four examples
of what we just saw with Michael Cohen
we're gonna see fill uh Felix aider up
there we're gonna see weiselberger who
was the CFO for a Trump Inc we may see
others we couldn't see this prior to now
because Republicans were not going to
have hearings like this they simply were
not going to bring people up and you
wouldn't and part of the reason why I
think you know Michael Cohen probably
lied the first time around was because
he thought he could get away with it
he just thought hey that you know you
thought like Oh as Donald Trump the
reason why Donald Trump signs these
checks and you know breaks law like this
is because he thinks he's gonna get away
with it I want to see what if Felix
Sater I'm I'm eager to hear that because
that's the only thread of this Russia
thing that I find particularly
interesting and I think we've always
said literally from day one mafia money
laundering stuff and the conduit as and
also the Nexus like if there even is
like a tangential connection or a direct
connection to intelligence services it's
all going to be at the Nexus of Felix
seder and that will be interesting and
also an again I don't know like if the
broader proposition like that marked
life told me of like there's no
restrictions on campaign funding
basically at all
lobbying groups for every foreign
interest with money you can imagine in
DC again this is a reflection of a
systems problem and I just also think
that for me the most interesting element
is Moscow Trump Tower definitely that's
I think where all of this lies Trump
would isn't colluding to win the
election here right that's motive right
right the motive is he wants to make a
couple hundred million dollars and he
will promise the Russians anything if he
doesn't like he's gonna be President
he's not gonna have to fulfill those
promises and reporting that he really
didn't plan to be president for a while
if you read I don't know if you guys
read devil's bargain but that was a
great yeah devil's bargain book yeah and
that it's it's been clear that this was
a marketing campaign it's always about
him his image his brand the dollars in
his bank account at the end of the day
and so there's really no difference in
my view of like the Russia deal versus
whatever it is he did in the Bronx to
get that stupid golf course going yes
all the same way yeah what do you see
blown up it's all the same way of
operating yeah I think that I think
that's I think that's the case and and I
think I I there were moments and I would
have to go back through the testimony
but there were moments where I felt like
the Cohen was still holding stuff back
but he might be because he's crop crop
cooperating with the Southern District
there were times when when those moments
happened he he acknowledged that he
couldn't talk about it but I and I there
were still times one or two times where
I thought he's still not there's some
stuff that I think he thinks will never
come out and and and I'm not conveying I
I'm just there's just too many there's
just too much here that too many
crosscurrents to expect all of this to
come out I have a feeling that there's
just some stuff that may implicate just
too many people on some level but the
other thing that came out of this was
that the Republicans are really really
bad at this like they they're so out of
practice that it they on some level they
they got used to yelling into a neck
chamber over Benghazi they and they
spent the past two years knowing that
these were all sham hearings that they
never had to in any way ever you know
sort of like deliver anything and
they're just out of practice they're not
good at this and they're not bright but
it's also righteous indignation is so it
it doesn't ring true when you have all
of these indictments lined up behind Don
right now and the fact that they were
just up in arms consistently throughout
the hours and hours of testimony and
they kept deferring to Jim Jordan and
yielding their time to him as if that
would be effective I mean both of these
red-faced a-holes Jim Jordan and Mark
Meadows were not effective communicators
and yet they seemed to be the ones
leading the charge the entire time well
who are you gonna do it you can have
Higgins do it I mean the Higgins there
was one or two guys who I thought were
okay and they were they seem to be back
benchers they were it's like the
marshall mcluhan thing like tvs are cool
but is it cool verse hot mediums they
were way too hot they were just whining
and tantruming and bloviating but i also
think like and this in this is a
relatively minor point but it's like not
only is there no authority because of
the indictments there's also like what
are you actually saying here like donald
trump funny to us but still part of his
big brand with his base is like i'm the
business guy the best people the best
blah blah and the whole thing was like
the only subjects could be was like wow
look at Donald Trump this poor
incompetent doddering man who just got
totally hosed nice monster and we're
here to defend him and it's like okay so
your basic defense of your president
that you treat like a Roman god is that
he's a who can't even get a good
lawyer even though he's like the best
businessman in the world right very hard
when when the when it's your number two
guy essentially is sitting right there
alright but let's let's just there was
one other sort of narrative that has
continued on through that and this was
of course the
the Talib Meadows dust-up as it were
where mark Meadows had found the
african-american who works for the
trumpet organization and brought her to
the hearing to prove that Donald Trump
was not racist exactly and to leave of
course said you know that's sort of
racist that you would do that and then
Meadows started to pretend to cry
because he knows that he's not racist
he's never uttered a racist thing in his
life he has nieces and nephews who are
people of color and then unfortunately
for him
videotape exists and there was multiple
clips of him basically saying we're
gonna send barack obama back to kenya it
was exhausting doing this segment
yesterday because everything you get
into the Rif i and i'd be like all right
so there's Mark Meadows saying that and
then I would go and they'd be like no no
there's actually another clip right and
so here is Mark Meadows now having to
explain why he said this race oh would
you have one more clip of it we did play
this one yesterday they did how long is
it it's it's shorter one let's just play
the short one and then we'll go back to
his response right you know it's
interesting when the more we find out
the more we realize how wrong the
direction we're going and so what we're
going to do is take back our country
2012 is the time that we're going to
send mr. Obama home to Kenya or wherever
it is we're going to do it now Barack
Obama of course was is an American and
well he doesn't look like one apparently
that was Mark Meadows but what what
let's before we judge him let's ask him
why he was starting his campaign
speeches by implying that Barack Obama
should go back to Africa it was early on
in a primary and and certainly it didn't
indicate any personal malice that I
would have any president previous or
sitting president anyone who knows me
knows that there is not a racial bone in
my body not a racial bone in it yeah
they'd say I don't have the extra racial
bone that makes you be able to swim no
I'm sorry I'm sorry oh that's racist to
ask Elijah Cummings
don't judge me on my actions judge me on
the contents of my bones right is
literally like look I just use race as a
campaign tactic not as for the primary
my sweet little niece is down and I said
listen Oh uncle's gonna need to say some
things over the next couple of weeks
this is a primary he also says it's not
about personal mouths to Obama but
people aren't saying it's because you're
mean to Obama they're saying it's
because you have Mouse towards a race
that's right that's right I mean he
couldn't have been more sort of naked Li
non denying denying their right I spy
survives from him a little wouldn't know
what does that mean okay screaming right
cuz they emotionally unstable a profound
midlife crisis I mean agents for other
people it's extraordinary and on some
level like you know Elijah Cummings
should come out it seems to me and say
like I'm a little bit disappointed to
see that video at the very least he
there should be a coda to this where he
says like yeah I gave him cover in the
hearing and yes we're good friends and
but he put him in a bad spot he was like
saying you know mr. mr. Chairman I was
mostly mr. speaker mr. chairman you can
vouch for me right was he gonna do no I
can't actually even though we have
drinks the key like you are extremely
race
could've been like your good guy but you
know I would say your racial not racist
the paraphrase Omarosa anyways I I think
though I think Elijah Cummings legit and
I know some people don't like this but
he is a Christian like honestly like
that's the whole way that exchange like
and with a lot of things he did on that
committee he's trying very hard to take
his faith seriously I mean if Cummings
did bodyslam him at that moment it would
have made it all worth it like actually
building their relational yeah he just
looks all so now you realize we never
were friends it was all the build-up
honky Democrats 2019 I don't want to
blow past the fact though that the the
the reason why mark Meadows has to spend
the next two days defending the fact
that he's not a racist which you know is
a it's a difficult task for him is
because Rashidah Talib had the the the
wherewithal and the strength clarity to
say this in a hearing where I don't
think that we have ever had a class of
of Congress people which would include
people who would do this on a regular
basis at least not in in the past 20-30
years I mean you you had people you know
call out Jeff Sessions but it was a more
formalized process this was like she was
just commenting on something that
happened in the committee didn't have
you know it was obviously off-the-cuff
and good for her but this is important
right yeah well I you know I part of
Pelosi shrewdness about you know I guess
I don't know how involved she is in
committee assignments but or the party
shrewdness is they put Acacio Cortes a
Jana Presley receded to leave these
strong progressives on the Oversight
Committee so that they could be just
constantly attacking Republicans as
opposed to a lot of people were really
concerned about AOC especially
highlighting the hypocrisy and
criticizing the Democratic Party but it
is so nice to see these deeply progress
of Congress people like wrote kana and
the people I just listed have this
platform to go after the Trump
administration they can be the Bulldogs
and at the same time they'll still be
critical of the Democratic Party so it's
deeply refreshing and I think that their
interrogations or they're not
interrogations their questioning was the
most effective and the most memorable
out of all of the the questioning and
there is a a broader context in which
they're raising these issues right like
that it's not just simply Trump bad or
Republicans bad it is there is a
foundation of a a proactive politics
from which this criticism comes like if
this was a Senate hearing and Cory
Booker was on the committee he'd spend
80% of it talking about himself not
letting people answer questions but
Acacio Cortes especially was just trying
to get to the facts and I found that
refreshing yeah now meanwhile Donald
Trump was in North Korea and no in
Vietnam and excuse me in in Vietnam
anticipating a signing statement on I
guess it was supposed to happen Thursday
and it that's a long way to go
essentially to you know do not have that
signing statement I mean that's a huge
huge disaster and it's Bolton's fault
Aipom Pam and Pompeyo I mean I my
understanding is that the North Koreans
actually came with and again you can't
be moralistic in these conversations so
I'll stipulate all the things about the
horrific nature of that regime but they
came with a deal that was significant it
would have definitely downgraded their
capacity in a pretty significant way and
what they wanted was for real robust
sanctions relief and I think it's also
really important to note that this has
all been conducted through the South
Korean president who wants this to
happen there's a whole civil society
movement in South Korea the place where
the stakes for this are highest they
want a deal and the North Koreans came
with a credible one
and Bolton and Pompeyo you know made the
world more dangerous and moon I you know
I said last year he should have received
the Nobel Peace Prize or been in
consideration for his work with this but
secondly what I think is important to
know this this is what the deal that
Trump was apparently prepared to take is
identical to the Iran deal basically
right the partial D new denuclearization
basically getting rid of their nuclear
weapons but still having it for their
power grid and then sanctions relief and
Trump is trying to get that done but at
the same time saying Iraq the Iran deals
a terrible deal it's purely motivated
clearly by his hatred of Obama as
opposed to anything substantive which is
what's sometimes he stumbles upon the
right thing well here's the question is
this a was this a massive failure that's
the question I don't track for Sam's
question I went a little bit too loud oh
of course it was like some tab I had
open with the hill classic here's the
question was this a massive failure by
the the foreign policy apparatus of the
Trump administration I mean first of all
you do not travel to Vietnam to have to
cancel a signing ceremony right like you
just don't do that it's not that's just
somebody totally effed up and either the
State Department apparatus and the
foreign policy apparatus completely drop
the ball or Trump was like just get it
done
forced it to go forward I want to sign
something on that day because he knew
that Michael Cohen was testifying and
wanted to make sure that there was some
type of story and they just weren't able
to execute his unreasonable demand could
it be both it could be both I mean I
guess it's it's something maybe we won't
find out until we read some tell-all
book about it but this is a massive
failure it's a
Bera Singh if and if only his
constituents cared at all about peace
with North Korea I mean we care as
progressives and we care as people who
want to see peace move forward in the
world if he succeeds his support
supporters will use it as brownie points
but if he fails they don't care either
so there's no real consequences for his
him and his base no matter what he does
well but here's the problem right is
that he is not going to do this again
he's not going to go like the entire
apparatus that arranged to have a
signing statement yesterday to have a
signing a signing statement a signing of
some type of Accord he's now been
completely magenta mised right like he'd
be an idiot to listen to them they'd be
an idiot to listen to him like the I'm
talking with in there his own government
so now you have a situation where
they're just going to put North Korea to
the side and they're not going to pay
attention to it and every time you do
that with North Korea is when you start
to have real problems yeah because they
don't like to be put into the corner and
and why would anyone after he tore up
the Iran deal listen to him on deals of
sanctions relief and nuclear disarmament
I mean the United States doesn't keep
their word that's that's a a secondary
problem I I'm not sure that like you
know how much that plays with even in
the context of this one though they're
people are and not just North Koreans or
suggesting the Trump is actually lying
about even the extent of sanctions
relief that Kim was even asking for in
the negotiations I think it's I do think
though with Iran you're 100% right and I
do think though it's it's worthwhile to
consider though why why could trump
follow his instincts which were good in
some ways on this with North Korea and
then in addition to his personal hatred
of Obama there's a whole foreign policy
apparatus set in DC committed to not
having peace with Iran right which is a
whole other kind of layer that doesn't
apply to North Korea but I just hope
that you know I glad I was glad that
Bernie Sanders wanted embrace
negotiating with North Korea I hope
the Democratic response isn't like see
this is why we need to go back to the
decades of other types of diplomacy
which didn't work either you know
there's obviously a difference between
being not knowing any details and just
wanting a win like Trump versus let's
just go back for the same arrangement
they're always worried the critique
that's why when he initially made these
overtures I was I was skeptical not
because I think these overtures are
wrong it's just that he is woefully
incompetent and you don't want this type
of a competence around when you're
talking about a desperate regime that
has a nuclear weapon like you just don't
want that you don't want that floating
around out there you it's just because
now you know there's a situation where I
think it's gonna get where the potential
again is to get super ugly in the
context of a uh you know Trump cannot
invest in this again now and what's
scary is that Trump only sees
consequences for himself in his
immediate circle and the consequences
don't really affect the United States
they affect South Korea and they affect
Japan and that's why president moon his
Herculean efforts should be applauded
and why Trump's incompetence should be
shamed because there are millions of
people in South Korea who will be harmed
by these talks falling through well as
Lindsey Graham said though that's over
there
we're over here sociopathic men I think
Trump should get pivot as quickly as
possible to India Pakistan we need him
let's talk about just this story just
well briefly and then we'll go talk
about the what's being reported amongst
the Democrats there's a New York Times
story out today that's citing I guess
for sources saying that in fact Donald
Trump personally ordered his son-in-law
to get a top-secret security clearance
both over
rolling all the concerns by intelligence
officials and the White House's top
lawyer this is a apparently you know
source with four people not clear on on
where they are they may not even be
White House officials actually it sounds
like it but this is and apparently John
Kelly wrote an internal memo about how
he had been ordered to give Kushner the
top-secret clearance because he was so
concerned about having responsibility
for this made total cya the brave John
Kelly who is gonna be the adult who's
gonna save us all just covering his own
ass
essentially for something that he
thought was highly dangerous I mean
because I would put the odds of Jared
Kushner and apparently Jared Kushner has
asked for more top-secret information
than any other official in the in the
Trump and the Trump administration he is
putting more requests I will is working
and it's very exciting I would put the
chances that he has not given or sold
this material to people that he is
hoping will fund his family's business
at somewhere between zero and like 0.7%
or something he's organizing it in
Evernote right you're forgetting about
all the different projects he's been on
so far as you know counsel to the White
House and all that right and I'm I get
to be fair I'm not counting any of his
massive foreign policy or national
security achievements he's solving peace
in the Middle East as we speak over
there right now that's gonna Kreuk wire
some classified info this clip is sort
of fascinating because aside from the
fact that ABC said like you know let's
let's have a a nepotistic interviewer
interview a nepotistic government
official and so abby hunt was sent down
to huntsman huntsman excuse me was sent
down to interview
Ivana Ivanka Trump well when was this
like two or three weeks ago I guess it's
interesting just to watch how she lies
when she's lying there are a lot of
investigations going on as you know
Democrats launching new ones this week
one of them into the clearance process
something that you and your husband now
have security clearances but there were
some issues early on and there are a lot
of people that question whether you were
given special treatment by the president
overriding other absolutely officials
can you speak to that there were
anonymous leaks about there being causes
do you see like she turning more into
her dad yeah she's leaning into it
pretty right good go backwards that
anonymous leaks Wow she's he's gonna
love her even more
can you speak to that there were
anonymous leaks about there being issues
but the President had no involvement
pertaining to my clearance or my
husband's clearance what were the
problems early on there weren't any
other than a backlog that exists of
close to a million clearances across
government which this was happening
under the Obama administration the
Clinton administration there are
literally close to a million people in
the federal government who are in the
pipeline to get their permanent
clearance and are on temporary status so
no special treatment no how dare you
suggest that my father would give me his
daughter special treatment I I'm struck
by how the immorality of the elitists
class because it's not like look she and
Chelsea Clinton were friends before this
right it's not like she's this diehard
far-right conservative but because she's
been placed into this role and it's all
about gaining power
she's completely adopted it and has
become this very person so of course she
needs to maintain power play this role
and she's going to do it and why
and just bald-faced lie and I
and and it's look it's legal for the
president to do this right the president
has the ability to do this it's just
that I they feel they gotta live there's
a such a natural compunction to lie I
guess I guess just apropos of nothing I
it's been pretty well reported that NBS
said I have Jared Kushner in my pocket
right right just you know just a little
atmospheric on this one
he is trump in his pocket to its truth
that's through my friend yet they're
both they both have significant real
estate deals Kushner and Trump
separately with Saudi within Saudi
Arabia and I I imagine the dynamic is
like you're getting me a deal you take a
taste for yourself too because you gotta
take care of my grandkid what's so funny
is when Trump made his first visit
overseas to Saudi we were doing these
bits of like the Saudis telling the
Russians like why you make it so
complicated like what you do is you fly
him out you put his face on a billboard
tell him he's great give him a gold
Shane right can have a blockade on Qatar
why do you what's all this with the BOTS
and all this nonsense do it just do it
just cash yeah it's just cash all right
he's a great president here's money
what's the problem so there's a story
that is well I think there's a version
of political version there's a
Washington Post version the the
Democrats and we're really you know now
we're I guess six weeks in and we're
really starting to get a sense of like
what's going to happen with the
Democrats at least in in Congress for
two years
we got Pramila jeyapaul introducing a
medicare-for-all bill that is to the
left of Bernie's we have Elizabeth
Warren at least in terms of the context
of our campaign introducing a a
universal child day care that basically
constructed of subsidies which could be
paid for by our military budget increase
of the last year oh yeah it's like that
it's not radical at all no and it is not
a terribly expensive
it's almost
knocking just to hear how cheap this
stuff is exactly universal pre-k there's
plans it's between 2 to 12 billion
dollars which is chump change for
Congress they that that is half the
Delta between what the Democrats were
going to give Trump for his wall last
year versus this year right okay we're
gonna give him 25 billion last year they
were you know he wanted five billion
like 1012 billion dollars is nothing and
the idea that you could provide
universal pre-k for that and the other
part about a Warren's bill is that not
only does it provide universal pre-k for
students but you're also like building
an infrastructure of teachers right that
she's the job creator yeah and we also
have a democratic legislation on
renewing the Voting Rights Act we also
got some gun control legislation passed
but that gun control legislation was the
focus of some frustration in apparently
a closed-door meeting with the the
Democratic caucus because what happened
on that gun control legislation this was
basically an expansion of the of
background checks of federal federal
background checks for gun purchases of
course it's not going to be law because
the Republicans control the Senate
however there were 26 Democrats who
joined the Republicans in voting for an
amendment to the legislation that
required ice to be notified if an
illegal immigrant seeks to purchase a
gun and so we have a situation where
you're giving ice more Authority and
Isis a highly problematic agency for
obvious reasons
simultaneously the story about how
there's a crisis at the border because
we have too many babies that we're
storing in a Texas facility but so so
Pelosi went in and
basically chastise her caucus were
either a team or were not we have to
make that decision because she did not
want these Democrats to abandon the
Democratic caucus in vote with the
Republicans on this amendment there's an
argument Pelosi and Clyburn I'm excuse
me higher and Clyburn on one side Pelosi
on the other as to whether Democrats
should be making these procedural votes
to allow amendments because they're
afraid of in 2020 that they're going to
be these these votes are going to be
used against them in house races and
apparently aoc got up at one point and
said after she said something to the
effect okay this is what it was and this
is her spokes person saying this she
said that when activists asked her why
she had to vote for a gun safety bill
that also further empowers an agency
that forcibly inject skids with
psychotropic drugs they're gonna want to
know they're gonna want to know a list
of names and she's going to give it to
them
speaking of basically like we're gonna
primary you guys right and it's
encouraging to me that Pelosi was on the
side of not the primary but a o'seas
kind of in her wing at least well what
is it what does that say to you that
that she is I look I think it says more
about the fact that these gun control
measures I think Pelosi has gone all-in
on she understands that it's a political
win for the Democrats in terms of
polling that it should be easy and I do
think she wants to keep the caucus
together I think as we were discussing
before we went on air Pelosi is a great
opposition leader and she is a great
partisan as you said and now that trumps
in office she feels more emboldened to
stand up to him with a united caucus and
I think that's more of her concern
whereas AOC is more concerned about the
substance of it and
she wants to abolish I sell together I
mean I think that's true I think I think
the idea though the thing that's
encouraging is because there's always
been these two you know the the legacy
fight if we were having this
conversation fifteen years ago would
have been about Democrats being weak and
and not and not being willing to just be
partisan fighters and being afraid and
too timid the there's an ideological
fight as well that's going on here but
the fact is is that don't be afraid to
go into an election and slough off a you
know a procedural vote on whether or not
you voted for an amendment you got to be
you got to stand for something and not
waffle and stay with the pack
essentially you know and Pelosi is good
at that I think it's very presented but
if you think it's maybe it's I mean it's
a slight double-edged sword though cuz I
think what I like about her is that
quality but I actually think and this is
being applied in a good case towards the
trash members of the Democratic caucus
but the same like let's keep it
synchronized don't rock the boat thing
is also the same reason why she's you
know been not good on Medicare for all
necessarily why she kind of mocked the
green new deal so I think that there's
you know it's a give-and-take with that
dynamic no too often it's it's been a
negative but recently I feel that she
has seized the political moment of the
Trump administration to make it a more
net positive than it has been a net
negative in 2019 I mean I think there's
also an argument that her pooh-poohing
these things like Medicare for all in
green new deal at least at this point
are a way of basically saying to those
26 you know Democrats who will abandon
on procedural votes like don't worry I
got you back until she doesn't and I
mean you know she's there for basically
the deal for her is I'm out of here in a
couple of years after 2020 somebody new
is gonna be here
and this is also good insofar as it
exposes Clyburn and Hoyer I mean as
being like this ilk is not good we have
two hundred and forty some odd Congress
a Democratic Congress people and we
should not be counting to ten percent of
the caucus to go because they're afraid
of taking a procedural vote so do we
think that Hoyer is gonna make a play
for speaker whenever Pelosi leaves I
don't know I always feel like he's too
old but I also feel like these guys
never die I think that's why it's even
more important to encourage some of
these primary challenges in many ways
because in 2020 and beyond if we're
determining who's going to be the
Speaker of the House new blood more
progressives are gonna be less likely to
vote for a guy like like Hoyer and gonna
want someone new in there right also I
mean it would be nice to knock off Hoya
but that's never good that would be nice
that's never he's insufferable he is
insufferable
all right speaking of insufferable we've
got to get to Andy Kindler yeah I didn't
welcome him he's not listening now he is
he does listen it's very narcissistic he
likes to be liked did they mention me
before that's not nice I know did you
see how I did that I did a misdirect
boom sorry Andy
we love you alright we're gonna we're
gonna take a quick break we're gonna
bring back Andy Kindler
do you want to stay for a little bit
because we're gonna be talking about
some really terrible people terrible
people Mark Steyn and and a Dennis
Miller they're on tour
the magic is bad i'ma just summarize all
right we could take a quick break we'll
be right back Andy Kindler join us
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the mature I
don't know what I was expecting to start
at that moment the music went down I
thought it was the beginning of the show
again ladies and gentlemen as you know
on a Friday is you know it's such a
special day that people came up with the
saying but around here we say I K is the
god Andy Kindler it is too long Andy
hello everybody don't think you don't
think I heard that segue you think I
don't listen to every second of the show
oh my god yes unbelievable you have to
use me as an unpleasant segue speaking
of things they're obnoxious just
thinking about annoy annoying people no
no no I went too far I think I brought
my own opinion to myself in there Andy
it's not the first time we've talked to
since the new year is it no I remember
every time I see that vest on me I
thought that you that best way we talked
about last time
that's from raising dad you do that to
get me to make me feel less than wage
that what is it can we put it up on the
screen
yeah it's that it's that vest what does
s if you have messed I don't you're
seeing a vest I'm not seeing anything
don't you watch YouTube that you
yourself on YouTube no of course not I'm
doing the show how can I wash my okay
okay maybe I should watch the show maybe
I should get my head in the game
oh that vest oh that's very nice is that
from my eye is that from the witches of
eastwick or what was that show that my
daughter raising dad I was late a
teacher on raising dad and that was the
one of the sweater vest I mean they knew
I love sweater vest but then that that
one was particularly attractive are you
are you are you a sweater vest guy no
nobody is a sweater vest guy that's the
kind of thing that you would not dare to
uh to emphasize how annoying I am Rick
Santorum is and and put him in my club
yeah I mean I wear a sweater vest
occasionally so I thought maybe we had
that in common but what was the what was
the show that you were on The Witches of
Eastwick or whatever was come on
we just know you watch that show you
what I'm talking about which is a
Waverly Place I guess with I know her my
daughter loved that show and she was
very excited one time when I wouldn't
you came on I was like I know that guy
that's a great story she was excited one
time when I came on did I know that
second time I don't believe that part
this door had it's not true you're being
very demanding my negative vote I don't
like that character player to be honest
she got really excited when she met
Caroline Rhea because she was the mom
Phineas and Ferb but I mean it's sort of
excited about you when she met Nick
Makai who is the voice of Sabrina the
Teenage Witch Nick put I don't know what
I'm saying I don't know what I'm saying
Nick look I was the voice it was the
voice of the cat no I I think I mixed up
everything but he was on the show
because I don't think he would have been
the voice of Sabrina no yeah why do I I
don't have my facts in line
so Andy now let me ask you this I was
looking at my back guy I was looking at
your host facts world man I was looking
at your funny thing they don't care
about your feelings
they say the darndest things fact say
the darndest thing Oh God well I so I
was looking at your your twitter feed
and i i i just have you what what's
going on are you like are you meditating
because yeah i don't see like its look
like days and you're not in a fight with
anybody i know i know it's my because
it's from therapy
it's my says my therapy gets better my
ability to interact with people socially
goes down and it's good it's a good
thing my you know it's like me stay
every minute staying away from twitter I
get a gold
psychological star you scared that will
impact your ability to bother Chris
Cuomo like too much of a good Oh what is
this thing with these these jerks these
I call him a creep I called Chris Cuomo
will creep but not really that good but
he has he has Cristian and he's asking
crispy if we can trust what would
trumpet yeah
can we trust what this person say he's
going to crispy for honesty his brothers
good friends Chris I see Mike I'd also
noticed that he said that you you had a
problem at one point you tweeted out
just sort of randomly Anderson Cooper's
a horrible show yeah that's true I don't
even think of that as a tweet as it
that's just it without what everyone's
thinking yeah I mean I mean as it's on
me the lie were you even watching the
show at the time yeah yeah it's one of
those things where they have you know
how they have like one of they think a
news show is bringing one of
Trump's horrible friends on their and
that's all they do they bring like a
horrible and then they argue with one of
trumps friends like their I mean I I
don't watch it that much you're right is
it kind of a thoughts by reward Mike
doesn't Michael don't have bored and
recover yes monotone boy he sounds bored
unless somebody is saying that Trump is
obviously demonstrably a racist then he
gets excited how could you say that
straight into the camera
lemon gay gets out in front a little bit
though doesn't he know yeah let's get
after it
that's Cuomo sorry no no I think he has
lemon on when there's like a Trump
racist remark so that he can get him
fired up a little bit that's true bring
Don Lemon because he's the only one who
can say it's racist apparently he's the
Ray Lewis of the CNN crew you've got
walks out there does the dance I love I
love when they spend ten minutes of
their show talking to each other about
what's coming up on Cuomo show ten
minutes it's ten minutes I noticed that
the other day I think they're bantering
yeah I've noticed that the the banter
thing in the handoff in the shows I
thought that seems to be like pretty
soon all the shows are gonna be 60
minutes like they're gonna be like 35
minutes of handoff on both sides of the
show we should do that with no more BS
of the Rachel Maddow the lawrence
o'donnell what did that sauce is well
like lawrence was like wow that was a
lot about russia there Rachel I'm gonna
be not doing that Donald Trump said
something stupid and ride that out for
about 30 I think it's more like with all
due respect I think Donna was like I
only want to do 40 minutes tonight it's
like that's no problem Lawrence Russia
Russia Russia Russia Russia
so Andy have you been on tour I see
you're going to all these like
prestigious festivals hey yo I'm going
everything has a certain edge to you a
little differently it could be a little
slam like you going to the jfl into the
CFL next week I'm going to bid you do we
have listeners in Aurora Illinois I'm
going the comedy shrine and all roar
next weekend Friday and Saturday see I
have things to promote you tell me next
time I come on I better get something to
promote now look what I did and so what
do you do when you go to the comedy
shrine do you have to give an offering
of some sort or some type of I go crazy
I go iiiii I go crazy but you know I'm
not worried about doing the the
anti-trump material on the road Sam I'm
not afraid is is the anti-trump material
working on the road for you or no I
haven't found I guess the fact that I
say that I would not I call I hope
someone who supports Trump does not come
to the show don't cause this I haven't
seen anybody I haven't seen any racists
at my I call them racist I have a say
racist at my show all right well that's
not terribly surprising I think if
someone's aware of your work and they're
let's say I'll tell you would I we need
to build that wall but I just love that
Jew fella that's always getting to
conflicts with CNN personalities on
Twitter at a casino in Atlantic City
when like a few years ago and a lot of
people showed up not knowing his
politics cuz they were just at the
casino like yeah about like 15 percent
of the crowd left with around like 30
minutes in and he had to shout down many
hecklers saying you know you hate
America like go to X Y & Z Muslim
country blah blah frankly I'm surprised
you know that's where I make my fam a
quest when they say to go to like I
don't want to just go to a Muslim
country I have like a list of specific
places I'd like to go
oh well but they're not gonna pay for
you to go there really they're just
asking you to go thank God they're not
saying we're gonna subsidize a trip your
choice I will thank you
so Andy should we get into this my
understanding you are that you are
tweeting out the tour I mean I think
we've talked about this and for longtime
listeners you'll probably want to you
know you probably sick of us talking
about Dennis Miller at this point but
but for near new listeners I'm sure
you're gonna be excited blame what he
does that please explains well here's a
new listener Dennis Lillee
apparently broke up with Bill O'Reilly
when a role Reilly couldn't have a show
and he finally was able to say to Bill
like you know you and I we are not a
good comedy match and so I'm going to
have to jettison you because my good
friend and apparently he's being billed
as a comedian Mark Steyn I'm not even
knowing mark he's the guy he's traveling
with him he's the guy who got paid out
four million dollars when his pay or
play show for CR TV fell apart which is
just absurd this is what ready on TV yes
exactly exactly
it's psyche would buy by Mercer's or
that we're not clear exactly yeah who's
who's paying for it but so here's Mark
Steyn and Dennis Miller here's a clip
somebody videotaped part of their show
probably illicitly I am totally against
this but it is newsworthy and therefore
we need to pay and play it this is a
clip from their show where would we know
where the show was Pennsylvania this one
was in Pennsylvania how do they build
this show because I Andy I noticed you
tweeted out something about it right
yeah who likes Nazis I'm like that the
tour the tour is called the adorable
deplorable tour
that's adorable he rhymed it yeah it
rhymes and here is a clip of this stuff
hold on to your hats folks
[Music]
pausing for one second now she this is a
teacher she gets up she's asking
question this is the key I realize now
for these tours is if you have a long
question-and-answer period that way you
don't have to do much work easy you
don't have to prepare right like like
week we basically do their version of a
live show every day that we take phone
calls and Iams and she's a she's a
professor at a liberal arts college
presumably in New York I would say
western New York probably because it's a
high tax state and so she's come down
and she's probably like it elmira
someone maybe a SUNY Fredonia she's out
of state she's at a state school and
she's complaining about taxes she's got
a real problem
right miss Marris in New York its
Catholics Marist is but I don't feel
like it's way out there out in western
Mac and Western private service
Bennington Bennington Vermont now we're
just naming colleges but alright so
she's up there she says she's gonna read
pilled now I don't know how Dennis
Miller and Mark Steyn don't know what
this means but read pilled means that
like he took the pill that you get
offered in the matrix so you really see
what's going on and by the way the audio
sounds great on that show and looks like
a fun time well this is not a
professional recording to be
or thinking people so I wanted one
second I just also here's a guy go oh
yeah yeah watch that was me
she's complaining about her students who
are all group thinking and I can assure
you there's not a single dissenter in
this audience
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
because you're lost I think life might
bring them around when they start to
send those checks out to a government
but I think if you think you can go in
now
to kissu from eighth grade on have been
taught to think one way and quibble with
your ability to make a living
pause it for one second Andy how many
times you think Dennis Miller has been
in a school where eighth graders are
being taught in the past thirty years he
hasn't been any actual private he
haven't been anywhere that wasn't a
mansion in many years like I I don't
understand how they can just disregard
that young people are more liberal in
every part of history from the beginning
of time
I mean except for like Israel right now
but I mean that's really how it is on
the blue mention it's not indoctrination
it's just human nature continue don't
like to hear not they don't like they're
not open to hearing not neo-nazi
messages
[Laughter]
for the first time two nights ago it was
in the back of the crowd and there were
teachers there and I remember thinking
you know Jesus Christ came on to a
college campus now and talk to kids and
change water into wine Wow I'm sorry
allow me to step out of this group thing
to wine and John the Baptist was Bob I
love the fact that that the the proof of
Jesus being the Son of God because of
his miracles it's really just reduced to
like an act he does is he tours college
campuses that would be the perfect
FoxNews I'm walking a water Jesus's
carrot top and he just thought father
like the magic tricks anymore because
I've got kids you to appreciate thanks
for having beehive Tucker yeah the kids
are too sensitive for water at the Y
yeah back in my day we thought that was
awesome and far out it was a great bit
cuz they're politically correct culture
all of a sudden I got Bill W go into the
map this is great stuff let's continue
they just pounding waters up there to
good
[Applause]
[Music]
what is the coup d'etat that he's
talking about he said it twice
he also said twice I think he just to
get a laugh so he put a bag against what
is happening in Venezuela right now you
can make juice yeah they can't Guido's
like hey I don't like medoras dating
material anymore
what odd that he's talking about that
Trump I got people that use gas lighting
and don't know what it means he doesn't
know it
oh we're getting gas lit into a coup de
taille over here but you took the red
pill like Stacy - didn't clueless what
he means is that you used to be able to
make jokes and now you can't make jokes
because they have gotten control of
weather who can make joke but Trump
fended off a day ya know he stops the
coup d'etat I'm the only one letting you
do a venue in Teaneck New Jersey where
you and whine about college kids
the person standing against history Dave
Rubens gonna come out plain for 15
minutes about a D monetization on his
YouTube channel we've got a great show
tonight mark Stein has a weird accent
that makes no sense he's from Canada but
he tries to talk like an Oxford Don
doesn't like black people then Dave
Rubin is gonna talk about Ivy with the
cleanup hitter of Dennis Miller with
1970s gerbil reference so here they're
arguing the one this is the sort of like
the you know Donald Trump may be
horrible at everything but he's
he's managed to stop PC in its tracks
yeah under the door is what Alice
Castellana says last week on this week
he throws the grenade under the door
that's not possible unless it's in like
I guess a men's bathroom there's a
doggie door is a very low threshold you
don't throw a grenade under the door
because what happens is it hits the door
and bounces back at you
incidentally they're getting to it he's
up there with the Trump the one thing
he's able to do is get up there and talk
about the the countries when
nobody else would or say that it speak
the truth Americans were typically not
Haiti before Trump was president right
finally loud weird suburban
white people that's rash eighty never
happened before now let's let's just a
pivot for a moment as you know CPAC is
going on and apparently they came up
with a really funny thing at CPAC at
their bar and this is a very arch very
arc over there oh yeah and this is let's
read off the menu here that they have at
the CPAC bar there's a Russian collusion
which is a vodka soda vodka because of
Russia right so does very collusion II
and against bubble up there's an AOC
which is of course a juice box why
because she's young not a really hard
finding a winding you don't have winding
socialists love those juice boxes
Shirley Temple would have been where I
went with that yeah that would be a
better man and the wall is a whiskey
neat why are these such on creative
cocktails that you think CPAC could
afford a bartender that would just put a
little spin on things it's it's amazing
to me that the wall must be like if you
if you're for the wall you're somebody
who drinks your wits or or there's no
ice like are you getting rid of ice oh
right abolish ice that's why that's
actually actually super clever that
would be funny ads for CPAP yeah we love
ice would have been a better one where
they just give you a cup of ice like a
non ice related drink right right I mean
it should have been something that was
like super expensive and you get nothing
or something right like it's gotta be
like an empty glass anyway right
nobody's getting a juice box yeah so if
you just lean into it an empty glass
right just like about a bleeding-heart a
bleeding-heart Bloody Mary oh very good
and of course a Sarah Sanders is a
bourbon on the rocks yeah they're tired
they're just tired by that point yeah
well they heat up why is it on the what
I don't get it
a bit I don't get it either oh maybe cuz
bourbon is smoky and she's got mochi oh
okay and then of course this is great
the Mexico will pay for it is a tequila
sunrise mom again I'm deeply
disappointed in the lack of cocktail
variety or creativity oh my it's also
yeah it's a very weird mix of just
really have money what they don't have
activity and of course a tea rum
derangement syndrome right tea rum
derangement syndrome is a rum and coke I
want to go back to tier um I get a tea
rum derangement syndrome please Trump
and coke like just done right that would
have been good let me make think about
cocaine cocaine cocaine cocaine is
actually a trumpet and this game
 is his Chinese trumping
rum and coke the Trump and Mitch and
then this one is like the classic we got
to explain the joke the Kavanagh a quote
I like beer is a beer why could they
just call it Cavanaugh and that's a beer
yeah just the Cavanaugh will be like a
Budweiser that would be funny that would
work and of course the crying Chuck
Schumer is wine just why what kind of
beer or what kind of wine it's just beer
wine also by the way Chuck Schumer
doesn't cry but he is whiny so whiny
wine that's a direct line right there
yeah I take a Chuck Schumer here's a
glass of wine Chuck Schumer I would make
that two buck chuck and also close them
don't help them guys yeah these are all
better because of our work there is one
guy on the right who has a bit of
creativity when it comes to these things
you're talking about one ben garrison
the cartoonist Oh
talented guy right here drink up someone
else will pay for it
Wow VOCs bar no ice they got to that
joke right Venezuela surprise you can
have a late-term abortion or attacks on
the beach because of course they have to
put her in a cropped up for no reason
yeah like just to emphasize how creepily
obsessed with her they are yeah that's
her pigtails guys and a reason and logic
licker
I was really tiny that is hilarious that
is so fun I gotta tell you exact thing
this might say something yeah it's
inconvenient
what's that convenient what's that I if
there was literally a drink that could
produce a late-term abortion I mean I
see market possibility here well I mean
I think there are right that's hey hey
look trying to be marketing prom
couldn't draw that tells us I like to
Venezuela surprise because of course
just like aid package right so Andy
where where where can people see people
can see you in at the we're in Illinois
this weekend boy
no but you really set it up so it sound
attractive to me that's what I like
we're we're this weekend I'm home
because I have a road gig next week I
gotta rest up
oh is the next weekend next weekend
Aurora Illinois at the famous the comedy
shrine wow the comedy shrine and of
course thought spiral people can check
you out every every week on thoughts
pile oh wait is that where Richard Pryor
where did Richard Pryor grow he's from
Illinois is that why it's called there I
think I think he is from that is that
why it's the comedy shrine cuz it's the
home of Richard Pryor that'd be funny
it's like no it's because Andrew Dice
Clay use the urinal here that's why the
hashtag Bob's Burgers when was the last
time you were on Bob's Burgers it's been
a little bit of but I it's coming up is
the ride
no I better I've been on it sometimes
how come I make it sound like
something's wrong with my career anytime
any question is that what's going on
what is that let me know no everything's
good everything's good I think they're
really kind of like I used you know they
didn't want to give me too much no I
have to say no I have the same
arrangement with them as well I don't
want to be overexposed and don't we want
to get in the are we gonna be in the
movie yeah what's going on with that I
don't know but I I need the money
no I'm doing everything is fine I I'm
trying to cut back on my TV appearances
hey I might be on the show I'll do a
spot on the show baskets I ever heard
never heard of it
that's act an act of the show oh okay
then realize it was still on how to
deter people Oh
comedy club most of it all just wrapped
up basically I thought we were done with
most of the entertainment stuff yeah I
think we're almost I'm almost drawing
too much attention to the the lack of a
plush gig but you know what
Chicago's fun but you know what's better
the the suburbs right no of course yeah
that's where you want to mostly plays
yeah suburbs you want to be overexposed
when are you coming to New York this is
so sad I was in New York I weigh my
never tells us anymore when he's in New
York I haven't heard some Letterman in a
long time I don't know if there is
I want to come I want to come and see
you guys in in studio all right we got
to do that soon Andy Kindler it is
always a pleasure and an honor I love
you as well
thank you so much have a great weekend
bye bye got Andy Kindler ladies and
gentlemen all right let's do a couple
more let's let's just do a couple of
these videos to CPAC servers are getting
funny and that's making liberals afraid
it's making liberals so afraid the only
the the most interesting thing coming
out of CPAC it seems to me and I know
you covered Gorka yesterday was to watch
Van Jones like latest turn in his his
his career what do you think of Van
Jones we give her fan I mean he's as
good as it gets and not on CNN it's like
the lowest bar I liked him more and I
feel like weirdly he's been kind of
OneNote recently he is he has been I
just remember in 2011 at Netroots nation
maybe was 2012 2011 maybe was 2010 I
can't really remember he he felt that we
needed to push back on the Tea Party and
he was talking about Glenn Beck as being
highly problematic and then he started
an organization that sounded that was
about income inequality and that seemed
to last for like six months he's I feel
like he was a you know he rose to
prominence by being further left and has
kind of just melded into the wallpaper
of CNN yeah I think that's true I think
that started before he got the CNN I
think that was part of his Reformation
he was way out in front on environmental
issues I mean I think he's a guy who's
been like searching around for a
branding a brand and and he still I
think in many respects still searching
but here he is for his core brand
proposition
now is this the where he talks about
immigration or okay but he's they're
talking about criminal justice reform
and that conservatives are leading on
this and I think maybe there is some I
mean they're they're not holding it back
let's put it this way in the way that
they do on just every other because the
Koch brothers have decided to say that
this was okay right exactly they have
permission now for this so it's not
benevolent Jones and but well let's
let's first do this okay this is let's
play number eleven and then we'll play
you know sort of like let's let's talk
about the the two wings right let's
start with let's start actually with
number ten and then we'll here's number
ten this is Van Jones sitting there with
match lap you know match lap famous
incidentally for saying that the only
reason why steel was was picked as RNC
chair this is a friend incidentally was
because he was black
well schlep was defending the guy who
said always defending affairs and then
basically said like I don't see what the
problem is here they go they're on a
panel with colorful socks right color
here's the deal the conservative
movement in this country unfortunately
from my point of view is now the leader
on this issue of reform in that you look
at Mississippi a rock rib totally
conservative former jailer is the
governor there governor Bryant governor
Bryant has cut the prison population and
crime at the same time deal in Georgia
cut the prison population and crime at
the same time Rick Perry cut the prison
population prison expenditure finishers
and crime at the same time Ohio South
Carolina what you're seeing now our
Republican governors being tough on the
dollars tough on crime and shrinking
prison populations and showing the rest
of the kind
that it can be done now my problem is I
now have a conservative movement that
for libertarian reasons for Christian
conservative reasons and for fiscally
conservative reasons is actually doing a
great job on what should be my take some
dadgum credit for being smart
take some dadgum credit for getting it
not ok about car serration rates in the
country why why does he feel the need to
do this why does he want to be in this
room what it's like I mean why he's
building a brand and I mean that's why
you go to these things I mean look let's
let's be honest like you know well it's
deeply disappointing what's amazing to
he's talking about take some credit for
criminal uh you know criminal justice
reform and they only think they care
about is that we are we did it over your
party if you had said the substance of
criminal justice reform if you had laid
out the issue and what it's meant to
achieve they would hate it on the
substance of the issue they just cared
that's a political win and that it's a
black guy telling them that they did
something right exactly Trump says it
all the time incidentally Trump said I
mean it was one of the funny Trump clips
of like a couple months ago where he was
talking about continuing to race bait
the NFL players protesting obviously and
in the context of one of his rambling
answers when he's trying to appear at
moment where he's trying to appear lucid
and reasonable he's like I understand
some legitimate issues but take care of
it he literally said he took care of
this entire issue so it is both
profoundly inaccurate Mississippi and
Alabama of the highest incarceration
rates in the country still as an example
the bill they signed was fine but really
small and Trump is not only taking care
of it he's saying he solved all of the
u.s. his
so I think we're good oh that's good
that way that was pretty super easy and
here is van explaining why he's there
because Emma Birds that's why we tell
our kids liberty and justice for all
okay because if you don't have if you
have justice without liberty we want
social justice we want to make sure the
little people aren't run over but we
don't care anything about individual
rights what we get is totalitarianism
justice without Liberty is
totalitarianism and liberty let the
market do whatever you want to and don't
care about the poor don't care about the
planet gives you too much you know a
corporate too much corporate power in
the system so Liberty without justice is
also a nightmare we tell our kids
liberty and justice for all
because I've never seen a bird that can
fly with only a left wing not even in
Berkeley never fly with only a left
plant I've never seen a bird fly with
only a right wing not even in
Mississippi we need each other we need
each other that's a that guy what is he
doing he's explaining how birds fly I
mean it it's honestly I really think
it's the kind of thing where the
mainstream media and being in it for too
long stamps out any smart or progressive
inclination that you have for a lot of
people it's just that he drank the
kool-aid
why is he want to feel accepted in that
room it's the equivalent of what ben
Carson did were I mean not the
equivalent but like he would go around
the country and take paid speeches to
make conservatives feel good about
themselves no but it was good because
white people like when black people who
use animal analogies it reminds them of
Green Mile he's going in the right
direction I bet you see I don't think I
think it's I think it's I don't think
that it's being in the mainstream media
makes you like this I think that's how
you get into the mainstream media like I
think it's I think I think it's the I
don't I mean it may reinforce this
inclination but I think
and it's not exclusively I think you can
get in too but to get into the
mainstream media to stay in the
mainstream media and to thrive there for
the most part there are exceptions but
for the most part you have to have a
certain mentality where you are where
your pursuit the goal that you're
pursuing is not necessarily it's not
necessarily it is one that would require
this type of I mean I just think like
jank my like my boss is a great example
of someone who was didn't have those
inclinations went in and refused to play
ball and like that's why he's not there
yeah yeah can you do an impression of
jank telling the bird analogy this is
both wings of course impressions and
I've told you I don't want to all right
here is it's gonna happen together yeah
fair warning there's nothing like having
that bird with both a left in a right
wing as then the audience then decides
also they want to shoot the bird
undocumented immigrants right now have a
lower crime rate than the rest of us and
yet we don't we don't talk about that no
hold on hold on what what I'm saying is
I told you I control the time okay good
what I'm saying is there are stereotypes
about Trump supporters there are
stereotypes exactly there are
stereotypes about Trump supporters there
are stereotypes about straight white men
and I'm going to tell you right now I'm
sitting next to one of the best people
in this country is a straight right man
a straight white man and a trump
supporter and we've just got to stop
talking about each other and talk more
to each other we will find other areas
whether it's Family Leave where if I
know that's where you messed up as soon
as you mention any of those it was
pretty strong before I mean just imagine
someone on a panel at the you know left
con okay if there was such a thing and
that person said you know there's a lot
of misperceptions about you know a white
man be like the idea of like everybody's
gonna boo right like the way that
they're like
hostility towards the immigrants like
you know I had to say blow right through
this is not a direct analogy obviously
but I would say it's an adjacent space
to what you're talking about a cup when
I was I was at this conference a couple
years ago in Detroit and it was like it
was in the brand space but it was very
you know it's a liberal thing right it's
a lot of concern about about the
environment and so on and the point is
there was like multiple panels unlike
how do we bridge the divide how do we
listen to each other how do we figure
out what the other side like the
instinct there is so it's Van Jones
Riley not let you saw it so are the two
sides of it I mean facts don't care
about your feelings you back listeners
it's factually accurate they commit
crimes
I believe half the rate that regular
people do because they don't want to get
caught and get shipped out I mean that's
that's actually accurate well you know
what all the CPAC audience would say is
they're here anyway and that's the crime
that's the crime yeah that's their whole
point it's an in to exist is a crime but
their starting point is racist fear
nonsense right I just mean then that
undercuts their entire point which is
the reason that we have to have stricter
immigration policies because they're
bringing crime well their entire point I
mean I think to be fair they are
increasingly being more honest about
their a point is that they do not want
to dilute the cultural purity of the
white of a white America that's being
fair that are in the 14 words I think I
think that is actually a fair
representation no I say it is it's it's
unfortunate and they may not like to
hear it back but that's what the
argument is but this is the slow march
of progress for people like Van Jones
you give them all the credit for
criminal justice reform and then you
mentioned that maybe immigrants aren't
so bad right it's and they won't be
using them appeasing them is not that's
not their language you have to beat them
and in let's also
be clear about this to the extent and I
will I I will concede this point there
has been a lot of effort by certain
conservatives particularly in certain
think tanks and in some of the policy
apparatus to pursue criminal justice
reform particularly prison reform but
the idea that you would compliment the
people at CPAC for this is a major
category error those people have nothing
to do with it those people the people
who are working on criminal justice
reform are not at CPAC and he must know
this right like he must know CPAC would
chew up these people and spit them out
that these are movement conservative
people who don't care about those issues
they you know three years ago you know
they the most important thing to them
was the deficit and how Obama you know
and now they don't care about the
deficit five years ago it was six years
ago with marriage equality it's going to
bring about a complete destruction of
the planet and now they don't even talk
about it because it's just not it's just
not gonna help them win anything
I mean this that's what's so
disingenuous about what he's doing like
there is a place where you could go you
could go to the Nickerson Center let's
yeah he could go sit next to Tony Blair
Miskin in Michigan in Center you could
go to yes the the Cato Institute you
could go to some conference of policy
makers and get up on stage and say this
but he is going to the politican
essentially and saying we've got to make
politics about stuff that's serious and
it's like I'm sorry yeah you know you're
kidding you said I don't even think he
would say a lot of this stuff on the
regular CNN segment like I do believe
that this is kind of his both sides
thinking it's it's infected in but it's
like weakness of being in that room and
wanting to appease them which is what
bothers me more
well I mean he knew where he was going
like it's not like somebody got into a
cabinet like we're dropping off here man
good luck but if you're really
principled you don't really care about
pissing those people off right you take
that opportunity to but but also but
even in that instance like I mean I
could see going there and it's just
being performative for me because like I
know buddy
that is like literally the roomful of
the least convincing people in the world
if I went there I would spend a lot of
time thinking of bird analogies I want a
good game plan
somebody had a great logical imagery -
you can't have a strong left wing and a
weak right wing because then you can't
get healthcare for everybody
exactly Yeah right yeah I don't know
it's obviously just business oh I get it
wings for a bird what happens when one
of your wings starts booing one of the
other wings you gotta take that left
wing bring it over to the right one help
it out move it the other direction they
move independently so it's some sort of
disorder that the bird has should we
hear this Ronna McDaniel dad would not
have enjoyed me talking with van Jews
[Music]
what is this Erica oh this kid what what
is this it's it's sort of like you know
those segments is true though like it
seems awesome it seems like one of those
things that yeah I'll take you Sam don't
worry would people get here you get your
whole new life coats up and see what
else oh my god it's like a key party
this is Sarah Carter who is she I don't
know FoxNews constructors contribute
okay they're actually fentanyl heroin
our kids are having parties and they
call them skittles parties where they
bring pills and put them into bowls and
everybody just kind of picks whatever
pill they want and they take
I mean it's kind of a shocking thing
when I heard about this just randomly
taking pills and and the some of these
children uh not at the party
what are you take a pill contraband
xanax and they're dying immediately
there is no chance to save their life
they don't make it to the hospital
where's that it was one mistake one time
and their lives are lost 13 yeah where's
the Emma what is her argument here and
what does she what is she who it's be
afraid of him pharmaceutical company
right exactly this doesn't prove your
point at all and who gives white kids
pills we do Democratic Party you put you
have a bowl of pills could be an
adderall you could be up for 48 hours or
it could be some fun fentanyl no you pay
they are these just said so Narconon is
writing about this here and I mean
skittles a party could take the form of
a home filled with teenagers but
everybody brings all the prescription
medications they have on hand and pull
them what is what is the point that
she's making here
it's supers the world out there scary
and it has to do with foreigners well
it's like it's not the companies that
raise any sort of pill epidemic or
opioid epidemic is the problem of bad
negligent parents and not pharmaceutical
companies I think is the general tone
it's like those local news segments
where it's like these things are under
your sink and you're they might kill
your kids more on that at 11:00 that's
right well let's take a let's take a
break heading to the fun half finish up
but take some phone calls am i you're
gonna be able to stay or you okay thank
you so much for your time thank you for
having great to have you folks we're
gonna take a quick break ahead into the
fun half reminder this program relies on
your support you can become a member by
going to join the majority report
dot-com also just coffee co-op or you
weren't here when I talked about just
coffee
I wouldn't you must talk about two times
then cuz I was there for one that
visited
not just coffee and it was amazing that
is just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate using the coupon code
majority get 10% off today is Friday
which means that Tuesday happened this
week
France fence Hwa who is a Haitian
political analyst and former aid worker
we talked about actually it was amazing
we did kind of analogous to an illicit
history segment for patrons a sort of
history of modern politics in Haiti and
what's happening there now and how it
fits into Venezuela and then of course
all the other segments that we do in the
main show and the postgame this Sunday
Daniel bessner and for patrons
patreon.com slash T MBS also like our
YouTube page and subscribe to our
YouTube page rather we're putting up a
lot more content now that we're
monetized and get your tickets April
20th left is best West Coast fest we're
doing our lot our second live show at
the bootleg Theatre in LA with big waz
Nando Vela and Ana Kasparian see you
though and it's great friends of friends
of TMDs Emma what do you got going Oh
Bernie rally tomorrow did I mention that
this yes live coverage streaming on on
the rebel HQ rebel HQ facebook.com slash
rebel HQ check it out
yeah and I'm gonna probably just be
continuing to doom some of my commentary
videos for now I'll be back on the road
once the debates begin likely and once
Trump starts doing some more oh you're
gonna go I'm hoping to do the debates I
mean sorry
you know when they'd begin the first
debate begins aired the first weekend of
debates is in June and then they have
another one in July so they're super
early oh my gosh so yeah I got it we got
to do our planning about what we're
gonna cover and stuff but I'll be on the
road soon enough and Matt tomorrow
Wakefield by Nathaniel Hawthorne it's a
kind of interesting short story he wrote
that's sort of very modern it's about a
guy who decides to leave his wife and
sets up in an apartment across the
street and just watches his wife
responds in his absence for 20 years are
you thinking about it so
Sam it's it's not a true story based on
Sam but Bryan Cranston starred in a
movie about it actually
that's what was removable it was called
Wakefield right it didn't do that well
no no well it was based on a el doctor
Oh adaptation sounds like a very good
Cranston vehicle
it sounds like I'm interested in the
psychology of it yeah it's very
interesting psychologically first don't
they know you there and then and then
you feel better
I've done that
alright folks see you in the fun half
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich I have
an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
tired of the negativity I'm sorry we're
just going to get rid of you all right
[Music]
yes I'm happy now it's five times
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lassic I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses
[Music]
[Music]
just flesh this out a little bit I mean
look it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report them we'll be with
you shortly
hello oh shoot I forgot to got this from
a listener from commie fornia this it's
sad I was just wondering if I could get
a shout-out for my dog Isabella who has
to be put to sleep tomorrow this
happened yesterday actually I won't be
able to send it I am for this I want to
know if I get a shofar for her she loved
the show
this goes out to Isabella sorry she was
a beautiful dog I don't put it out on my
Twitter
sorry to hear that it's really difficult
um what else we have here
Oh Alex Jones uh and Joe Rogan made up
mmm so right I heard that word um being
at war was like a little more funny yeah
it's not me anything it wasn't genuine
maybe it wasn't real I'm starting to
think that maybe there's something
performative about I think Alex Jones
and Joe Rogan are doing psyops on their
audience speaking of which I will talk
about that Israeli that that crew of
Israeli people like yeah exactly
speaking of sign ups well you know and
and and I tweeted out to Dave Rubin to
thank him for all the great work he's
done about ringing the bell about the
the use of intimidation tactics against
people who are trying to organize and
activists and have an opinion about
Israel and Palestine on college campuses
and I would just want to say kudos you
know you can there's there's a time to
to put up or should I shut up and really
name is right to read more about that
but uh just really I mean I think about
this stuff all day
meanwhile here is Joe Rogan and and Alex
Jones Alex Jones is an amazing
broadcaster it's be real yeah let's be
really amazing broadcaster also looking
increasingly unhealthy that's a problem
with all this conspiracy right
because the conspiracy theory stuff the
people that want to believe they believe
in conspiracies with everything and I
think there's a certain percent and we
talked about this just a few minutes ago
yeah when I started getting accused four
years ago a couple years into and I said
no I think it happened then people that
I had interviewed and say I believe he's
talking about Sandy Hook then people
that I had interviewed thanks for saying
he's involved
he's one of them because you are now
saying that it happened they thought
that you'd been compromised yes and then
I was realizing oh this is how it works
a certain percentage of people are
schizophrenic exactly and then they just
think everything's a conspiracy thing
about conspiracies it's very attractive
to people that are schizophrenic
schizophrenic people think everything's
a conspiracy from top to bottom
every single interaction that people
have is some sort of a staged event
that's trying to take them down or
control this or mind control that that's
a big factor in a lot of this conspiracy
theory his mental illness when I
started had people come to the office
saying that I'm Beau Bridges or that I'm
Jeff Bridges or that I am Bill Hicks and
people in restaurants screaming a few
bill we know it's huge it's kind of like
dan Rather they got threatened email
what's the signal Dan what's the signal
what I've experienced now the quote Fame
of being super famous me the conspiracy
guys I I don't I need to have more
context with that I mean is Rogan aware
of that he's talking to the guy who
thinks there's a Weather Machine brokens
probably aware of that stuff but that
that Alex Jones is a conspiracy theorist
yeah I don't get anything but yeah I'm
glad that they're friends again that's
good we done with this here oh here it
is well yeah let's let's get back to the
point about the this story in The New
Yorker about a an Israeli private
Israeli spying firm essentially I don't
know what else to call it it's a private
Israeli Levitt spying firm that's what
they dubbed themselves as a private
Mossad and they are apparently allowed
to work with impunity in this country as
long as they don't beat anybody up but
they have been sending intimidating
emails and flyers and trying to silence
critics of of Israel's they they broke
up when the mauler investigation started
because apparently they were it's
somehow involved in some ways
peripherally with the Trump campaign I
think the cloud
was Newt Gingrich not surprising yeah
and and meanwhile this is all sent
around we had a Senate bill that I think
passed that said or did it pass or they
get it they kept pushing it that
basically criminalizing the any type of
like articulated support for the BDS
movement which was you know to divest or
boycott any states have already done
this New York Texas we saw that that
terrifying story of the speech
pathologist in Texas who lost her job a
couple months ago right and and the idea
that a lot Omar was was in some way
speaking out of turn its bolide by a lot
of the facts that come up and but
fortunately for those of us who are
concerned about anti-semitism Scott
Perry from Pennsylvania a Republican
representative from Pennsylvania's tenth
District basically sets those of us who
may be critical of Israel straight other
things be careful about the parsing
which seems to be happening where you
can say that you're not for the
government of Israel but you're for the
for the Jewish people the Jewish people
form the government of Israel be the
State of Israel is formed by the Jewish
people and if you're aligning the the
government and the State of Israel at
the same time they are they're congruent
they have one in the same they are the
Jewish people and I think that's the
biggest thing we can do well it's a
pretty anti-semitic comment I mean it
and anti-semitic comment it also it also
you know I think probably accidentally
indicates that he doesn't think that
there is a democracy there in Israel I
should tell you that we as Jews do not
get together and get to vote on the
government Israel I am Jewish I have not
been able to vote in any of the Israeli
elections since well really since the
mid sixties I haven't been able to vote
in any of those elections here's the
guy's incredibly ignorant about what
he's talking about but is jus splaining
to people well and you know and let's be
real oh this is who the Alliance is
built with from modern Israel I mean
this is who Netanyahu's friends with
these are the all of the far-right you
know racist parties from la cude on left
I mean I I think we got to be even when
you look at like gosh what is it Yosh
kateed the Yair lapid's party labor I
mean these are center-right parties you
have like moretz which is liberal and
they're totally marginalized right and
then you have you know like joint list
which fell apart but a couple of like
arrogant socialist parties that are on
the left so you know the Israeli
government is really foreign policy has
really cultivated aligning with these
people and it's funny because when
people like Olmert and Barak said we
can't sustain having an apartheid state
and that's like their word not mine
although I do also use that word they
would say it's untenable in the long
term because even just specifically
American Jews care about things like
civil rights and people like Netanyahu
were like well that may be true but
there's a whole other set of people
right we can strike political alliances
with to do whatever the hell we want
that's right we don't need American
jewelry if we have American evangelicals
American evangelicals or a European
neo-fascist right I mean you know or or
frankly you know just China or Russia
and other countries that just generally
are like not wanting to talk about sort
of human dignity questions let's go to
governments phones calling from a 647
area code who's this where he come from
hey Sebastian from Canada what's on your
mind I stumbled on a bizarre Dave Rubin
related controversy pedia talk about
please do okay so recently somebody
actually everybody that listens to the
show and is on Wikipedia has been
vandalizing this article about the Koch
snowflake and making it redirect to Dave
Rubin I am and I'm I that's horrible but
go ahead continue well anyway so I went
to his page and there was some vandalism
going on there but somebody pointed out
that a major contributor to this article
appears to have a close connection with
its subject and so I wonder who that was
and it turns out that the major
contributor to this article has a user
named David Janet which is Dave Reubens
husband's name so I did some digging
into David Janis Wikipedia history and
it turns out that his his account begins
at the same time as another account ends
due to multiple incidents of sockpuppet
read more than 30 possibly as many as
200 depending on how many are confirmed
or not the this username auto
I think it's Auto 4711 okay has done
stuff like is obsessed with Jewish humor
and with Nassau County New York so like
it's obviously yeah or maybe if they've
Reuben just using it as a ceramic it's
obsessed with gay humor its obsessed
with gay TV shows and it has simply
contributed all of these biographical
details about Reuben any Doherty is fuss
I don't have time because I'm reading
chance to admit well I mean I I feel
like you've done so much of this work
that you should probably document it in
some fashion yeah other people can do
I read you a couple I just want to read
you a couple of highlights because of
whether this is Dave or his husband the
person who's writing this stuff feels
like without their presence on Wikipedia
the whole community would be so much
worse off like you just like okay I just
have to read all right in Sebastian let
me just make something clear I'm gonna
let you read it but I want you to know
that because of our journalistic code of
ethics here I want to make it clear that
you're saying it's allegedly and this is
your theory I don't want things to to
run amok here and it would be
irresponsible for us not to say that but
it would also be irresponsible for us
not to hear what you have to offer as a
citizen journalist because we don't want
to censor anyone unless they're me right
I make an astute observation about Dave
Rubin well sellout well there you go go
ahead Sebastian I mean maybe when you
meet Ana Kasparian I think it's like
next month go through some of the
details because she met his husband so
she might be able to I think maybe not
come on go ahead read away buddy okay
okay so somebody puts a warning on his
page and he removes it and as the
comment
removing warning which I will
not have besmirching my page talking
Wikipedia and it's sanctimonious power
abusing administrators way to empower
the stalkers you've done other one
said I didn't know is against the rules
to be gay and interested in TV on
Wikipedia and he's only politics the
first time he's ever communicated with
this person he says as for why I went
silent for a year it was because I moved
back home to take care of my gravely ill
mother she's dead now thanks for asking
sorry for trying to help I won't do it
anymore
this person offers a bizarre defense of
South Africa that that the other editor
is my
roommate after he was stuck he asked for
me to keep an eye on some of the
articles used to monitor okay and then
they say another one the person says oh
it's just the same IP address I live in
an apartment block and the person
answers no it's not just the same IP we
can also collect the technical details
from there's like a browser on the
computer that you're using and it's the
exact same computer anyway interests
yeah yeah send us an email interesting
yeah I was a little caught up and doing
that instead of reading about booths and
narrow come from a 6-3 one area code
who's this where you come from 6 3 1 6 3
1 bye bye cup calling from a 2-0 seven
area code who's this where you calling
from there's a dealer from the Boston
area you live from the Boston area
what's on your mind Eli I've been you
like yeah alright yeah I'm sorry
yeah you lie you gotta get a better
phone you need to wait another couple
sorry
oh here is bye-bye calling from know
that was you know the McLaughlin group
call from a 3-1 for area code who's this
it wasn't me it is you hello hello okay
so I saw one of your videos earlier when
you were what is your layering where are
you going what is your name where you're
calling from I'm sorry what is your name
where you talk well
and what's your name uh John John but
don't look a good big name yeah good
okay
no any manners anymore I don't have to
give my actual name
no I don't anyway of check John you need
to give your actual name we know and
it's weird you're lying all right
Kevin's thing baby
let's Kevin just tell us Kevin and stop
playing around on our phones all right
okay so basically you guys were
discussing with a libertarian whether or
not the government was necessary to
arrive at a monetary system and I just
was pointing out that it is possible to
have a monetary system without a
government well I'm in a storage area I
suppose it is possible to have a
monetary system without a government but
I mean I don't think it would be
terribly effective as a currency um it
kind of depends so it happened during
the Renaissance and Italy when they're
basically the banks were essentially
running the city-states but you
basically just have a bank that issues
banknotes in exchange for some sort of
collateral or hard currency and then
people exchange those bank notes amongst
themselves and they're and they are
redeemable at the bank and they can use
that as a currency you don't actually
need a national government or I mean
it's a small enough environment I've
been to a I've been to a back when I was
in college for Spring Break I went to a
resort dish type of place in Jamaica and
you used like plastic beads to get
drinks and stuff like that so basically
just depends on the credit of the
institution you can imagine some system
where okay this hotel is use those beads
and maybe other hotels and other
locations are going to accept those
beads and as long as the institution is
issuing how did I get those beers like
how did I get those beads how did you
get them yeah I like in my instance how
did I get those beads in Haiti what do
you think I mean excuse me engine
how do you think I got those beats well
you posted some sort of collateral you
probably bought your vacation package or
whatever but your collateral could be
your wheat yield if you're a farmer or
it could be some down there I would have
brought my wheat harvest down to - to
Jamaica or you would have engaged in a
actually they had already invented
forward contracts when they were well
what coming up with what do you do what
do you do
I work in higher education now but I saw
what would you do to get your currency
would you bring in books or I'm not so
first of all I'm a libertarian and I'm
not suggesting that yes I think yes you
could set up a very localized situation
you could work you could set up a
localized situation that for some of the
individuals but the fact of the matter
is that the value of a currency is a
function of the AAA and and of course I
don't know how the banks I mean I guess
the banks if they actually you know got
like if somebody dropped off like you
know I mean if it's like a pawn shop
type of situation I drop off the guitar
and you don't get the guitar back unless
you you know you pay us back in our bank
notes but presumably right
there's someone enforcing the bank's
claims to that collateral right right
precisely and that's the thing I was
saying it because of the environment
because it was the Renaissance period
the city-states into the Medicis who are
a banking family right they had one of
the Queen sitting on the throne France
they had the ability to hire mercenaries
and to form sticks and to engage in
state-like activities right in other
words what I said was that someone had a
monopoly of force and that's essentially
which led to the value of that currency
right but it's not they didn't have a
monopoly of force because you had
multiple banking institutions all
issuing their notes and then the
relative value of the notes was to turn
by how good those banks were and who
would enforce those notes I'm sorry for
that one who would enforce the value of
those notes break the bank wasn't for
soluble in earth but what I'm saying is
there were multiple banks so I think of
America would have their mercenaries and
JPMorgan would have their mercenaries
and various other people would have
their mercenaries may all be fighting
over the disputed territories and
Renaissance Italy so you didn't have a
monopoly a force that was my ring back
to patronage system Sam alright I
appreciate the call thank you
thanks if there was a conflict between
the two banks the one with the biggest I
mean look people don't have a monopoly
of force in our society today - right
it's just a funny one ultimately will
win you know it's funny to me about that
though is it's like it's either
small-scale examples which are like nice
sure or whatever who cares or it's not
applicable to almost any macro situation
or maybe in like the next 20 years we'll
have like a global war with China
because there is a competition about
what the world's reserve currency is
thank you that you guys are all sleeping
on Bitcoin
Colin from 503 area code who's this
where you come from yeah you hear me yes
all right how long we can hear me yes
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
are you working in me like it like in
the boiler room of like some type of
steamship I can try here yes you can
sort of going on today I actually like
that gun come for me three one eight
areas I hope to god you're calling from
oh you got some tomatoes good what do
you folks do I just call when I'm not
need to do anything go over what we
bought at the supermarket
there's someone just butt-dialed the
show that's what that was that's the
second time that's happened and people
have talked about pharmaceuticals
con yeah it's all it's happening out
gone from the seven one seven area code
who's this where you going from hi this
is Danny from ta Danny from PA what's on
your mind well done well first I just
want to say that one woman at the CPAC
conference was talking about skittles
party
mmm am I the only person that just got a
huge just started remembering when the
craze was about rainbow parties yeah
what was the rainbow party remember
those are them never mind look it up a
little yeah well dude yeah all right
there you go uh something yesterday kind
of put this into my mind would you were
talking about how to talk a family
member had a more or less extreme right
politics I've got something a little bit
more worse than that much much worse
than that
I have a family member who is basically
a fascist now just the other day they
were sending me stuff about Pinochet and
talking about how apartheid really
wasn't that bad and it seems as if every
day gets worse and worse where it can I
tried not to talk about politics with
him ever but every so often it gets to
something like well here's how the Jews
are responsible for the breakup between
the Orthodox and the Catholic Church and
I always have to shut everything down
immediately when it happens because I
just don't want to have to deal with
that how old is this party how does it
start um how did it start
he started as a bright libertarian witch
go figure
and I can't pinpoint anything exactly
but I definitely started noticing an
uptick of far-right reactionary politics
around 2016 what's the obvious sources I
what's his media sources Drudge Report
Breitbart a bunch of sources that I've
never seen but Olivia's like a 2005 web
design news aggregator
things like that Wow
and everybody else in the family also
watches one American news which is yes
yeah that's a yeah I mean this is it's a
problem you know I don't know yeah I
mean the only thing I could tell you is
that maybe I don't know what is the sort
of like the path out of something like
that you know that someone would go to I
mean almost feels like you know in that
instance like Joe Rogan's almost the
solution right I mean to send them a
johan how are you yeah the question is
honestly i mean the question is you know
does the valve work both ways right you
you is it one of those things where it
just sends you further down a wormhole
into right wing you know neo-fascism or
is it can the valve actually like sort
of like jettison you out I don't know I
don't know I mean I think I don't know
I've always been at a loss for how to
even confront the situation to the point
where I just tried to shut be deadly
that's all I can do what's the guy's
name
we had him on the program who was a
former Chris cippolini yeah yeah Chris
pitch alene actually yeah look him up he
was a former member of a neo-nazi group
and maybe they have like a you know
here's how you can help your loved ones
type of such I dunno I know that you
know Scott astron who is a really good
you know he's an anthropologist it does
work with like understanding terrorism
and now he's looking at more like all
right groups in the same continuum and I
don't know how you measure this but
they're doing like brain imaging studies
and social isolation is like a core
commonality and all about rules to these
ideologies and it makes a lot of spice
like social isolation sorry
oh my god at Hren a tra n he's a really
good writer he's a actor
check it out now check out so definitely
look up the Christian guy dudes because
you know it's just stressful you know I
grew up in a very religious conservative
house and a kid you not when I say of
extended family and media family every
person in my family is Tea Party
conservative or whatever the equivalent
is now of how did you flip and I I can't
explain it other than like growing up
gay I was able to get out of a lot of
bisexual I was able to get out of a lot
of social conservatives and I guess from
that it just grew on me to the point
where but you started with the identity
that would be oppressed innately by that
politics like you know I don't I don't
want to slash I've to say it that helps
sounds messed up but it gave you a nudge
in the right direction that's
interesting well Danny good luck with it
keep us updated I'm curious to see if
you find anything is effective or which
which direction that stuff heads in
thanks for the comment all right have a
good day
Jesus please one American news network
man that's rough stuff yeah we weren't
talking about just so BA
that's like Maine man like I feel
relieved your relatives only watch Fox
News okay let's go to the AIIMS
Sheldon Adelson's peripheral neuropathy
won an honor of Sheldon's crowning
achievement in pulling political strings
over the decades I'm sending his health
by way of Trump's first campaign
announcement or on down the escalator
there we go
Theodore Roos emoji did you guys ever
talk about that New Yorker article of
private Mossad for hire it's a wild it
seems relevant to the elections going
forward
a very good article ah how private
Israeli intelligence firm yeah we just
talked about spied I'm just giving the
title how private you us a private
Israeli intelligence firm spied on
pro-palestinian activists in the u.s.
heroic Adel Sion's
lymph lymphocyte majority report is
please grant me the power to risk the
imagination of a new kind of metastasis
I love Sarah Palin I don't want to get
hyper hyperbolic but Van Jones is going
to get us thrown into the camps Van
Jones and Elijah Collings are example of
why you need primaries the more friendly
you become with these people the harder
it is to tear down the other side and
amass power so you can pass our
priorities completely I'm a centrist so
I can say this Matt gets as Neanderthal
DNA seeping out of his eyeballs Chris
Burdick insults in the and earth halls
and I would not equate what Van Jones
did with what Elijah Cummings did as
head of that committee at all Chris
Burdick a bird can't fly at all if it's
left wing shifts position to the
center-right attorney Andrew yesterday I
am to cite citing Marian Williamson's
reparations plan the only existing plan
among Democratic 2020 candidates she
proposes 100 billion over 10 years to
descendants of slaves if we assume that
the existing African American population
of 47 million people makes up the
entirety of such descendants it may be
more or less that amounts to only 3,000
per person over 10 years it seems
alarmingly low number for African
American population is estimated at 42
million not 47 I think that's creepy hey
Sam shout out to House Dems for starting
to push through bans on mandatory
arbitration I may be biased as a
consumer protection attorney but these
types of agreements have become one of
the biggest conduits of corporate
misconduct corporations have been able
to effectively shield themselves from
liability on any abuse that is not
financially feasible for employees and
consumers to individually pursued to bad
precedents which probably will not
change anytime soon in the courts
because of the Democrats inability to
take judicial appointments seriously I
agree with you well this started I think
with AT&T Concepcion in
in California I think it was may have
been four or five years ago now and a
perfect example of that is AT&T was
overcharging hundreds of thousands of
customers three bucks a month and so no
single customer is it's not commercially
it's not it's not it's not financially
feasible for a specific customer to go
and either sue them and in the context
of a class action or to deal with the
arbitration and the Supreme Court
effectively said yeah now you're not
similarly situated enough to I think to
to have a mass arbitration and so Hogan
did Lee fanboy Fox and Friends doing
shows with live audiences now watching a
crowd of Mogga heads cheer for diamond
and silk melted my brain and I'm stuck
in an acid flashback now Thames Darwin
Sam I want to share some good news I had
a thought that Jewish control of the
media was a joke but thanks to Scott
Perry in Pennsylvania attend now I know
we all get together and decide these
things as a group so maybe start pushing
for your own TV show I'll support you on
it thank you
Rob from Philly gist e can Michael
please repeat the name of the person who
said Israel cannot continue as an
apartheid state
a hoot Omer and Iraq have both said that
common in different contexts they're
both former Prime Minister's Flint can I
get a shofar I just got a Ford at a 50%
tuition at the University of Committee
on international relations for their one
year's master program congratulations
they rejected
they rejected me from their PhD program
but that was to be expected when
graduating from an average four-year
public university still waiting on pH
decisions from Harvard and Georgetown
but this feels pretty damn good for a
first-generation immigrant ain't college
grad congratulations
Topher spiro agnew
I hope that while Andy is in Aurra
Illinois has time to get on a Wayne's
World walking tour or something that's
world yes oh stole but that's cool
Eugene I just got back from court where
my youngest son only 19 was sentenced
over six years in prison for having an
underage girlfriend Oh God no prior
history but the prosecutor stated lies
Harris hearsay and without evidence to
the judge the girl was not present
because she's in a program the mom who
filed the complaint was not present the
father has never been present she's I'm
sorry about that I don't know those laws
need to be seriously reformed Blaser
'back I just gotta say I was pretty
disheartened Indy's called the other day
about wanting a woman as our next
president choosing someone based on
identity politics no matter what your
intentions is destructive to our
electoral process this is absolutely
silly III think there are a few issues
that we need to wake up to and focus on
including climate change wealth
inequality in health care if Mindy
thinks that someone like Pamela Harris
is going to fight as hard as she can for
any of these policies she's dead wrong
we cannot afford incrementalism in this
country in my opinion and needs strong
leadership whether it wields a penis or
a vagina come on Mindy I'm sorry I mean
I just think that like to be that so
dismissive do not do not understand the
desire for to have a president who
represents a dynamic that you have
experienced throughout your whole life
right that has materially impacted the
trajectory of your life
imagine in a myriad of ways for the vast
majority of women if not all women and
them not wanting not putting a premium
on a someone who has theoretically
experienced this similar dynamic is
ridiculous it's ridiculous and it's also
a complete misinterpretation of why
people have voted since the beginning of
guff of elections in this country you
don't think that people aren't voting on
some level structure around their
identity now you know I think it's in in
and with a field that we have this as
big as we have you can find a female
candidate who represents it seems to me
like all aspects of the Democratic Party
I mean going from you know Warren
through Harris to Clovis are I agree
with everything you're saying and you
but I mean I think like they should have
phrased it differently but the actual
premise that you would elevate an
identity over all of the variables
obviously you reject and by the way most
people who even say that reject that -
right you know cuz frankly well no yes
but they should acknowledge that because
if it's just identity then you should
have backed up you know no your vote for
cerebellar Carson Carly Fiorina or sir
and and frankly some people did actually
do that and I think that it distract a
crazy and ridiculous position so let's
also like it's it's wrong to you know
not hold and understand the importance
of that but it's also wrong to literally
just hang your hat on that alone and you
don't do that anyways right she Mindy
said in the same call she wouldn't vote
for Tulsi Gabbard and frankly I mean I
to me as far as I'm concerned I mean if
you're but I would put Tulsi Gabbard in
the mix next to a certainly I mean I
vote for her over clover char obviously
but it's obviously somewhere in the
middle of that dynamic and you're making
trade-offs and making balances and both
sides of that equation should
acknowledge but I think I mean I'm sure
there were there were
sure there were people because you can
find people who also believe that the
earth is flat who voted for Sarah Palin
because they thought you know that
ticket because they thought that was
good for women in some fashion I'm sure
you could find that person but it would
be extremely rare no no of course but
I'm just saying yeah and right so
therefore what I'm saying people keep
late yeah the idea that I just don't
think there are people who are just like
I'm I'm voting for this person
exclusively because they're a woman
because then you would have people who
would vote for for a Republican but on
the flip if you literally you're only
comment on Bernie is he is a old white
man if that's all you got
I'm not saying it isn't a variable to
consider but if that's all you got that
is a trash argument period I mean I
guess so but it also by occasional C
implication is that that they just they
just don't want another old white guy
and there may be other fairly reasonable
substitutes in their mind from a
political standpoint that in terms of
like his issues that may be valuable but
that a woman can bring a whole nother
set of awareness of issues that he can't
just experientially now I may not agree
with it but it but there is a logic
tonight I I don't agree I hear there's a
lotta too but I don't necessarily agree
with it I don't agree with it either but
I also mean then we can inject a lot of
other variables into that like we can
inject Bernie experiencing poverty as an
example how many of these candidates
have experienced poverty like there's a
lot of others I agree
and if I'm if I'm in and if my lived
experience is someone as someone who's
grown up in poverty and that's my and
that is and and I think that's that's
crucial then yes that would be that
would be another form of identity
politics arson right yeah right right so
I think I mean I guess I think the
answer to this is
type of mashup of both and people don't
have to polarize it as much one way or
another yeah I don't I see I'm just
responding to this comment that someone
saying I want a woman as our next
president and saying choosing someone
based on identity politics those two
phrases juxtaposed is nonsense and I was
coaching them and how to phrase their
comment better well but how do you know
that they didn't phrase it exactly that
way what they wanted to Space Ghost
utopian seed rest for a small search
hours you can request to have your
cabinet I like beer served boofed
producer Lauren darkness falls upon CPAC
with the niger innies of core and other
black gun rights activists as Speaker I
don't know I'll check that out
[Music]
a qualm casket Trump voice how am I
supposed to make America great again
with all these witches hunting me and
when ara tell the guy that your system
automatically gives you full name and
social security info when he calls
legally that's not the government that
issue currency it's just a governing
body right column from a six one three
area code who's this where you come from
Theriot Canada hello Matthew what's on
your mind
uh well actually a couple things but I
wanted to make it short because I know
you guys are tight appreciate that I was
wondering if you guys are following
what's going on in uh in Canadian
politics with the Trudeau and our former
justice minister you know I gotta be
honest with you like I've seen it very
peripherally but things have been a
little bit hectic down here yeah yeah
yeah actually on the same day that that
was going on here you guys had the
testimonial from from the former Trump
lawyer but I wanted to I wanted to bring
it up not particularly about the details
but I'm finding a lot of what's going on
here is being imported from what's going
on in the states and one thing that that
kind of concerns me I don't know how
guys feel about it but there seems to be
this distinction now being made in
politics about what's lawful how will
the way that it's lawful to conduct
yourself as a politician and and the
public good and so a lot of a lot of the
case here is being credited on this idea
that it was good to intervene to save
jobs but I find it it's a fairly do be
okay you gotta just catch people up here
well just nutshell the Trudeau situation
yeah so the nutshell it is over a series
of about four to five months there was
eleven and this is all credit this is
all based on her testimony but there was
eleven members of cabinet and other
another another political figures
political figures that article to be
nonpartisan but that approached her to
get her to intervene in the case so
basically the public prosecutor that was
in charge of the case here made the
decision that the deferred prosecution
agreement wasn't going to be suitable
for the situation all right okay so my
understanding is is that essentially the
Attorney General was going to bring a
case against a some type of large firm
and of fraud and bribery and essentially
the Trudeau's advisors basically told
her to back off right is that more or
less it that's more or less it so yeah
the accusations go back to I guess
between 2001 and eleven and and it's a
construction firm it's called people
about it that they were bribing Libyan
officials for contract okay alright so
and and so your argument is is that
there's a lot of parsing going on
between what is legal and what is what
is proper
yeah well basically the idea being that
the government wants to make the case
that if it's in the public good which is
a fairly ambiguous right they meant but
if it's in the public good then the
implication being that there is there is
room to maneuver politically and in this
case what their what the manoeuvre was
was to in ambiguous terms perhaps float
the idea that if she didn't come to see
things from their perspective that she
would be removed from her position which
eventually she was yeah I mean I don't
blame you where things are pretty toxic
down here and I imagine you know it
can't help but float around the world
but all right well we'll circle back to
this but like you say we've got it we've
got a jump on we're up against it today
I appreciate it absolutely and then one
last thing if we could ever see a home
movies return damn I would love to see
Fenton you leave one board last time I
appreciate that thank you
bye bread bread how's that how is that
there you go
call from a 95 for area code who's this
where you come from good time for like
two or three more calls nine five four
hey buddy how you doing
who's this Michael from Miami Michael
from Miami how are you sir what's going
on long time no talk to my boy is not
I'm lyin your boys are just in the
stratosphere for popularity
congratulations oh well thank you very
much we have 25 colleagues on the online
right now Michael even you're so nice
and even but now even when you're not
there I mean it's almost impossible so
it goes across the board voice now Tony
listen models for you up against it I
got asked as an old-timer are you in
cliff on the outs here is that the deal
no actually I am doing cliff show I
think next week okay because I thought
maybe there was you know he came up with
the stuff regarding crap
after it with what david fromm me that
stuff and i think it was a comma schism
and i kind of agree with you on that i
mean I don't I don't stomach that guy
and there was I thought maybe that cause
the point you guys have gotten very
progressive and very aggressive in your
politics and your positions and I think
that's fine and I just didn't know
whether he had been kind of a stout no I
mean it was more I mean he and I had
been talking about this for a while
anyways and you know I wanted to have a
just a wider range of people and to be
honest with you on Fridays and so if you
notice we don't you have any really a
week-to-week regular we just you know
we're assembling a crew of people who
are gonna filter in and that was
something that good and so you know
we'll have cliff back on but it's just
you know trying to just have different
voices that's all looks like you over a
million topics is there real quick when
you're on the MSNBC set with those guys
I mean we always talk about the never
Trump errs being not really people that
you want to affiliate with or really
even bear with because from a policy
standpoint they basically agree with
most of what you know McConnell's agenda
is it through right so right when you
all just dealt with it Jennifer Rubin
who seems like a nice lady do you not
just talk to her in the green room go
WTF lady where you been I gotta be
honest with you what do you mean I've
never been in the same location with
with Jennifer Rubin she is in she we
well I think she must be in DC I don't
know she's always on the TV
I rarely am in the greenroom with any of
those type of folks to be honest with
you and the only time that I've had like
any like real issue is one time I went
on our a Melbourne show and it was one
of those like he does like a throwback
Friday or something like that like right
Ramona's and which you know it's not
necessarily the thing I like to do the
most but it's you know it can be fun but
one time I realized that on the TV was
Bill Kristol and then I just everything
became not fun for me and I felt sick
and I basically said like you can't I
can't I don't mind going on with Bill
Kristol if I can argue his against him
to be honest with you like it's not like
a big bull
mic or any any of any of them like I
don't mind and you know what Jennifer
Rubin it's hard for me to have even an
argument with her anymore because like
at one point early on it was like I
would say she would say Donald Trump is
horrible and I said well you know the
Republicans have been horrible in this
way for a couple years and then she goes
yeah maybe
and now it's like every time I've been
on with her it's like she starts off
with Republicans have been horrible on
this for years and so yeah the trip the
trigger was when Bush 41 passed away and
Charlie Pearson or get on there and
Charlie took attack which I disagreed
with wherein he said that he brought in
the fundamentalist part of the party and
she went nuts because of course Bush 41
would be part of the progeny and she
would back up with the problem is he
shouldn't attack her about that she
should have got after about the Willie
Horton that's what he should have
done he said well you know I don't like
trains which we still see to this day if
not no more you know
yeah that was part of a lineage though I
mean that was simply Jekyll that was my
man Michael Brooks by the way that was
that was a part of it that was that was
part of a lineage I mean it wasn't like
that was a unique thing it was they
write what Segretti those guys ready all
the way through Karl Rove all the way
through that water all the way through
we got today it's a straight
line
it doesn't change yeah it never changes
those guys they call themselves whatever
they want but they have the same idea
permanent Republican majority and by the
way you're dead on the money regarding
the courts it's it's the it's the gift
that's going to keep on giving
unfortunately for generations you mean
your staffs children we have to deal
with the crap and the fallout that's
going on because I don't I don't know
how you get up underneath that because
even if we get the presidency back in
2020 which is a 50-50 guess at this
point given the electoral map I mean how
do you how you unwind what's been done
on the thorough Judiciary yep yep I mean
III don't see it in my state of course
is completely backwards as says you know
it's funny everybody else in the country
is riding this wave in Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin California you know even parts
of Texas are showing some support just
we're stuck in the Dark Ages brother I
mean it's this is the one reason I'll
leave you with this I will never ever
you shouldn't either ever believe a
statewide poll in the state of Florida
they are invariably invariably lied to
or incorrect yeah we do with that
Andrew Gilliam did not for one moment
from the time the primaries were set in
September of 18 to election day he did
not trail in one statewide poll there
were a couple of outliers from rasmus
and those people they had them behind
but for the most part he never was
behind and he lost by one point a half
two points three point it was it really
it was within the margin of error but it
was never to the point where you saw a
surge we saw you so people lie they just
lied they make things up I don't know
how you can I can there gather any kind
of bellwether from what anybody tells a
pollster these days least of all from my
state which is like I said before
completely backwards
I don't you have any answers or I know
you didn't take the horse race stuff but
I just every once in a while I just sit
there bang my head against the wall go I
don't believe Trump's approval ratings
do you guys uh yeah I do I mean I do for
the most part I mean you know I I do
because you know I've under Republican I
mean it's possible I get some Democrats
live but you know it's pretty popular
amongst Republicans appreciate the call
my yeah eighty Mike yeah all right I had
a layover in Fort Lauderdale which I
guess is part of the and the
announcements they said welcome to
Broward County I have like PTSD hired
counties always bad on election night
all right final call of the day I'm
sorry folks we had a lot of callers
who's this where you come from you are
not the final caller of the day nine one
four I didn't say the haricots did I
know damn oh shoot I think I hung up
what yes I did sorry about that
I like you come from a nine one seven
area code who's this where you come from
so I rule that's me yeah hi this is Ben
calling from Tennessee Ben
from Tennessee what's on your mind you
are the final call hey thank you so much
and I appreciate this segment so much to
get all these perspectives on the show
it's really cool to just give you her
and hear from everyone every day I
wanted to call about the Kamala Harris
the story about her misrepresenting her
stance on juvenile illegal immigrants
Tice yeah and well first of all I mean
it brings up kind of the issues about
her stances on truancy that that you
know we're huge a couple weeks ago and
just like you know like her defenders
have never no one has ever actually like
defended that policy still my day right
right and and I think the biggest thing
about that that I really never heard any
was talking about was she was very clear
in her speech that she did that because
she had political capital to spend and I
think that is really the most relevant
part of that whole saga especially you
know as related to her seeking the
presidency because it tells us what you
know what where her inclinations would
be given political capital in the form
of you know Senate Majority or House
Majority you know where where the the
first moves would be right and I don't
know I just never heard Lee heard that
shake but about about the story about
illegal immigrants and recording them to
ice I just find it interesting that you
know the only story basically is that
the headline is at CNN caught her in the
lie right
whereas we could imagine almost any
other candidate if they were caught in
this lie the story would be that they
lied
it would not be CNN you know the
centrist media outlet do ain't like
standing up and doing good journalism
the focus of this just being totally
skewed the fact that it's you know it
was a Gavin Newsom policy there have
been no stories written about him you
know having this stance the only story I
could find about his supporting this
policy was from the
Sacramento Bee you know there's like
just really a lack of national care
about the stance and then when it does
get written about it's just it's totally
obscured away from her actual position
yeah it's it's interesting I I just
think that that area is just not
prominent enough in the mind of
Democratic voters I mean there has been
a you know and and to a certain extent
every one of these candidates to a
certain extent if they have been around
have softened when it comes to like the
issues like criminal justice reform and
immigration CLE that I mean anything
that connects with I mean abolishing ice
and the war on immigrants is like I
think it is pretty central for
democratic voters so I don't know about
that one
III mean I think and I think criminal
just immigration to a certain extent but
I mean how much is Gillibrand paid a
price because again I think the
distinction with Conway service I'm not
talking about votes I'm talking about
her stance on immigrant licenses in New
York State when she was a congresswoman
right isn't that it wouldn't uh be
expressed as a vote voting against it no
she just came out and spoke against it
or okay or spoke again yeah I think
speaking and voting is still gonna as I
say I think particularly in criminal
justice reform if you compare the fact
that Biden literally wrote this a
tremendously toxified now doing stuff
that I think is gonna be problematic for
Biden but I don't think it's gonna be
the most problematic for boy he's gonna
have a parade of problem that's trips
but Kamala Harris you know I think but
Bernie rewarded like you know though he
did again but that's a good example of
the tears I'm talking about here I think
writing the bill and then actively
enforcing it put you in a different
category than casting a vote I mean I
think that's true I just don't know if
it you know and a Bernie voted against
that bill all the same you know he would
be then it would be he voted against the
violence against women's act so there's
no way for him to win that but I know I
listen I agree I'm just I'm not talking
about about any you know I'm not talking
about a sort of a rational assessment I
mean yes it's possible that your average
kradic voter sees a fundamental
difference between executing a policy
that you didn't vote on or you know and
in a in a city across the country versus
voting on it as a senator or a
congressperson I don't know but I you
know I mean I can I can look at like how
many hits this this I'm looking at this
CNN piece and you know it's not like
it's well-traveled right so I mean
that's just that's just my assessment
it's the same assessment that it's got
to that that that folks who for whom
this is a primary issue set you know
what they do is going to have a big
impact on how far and wide these stuff
travels but appreciate the phone call
thank you guys all right and we'll take
five more Iams and then we get to get
out of here Nick from Manitoba sama you
busy after disc eyes got couple of
u-haul trucks and an opportunity to take
a lot of dough what do you say paisan
Nick format oh okay that's a michael
cohen he used to member used to crash
around both trucks Kansas City case tat
Nate did you see marrow mock Ben Shapiro
last night on his new showed no I didn't
see that I will be watching that this
afternoon Magnuson that caller was the
caretaker of Old Faithful he had some
great points to make
they all have their squint Sam Matt
breunig is someone you should have on
the show regularly with the green new
deal now on everyone's lips mmm tea is
going to be called out more and more
please bring Matt on to discuss the
critiques of it and then again every six
months or so to discuss other things he
should be a regular you know I've had
them on a bunch times on ring of fire
radio and but I think you know as we get
more into these policies will do that
left is left is show enough it was all a
dream I used to read socialist magazine
Bernie and AOC up in the limousine
courier 11 I'm going to start Sam you
like that start calling every day and
setting the phone down so you can have a
glimpse into the albums
of the desert ambient and the final I am
of the day the week riled up Riley Sam
in target fixing to call you from the
checkout theme of the day and all giddy
up left is best to see you on Monday
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no ticket
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
laughs we tried
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
