I have a feeling there's gonna be the
last time we're talking about this guy
cuz I just I don't think I've ever seen
anybody so quickly so thoroughly
humiliated in so many venues by so many
different people there is really I mean
this is like dunam sam nunn burg it's
more than that it's more than that
because there's no pity and there's not
even like there's not even the same like
sort of Jawad de vivre in this this is
just feels like everybody's doing their
job right everybody and and that job of
course is to make Howard Schultz the
billionaire owner of a series of cafes
coffee shops or formerly that he doesn't
get to be king just because he's so rich
he can he can go around to be unofficial
King as a lot of these billionaires are
doing but he doesn't get to be named the
king sorry and here he is with Andrew
Ross Sorkin is that it is Andrew Ross
Sorkin does he live in one of like
Howard Schultz's like suit coat pockets
does he just hang out there as a
billionaire whisperer yeah yeah he's he
just the sort of piles around with him
and here he is interviewing him at
Barnes & Noble this is in New York City
correct and CNN was covered they cover
this libraries this they videotaped it
like they do all events at Barnes &
Noble and for people who nobody knew who
this guy was
three weeks ago and talked about if this
was his plan to sell books I got some
bad news for you buddy
here we go I am seriously considering
running for president as a centrist
independent and I wanted to clarify the
word independent which I view merely as
a designation on the ballot
love was what i Ross Sorkin's look on
his face when he's just like are really
upset now so there was that heckler that
was highly inappropriate and so he came
back another one came back for a more
appropriate one same guy
[Music]
we're gonna get to that idea and that
sentiment in just a minute
there you go that was awesome
they're gonna keep trying to do this
though well what do you mean they're
gonna keep trying to do what who is they
uh egotistical billionaire centrists who
represent that point of view the most
amazing thing about this was yesterday
when Michael Bloomberg basically said
like hey I was ice walled enough of my
pride to not do this like I my therapy
worked for a long time for me just get
to the place where I wasn't just so
narcissistic that I thought I could do
this I am richer than you and if anybody
should have done it it should have been
me and you cannot do it yeah if there's
one thing billionaires hate it's other
billionaires taking liberties that they
themselves didn't take right and he's
like I was big enough man like if
there's any billionaire who deserved to
be king it would have been me and since
I was big enough to not take it it is
absurd that you would even think about
taking it in fact it's a personal
offense to me
that's what Bloomberg is saying that's
so awesome but this guy is and but this
is where was where was he let's just
listen to this a little bit he was on
NPR Morning Edition right this guy's
like put aside for a moment that he's
that the whole concept is obnoxious and
offensive put aside the the the
incredible narcissism the the sense of
propriety the the sort of like the the
complete obliviousness this guy's also
really bad at this and seems to have
just like the I'll tell you what this is
an example of this is an example of a
guy who has had no one question anything
out of his mouth for years nothing
nothing he's showing up on all these
with like not even 1/4 baked ideas about
what he's doing this is a guy who is
been so encased in an Amber in terms of
like criticism or even the questioning
well he's used to getting ratioed on
Twitter I mean but you don't you don't
think he looks at that do you you don't
think he looks at the replies he has
somebody who brings them a form that
says you got this many replies oh great
he doesn't know what ratio means I know
I think he's mad that people are allowed
to tweet at him he probably doesn't he's
probably just so far removed and it's
stunning because he's completely
unprepared for this and he's getting
softball questions virtually from
everywhere Sheryl devalue had to be
balanced and equaled with creating value
for our customers and most importantly
for our people would you be changing as
president laws are pushing to change SEC
regulations anything else to change the
business environment in which
shareholder value has become utterly
paramount for companies across this
country I don't think I would be
changing laws but what I would try and
do is influence public CEOs to
understand that we have a moral
obligation and responsibility not only
to make a profit and create shareholder
value but also to do everything we can
to do more for our employees and the
communities we serve because it wasn't a
no-no why would you need to be President
to do that right he's like I'm not gonna
use any part of government to to in any
way infringe or mitigate the horridness
of shareholder value concept of the what
of the way the company should be
measured I'm just gonna do it from the
bully pulpit but here's a guy with
billions of dollars he could spend 300
million dollars and he'd be on so many
ads across the country saying this that
we get sick we would know every every
contour to of his face we'd be able to
count how many hairs are on his head
with the amount of money that he would
spend in the same way that I would
to play like we're gonna go out for a
good company dinner but he needs to be
President to do this apparently no laws
serve can you preach your way to that
change on a large scale in a system
where a CEO who doesn't maximize
shareholder value can get sued or lose
the company financial performance in a
way is the price of admission we have to
a company has to perform but you don't
have to perform at the expense of your
people what Schultz has not made clear
at this early stage at least is how if
at all he would change the economic or
political systems under which he grew
rich it is not clear how he would reduce
the national debt although he says it is
far too high
he says Republicans failed to take it
seriously and he accuses Democrats of
making promises that could enlarge it
free Medicare for all government paid
free college for all first of all
there's no free nothing is free
President Obama's theory was that you
reduced the deficit in small measure by
raising taxes on the wealthiest
Americans president Trump's theory was
that you reduced the deficit by cutting
taxes on the wealthiest Americans you're
smiling which if either of those is true
look can I say it in my own words things
so we we are in dire need of
comprehensive tax reform what which
would include a significant level of
infrastructure development is it safe to
say that the wealthiest would have to
pay more
whatever the rates become however the
reform is structured what I would say is
that we need comprehensive tax reform oh
my can stick with that because I think
there are there are a number of areas
here that need to be addressed and and
and I'm not trying to dodge any question
I just I feel like you know what we have
today is an unfair system however when I
see Elizabeth Warren positive yeah I Got
News for you he is trying to dodge a
question when you say I'm not trying to
dodge a question and everybody thinks
you're dodging a question guess what
you're dodging the question
either taxes are gonna go up on the
wealthy or they're gonna go down if you
just change you know well they pay $30
worth of taxes on $100 but what we're
gonna do is we're going to
we're gonna splice that up and what
they're gonna end up doing is paying $15
in taxes on $50 and that's the way that
we are that's the comprehensive reform
that we're talking about well I mean do
they end up paying more or less I'm
going to avoid that question in my own
language but let me take the opportunity
to criticize Elizabeth Warren however
when I see Elizabeth Warren come out
with you know a ridiculous plan of
taxing wealthy people a surtax of 2%
because it makes a good headline or
sends out a tweet when she knows for in
fact that's not something that's ever
gonna be passed this is what's wrong I
mean we you can't just attack these
things in a punitive way by punishing
people but I'm just thinking you've got
trillion-dollar annual deficits now in
good times getting that down calls for
some specific painful sounding things
drastic cut in military spending at a
time when the United States is
confronting China and Russia and who
knows who else changes to Medicare and
Social Security tax increases on
somebody are you gonna do that
well you haven't talked about growth
though you think you can grow your way
out of a trillion I don't think you keep
no I don't know I don't think you can
grow your way out of a trillion dollars
but I remember I'm I've been an
entrepreneur for the last 40 years I
view things a little bit differently
than certainly a traditional politician
and I have a 30 year plus record of
being able to solve complex problems in
unique ways though he is vague about
what he would do if elected Howard
Schultz is insistent that he can be an
alternative in the presidential campaign
I can't think of anything that is a more
quintessential expression of our
democracy then provide the American
people with the noise for president
doesn't have to be binary between a
Republican and Democrat he says the next
president must be the right person and
he will decide within months if he
thinks that person should be him oh my
god oh my god why does this guy even get
to be interviewed on NPR that's what the
hell I was saying about he was on 60
minutes yesterday - like how long
did it take for them to give Bernie a
serious interview last time around it's
it is stunning he just bought his way on
to these places and is talking about
democracy demands that he that some
wealthy guy run as an independent it's
shocking it's it's shocking the level of
delusion and some people speculated that
this was basically a shot across the bow
threatening you know if you'd nominate
Elizabeth Warren if you nominate Bernie
Sanders this is what's gonna happen but
Mike Bloomberg came out and said no you
will not I think to update the
libertarian challenge we should do a
billionaire debate challenge to people
like Howard Schultz want to call in and
debate us yes I will do right now this
is a message I'm sending out to Howard
Schultz debate me I insist you come on
this program you can call in and if you
want you can fly in get fly in and you
can I'll let you sit in this seat I'll
sit I'll sit over there and you can sit
here it builds so much character for him
I think I surrounded by yes men all the
time
I think democracy calls for it all right
we got to take a quick break when we
come back
