oh this is great since you were talking
about milkshakes Matt gets and I have
friends who were from this area
Pensacola Florida yeah I think he's
around there
public can congressman Matt gates was
leaving a Town Hall in Florida this
happened over the weekend on Saturday
and gates is one of these guys who's
willing to say just about anything now
I'm going in fours and go on Infowars
and this is the way that he is making
his his hay in in in Congress this is
why we know his name frankly you know
there's 400 and what 35 Congress people
get elected every two years which is my
understanding a shout out Business
Insider yeah thanks for that tip we
never talked about that story where the
editor of Business Insider the world
editor or something you know he's got
this it's a big world it's a big big
portfolio apparently did not realize
that Congress people were elected every
two years and all of them had to run for
election seems like a lot of work it's a
lot of work so I'm at gates the way that
he stay in stands out when he tries to
build his career whether it's going to
be a post congressional career in
politics or in business whatever it is
is he's got to be there now one of the
things about Florida always hot nothing
better than to cool off with a delicious
milkshake here he is leaving his his
Town Hall in Florida
[Music]
oh and there's the milk shake it so that
goes over his shoulder and onto his
hands oh and then he's got the k√∂ppen
he's pointing to where it came from
well yeah there it is
over the shoulder gets into his onto his
hands that's a well that's actually
frankly it's a nice spiral that is a
beautiful pass I mean that's the NFL
people say oh it's not appropriate to
throw milkshakes at congressmen and I
you know that's a separate debate but
you really got I mean cuz look at that
person over the defenders head exactly
which is the the police officer and it
lands right into gates right yeah he
throws drop-off doesn't do that but
that's that's really well done I mean is
in terms of a toss I mean you gotta and
is that are we clear that that's a
milkshake or it's it's soda an
unspecified drink I'm seeing anything
could be a milkshake if you believe hard
on them that's right there you go
the person the woman who threw it
believe has been charged with battery
battery so there you go know that that's
the price you might have to pay right
unless you have the classic like oh I
spilled my milk shake I didn't mean to
do and you know what's funny is if this
gets this meme gets widespread enough
you can start to just have your
milkshake near some of these people and
they'll be nervous enough and you won't
even have to throw it right also a good
way to save on calories you know the
strength of the milkshake never tastes
as good as the first half anyway always
hard to deny yourself the full milkshake
there's too much dairy though and then
also look there's also spit-takes now
I'm not I'm not recommending it but it
is quite possible that you could be in a
situation where you're drinking your
milk shake and let's say a certain
politician is little fish cystic says
something that just blows your mind a
spit-take is a very natural reaction
that one could not it's almost it's like
involuntary involuntary exactly that was
the word I was looking for
