[Music]
Mitch McConnell yes the he is latest I
guess move has been too and I don't know
if it's quite officially happened yet
but he's gonna get rid of the a
procedural blockage to judges being
nominated where you you you're allowed
to hold the floor for 30 hours of 30
hours and then and people should
understand is like 30 working hours so
it can really slow down the process not
drew I mean it can slow down the process
I don't know how to really sort of
quantify it
I mean quality can slow down the process
of how many judges you get in he's gonna
get rid of that he's gotten rid of blue
slips it's pretty the he is completely
remaking the judiciary and just to
remind people about the implications of
it before we get into this here is today
a federal court in Kentucky two-to-one
decision Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals
and this is really stunning in a minute
in terms of like understand and I don't
want to get too far afield here but the
whole Janus case which kneecapped public
sector unions is that by forcing people
to pay an agency fee to the lawyers who
negotiate your contract if it's under a
shop you are infringing upon the free
speech rights of a of a non-union member
because they're having to give money
this judge John Bush appointed by Donald
Trump says that it is okay under the
First Amendment to Force physicians to
do something that is completely not
medically necessary for them to do their
job which is to perform I don't know if
it's to actually like perform it
on the specific women but to to show and
to show and describe a fetal ultrasound
to patients before performing an
abortion it's not even on the woman
necessarily in Christ it is just like it
is basically you need to go to an
anti-abortion organization and sit there
and watch a mandatory me essentially
when support the cell but this is so
this is just one example and there are a
million examples of the implications of
a circuit court judge being appointed by
Tantra because these are about as far
right-wing judges as we have we've seen
I think appointed and they've been
pretty far right-wing McConnell has done
has orchestrated all this almost
unilaterally yeah yeah and I mean it's
it's it's his like sort of ultimate
political project and it's been going on
like you know he's been even working on
it since the 90s basically but him and
the Federalist Society of an in lockstep
this entire time and like they're
getting their way they're like they're
they're just winning and and the they're
going to have installed these people who
are going to be basically legislating
from the bench for decades to come
I mean just like what point do you think
McConnell was this a question of
McConnell because certainly the garland
thing right like yeah III think that
empty seat on the Supreme Court
is one of the most underestimated
reasons why Donald Trump is in the
present oh yeah totally yeah yeah and
like so this is what I wrote about it
and I have a the cover of The New
Republic pick it up at your newsstand so
I wrote about Waco and yeah and he he
sort of he sort of says as much but I
think you can look at how Donald Trump
won and on the one hand he dgeni
convinced a bunch of people who don't
normally vote for Republicans to come
out and vote for him because he was out
there saying everyday like I'm gonna
fight for social secur
get out of these wars were in he was out
there talking like a non Republican and
McConnell was the one telling everyone
reassuring everyone oh by the way he
will govern like a Republican meaning
specifically he's gonna appoint the
judges we fund well he was holding up a
list yeah Trump was holding up a list
made by the Heritage Foundation in the
Federalist Society
yeah that was basically like here's my
one promise to you yep and that was the
indication right yeah and that's how
that's how you get a coalition together
of like people who want to reject
everything and then people who are like
alright you know he's gonna like the the
evangelicals and everyone else are
that's I think that's localized he
mobilized he was able to mobilize the
evangelicals despite the fact being the
most profane yeah like example of
humanity that you could imagine
what that also like submit McConnell to
he that him sort of in the background
with heritage and federal society like
getting Trump on the same page on judges
it was also the signal to like all the
Republican establishment like all right
I guess like we don't actually need to
prevent this guy from getting the
nomination like we actually can just
sort of sit back and see what happens
and we're like McConnell's classic
movement to sit back and see what
happens it was like after the Access
Hollywood tape people are rushing to get
statements out rejecting Trump and
McConnell's just like let's see how this
plays out he does it all the time he
just like doesn't doesn't talk until he
sees other situations gonna play I am
amazed at how much the Democrats and the
the media failed to hold Ryan and
McConnell to account for any part of
this I know yeah crap show no and
McConnell who seems to me to be uniquely
devoid of shame oh yeah the like his
statements that he came out the other
day saying like Obama should have done
more to stop the Russians from
interfering in the election yeah that's
stunning just that remind people why
that so so the leo the intelligence
agencies are saying like well Russia
keeps hacking these emails and is trying
to it is trying to basically interfere
in the election debt to hurt Hillary
Clinton and they had tested like their
ability to get into voter rolls yeah
they have been testing
they'd just been sort of trying
everything it was like a kitchen sink
like let's just sort of mess around in
all these little edges around the
election and like so they you know they
they briefed Congress in the late
briefed the leaders of Congress and
Obama and the is like let's like let's
all put out a statement condemning
Russia for doing this just so that like
people know that it's going on and and
McConnell's like no like he's like I'm
not gonna I'm not signing on to any
joint statement with you I think it was
his sticking point was like you're not
allowed to say that they want to help
Trump win like I'll be like Russia don't
interfere but you're not allowed to
actually tell the truth about what's
happening so he so he refuses he refuses
to sort of be the Republican signing
onto the statement condemning Russian
interference so he at that point is on
board or is that that's all part of his
like I'm gonna see how this shakes out
yes I don't have to take any position
that will yeah will like sort of commit
me to being on any side of this ledger
yeah cuz he's worried in Kentucky right
theoretically of of like a primary at
one point - yes yeah I mean a couple
years ago he almost he actually in the
end he won handily but he was so unlike
t' by the base that you know there was a
lot of energy around finding someone to
primary him they would say people forget
the mcconnell like if you listen to mark
levin or any of those people on
right-wing radio at that time mcconnell
was demonized yeah by them oh yeah big
time yeah I mean it's always been crazy
because he's you know he's by far the
most effective Republican politician of
the modern era like in terms of
achieving conservative ends and in terms
of consolidating Republican power I
don't think you can point to anyone else
who has been as effective as him but
they hate him because they know he's not
actually in his heart a true believing
conservative he you know he began his
career basically as a quasi Rockefeller
Republican which I sort of have come to
believe was purely strategic and not out
of any sort of actual belief in like
moderation cuz you know was this it was
a sixties and seventies and you could
still sort of believe that was the way
forward for but the the the day Reagan
gets elected he's suddenly he's a Reagan
conservative and they know they know he
doesn't actually believe it he was never
like one of the
sort of young fire-breathing ultra
right-wingers but so then you know they
didn't trust him but it would also this
thing where I think during the Obama
year if they were just so mad that Obama
was in office at any Republican who was
in office was like blamed for not from
allowing that to happen right so
McConnell is stymieing Obama at every
turn but it's still like you let this
man be President like why aren't you
doing right why aren't you arresting him
for being on American citizen yeah um so
what so does McConnell just to have no
like I mean cuz he's putting on an
incredibly yeah he's not just like like
he's not going for the record of how
many judges get a get a seated during a
term of a president he these are hard
core right wingers yeah yeah you know
folks who think Social Security was like
the day that we went communist in this
country that folks who think that I mean
this is people make jokes about a
handmaidens tale but like yeah you know
so does he care about that or is it just
like he wants to leave a mark on this
country and he doesn't really care what
the mark is it just knows that this is
gonna cut deep I think if his personal
ambition is primarily to have left a
mark to have been an influential and
important person but I think that with
the with the ideology of sort of people
who's putting on the bench like so
McConnell he used to be he used to be
pro-choice he used to not care about any
of that stuff I think the social
conservative ISM is partly just a
political strategy but I think that he
has the sort of oligarchic like because
what he sort of started off caring about
was campaign finance and specifically
about helping rich people help him get
elected and I think that that actually
sort of became the driving principle was
this sort of cycle like reinforcing
itself where like he the rich get to
influence elections to help people who
help the rich get elected in perpetuity
and sort of and I think that the real
the real point of these conservative
judges is to to dismantle the regulatory
straight and sort of prevent a new deal
from ever happening
and I think that sort of the all the
stuff the evangelicals care about is
sort of like just like a bonus for them
but it's like the the real project is
just oh that's interesting that's my
that's my sort of feeling of what that
makes a lot of sense so just like having
the he has one issue set in terms of the
regulatory state which makes sense
coming from Kentucky right yeah he
doesn't want you know let's we should be
doing every we should have coal cars yes
and he's been you know back back when
there were back before they all sort of
consolidated tobacco was a big backer of
him and and but coals always been like
you know it's a huge huge part of his
campaign war chest has been coal and
like so he and he came from he came from
I mean that's the story the Republican
Party yeah isn't it right I mean on many
respects it's like the the the primary
agenda is to rollback the regulatory
state in any fashion and the support
that the government gives to people
generally I mean more specific he likes
some specific support or narrow
narrowly tailored to wealthy people but
and everything else is just sort of like
our barnacles to them that are
irrelevant but also bring along a lot of
support yeah yeah and the I think to
like they know I think McConnell knows
and this is actually another reason why
he might not be that popular among the
base McConnell knows and has always
known that his agenda is extremely
unpopular and this is why his number one
move is to sort of hide in the
background and fade into the wallpaper
because he knows he knows he is not
personally likable he is not charismatic
he is always won elections because he
has outraised his opponent at first was
cuz he was outraged his opponent and
then now it's more because Kentucky
politically has become a lot more
conservative but uh and so the the the
point of the judiciary is to prevent
small D democracy is to circumvent it
and that's that's been I think that's
been the project basically since they
realized they were good it was a lot
harder for them to win national
elections well why do you think the
Democrats have never liked running
Mitch McConnell and the way that the
Republicans run against Nancy Pelosi
I mean well also the Democrats always
assume the electorate they're looking
for is like half Republican right like
they always assume that the the people
they need to win over are ones who
secretly in their heart of hearts want
to vote for the Republican but need to
be convinced to vote for the Democrat so
like they don't and and you know
McConnell - I mean Democrats don't
believe in villainizing people they
really really really don't believe in
villainizing people and so you know he
he really is allowed I guess to get away
with so much related question why do you
think it is that McConnell has made his
career pandering to the most extreme
reactionary elements of the base of the
Republican Party and telling them you
can have everything you want and been
very successful in that whereas the
Democrats do not seem to have that
strategy on the Left well we know the
Democrats like this is a cliche in
politics at this point but Republicans
are scared of their base and Democrats
sort of hate their base which is like
that'sthat's the cliche and they're the
the incentives are just so wildly
different because the media ecosystem is
so different especially now like Murdoch
really really like Murdoch can talk
radio completely changed right the way
Republicans relate to their own base and
Democrats don't have like I mean because
so many of them still they like getting
their news from CNN and NPR like no one
is pushing them to be like demand more
of your Democratic representatives right
I think they might be a little scared of
their base - I mean there they are
they're coming they're becoming a little
bit more scared to their base now but
that's a very recent development at
least their potential base as well yeah
I think that's true I mean I think
that's what like a Oh see that's what
the d-triple-c that's what the memory of
the d-triple-c thing exactly the
d-triple-c thing is the d-triple-c and i
think we mentioned this when they
announced this policy and they
supposedly had this policy it was like
an unofficial it was an unofficial
policy which is if you go after
if you are a contractor you have a
political shop or you're fundraising or
your pollster you make yeah pollster you
make signs political signs or whatever
it is and you work for a primary
challenger any Democratic into any
Democratic incumbent they will not give
you they won't give you work the work oh
yeah there you won't get you won't get
to work for any other campaigns and all
these consultants basically rely on the
d-triple-c and other organizations to
find work every election so and that
just the idea that they're putting it
out there is just meant to have a
chilling effect yes and and I guess the
real question is like part of the
problem is if it's not if the if the
Republican if the are CC or whatever it
is had done the same thing everybody
like that's fine because the Koch
brothers yeah that's that's the other
thing to it so the incentives matter to
in terms of the money and so McConnell
his whole deal but starting from the
second day I'd like to the Senate was
campaign finance reform but he would do
it in this way where it was originally
because campaign finance reform II used
to be quote-unquote bipartisan everyone
agreed we should find a way to limit
money in politics and then that was
actually it was like it was a Howard
Schultz thing it was like well we all
agree this is a problem and we just
described in the solutions so
McConnell's game for like the first
decade of his career was just deciding
what sort of campaign finance
regulations he supported based on what
he thought would be helpful to
Republicans and what would harm
Democrats but as everything sort of got
rolled back and as income inequality
meant that the rich were getting richer
and richer and they were using their
money to more directly involves the
politics he just sort of came to be like
well you know I guess we shouldn't have
restrictions because there's just like
more more money just helps our side
because it used to be sort of arguable
with when unions were more powerful that
right we're more spending could be
beneficial to Democrats but like now
it's like clearly money's on the side of
Republicans but he also sort of when he
did when he did support some
restrictions it was out of this
establishment Republican belief that we
can't just let the rich people sort of
dictate everything because you know we
need to make sure we need to
keep these things of the party
institutions we need to make keep them
giving to our party institution so we
have some control over it like they
don't actually do they don't love having
to like dance for at what the cokes and
the Mercer course not they don't they
don't write because they're all for
their I'll have their own ego they all
their own yeah they all have their own
you know specific agendas of how to do
evil things yeah so yeah people can
argue that's where you do have that
agreement like we all agree that this is
not a problem we just need to figure out
how to avoid dealing with it in our own
you we all want to take food out of
children right exactly question is how
do we get there right how do we start
the people right we all agree we should
starve the people how do we do Donald
Howard Schultz um in this room what is
this video now Megan McCain had a real
problem standing up for Mitch McConnell
so Adam Parkhomenko who was ready for
Hillary Fame found a video of Mitch
McConnell stumbling and posted it and
Megan McCain then defended Mitch
McConnell so do you want to watch the
video of him stumbling I mean I think we
should yeah if we probably just for full
context
[Applause]
[Music]
adding the music maybe a bit
kearneysville there you go and megan
mccain found that video too Mitch
McConnell had polio as a child and his
leg is partly paralyzed because of it
again where is our empathy and
compassion fight him on policy if you
disagree with him but this is just gross
and heartless and I mean I think you
know public figures get made fun of and
I think that's it's not being big I have
a feeling like denying hundreds of
thousands if not millions of people
health insurance a little bit more gross
you know where these are air people
losing health insurance to making fun of
Mitch McConnell falling and that's
really scary
Parko is funny he's like his apartment
he says I mean he's a complete psycho he
is like but he was he was Clinton he was
Hillary Clinton he had some title I
started ready for Hillary started ready
for Hillary in his title and the
campaign was like great like head of
grassroots or something yes but he's one
of those he's one of those people who
believes like a almost like a David
Brock type where he's one of the people
who believes we got a fight as dirty as
they do but their way of doing it it's
just so confusing never like for
anything so he's like for him he's like
this is you know I'm fighting dirty just
like they do and it's like here's a
video of Mitch McConnell falling over
they set up secret research and
laundered false information through the
New York Times in response like a muppet
trying to be mean or something all right
yeah well listen we got to take a break
we come back dave pelman do you want to
stick around we're gonna
