[Music]
this is an awkward transition but it is
what it is
Donald Trump CPAC speech from last week
was a reminder that he still can be
funny
and he is you know I don't know people
always say he's losing and I don't I
mean did he ever have it you never had
it yeah
one of my favorite moments in this
speech was a pretty dead-on
impersonation of Jeff set it was it was
sort of 50% good personation
impersonation and 50% like what every
schmuck from like New York or
Massachusetts thinks all southerners
sound like it's funny in its own way so
but it's especially funny given some
history will give yeah we're gonna get
it right so this is not just funny in
and of itself there's a there's a little
bit of a a little bit history of this
note I myself with this man tonight I
might be telling you how myself all
right check it out the Attorney General
says I'm gonna recuse myself and I said
why the hell didn't he tell me that
before I put him in can you just give it
to me over time please I was crying in
the office this morning the Attorney
General said I'm gonna recuse myself and
I said why the hell didn't he tell me
that before I put him in how do you
reduce yourself I love how it's Trump
this is how this is how people this is
how toxic personality set the stage for
themselves right because we're gonna get
into how he told on himself in a second
but like it's just skirted over at this
point because we've already heard Trump
say like so many things like this that
it's like his actual complaint there is
he should have told me that he wasn't
gonna cover criminal investigations
against me and he didn't promise
complete immunity that he would have my
back in cover-ups I would have never
given him that job I thought it was
understood yeah this is death
only a moment for an Obama like of Eric
Holder didn't say that he was gonna
cover my back and every goddamn thing
incidentally that's exactly how Michael
Cohen describes how the Trump org
operates like you don't think he hasn't
explicitly asked for things he just like
hires you with the expectation that you
know what his expectations are it's the
expectation so if you recall Jeff Bob
Woodward put out a book I don't remember
the name of it several months ago
whatever it wasn't it wasn't yet don't
buy it and if you're and still Michael
Wolfe if you're looking for like the
trashy dishy Trump gossip book Michael
Wolfe that book is great but apparently
part of this Woodward book was a lot of
reporting that Trump called like Jeff
Sessions an idiot or something like that
and mocked his intelligence and blah
blah blah all stuff that sounded like
not only believable but just like sort
of like sky is blue type of statements
and Trump tweeted this out September 4th
2018 I thought I already credited that I
already discredited Woodward book so
many lies and phony sources has me
calling Jeff Sessions quote mentally
 and quote-unquote a dumb
southerner I said neither never used
those terms on anyone including Jeff
being a southerner is and if you're
listening to this great all the gaps
it's a great thing he made this up to
divide maybe we should play that
impression one more time or did or did
he read the Woodward lies about him and
think to himself you know what maybe I
should do a Jeff Sessions impression I
didn't say that but it is a good I
didn't say that now but that is a good
premise the Attorney General says I'm
gonna recuse myself
and I said why the hell didn't he tell
me that before I put him in what L did
he tell him that before but a man she
Barack Obama in one week David Axelrod
went to jail for tax evasion his lead
counsel is testifying to Congress about
perjuring himself on his behalf before
going to jail and then he had photos
taken with a woman who probably been
trafficking right that's how that that
of course the primary narrative there is
the racial difference in the time' he
see Coates essay on the first white
president with donald trump is worth
reading but there's also just like how
totally toxic personalities reset the
boundaries for themselves like that's
the thing well of course I did that so
like Cindy yang yeah of course I like
Cindy yang what's oh because she's an
agent businesswomen we can't do work
with her totally unfair
