and and the problem is of course is that
the media and the establishment of of
this country really has a hard time with
the reflexive desire to fire something
at somebody if there is any opportunity
it's it's the responsible thing to do we
saw this with Syria where I personally
was on television with the half a dozen
people of all political persuasions all
saying the exact same thing we need to
have a strike on Syria and some of them
would be like and then come up with a
plan as to how we're going to deal with
this the the one area where they'll
trust Donald Trump apparently is just in
war making which is absurd Bernie
Sanders was on Face the Nation this
weekend and came right up against that
sort of knee-jerk sense of like well
wait a second the most responsible thing
is to have at least a strike right I
mean we have to have to launch something
was president Trump's decision this week
to call off that strike the right one
see it's like somebody setting a fire to
a basket full of paper and then putting
it out he helped create the crisis and
then he stopped the attacks the idea
that we're looking at a President of the
United States who number one thinks that
a war with Iran is something that might
be good for this country he was just
doing a limited strike well just a
limited scope well I'm sorry I just
didn't know that it's okay to simply
attack another country with bombs just a
limited that's an act of warfare that's
the best clip of the whole campaign
season it is amazing I mean he's clearly
you know Bernie Sanders goes in there
with a sense of like the gravity of that
moment I and I don't think that he's the
only one out there although you don't
see many examples of this frankly where
the flow
it's just a limited strike when Donald
Trump can at least pretend that he cares
about 150 lives more than you can you
know you have a problem but that's the
thing is that that the there is a and it
has been like this for decades maybe it
was like this beforehand although I I
don't know where to be taken seriously
within this the mainstream media and I
guess the mainstream circles you need to
just pretend that it's like a visit to a
grocery store or something that it's
nothing nevermind the fact that it would
like be like lighting a match in a
roomful of gasoline fumes but the
limited it's just a limited strike
extraordinaire not a full-on war take a
strike away it's not us I mean she
didn't even do the like sort of like hey
let me let me he's about to attack his
opponent let me encourage that which
they like to do as well like how do you
mean incompetent how do you mean he said
a bunch of papers on fire it was more
like Walsh he said limited Bernie not
just a live all bombs yeah it's like we
did in Afghanistan it was nothing
