[Music]
let's finish this fox tour with a little
bit of a respite because our friends
know Miki Const who is of course
candidate for New York City public
advocate is on with Tucker Carlson and
this is actually she she's doing what I
said this is exactly what you need to do
with Tucker
yeah Tucker you're talking about some
things that are real so what about
reclaiming money from the oligarchs and
creating a green new deal check about
individual choices are not going to
solve the disaster that we are facing we
already have a migration issue we
already have flooding we already have
heard news like that have hit Puerto
Rico have hit have hit New Orleans have
hit Florida and has displaced so many
working people this is an industry
change we have to cap emissions globally
but I'm gonna be damned admissions the
industries and policy then those
individual choices mean nothing
hold on individual choices always mean
something libertarian I'm not living in
a fantasy world in real life individual
choices matter or else what's the point
of any of this okay so it does start
with liberals used to say it starts with
one person I guess they don't anymore
because they don't want to be held to
their own standards but the solutions
are always like ordinary is that a thing
it starts with one person I don't
remember that it's I don't know I don't
remember that must have been I probably
Tucker was that a ring that Adam Smith
Jerry Garcia think people ought to pay
higher gas tax not at all and actually
we are against that progressives versus
the neoliberals and neo-cons
progressives understand that this needs
to be a huge policy change with a place
where we are right now if we increase
the temperature one degree you and I
won't be living in DC and New York
anymore no no I want to see okay I want
to talk about the public policy
solutions that will flow from the
predictions that you're making is there
any solution you've ever heard of that
doesn't increase the price of energy
I've never heard of one well okay so if
you're gonna be focused on the price of
energy
in ten years I wanted to know the
solutions a solution would be a green
new deal moving to a hundred percent
renewable energy forcing the companies
that are jacking up the prices on
working people to actually reduce their
emissions so that working people aren't
displaced so working people that are
contained an industry that has your lean
water and the water is not being
privatized volume is not the same as an
argument
okay so just really simple question you
know like you want to do he does the
same Bunji nothing I live with all right
I live with broads I hear them a pig
kids all day but about yeah the in terms
of the price of energy I think
accurately accounting for fossil fuels
externalities is why fossil like energy
prices are going to go a hundred percent
and also secondly where no and this is a
huge division
McCrone just folded on his regressive
attack on working people because of mass
protests no we are not going to tackle
the global environmental and energy
crisis by austerity it won't solve the
problem anyways and a little crease
human suffering what we're going to do
is nationalize fossil fuel companies
what we're going to do is build
incredible public transportation
networks what we're going to do is
reclaim and redistribute the money
that's still being generated to invest
in those new projects like as an example
if you did you know a cap-and-trade
system but instead of privatizing it you
realize that in fact you're extracting
from the Commons to pollute the Commons
so while that is happening is we rapidly
transition off of it
the money that is being generated from
it should be taxed into a Commons fund
to be invested in regrowing forests
cleaning up oceans rapidly deploying
renewable energies and building
sustainable transportation networks
those are the actual solutions that no
Miki and real people are talking about I
also to say like I think
we all know like I have a black friend
doesn't work and I'm gonna say like I
have a wife is even weaker you know most
people including like almost all
misogynists at least aspire to have a
wife so I don't know what point you're
proving here the out of here
all right also women can have
internalized misogyny ideas too this is
how ideas where anybody can hold racist
ideas even people who are sort of that
racist ruther idea to rate these are
ideas ideas have consequences and on a
much different note a obscure white
nationalist who I've never heard of
named Mark Collett is a BNP guy who is a
BNP British National Party which is a
thug fascist heirs to the brown shirts
in the UK you know loathesome group yeah
let's do a little background he was in a
a Channel 4 documentary about Nazis in
the UK and he was one of the quotes
let's see honestly now would you prefer
basically said like if you look at inner
cities you would say that the Nazis
actually had a good idea so that's this
guy so that's this guy
and unlike no michi he does not confuse
volume with argument and that of course
makes him appreciate Tucker Carlson's
work and I've seen took a course and use
the term white genocide and when I first
started using it I remember some of the
people closest to me saying you can't
use that you can't use that and so
there's actually truth it's what's
actually happening and I you know read
them Lee the UN document and you know
they were forced into agreeing but this
list I think you're gonna scare people
off I think you're going too far but I
disagree I disagreed then and I'm very
proud that myself and others who have
used that term have managed to influence
the mainstream media and people like
took a Carlson into using that term but
that's what sets people like took her
apart from people like night
so I don't know you have it here I'm at
read the quote that he's referring to or
we have it suck we have the Tucker video
that he's referring to of course
Tucker is regularly praised by websites
like storm front for acting and
disseminating Nazi talking points but
usually he's very savvy about the kind
of broader plausible deniability but
here he is stepping over like it's from
October first overtly into that
territory Kirk's former bush campaign
strategist and ABC News political
analyst Matthew dad went further than
that he published an op-ed demanding
that quote white male Christians vacate
their positions of power for other
people he's not doing that himself but
he did not notably advocate for genocide
a Georgetown professor called Christina
fair did you already recently tweeted
this quote look at this chorus of
entitled white men justifying a serial
rapists arrogated entitlement all of
them deserve miserable deaths while
feminists laugh as they take their last
gasps bonus we castrate their corpses
and feed them to swine yes
Georgetown has issued a statement
defending fair source they have Marjorie
Clifton as the founder of clip okay so I
mean look you know that's I would say
he's still in the realm of plausible
deniability there in some ways this
guy's using he's using what Tucker's
pointing to and taking across the finish
line a little bit Colette oh well that's
how it works that's how that's how the
whole thing works I mean that's that's
what Tucker's doing literally every
night secret message received
yeah on daily stormer Tucker is
absolutely lapping everyone else on Fox
News he has been featured in 265 daily
stormer articles between November 26
November 2016 and November 2018 and far
behind him Hannity with 27 Ingram with
four include jobs it would expect to
damned Ingram Cyrus T for it - yeah
come on guys don't be ain't so
misogynist harrassing that's misogyny is
a ceiling on Ingram's career
