[Music]
this tomorrow obviously because I
believe this testimony is happening now
Joseph Maguire who's the National
Intelligence director basically is
testifying today and you know
essentially what he's saying is is that
the Trump administration put out the
transcript of this call and so therefore
I am going to speak freely on it I don't
know you know Joseph Maguire is not a
figure I'm particularly familiar with I
don't know about this institutional you
know sort of machinations of this I will
just caution in general and this is
dissipated a bit but in the beginning
there was a huge amount of you know very
active fantasy life about the
intelligence apparatus saving us from
Donald Trump and I would you know point
everybody to reporting that you know
Donald Trump went to CIA headquarters in
the beginning of his administration very
early on he gave an extraordinarily
bizarre speech everybody thought it was
funny and you know some resistance
people went really overboard and sort of
you know a lot of lot of CIA jokes will
save us say CIA will save us jokes and
memes and sincere you know gnashing of
teeth and actually what happened after
the bizarre speech was that pretty much
Donald Trump told them like anything
like there were no you know the the
gardening gloves that you had on or off
you can do whatever you want with drones
and so on so you know we've seen him the
intelligence and defense apparatus is
extraordinarily happy under Donald Trump
so that is important to remember even if
some people are you know individually
and or even institutionally concerned
about how erratic he is and so on so I
do want to sort of caution that I don't
know what the mechanisms are but
apparently director McGuire has you know
has basically said look I'm gonna say
you know what I have to say so we'll see
how this testimony plays out here's his
opening statement
it's 26th
the Inspector General forwarded to
complain to me from an employee in the
intelligence community the inspector
general stated that the complaint raised
an urgent concern a legally defined term
under Whistleblower Protection Act that
has been discussed at length and our
letters to the committee on September 16
and 17 before I turn to the discussion
about whether the complaint meets the
definition of urgent concern I first
want to talk about an even more
fundamental issue upon reviewing the
complaint we were immediately struck by
the fact that many of the allegations of
the complaint are based on a
conversation between the President and
another foreign leader such calls are
typically subject to executive privilege
as a result we consulted with the White
House counsel's office and we're advised
that much of the information the
complaint was in fact subject to
executive privilege a privilege that I
do not have the authority to waive
because of that we were unable to
immediately share the details of the
complaint with this committee but
continue to consult with the White House
counsel's in an effort to do so
yesterday the president released the
transcripts of the call in question and
therefore we are now able to disclose
the details of both complaint and the
Inspector General's letter transmitting
to us as a result I have provided the
House and Senate intelligence committees
with the full unredacted complaint as
well as the inspected journals letter
all right so there you have it we'll see
how it plays we're getting worse looking
a lot of complain
