this week seers after a long well I
guess maybe not that long but it's
certainly a precipitous decline over the
past less than a decade filed for
bankruptcy and the easy I think
Fasil explanation is that they just
couldn't compete in this day and age of
the internet but that's not nearly the
most accurate story is it know what's
true is that the retail marketplace has
changed a lot in in recent years but
this is an industry that is constantly
facing disruption of one kind or another
and that has learned to deal with
disruption so for example every time we
have a recession this is a problem for
anybody who's involved in retail because
you don't need a new dress you don't
need a new suit you you buy as little as
possible of things and just make do if
you're worried about your job and
certainly if you've lost your job become
unemployed you you don't have the
ability to spend so so periodically
retailers face that kind of disruption
they face disruption from changing
styles the there is of course a lot of
change in the marketplace the question
is why a company like Sears as big as
successful as engraved in the in the
memories of everybody who grew up in the
u.s. why it was unable to respond and
for that I think you have to look to the
fact that they were owned and managed
and run by a hedge fund that had little
interest in Sears succeeding more
interest in lining their own pockets
now Eileen okay and we should say also
and when we talk about Sears it's not
like Sears is not familiar with the idea
of people not coming into the stores to
buy things they they invented the notion
practically of if not invented the
notion of of ordering remotely and
having it
shipped to you but let's put that aside
for a moment conceptually speaking and I
think this is difficult for people to
understand because we have seen this
story though now increasingly we've
certainly seen it in the past we start
with Toys R Us we start with anchor
hockey we saw it with I think Sports
Authority what we what we have
conceptually and I want you to walk us
through it and tell us who the players
are but it tell me if this
characterization conceptually makes
sense
there is a quality to when when the CEO
and when the hedge fund essentially
marries with Sears by Sears and gets
into a union with them it's as if they
know they're gonna get divorced seven
eight years down the road right when the
kids go to college we're going to get
divorced and what they do is they start
basically bleeding the the the household
income of money and burying it in the
backyard and by the end of this thing
the the marriage as an entity has a lot
of debt they've hidden the money in the
backyard then they walk away essentially
that's that's what we're looking at here
right well I think that's a very very
good analogy that in fact whenever these
companies are bought by private equity
they're they're intended to be sold in
just a few years this story is has it
has its own little twist to it because
Sears remained a publicly traded company
and Edward Lampard and ESL his hedge
fund
what hedge funds do is they take over
they take over the control of publicly
traded companies and so if the share
price goes up they're happy to continue
holding it if the share price goes down
and they have other ways of making money
which in this case they clearly did then
they're happy to do it that way I will
say that Edward Lampert and AFL his
hedge fund adopted a lot a lot of the
practices that you see with private
equity taking resources out of the
company owning more than half of it so
that they could actually dictate and
this was in some ways even more extreme
because Edward Lampert not only is the
founder of the hedge fund that what up
all of theirs brought up so much
of their stock but he became the CEOs
ears he became the chairman of the board
of directors of Sears he is a head of
the trust fund that that owns Sears he
lent them tons of money at which he he
led his father his hedge fund lent money
to Sears on which he and his hedge fund
are collecting interest payments and
situated themselves should there be a
bankruptcy to be in the catbird seat in
terms of figuring out who gets paid in
the bankruptcy and who takes the losses
so he has covered every base there is
and so all right and so and just so
people understand we have a situation I
mean I think the first inclination of
most people is to assume Oh someone is a
CEO of a company and they own if not the
majority of the stock a pluralistic aliy
you know largest amount of the stock
they of course want that company to
succeed but he extracted so much wealth
out of this and and just to be clear on
this bankruptcy thing as the son of a
bankruptcy attorney when when when a
company goes into bankruptcy there is a
hierarchy of creditors of people who are
owed money who get paid first he made
sure because he was on both ends of the
deal that in and the event of a
bankruptcy and I'm not convinced from
the story that he didn't know that a
bankruptcy was inevitable in fact drove
the company towards this that he would
get paid first and way down on the list
are of course obviously the workers who
would lose their jobs but those people
who had deferred their compensation in
the form of a pension who are going to
get screwed on this as well all right so
let's talk first about the the the first
thing that Lampert did with the SL but
in terms of the real estate because this
is one way that they basically stripped
a huge asset that in a bankruptcy would
be one of the first things that would
generate the revenue to pay off
creditors how did they basically like
pull that real estate value out of the
company so you are absolutely right at
this point this is 2015 and
he already knows that Sears is not going
to survive everybody knew in 2011 that
it was on the ropes by 2015 he already
knew this and what he did is he took a
bunch of Sears stores including some of
their most valuable properties and sold
the real estate to a real estate
investment trust which his hedge fund
had set up so this is like ridiculous he
sets up a publicly traded real estate
investment trust sells the real estate
on many many of the Sears stores
hundreds of the Sears stores including
some of their most valuable real estate
to this real estate investment trust he
signs a contractor has Cirrus I know
he's the CEO so he signs a contract with
the real estate investment trust for the
rest they're going to pay which are high
rents with a built in accelerator every
year they're going to go up by a certain
percent for the stores that he keeps
open they are paying the real estate
investment trust money Brent but there
are other stores in prime locations that
he closes and then the real estate
investment trusts because they are no
longer getting rent from Sears now and
they own the real estate they then sell
that really sorry use that real estate
for different kinds of development
projects so putting up condos in Long
Island which they're going to rent and
which is going to be a very profitable
thing for them I'm setting yeah well I
I'm just you know I'm hearing this story
and I also have some questions about how
they valued that real estate I imagine
that on the the the spectrum of whether
it was undervalued or overvalued I have
a feeling when when Lampert sold this
property essentially to himself but just
basically created a firewall between the
failing company the the entity that he
was part of that was failing sold it to
the one that was you know gonna going to
keep those assets I wonder if he got the
highest market rate when he sold it to
him
self my guess is no but we've got to
take a break when we come back I want to
I want to hear more about the real
estate transaction but I also want to
hear about their selling off of a Sears
Canada and apparently doing the same
thing to the Canadian branch and all the
other ways that Lampert was doing what
what appears to be I mean it's perfectly
legal now but it's it looks you know
conceptually like embezzlement we got to
take a quick break we'll be right back
after this I'm Sam cedar this is ring of
fire radio
