[Music]
so Bernie Sanders came out with a
massive criminal justice reform bill
it's six thousand word proposal it
includes banning cash bail
solitary confinement and civil asset
torture it calls for legalization of
marijuana abolishing the death penalty
it would create legal safe injection
sites where people can use illegal drugs
under medical supervision
it requires the Attorney General to
investigate every time a person is
killed in police custody we don't even
have stats there's no entity in the
country that keeps stats other than a
couple of journalists have done it you
understand there's no official count of
how many people died in police custody
in the country seems like a good metric
to keep it up that seems like a early
start it would establish a prisoner Bill
of Rights create a civilian Corp of
unarmed first responders to deal with
mental health emergencies and boost
funding for public defenders that is
pretty comprehensive ends the three
strike laws which are horrible expand
use of sentencing alternatives ends
mandatory sentencing minimums and here
is how they will deal with this on Fox
News his campaign Andy says that all of
this is designed to root out
institutional racism and corporate
profiteering what do you think of its
play it yeah well you know it's a funny
thing I worked in the justice system for
a long time I think it's it may be the
least racist system that we have in the
country if that's possible you know
we're a country that's done a lot to try
to root out if that's possible
there's so many less
there's so many completely non racist
institutions in this country that it's
it's Alma it would be hard to find one
that's let that is that is less but it's
blessed it's like I stopped himself from
implying that America surrounded like a
float in racists is like you know at
least are we higher do we know who this
Andy McCarthy is what did this guy used
to do former US Attorney in what
district fascinated by where this guy
could actually there he goes
Sdn why we only dealt with Wall Street
we never we didn't care what color you
were when you worked on when you worked
on Wall Street we were still gonna go
after you could be of any background and
we'd let you plead out policing the
industries that are structurally white
exactly you know the honor that I had
when in my first twenty years of
prosecuting Wall Street I let my first
black executive off for insider trading
maybe the least racist system that we
have in the country if that's possible
you know we're a country that's done a
lot to try to root out racism because of
our prior prior history yeah you'll
recall that part of the the those moves
to raid out racism would be things like
preclearance for voting and whatnot that
we got rid of here we go you get a
little bit more here maybe the least
racist system that we have in the
country if that's possible you know
we're a country that's done a lot to try
to root out racism because of our prior
history of it but you know if you've
been in the criminal justice system its
dominated for the most part by judges
and lawyers who are products of
left-leaning educational institutions
who don't have you know there's a lot of
things you can say about them but the
you know the idea that they're racist is
absurd and the the idea that they would
be presiding over a system that was
endemically racist is equally absurd the
fact of the matter is we have a lower
prison population and particularly a
federal prison population than we had in
years and most of the provisions that he
wants to take out such as for example
mandatory minimums in the 60s and 70s
when we had you know tremendous crime in
this country we didn't have mandatory
minimum provisions and it was judges who
determined sentences unilaterally this
guy man he's gonna argue that mandatory
in America you've got to be kidding
weigh in on what the sentences should be
for serious crime takes out this line of
representatives in Congress if you
repeal them then it's not the public
that decides what the sentence has to be
it's the judges and the judges
institutionally academically by way of
background tend to be much more lean
left-leaning and much more insulated
from the communities where there is no
rhyme than average Americans deposits I
mean this is stunning first of all he's
saying you want to take the sentencing
out of the judges hands so that they
cannot contemplate or even look at like
hey wait a second how come I look at
sociological studies that say whites and
blacks smoke pot at the same rate but
80% of the people show up in front of me
are black it's because the poll the the
the cops are bringing in more black
people for the for the same crimes that
white people are not brought in for the
judge has no latitude and they get the
sentencing
I mean it's so disingenuous stunning
well typical but Bernie's proposal very
very robust now this guy was previously
smearing Jamal khashoggi as a member of
the Muslim Brotherhood so Oh for the
National Review there you go a National
Review guy oh yes that and Andrew
McCarthy yeah you can't forget it
look how Obama embraces Islam Sharia
agenda
well that's true to us he did a good job
by that but he should have talked about
whether don't ever talk about the black
I have learned right what about Shannon
but if you talk to you said to birdie
you want to do that but there's but
we've got a little black we've got more
Puerto Ricans owning bars they before I
do it out there and I said oh ah give me
some can we sit optimism here's where I
gave her optimism my god it's like he's
a Chinese buffet okay eat all the
optimism you can want and then half hour
you're like I'm still hungry I still
want the optimism but you know what they
said it was an all-you-can-eat and so I
didn't stop as a fiduciary contract my
they didn't even shake his I still ate
it and it was good my tie there's a
funny word by tie my tight is that
massager I like a drink babe I could go
both my times with my tack have all the
bytes hire you to have another vacation
all right here's Ainsley an Earhart on
Fox his leg
