joining us now man about town dr. Eric
Alterman whose piece in The New Yorker
magazine the decline of historical
thinking appropriately came out in
February so it is in in in today's media
environment not timely because it's
almost a six weeks ago but of course it
talks about this dynamic Eric welcome to
the program thank you except it's like
ten weeks ago ten weeks ago well I mean
that's part of maybe why there's been
such a decline in historical thinking is
that our ability to to measure time as
also all right well let's let's talk
about this I mean maybe it is my own age
and you know working with people who are
younger than I that makes this seem so
pronounced to me although I will concede
that 25 years ago I remember having
conversations with people who were my
age the age I am now about the lack of
history and it just seems like it it's
progressing first tell us how we know
that the decline of historical that
historical thinking is declining well
this piece had a specific focus which
was the fact that with the exception of
the most selective of Ivy League schools
it's not even true most of these but
with the exception of Harvard actually
Yale it's the biggest exception Yale
Princeton Columbia I think it's also
true of Harvard although I couldn't say
for sure there's been a fantastic
decline in the number of students
majoring in history
and yet these other schools is very top
elite schools have histories booming in
those places and there's a few
explanations for it the most obvious
explanation is that young people
day dating back to the 2008 financial
crisis which is the first class to see
this decline beginning would have been
the class that were freshmen during that
crisis they don't feel like they have
the luxury of studying history of
studying really any humanities in
history being the one that has fallen
most pronunce Italy and the people who
do I could yell it's because they don't
have to worry about getting jobs they'll
get whatever jobs they want because they
went to Yale and it doesn't matter what
they study but everyone else almost
everyone else is is worried right from
the get-go right from the moment they
get their high school diploma about
making their college education pay and
as a result history departments are in
decline everywhere there's well one of
the University of Wisconsin campuses did
away with its history department
entirely and and and and nobody really
knows what to do by there there are
things that could be done but it's hard
to say to people don't worry about your
future everybody's worried about the
future
so so this is a manifestation I think of
the economic and security that is
touching just about everyone so all
right so that raises two points one is
that history as a an academic discipline
could be a canary in the coal mine for a
whole host of academic pursuits that may
not be seen as economically viable and
then - and maybe we should take the
second one first is that there's
something about our culture in our
society today that would make history
that canary as opposed to I don't know
some other
academic discipline that may be
perceived as having more value just
intrinsically or or what do you think
about that second point well I think
those two points are inextricably linked
there's no question that as I said a lot
of students are worried about their
future and looking to do things that are
seen as having a better giving the
better but bang for your buck
there's tuition but it's also true that
universities are doing great in terms of
raising money in STEM science technology
engineering and mathematics and
basically not interested in trying to
raise money for the humanities which is
much much more difficult
Stanford is an MIT are the models in
this regard they are getting billions
and billions of dollars and these these
partnerships that they're creating with
their faculty and their guard citizens
are paying off in returning investments
that these schools get a pizza and you
know if David blight has just gotten a
Pulitzer Prize Yale historian for his
biography of Frederick Douglas among
other prizes yes I gotta make any money
from that so students will still there's
some students who will still want to
study with well-known historians who are
famous and write bestsellers but
actually the historical profession like
most humanities has gotten increasingly
specialized and most people don't
understand what's going on in there so
on the one hand all all humanities
faculty has grown into its own
vernacular and specialty and become less
and less interested in public discourse
and on the other hand stem science
technology engineering and math has
eaten up the budgets of these schools
because it's profitable and it's
profitable for the school's themselves
and it's profitable for the students
studying it so history really only has
work going
if you happen to be interested in
history now personally I think that's a
tragedy I majored in history as a PhD in
history and I don't think you can
understand the world without history I
think you know Donald Trump one of his
great successes is that he I mean he
he's told over 10,000 lines as president
but most people don't know which are the
lives in which are the truth because
they Trump will say anything at all
without regard to whether or not it's
true and most people are not able to
judge well and this has been a problem
you and I have talked about this over
time this is this was a problem with the
Republican Party in particular long
before Trump and with the whole
structure that supports the lives of the
Republican Party Fox News and Breitbart
Alex Jones and almost crazy people but
it's coming it's becoming something that
is it's reaching the kind of tipping
point in our public discourse kind of
the way global warming is reaching a
tipping point that the the public
discourse is so filled with nonsense and
much of it is a historical nonsense that
there's no way to just limit it there's
no way to get back to - all right well I
want to talk a little bit more about
that tipping point and what that means
but I just want to just go back for a
moment when you say that history
departments in history as a discipline
is becoming more insular and has no
interest in or has a diminished interest
in public discourse what do you mean by
that well I don't want to state this too
broadly because there are a lot of
historians who have taken up the
challenge of trying to bring history to
the public there's a group of Twitter
historians one in particular than Kevin
Cruz there's not in kind of famous here
hundreds of thousands a lot of followers
tens of thousands of followers he's
always beating up to Nestor Souza who's
always lying and and and there are
others who saw the problem and I've been
using Twitter and social media to try
and address it there's a there's a group
of people who I think even Crooks and
Liars you um yeah so so it
it's not 100% true but by and large if
you want to succeed if you want to get
tenure which is getting harder in order
to get you have to write a very
specialized kind of work and it's not
the kind of work that most people would
be able to just pick up and read because
it again it's written of course
specialised language it it it's it's a
conversation with other historians who
have done similar kinds of research and
it's not history written for a broad
public and those historians who do write
for a broad public are generally not
respected by other historians know it's
been a problem it is not this is true of
English professors of sociologists of
anthropologists it's not only true of
history but history was always something
that people understood to be something
that that everyone should know and now
that's not okay now everyone should know
economics and coding yes but not
necessarily history in numbers and will
go to college to get a broad education
have gone way way down and in is is that
a is that dynamic a function of almost
like an acceleration do you think and
this is maybe a slightly outside of your
portfolio but you are a thinker of many
things and you've seen not exactly do
you think that that dynamic and that
dynamic has always happened in academia
where you have the institutions of
various disciplines imposed their
standards on the next generation that
come up and you know sometimes that's
more problematic than others now it
seems particularly problematic and and I
wonder if that isn't a of the speed in
which information is coming at us and it
creating a sort of a wider generational
rift then then that
that is not time obviously hasn't
changed but the amount of information
and events that pass through that time
has increased I mean do you do you think
that that that that because of that
institutions are sort of at this moment
less apt in terms of keeping up with the
times I don't know I wouldn't say that's
the case I mean historians they do what
they do they may revise history they do
research and find new information and
recast it and rethink it and it's
complicated business this is very
complicated but what I'm saying
but I'm saying in terms of where the
rewards so like someone like Kevin Cruz
who is you know bringing history to the
masses through Twitter
maybe disincentivized by you know I'm
not talking I'm talking a Kevin Cruz
type of guy let's just say would not
what he's doing though it has is a
valuable asset to history as a
discipline and to society is not valued
by the history establishment you know
and I wonder if that it's always been
it's different now is that all the money
is going into stem and not into
humanities in nineteen three and tenure
is disappearing so that now the majority
of students in American universities
aren't taught by non-tenured faculty and
that's sitting worse so so the people
who are there the academic proletariat
that have to teach seven classes you
know it right now I teach it CUNY
I'm a professor CUNY and the Union is
fighting to try and get a faculty
adjunct faculty seven thousand dollars
per class which is not very much money
at all and now I getting it right now I
think they get under four thousand so
they're they have to take it so just to
me
$50,000 a year they have to teach 12
classes a year that's a lot of classes
and they're not in the same place you
have to travel from class to class you
know these are often to treat comes a
week so so they have no time to do
historical research they're just trying
to you know did is try feed themselves
and clothe themselves some of these
people end up living in their cars so
there is an enormous inequality in
academia and the the jobs are like you
know throwing a little bit of bread into
a pond of starving fish and at the
meantime stem faculties are growing and
there's all kinds of economic
opportunities if you're in that field to
branch out with various companies and
research monies and so forth and it's
just a lot more attractive everyone so
history departments which were very fat
for a while I mean prosperous for a
while like after beginning with in the
60s when Sputnik happened and and we
felt like we had to broaden our
educational base or our knowledge and
history was understood that something
was something everybody had to know that
that feeling is gone now and now
everything including college education
is seen as a hustle and there's very
little point in hustling in history
because the jobs are not there either
for potential faculty or for students
who study it unless again at the very
top of the elite have we ever I mean is
this unprecedented like the sort of the
I mean because let's assume this
continues right in in in to a certain
extent it seems to me to be a cycle like
a spiraling down right I mean a like the
it's hard to imagine a scenario at least
it's hard for me to imagine a scenario
where this where this where this changes
unless maybe we do have
like let's say I don't know student jet
Jubilees and you know broad-based free
college where there's a less cover risk
and investing in an education that is
not as guaranteed to be profitable you
know at its on its face but assuming we
had this piece gotten more reaction than
anything I've written in many years and
a lot of people were trying to figure
out what was to be done about and
somebody came up with the idea which I
thought was a great idea was to reduce
tuition for students who major in
humanities classes particularly history
because they the debt burden is part of
what they're concerned about right and
that's why they get to choose it but you
know Sam it's it's quite similar to
what's happening in the media that the
mainstream media are being hollowed out
particularly at the local level but
everywhere and we're getting and we're
getting enormous inequality of
information so that if you are a
well-to-do person and you can pay for
you know lots of different kinds of
sources and specialized sources you're
going to know more than any human being
has ever known in the past because
there's so much information available to
you
but if you're not if you're just a
harried person who grab who gets news on
that as a catch on is that on a
catch-as-catch-can
basis or if you're not even aware of
these sources because you're you're
basically getting your news from
Facebook and your friends then you're
going to be the kind of person who's
very susceptible to demagogues like
Donald Trump and Trump bats and it seems
to me that we're our educational system
is mirroring that hollowing out that
it's serving the very very top
beautifully and everybody else is kind
of on their own and and and and it's
creating well it's contributing to this
enormous distinction in our society I
wouldn't say it's a 1% in 99% I think
it's more like a 10% 90% so let's talk
about this dystopia
that we're headed into and even you know
with the absence of historical thinking
you don't have to divorce it from the
media but I imagine I mean what I mean
is it do we have a precedent for
something like this
in modern times where you know always
been there I quote as I often do Walter
Lippman from the 1920s saying that that
if we if we're not careful democracy can
easily be taken over by the terrorists
that jingo and the charlatans because
those are the people who were best able
to manipulate the public and that's why
it's so important to me Lippmann saw
himself as a gatekeeper to protect the
public from that note we've had
gatekeepers in the past and they did a
lousy job in a lot of ways but without
gatekeepers famous turned out to be much
worse
we didn't nobody understood that till we
saw first you know the internet and then
social media was followed on it and and
the enormous amount of nonsense and and
deliberate misinformation that has
flooded the system so history a history
degree is a it's a hedge against
technology you can read breitbart I mean
if you take Kevin clues to the example
of Kevin Cruz's argument with Dinesh
D'Souza over whether or not the
Democrats are the party of racism
compared to Republicans if you knew any
history you wouldn't you wouldn't have
to take D'Souza seriously right he's a
charlatan and he's pushing an
ideological line designed to support
Trump's racist policies uh Kevin Kevin
conducted kind of many seminars on
Twitter for people who had no knowledge
of that
but there's literally thousands of those
kinds of issues like one one thing I
mentioned there's no question that if
you look at immigration in the history
of the United States it's been a
fantastic thing you know it's one of the
reasons we
became the it is probably the main
reason that in our natural resources
well we became the wealthiest nation in
the world in so short a time back in the
1890s and and and we're we are fine
smiting ourselves fighting herself both
mining insulating ourselves by
destroying a pipeline that people wanted
to come here and study here and open a
business here and so forth and that's
the most obvious thing if you study to
the american history at all but if you
don't know that then your men you're
subject to Trump's lives and and racist
attacks on people who who look different
and speak different and can be blamed
for your problems well I guess we're
gonna see how far down the the the sort
of the dystopian whole we can go I guess
I I mean is there a way to I teach old
people for the Jewish Agency for
services created every Sunday morning
for an hour current events and they
always say this is the last week of the
semester and they always say say
something optimistic Eric don't leave us
like this and I never can
well I guess thank you for that Eric
hopefully I mean Lee at the very least
we have clarified one of the many
challenges that we face and I don't know
I mean I guess people should follow you
and Kevin Cruz on Twitter yeah more
Kevin than me all right fair enough
everyone my next book will be a history
of presidential line from George
Washington Donald Trump it's called
lying in state writing that came
upstairs put it down but I'm almost done
with it and I hope to show that were in
a much difference even though presidents
have lied forever
if you look at history you can see now
in a much different situation
well I look forward to that and we'll
have you back when that when that book
is out Eric Alterman thanks so much for
your time today
