[Music]
California has they're getting very very
close to this they have apparently
there's surplus there and they are going
to be as they deal with their budget
bill they're gonna be reinstituting the
mandate that used to be a federal
mandate and what its gonna mean is if
you do not have health insurance you
have to pay a tax however there is an
agreement a family of four earning more
than a hundred and fifty thousand
dollars and under it will also receive
subsidies will receive about $100 a
month from the government for their
monthly health insurance premium bills
it's not gonna make a huge dent because
premium bills for a family of four can
be seventeen hundred bucks bucks a month
up to but it's something and it will
also extend California's Medicaid
program to undocumented immigrants
between the ages of 19 and 25 so younger
folks I'll be it cheaper to cover then
older folks will be nice to get older
folks in there but this is ambitious for
a state to do it's covering this and
it's one of those things where Fox and
Friends covers this story by trying to
demonize immigrants and then they it's
like the what was the other couple of
things oh this this also was they had
the same problem with the billionaire
who gave the money to to the Howard
class of 2019 when they started root you
know ruminating they they were trying
again was Morehouse I think it was again
to stoke me with his Morehouse they were
trying to stoke
sort of like white nationalist fervor
and they were trying to do it by talking
about how this guy was like he got bus
to a white school and that's where what
gave him all his opportunities and
trying to promote how whites are
obviously clearly better than non-whites
but in fact actually promoting busing
because in schools because of the
schools and and here is they're trying
to sort of demonize immigrants and work
up a you know folks in a lather like
your tax dollars they're gonna go to
supporting health care for
twenty-year-old
undocumented immigrants who obviously
clearly came here before they're you
know old enough for they were adults and
then they sort of slide like slip off
the the rails a little bit and get
sucked down the drain of like imagining
a better America and don't really
realize that they've just presented a
vision that none of them would ever
endorse so let's see if momentum can get
that bond you are one of these migrants
they're getting word go to California
because you'll get free health care
benefits they're gonna vote the
Legislature's going to vote this week
they are pushing free health care for
these illegal aliens or illegal
immigrants ages 19 to 25 low-income
adults they're gonna is gonna cost 98
million dollars to cover about ninety
thousand illegal immigrants is that what
you want your tax dollars my taxpayer
dollars going to people that snuck in
here illegally are milking the system
and now they get additional additional
help yeah I guess the additional
benefits from be sneaking into
California and what would you know how
do you feel right now if you're doing it
the right way you're driving a cab
you're wearing a green car you have a
green card you're working the factory
have a green card you're hoping to play
it right you're paying all the fees
you're studying for the test and all of
a sudden these people that sneak in now
get jobs they can't be detained Isis
push back and now they get free dental
health care they get checkups maybe
they're gonna get free physicals take a
play on their local sports teams if you
show up at a school you get free
education what a great country well you
know pause it for one second first off
if that guy driving the cab filling out
the forms and this and that lives in
California and is also low income guess
what he's eligible to and he also can go
get free education they like you started
to catch on this would this is what
makes a great country the ability to
access all these things and not have to
worry about them in fact it sounds like
in that scenario the country be even
greater if you didn't have to fill out
all those forms and frankly even drive
that cab they're on to something I
kilmeade I feel like is on the precipice
oh yeah one day he's gonna wake up and
go like oh my god it's been right in
front of me this whole time
comrade kill me ironically obviously
can't be detained Isis push back and now
they get free dental health care they
get checkups maybe they're gonna get
free physicals they can play on their
local sports teams if you show up at a
school you get free education what a
great country well you know California
is a sanctuary state and so they know
you know if you're living in a sanctuary
of state you know that when migrants do
go to our emergency rooms they wind up
getting the health care anyway the state
of California is just figuring out okay
we're gonna go ahead and we're gonna
pull the trigger and we're going to pay
for this out of our state legislature to
the tune of almost a hundred million
dollars so in other words yes when they
go to an emergency room with something
that could have easily been treated had
they had health insurance and weren't
afraid to use that health insurance they
get treated and it costs thousands of
dollars and the state ends up paying for
it anyways they're so halting when
they're talking about it like all of
them are sort of stuttering over
themselves and they can't they don't
quite know where the safety is figure
out exactly wait a second are we
supposed to make
California sound horrible for this and
we supposed to be happy that they're
stuck with this are we supposed to like
make this sound like a hellscape their
kids might be on your little league team
well that was funny was that they they
went through they made it sound like a
progressive utopia and an obvious moral
decision and then kill me tagged it by
making what sounded to me like a very
sound basically technocratic argument of
like well the money's getting shipped
out anyways and it's actually pretty
inefficient so we probably should just
have a public policy set up so that it's
actually accounted for in a budget
instead of just like randomly shocking
the hospitals like them everyday it's
like oh that's a you know a lot less
high-minded and and sort of you know
moral but actually that also sounds to
me like another very sound argument it
reminds me of the thing in the last two
years that sort of radicalized me more
than anything which was when I was in
France and the person I was with got
sick and we went to the hospital where
there for like half a day getting like
IVs and tests and stuff and then when we
walked out they're like oh no your
money's no good here
like just go ahead we got you on this
and it was just it was amazing this very
bizarre experience yeah you'd want to
live in a country like that
