[Music]
but there has been Steven Crowder I have
mentioned this in the past has been
avoiding debating me now look nobody's
obligated to debate me I don't think
anybody's obligated to debate me that's
silly but steven crowder goes out there
and has built his career off of middling
comedy oriented towards people who have
a conservative perspective and there's
such a dearth of anything it's even
remotely amusing just dressing up in a
costume for conservatives is like you
know is is the pinnacle of comedy he's
built as really bad for you
he's he's built his career on that and
going to colleges and debating college
students who show up on campus see this
dude there doesn't they haven't prepared
they sit down and they debate him
sometimes they they do quite well other
times they don't because of course not
and so because this guy has built his
career on that I thought that might be
interesting to see what happens if
steven crowder actually sits down and
does some of his change my mind things
with someone who actually has spent some
time thinking about these things so
there was a couple of opportunities a
couple of venues I'll be more detailed
tomorrow or excuse me on Friday where
steven crowder was lined up by the
people who were running these forums or
this these events fora they presumed
that steven crowder was gonna do it
because steam carter will had agreed to
do something in general with them
but when it turned out the thing that
they were offering was to debate me
everything changed now it's one thing
for me to come up here and just say that
right like I could be Trump bask in this
I could be I could be doing a bill bar
completely exonerates you know Donald
Trump and then the report comes out and
nobody so to show that what I am saying
is not made up I will on Friday
present both audio evidence and written
evidence of my claims two instances
where the organizers of a particular
forum had as far as they knew Crowder
was in and then it was like oh we've got
Sam cedar for you and then all of a
sudden it was like oh no so we will drop
this on Friday we were thought we were
talking about doing it today but all the
impeachment stuff and wanted to to get
you know between the the day 1 agenda
and the impeachment hadn't wanted to get
buried so tuk-tuks in area yeah so on
Friday we'll do this
