[Music]
well uh this is good let's play this um
Joe carton Courtney is a congressman
from Connecticut yeah and he's
explaining it he's explaining the stop
and shop strike and the broader
importance of the right to organize this
is a couple of minutes but it's actually
this is really quite important let's
check it out
just wanted to follow up actually I'm
the chairwoman's opening comments about
the value of unions in terms of the
standard of living of workers up in New
England we actually witnessed the value
of collective bargaining when 31,000
workers were organized with the United
Food and Commercial Workers Union and
employed by Stop & Shop a grocery chain
owned by a hold Delhaize a danish
company successfully exercised their
rights to strike over proposed cuts to
their pay and benefits it was an 11 day
strike and the company obviously
calculated that they could outlast the
union what was at stake was almost
existential for the middle class way of
life for the people who work there the
employer proposed increasing health plan
deductibles from $300 a year to $5,000 a
year
they had proposed more than doubling
health insurance premiums they had
proposed removing spousal coverage for
health insurance they proposed
eliminating time-and-a-half on Sundays
and they employed they also proposed
slashing pension contributions for
full-time employees by half what the
company miscalculated was that in fact
the public would support the picket
lines that stood up in those grocery
stores again in all the New England
states and after 11 days the strike
ended and the UFCW
was successful in restoring all of those
out-of-pocket hits that workers would
have taken and we're not even close to
being offset by any sort of modest wage
increases which were proposed so again
from from the standpoint of the people
who stocked the shelves and worked the
growth the cashier lines who I met with
afterwards who again felt that they had
taken their own economic destiny into
their own hands by exercising their
right to strike it obviously paid off
big-time
for them so I know today mr. mr. Mira's
testimony he has pointed to what he
believes the employers ability to
permanently replace economic strikers
carefully balances competing interests
the proact obviously would change that
to not allow replacement strikers just
looking at the experience of what just
happened up in New England were again
31,000 workers stood up for their their
way of life and their standard of living
this is excellent
he actually really presented that and
articulated that really well and also I
like that look that's the broader
context when we talked about the stop
and shop strike it was like don't go
hold that line
give them your support because that is
what the the company's strategy is that
there's so much obvious basic
desperation in people's lives so they
can terrorize them economically but then
they're also we're so socially
fragmented and disconnected from each
other that we won't actually stand and
support a fellow human beings who want
to live a decent life not be you know
just endlessly rapaciously abused by
these companies and that was what the
people of New England did with stop and
shop and that's why it's an incredible
win and that's also why striking and
unions I mean there's no way we're gonna
get where we need to go without strikes
and unions period I don't see how that's
what humanly possible that's why that's
sort of the there's two things that are
sort of baseline when people want to
know what they can do to you know have
an effect as one like we say you know
vote smart but also right never cross a
picket line and support every single
strike that comes down the pike hundred
percent hundred percent support every
single strike
