[Music]
so right now the Supreme Court is
literally weeks away from a announcing a
decision over arguments they heard in
April over the legality of the decision
to add a citizenship question to the
United States Census for the first time
in its history remember the census is
required by the Constitution the
Constitution does not call for the
counting of citizens it calls for the
counting of all persons within the
United States at the time of the census
period that's exactly what it does to
suggest that our founders did not know
the difference between persons and
citizens is absurd because of course
they did and it has been suggested that
the reason why the Trump administration
is adding that question has nothing to
do with any compelling government reason
state interest or interest of the people
but rather they're suggesting that it's
being done to intimidate immigrants and
to deny areas where immigrants are
located representation and services
because that's the way congressional
districts are are designed this case was
heard by the Supreme Court in April they
are also like I say weeks away from from
from making a decision at the time the
Trump administration argued that the
benefits of obtaining more accurate
citizenship data offset any damage
stemming from the likely depressed
response to the census by minority
groups and non-citizens
and it dismissed the charges that the
Commerce Department had simply invented
justification for adding the question to
the census as unsupported by the
evidence a majority of the Supreme Court
justices seemed inclined to accept the
department's explanation the question
was needed to enforce the Voting Rights
Act and appeared ready to uphold the
administration's authority to alter the
census questioned as it sees fit the
idea that the Voting Rights Act in some
fashion because there are requirements
that you represent the districts have a
certain amount of of minorities are show
some measure of representation because
there was a time in this country like I
don't know months ago when certain
states would try and gerrymander around
different races and so the Supreme Court
as of a couple days ago at least looked
like they were heading to accepting this
argument from the Trump administration
that there was a rationale behind it
that had to do with maintaining the
Voting Rights Act and that that that
offset the damage that would be done to
this constitutionally mandated census
well the New York Times has this story
that a guy named Thomas B hofler who was
a near mythic status in the Republican
Party as the Michelangelo of
gerrymandering the guy who built the
partisan maps had done all the sort of
algorithms and the studies that given
outcomes in places like Wisconsin where
you have Democrats getting 50 per six
percent of the vote and Republicans
controlling 64 percent of the seat
in the state legislature so he died last
summer and his daughter went to go clean
up his states apparently they'd is
estate he apparently they'd been
estranged and she got one of the things
she found was all these hard drives and
on those drives it showed that she had
written a study in 2015 concluding that
adding a citizenship question to the
census would allow Republicans to draft
even more extreme gerrymandered maps to
stymie Democrats and after months of
urging president Trump's transition team
to tack the question onto the census
he wrote the key portion of a draft
Justice Department letter claiming the
question was needed to enforce the 1965
Voting Rights Act which ended up being
the rationale the administration later
used to justify its decision now it's
quite clear he was writing an alibi
those documents have now been cited in a
federal court filing on Thursday of of
this today by opponents seeking to block
the citizenship question so apparently
it went down like this it's pretty crazy
but he wrote that by adding this
question it would depress minority
response and non immigrant response to
the census he had done exhaustive
analysis of Texas state legislative
districts Texas of course has often had
their districts found to be racially
drawn
concluded that such maps if they did not
include all the people there and
represented only people who were non who
were non-hispanic whites such maps would
be advantaged the Republicans and
non-hispanic whites and would dilute the
political power of the states Hispanics
the reason he wrote was that the maps
would exclude traditionally Democratic
Hispanics and their children from the
population count because you have many
families where you have mixed
immigration status that would force
Democratic districts to expand to meet
the Constitution's one-person one-vote
requirement in turn that would translate
into fewer districts in traditionally
democratic areas and a new opportunity
for Republican map makers to create even
stronger stronger gerrymanders the
strategy carried a fatal flaw however
the detailed citizenship data that was
needed to draw the maps did not exist
the only existing tally of voting-age
citizens mr. Hoffer studies stated came
from a statistical sample a sample of
the population largely used by the
Justice Department to verify that the
1965 Voting Rights Act was ensuring the
voting rights of minority groups and so
Hoffa wrote this memo saying that we
need to add this question and the court
filing filed today describes two
instances where mr. ha fellers digital
fingerprints are clearly visible on the
Justice Department actions one was a
document that from the feller drives
created on August 30 2017 as the wooing
of the Justice Department was nearing a
crescendo to get them to do this
Wilbur Ross was trying to get the
Justice Department to give him a
justification the documents single
paragraph cited two court decisions
supporting the premise that a more
detailed citizenship data would assist
the enforcement of the Voting Rights Act
that same paragraph appeared later
appeared word-for-word in a draft letter
from the Justice Department to the
Census Bureau he wrote the letter or the
key portions of the letter that the
Justice Department sent to the Census
Bureau saying that we need this
information he developed the alibi and
then he literally wrote it and they used
it word for word the second instance
involves the official version of the
Justice Department's request for the
citizenship question a longer and more
detailed letter sent to the Census
Bureau in December 2017 that letter
presents nuanced and technical arguments
that current citizenship data falls
short of Voting Rights Act requirements
right the Justice Department has
citizenship data that it is gleaned from
these districts to enforce the Voting
Rights Act but they're now asking
formerly of the Census Bureau will you
ask this question so that we can get
this data and these arguments enumerated
in this letter are presented in exactly
the same order in some times with
identical descriptions like building
blocks as in mr. Howe fellers 2015 study
so the Supreme Court is now aware of
this stuff and remember this case rides
on whether there was a legitimate need
by the Justice Department to get this
information to fulfill its obligations
under the Voting Rights Act and we now
know that all of their justifications
the key portions of their justifications
the fulcrum of their justifications came
from a guy who did a study on what would
happen to Republican fortunes in various
states if we managed to under count the
number of legitimate Hispanic voters in
these districts so it's gonna be
interesting to see where of the Supreme
Court lands on this case the question of
the census question it's gonna be sad
because we know how this is gonna work
and also on the on the case of
gerrymandering because it's quite clear
that when you allow excessive partisan
gerrymandering you incentivize all sorts
of horrible behavior and you actually
begin to corrupt even the chief law
enforcement agency in the country like
the Justice Department that is now lying
as to the reasons why it requested this
information it's unbelievable it's an
unbelievable story alright let's go to
the phones
