[Music]
let's talk about what you know the
different ways of getting there because
you know when when I hear like oh you're
getting you know you as a patient go out
you and I as an insurance company's
gonna tell you you're gonna get 43 grand
go out and find a hospital that you know
you will cost you forty three grand to
do this or you gonna pay more and that's
you know it would be completely
unreasonable if it was for a heart
attack right like I mean obviously I
don't have the time sharp but even even
when I do have time to shop around right
like isn't that a cost that's associated
with like I have to go and spend my time
finding like a good place like it's one
thing you know if I want to go buy a TV
you know and even now it's pretty easy
like okay I want to get a good deal on a
TV that's that's worth it for me but for
health care like should I really have to
have that kind of savvy and expend that
type of energy to get the best price for
for my hip replacement well the simple
answer is of course not you know this is
a terrible burden to put on patients who
are sick but in our current system I
don't think it's you know it should be
our end point but in our current system
it's important to do partly because it
will save you money and partly because
it sends signals to the providers that
we're not going to take this anymore now
and the companies that do this and do it
well will say here are all the hospitals
in our state that will do it for this
amount and we'll compile a list to make
it easy and I think companies have been
a bit of sleep at the wheel in helping
their employees so called shop for
health care ultimately I do think we
shouldn't have to shop for health care
personally that I think you know that's
a terrible position to put patients who
were ill and particularly if they have a
more acute illness now you can argue it
a knee replacement or a hip replacement
people do have the time
shop around they often do call a bunch
of different surgeons and hospitals and
if you're your employer says here are
all the ones that will do it for forty
three thousand dollars you can it's not
that hard to do
so all right so what kind of what kind
of system should we go to that would be
more efficient because there's obviously
a big problem with cost controls here
and yeah so what are the different
models where you could get cost controls
that would be durable that would be a
effective and and be durable right I
think you know the one thing you can say
is we have no way to control costs and
prices in our system and different
countries I'm a journalist it's a
political decision what we choose but I
think if you look around the world
countries either do something like a
single-payer system where you get a big
bargaining power because you have a
single payer who can say that drugs not
worth it that the price you're charging
us for that hospital stays not worth it
so that works
and by the way single-payer systems some
of them do maintain a private insurance
market for people who want to pay for
more for more amenities you could also
go to what countries like Switzerland in
Germany have done which is to end
Belgium to have price setting price
regulation you either say this is what
this procedure or this implant is worth
and this is what will pay or you saying
here's the ceiling the maximum and you
can compete under it so there there are
other ways to do it
but we do none of the above and of
course we're not even really thinking of
any of the above except in the plans
where people are talking about maybe
allowing Medicare to negotiate drug
prices that would be a start of moving
in that direction but I will note that
all of the kind of fixes we're talking
about in the ACA none of those really
address the pricing issue what they do
is they try and insulate patients from
the cost but that's really hard to do
until you head on face the fact that we
pay you know between two and ten times
as much for the exact same things
medical encounters as people do in the
rest of the world so all right so let me
ask you this I mean because and I and
I'm sensitive to the fact that you don't
want to make a you know you don't want
to you don't want to quit if I if I've
made it if I said this is what I think
we should do well right no that's fine
and I and I and I respect that as a
reporter that makes some sense but in
terms of the types of countries that are
able to have a price control regime
versus the type the the nature of the
societies that have a single-payer right
like because you know the it what
culturally speaking one may be easier to
implement than another right in
different cultures right and I mean we
certainly in and going from the type of
system that we have to a regime of price
controls because one of the problems
that we have in this country it seems to
me is that we don't even have an
apparatus to have a federal price
control system do we I mean cuz it's
it's so fragmented well we do a version
of it for electricity for example you
know you could you could regulate health
prices as you would a utility I don't
think we'll go there personally but what
I say in the book is that we will find a
system or we need to find a system that
respects our cultural preferences our
medical system as it exists today and
and our kind of you know whatever is our
kind of funky American bias about
independence and choice and
individualism but you know I don't think
we're that exceptional from the rest of
the world when it comes to health care
people want health care they need health
care they need insurance this narrative
of you know we respect individualism and
if someone doesn't want to buy insurance
they shouldn't have to I'm out around
the country speaking about this stuff
all the time and I can tell you people
want
health insurance they just can't afford
it in this country you know they add up
the the $800 a month premium and then
the deductibles and the co-payments and
the out-of-network charges and it adds
up to you know 20 25 percent of their
family's disposable income and they make
a choice to say you know I'd rather be
able to send my kid to college and so I
think we need to take that barrier away
and I do think you know we'll develop a
system that that respects all of our
preferences
but now you know we like choice but hey
the one we choose is not in our network
and we don't really get to choose anyway
right well I was gonna say like what do
we mean by when we want choice right
because like how does how let me ask you
this how would price controls versus a
single payer would there be a difference
in those two scenarios as to well you
know choice being limited well with
price controls you know Germany for
example has hundreds of insurers I would
note there they're all non
not-for-profit really not-for-profit and
so you have your choice there you have
your choice have been surely you have
your choice of insurers but I'm saying
really nobody cares that you like
choosing insurance as much as they want
to choose what doctor they see right but
but if you're right but but in the
German system for example all the
doctors participate in all the plans so
you can go see what doctor I mean we
have this notion that if you go to a
single-payer or a more regulated system
you won't be able to make those choices
you can of course you can what what is
somewhat different is there is a sense
of particularly in a single-payer system
you may have to wait longer right if
it's a non urgent issue you may have to
wait longer now what I will tell people
when they say that is oh I don't want to
have to wait I'll say like yeah try and
find mental health care in New York City
your weight will be infinite if you want
to go in network we have weights here we
just don't acknowledge them and
I think so there's a lot of
fear-mongering that goes on around you
know a price controlled system both in
the medical community and in the patient
community a lot of even bigger
fear-mongering that goes into what would
happen in a single-payer system there
will be differences there will be
certain kinds of weights but generally
in terms of position choice which is
what we tend to focus on there's a lot
of choice and and probably more than you
have in the average narrow network plan
in the u.s. now right a single-payer I
would assume right like everybody I mean
even if you had you know you you had
doctors working outside of that system
ultimately there would be more people
available to most people under a
single-payer and most more doctors would
be available under single-payer right to
most people right I think the doctors
you would have more choice there might
be certain kinds of treatment that in a
single-payer system they decided were
not had not been scientifically proven
to a point that they were willing to pay
for it right so there would be places
around the edges where you might get a
certain kind of advanced care quicker in
the US now the caveat to that is it's
not necessarily better care because in
the u.s. you can sell things that sound
good that haven't been brought in as
much right all right so let me ask you
this
also you know from a from a purely like
a you know a report Oriole perspective
we're talking about two different
regimes here one is a price control
regime maintaining I guess a bunch of
you know insurance companies although
the example that is what they're all
nonprofit and I don't know that we
actually have real nonprofit or that
many in this country but presumably
don't presumably we could get there and
then the other hand we have a
single-payer which provides the cost
controls because you have a single payer
who is instead of you know I mean
theoretically there's a certain
redundancy between those two plans right
because you would have to set up some
type of governmental
agency that makes the assessment of what
each procedure is worth right to make it
uniform so what of this opted into a
single payer type of system or opted
into Medicare because that to me seems
yeah well let me ask you this that to me
seems like it would be incredibly
inefficient because you wouldn't get the
benefit of price controls for at least a
large percentage of of the care and to
the extent that you get price controls
in the system that people opt into a lot
of it seems to me you know hospitals
would would would jump out of that
system because they want to be in the
sort of more Wild West system yeah well
I mean first of all no no hospital can
opt out of Medicare because they get
Medicare dollars for doctor training you
you can't survive as a hospital without
Medicare so I think that opt-out is not
it's not going to happen but I would
like to point out you can also have
price controls with private for-profit
insurers to where you just pegged price
controls to Medicare rates you say we're
going to pay two hundred percent of
Medicare and and insurers can decide if
they can accept that or not but I think
that that is a third option of maybe the
one will will go to but in terms of the
opt into a public what's called a public
option either opting into Medicare or
opting into Medicaid some states are
experimenting with it's an interesting
procedure because basically what it does
is it allows people who can't find plans
they like on the exchanges or through
their employer to say you know what I'm
going to pay premiums to Medicare and it
does two things that are interesting
first of all it it gives people an
option a public option and second of all
it says to all the kind of half-baked
kind of crappy commercial plans out
there you have to be at least as good as
Medicare or people are going to desert
you in droves and the thing is to have
price controls to have big negotiating
power you don't really have to have a
full single single-payer plan
I mean Medicare is
a huge insurer as is Medicaid in the
states that they do have negotiating
power if they want to use it so you know
for example with with prescription drugs
if Medicare was allowed to negotiate
pricing my bed is very quickly a whole
bunch of insurers what would say okay
we'll pay will pay what Medicare plays
pays plus 10% or something like that so
at least you have a somewhat rational
yardstick by which we could judge prices
which is what we totally lack now so
would it be perfect no but I think we're
now at the phase of our dysfunctional
health system where we're looking for
perfect we're like hey we're spending 19
percent of our GDP let's just get it
down to 17 percent you know we're not
aiming for 12 percent like France we're
just we're just aiming to turn this this
ship around
Elizabeth Rosenthal the book is an
American sickness how health care became
big business and how you can take it
back we didn't get into sort of like
almost like the the the sort of the nuts
and bolts things that people can do
today when they're faced with these
prices that are but a very sort of a
practical guide as well as sort of the
big picture so we well I'm happy to come
talk about that because I think there's
lots of people can do and should do
because we as patients we the patients
are not sending signals to the system if
we just write the checks and say oh you
know what can I do you can do stuff well
we will put a link to that book at
majority dot F M thanks so much for your
time today really appreciate it thank
you
