[Music]
let's play this this is sub Gorka whoo I
don't know I mean look there's been a
lot of things that said Gorka said that
is ridiculous and and and pathetic and
sad and stupid
that's all that's true but I think this
clip and and and people can correct me
if they have a different opinion but I
think this clip shows him to be a liar
and a grifter maybe more than any other
clip that we've seen because the the
nature of the lie and the nature of the
of the grift is pretty apparent here and
it's not just and it's not just
ideological right like there's a lot of
things he says that it's just stupid
that I've always attributed to certain
ideology this is one that just leads me
to believe like oh he is just out now
it's shamelessly lying and performing in
such a way that he knows he's lying and
so it has to lay it on a little bit
thicker like the you know this is the
classic you know there's a tendency for
people who are you know commentators or
pundits or you know public speakers in
any way that you don't let them see you
sweat
and sometimes when you really are
sweating on the inside it makes you a
little more a little too effusive you
know like you're like yeah you know them
over selling it a bit exactly exactly
and this is read this is him watching
this is him over selling it now somehow
this guy gets on c-span it seems like
every 15 minutes and one of the problems
with c-span is that you know you
the hosts they're always very extremely
neutral I'll get example diamonds there
nothing too fair to the Jews mr. Hitler
yeah exactly
no it's totally fair all right let's go
back let's go back to the phone lines
this is the Democrat line
here's Daniel next up Germantown
Maryland Democrats line yes hello good
morning thanks for taking my call mr.
Gorka you previously said that Trump was
against these stupid wars but that found
her reason to be in support of regime
change in Venezuela and I found that
striking seeing as how your reasoning
was that Maduro is a brutal dictator and
he's oppressing his people however I
don't see the same attitude towards
Mohammed bin Salman in Saudi Arabia a
brutal dictator who's definitely
brutally oppressed his people especially
the opposition while in Venezuela the
main figure had opposition that's
courting the international community
that's certainly interested in the Petro
State his main opposition is running
through the streets not arrested not
having his head shot off but being run
over by own personnel carriers that's
okay oh my gosh okay Annette let's this
is the classic leftist Howard Zinn
Michael Moore argument of moral
equivalency who is the opposition that
Mohammed bin Salman has been active
against in Saudi Arabia they're not
pro-democracy demonstrators it's the
Muslim Brotherhood it's members of the
regime who've been supporting groups
like Al Qaeda and Isis for decades that
the idea that Maduro and ambien NBS is
the first soundly leader in years who is
trying to purge his nation of those who
have been funding and giving soccer to
the global jihadi movement I this this
idea there's moral equivalency between
Maduro and MBS is asinine I posit and
it's okay so now he gets away with this
sort of like just general you know like
generalities right like it was
the idea MBS the save is beador oh
there's people being there's there's
people being run over in the streets now
the the first point is sort of I think
telling the you can't name the political
opposition that NBS has arrested and put
in jail basically because they never got
enough press they were not free long
enough to gain any type of like traction
in the in in our news I mean there are
there are many people in prison not not
the least of which members of his own
family that were you know arrested and
put into house arrest or whatnot other
peace activists but you know they're
their names are under the radar many a
lot of you know activists I mean when he
decreed some of those reforms like woman
being allowed to drive he also was
imprisoning the woman activists who had
pushed for that to happen specifically
as a clear statement that these reforms
were a gift from the king not reform so
he I mean Lou jayen halfa Lau and my
assalam moody were arrested they were
the ones who were protesting to end the
driving band and they were once Jay and
I were jailed for it
Human Rights Watch spoke about that
and put out stuff I mean there's there's
been more but continue let's see between
Maduro and MDS his asinine has
reasonable has NBS put the us in a
difficult position by his response or
some might say lack of response to the
assassination the clear assassination of
mister khashoggi and absolutely positive
for one moment let me just like that
question is stunning I gather difficult
Delta chainsawed his body apart in the
embassy just reiterate what the question
is
did the murderer the one who ordered the
assassination of Khashoggi put the u.s.
us in a difficult position by not
responding to the charges that he
triggered the assassination of that man
oh yes transparency is really an issue
getting good response for some might say
lack of response to the assassination
the clear assassination of mr. khashoggi
and absolutely that has put us in a
difficult position but at the end of the
day it's not what the washington post of
the fake news industrial complex would
have you believe this man could show he
was an apologist for jihadists he was an
apologist for the Muslim Buzzard so we
now have him actively saying that the
mitigating factor of chopping this guy
up in the Turkish embassy when he came
for a marriage license the mitts
mitigated by he was an apologist for
politics that I disagree with let me
just say the mitigating factor is all of
the propaganda that his murderers spread
about him allow me to repeat it exactly
but as if like that in any way
implicates the propriety of this guy who
is a green card holder in this country
this man khashoggi was an apologist for
jihadists he was an apologist for the
Muslim Brotherhood he wasn't an American
journalist he was murdered and that was
wrong but that event occurred on foreign
soil we need to get to the bottom of it
we need to have transparency but they at
the end of the day the idea that
khashoggi was some champion of democracy
he was an apologist for the kinds of
people who are in bed with groups like
Isis and al-qaeda let's hear from Kyle I
mean there's just something about that
let's hear from Kyle you know you just
smeared but isn't that I mean isn't that
the most naked sort of like just
out-and-out lying that this guy is doing
right I mean he knows there isn't
there's just no you know there's no idea
it's just a grift for this guy well that
was a common response actually I'm on
the right to khashoggi murder
and the thing was all you know that was
yeah a fair enough I mean you know and
it's so I mean first of all yes
khashoggi did have some connections with
some you know right-wing Muslim politics
including like his former connections
with the leadership of Saudi Arabia
which is where he kind of got his start
deserves to die deserved I won also the
other thing is that you know the
historical but and I just want to put on
it is that if you wipe out you eliminate
all other political alternatives and
only support Petro dictatorships and
help fund religious extremists you're
gonna end up in a situation where
religion is the only common modality
that people can do politics in a certain
place and and let me just add the
participation or really no participation
maybe underselling a little bit of
what's going on in Yemen by MBS and
Saudis is appalling but I don't expect
Gorka to critique that at all because of
course we're so supportive of it now we
should say that at the very least the
house and the Senate did vote to end the
funding they were overridden with a veto
they couldn't override the veto so at
least that there is some mitigation to
the horror that we are or at least to
the charge that we are fully behind this
we are fully behind it but at least
there is some dissent in our body
politic Thank You Bernie have much value
to the people who are dying but it is at
least it's gonna make it just so that
when when God comes down and releases
Hellfire maybe not everyone will get
burned to a crisp
hey don't burn me I support Bernie
Sanders it looks like somebody called in
and said to Gorka what we might want oh
let's hear that this is the this
follow-up call right now about 20
minutes later 20 minutes later again we
this is really directed at you the
moderator we're living in very
precarious times
education for the public is very
important and when I watch c-span I like
to listen to my fellow Americans the
news the journalists that you have on
the experts that you have on this
morning you have on someone who who's a
no grifter propaganda sprocket or and I
don't think he's going to add anything
to the body politic I mean any kind of
what you make any kind of positive way
and so I just want to encourage you just
in this very dangerous time where
misinformation and disinformation is
such a huge problem that you choose your
guests more you know thoughtfully this
guy is he's dangerous and he likes to be
dangerous he likes to provoke he doesn't
have our best interest at heart and I
don't mind here her server diffuse I
just want them to be after it fair
aboveboard thank you thank you Amy and
we do as this told earlier Carla bring
guests along for the left of rel center
and this is America they want to control
information
[Laughter]
she's totally I mean obviously she's
right but uh don't you think Gorka was
trying to like lean into his like
villain propagandist thing a little bit
earlier when he was talking about
khashoggi like mm this is maybe a
message to other journalists that we
don't care about freedom of the press
oh of course and I mean the the
aggrievement the they want to control
the information by critiquing your guest
selection they want to give feedback
about the information that we give them
that's crazy
