[Music]
here is the right-wing talk-show host
Tammy Bruce who is really really upset
that undocumented immigrants between the
ages of 18 to 25 will be receiving
health care as part of California's
Medicaid program the same program is
also going to be or at least in the same
bill it's going to be expanding
subsidies for people who are middle
class upper middle class will be getting
subsidies for their health insurance not
subsidized enough should be full subsidy
but we're getting there
but she is just outraged at the idea
that we would be giving health care
insurance coverage to people who would
otherwise get treated at an emergency
room and cost all of us more money in
the end they're going to put another
attacks on people who don't have
insurance to fund health insurance for
illegal aliens but let's remember - in
this country everybody does get access
to health care you can go into an
emergency room and you are cared for
so already California is dealing with
that with a looming apposite this is
like she does not realize she is
delivering the best argument to provide
health insurance to these people like
you know it's you change your oil every
3,000 miles your engine is gonna be in
pretty good shape you do not change your
oil every 3,000 miles maybe you get away
with 9,000 miles but then one day it
seizes up and you go to the emergency
room and it costs a lot more
well she's cornered because she can't
say what she really thinks would just
like let them go without health care
right but she makes the exact same
argument that you would if you thought
this is a good policy it does get access
to health care you can go into an
emergency room and you are cared for
so already California is dealing with
that with overwhelming emergency rooms
and hospitals so nobody's not getting
health care this is an official taxing
of people who don't have again insurance
to distribute it they argue a 98 million
I think that's going to be a little
higher you know this is just after by
the way they refused they they did not
pass a bill that would have given health
care to seniors to sit mericans who are
over the age of 65 they said it's too
expensive you see it's too expensive
it's so interesting because the older
ones are not getting it and they're the
ones that would need it more that is for
adults low-income adults that are
illegal here illegally in California
between the ages of wait a second wait a
second they're not giving it to senior
undocumented immigrants seniors who are
citizens are eligible for Medicare they
are not giving it to older undocumented
immigrants because right-wingers have a
bigger problem with that the 18 to 25
year old brought here without they're
more often than not without their having
made that decision good five you would
think it would be cheaper for those
individuals because most of those are
not going to get sick to go into the
emergency room and just get there good
boy
what's so dumb I'm sorry is that
inappropriate of me to say that she's
not bright for some reason the idea that
if you're if you get sick less that it's
cheaper for you to go into the emergency
room is not very bright unbelievable
sometimes got a water cooler in there
too gone from a four seven eight area
code
