[Music]
let's take a look at let's turn to
something else here for a moment this is
one of those stories that is there this
story is doing so much work for Fox &
Friends the opportunity for them to
become pedantic in a way theoretically I
mean towards black people but also as a
way of all of them sort of saying like
see we're not racist as long as black
people behave the way that we want them
to behave we're good with that and and
what we're people what's that and poor
people well and put and then they're
then the other work it's doing for them
is it's also showing that like it is a
rare instance right because you put
something on TV it by definition news
where you see poor people who actually
exert who show some type of actual
morality and righteousness and or a
sense of place right and this is and a
sense of place and this is a perfect
example of the lack of morality that
poor people have because this is the
exception exception proves the rule in
this instance I mean this is doing so
much work yeah these are the special
ones who deserve charity right exactly
this is encore and also if you reach a
certain bar you deserve charity but
that's it right there we can't have any
type of comprehensive addressing of
these problems but let's listen to the
clip first and then we'll talk more
about it it's it's a picture of three
kids probably my guess would be ranging
from like five to seven to eight maybe
who are in a their own their three kids
in their own prayer circle they're
wearing uniforms school uniforms and
here we go and look at this photo the
siblings praying before the first day of
school well this is going viral and you
can understand why because it's the
story behind the photo that is truly
incredible the Harris family lost their
apartment just a day before the picture
was taken in Louisiana
both parents also recently lost their
jobs despite that the family stays
faithful and optimistic saying we pray
for everyone a GoFundMe page is helping
them get back on their feet unless their
apartment they lost their jobs and their
kids another family we need to have on
the show bless their hearts they lost
their jobs and their apartment and
they're still teaching their kids to
pray yeah
that's so sweet puts life in your
perspective right
I know those precious kids are all in
their school uniform you know what
despite life circumstance clearly their
parent and kids with perspective I know
that's the takeaway yeah to acknowledge
God in all things yeah I mean III am so
blown away by this
it is like bless their hearts first off
I love these sort of the way they just
like it's they just lost it they lost
their apartment they lost their jobs
like they put it down as a deus ex
machina yeah exactly just sort of like
just it just it went away
that's the fits the way it works with
apartments and jobs if you if you love
something let it go if it comes back it
was yours if it doesn't matter I'll
process right like they don't put
together that like they lost their jobs
and both of them and then had no money
and so now they're homeless which they
do not say those words they're not
they're homeless these kids are now
homeless the families now homeless bless
their hearts we've got to have them on
the TV show you know she wanted to call
them something other than kids - what do
you mean I just heard the the offensive
diminutive circling around in her head
oh I think she thinks those children are
precious because they're in
uniform they're praying and they
understand that God God's doing this for
a reason for them now God would never do
it for a reason to me right because look
at me I'm on TV I'm making millions of
dollars God wouldn't do that for me but
he's doing it for them because they need
this in Milan Kundera's The Unbearable
Lightness of being talks a lot about
kitsch and which is the ideal that Shi T
just for YouTube Shi T doesn't it's the
denial Chetty is denied and everyone
acts as though it did not exist right
and that's what this is and this is just
sort of like they God has chosen them to
to do and it's gonna make them strong
that's a precious and their uniform
precious and they're in uniforms and
they're praying and isn't that sweet
they're begging God so that they can
have a home and probably food because of
course they now now to be fair you know
it's amazing it's they don't even send
they don't even put up the freakin link
to the GoFundMe page yeah but but but
that aside the idea they're so deserving
of charity now let's get back to our
regularly scheduled programming where we
condemn people for going on food stamps
where we the notion that would there
would be any type of government support
for housing is a complete sign of social
socialism and destruction of the
undeserving poor might get housing ah
they they're they're a loss of their
jobs well we we shouldn't have any type
of support for folks like that no this
is their entire project is to not
provide support for people like this but
now we have an opportunity to do pick
people out of the crowd and say that we
have deemed you morally righteous
because you wear a school uniform and
you pray kids probably maybe you go to a
charter school or a parochial school
that's why they got the uniforms we
picked you out and we're going to we're
going to we're going to deem you worthy
of a
go fund me but there's nothing society
could do we we can't even figure out why
this this this machine this this this
new act of nature made you lose your
apartment god forbid we report on that
oh my gosh you know what I'm praying for
I hope that when these three little kids
grow up they gain class consciousness
overthrow the bourgeoisie and put these
three class enemies in the gulag yeah
well I buy the point that they'll be
quite old and they'll be tough to track
down but I have faith there you go
Fox and Friends doing overtime also
showing that they don't have any racial
animus we can praise will praise any
children who've lost their homes and and
their parents are lost their jobs as
long as they're praying all right we're
gonna take a quick break
