[Music]
what are the things that we have said in
the past is a problem with the ubi is
that it is often is a political one I
mean I think we've had multiple people
on this program to talk about the ubii I
think at one point I had a little bit of
a debate about it in principle I think
it's a good idea to give people money or
you could get around that by giving them
goods like health care and then you
don't have to give them money I mean if
you're gonna give people three thousand
dollars a year guess what I would rather
you give them healthcare much cheaper I
mean excuse me much more expensive than
three thousand bucks a year I think
there's some value with baby bonds and
whatnot in particular I think I like
about baby bonds is it doesn't provide
the obvious cudgel to dismantle things
like social security things like medical
insurance things like automatic
stabilizers like food stamps and food
assistance and nutrition assistance
things like tant things like housing
vouchers and one of the ways that the
ubi has been presented in the past and
it's very hard to imagine that it
wouldn't be used even if it was passed
and implemented it wouldn't be used in
the future down the road is some type of
leverage point is to dismantle these
things and actually just in many ways
just it's it's very much Bob basically
saying I'm gonna let the market decide
but I'm gonna give you a little
an advantage in the market and here is
presidential candidate Andrew yang given
up the ghost here now I don't even know
if Ruben notices it although he's been
reading Milton Friedman I guess and
certainly Milton Friedman's idea to do
this but here it is Dave Rubin talking
to Andrew yang about UB I so why not
just blow apart so that I think the best
libertarian argument that I've heard for
UB is that basically if you want to do
bi it's got the right idea why not just
blow apart the social safety net as is
take because we know it's just a
boondoggle of middle management nonsense
positive old the words saying the words
it's a boondoggle of mintage management
nonsense means nothing this is
absolutely 100% not true food stamps not
a boondoggle you know it does mean
something though blow up the social
safety net right that means something
but it's not I would like to see
evidence or data that suggests it's a
boon dog that's what's so frustrating
about the yang people as they think
they're not being ideological when they
say stuff like this right I love middle
management nonsense with all the
whacked-out internal incentives that
you're talking about why not just take
all of that money which I do we even
know how much money is actually put into
these things of course so how much right
now six hundred billion give or take
give or take all right so why not take
the 600 billion that are on programs
that we know are creating as many
problems probably as they're fixing if
not more and then do it that way like do
you think because it almost feels like
it's a like a little bit of a stopgap
that you'd still have to get to that
problem eventually oh well that's the
beauty of this the freedom dividend
proposal is that you have the six
hundred billion or so and then you're
saying hey guess what like it's now a
new right of citizenship everyone gets
it and then what's going to happen is
you're going to dramatically reduce the
enrollment in these programs very very
quickly because a lot of people will be
like
for the cash and then then this new
incoming population would just opt for
the dividend and then never end up on
these welfare programs so you would end
up shrinking the enrollments over time
and the way you describe you just
wouldn't do it all at once because you
know there are a lot of people in very
distinct situations and this is actually
much more politically feasible and
popular than going and trying to tear
these programs up and you know from from
the roots up yeah
are you worried though that the positive
in other words he's saying two things
here one is it gives you the political
cover to go in and begin to dismantle
the welfare state and things like things
like food stamps food nutrition this is
a system automatic stabilizer it
increases as more people fall into
poverty if there is a recession without
that mechanism people are screwed but
you'll have been able to destroy it by
that point because the ubi will keep
them out of food stamps and then we can
just eventually make the program so
small and restrictive six hundred
billion dollars I mean I love the idea
that you can have this conversation
convinced that it's a boondoggle have no
idea what it costs incidentally our
military budget this year is what seven
hundred and sixty billion seven seventy
billion I think going into 2020 but I
love how you can just immediately say
that's a boondoggle course it's a boon
Doug how much is six hundred billion is
that a lot or is that a little if you
want to find some boondoggles go to the
Pentagon yeah is there any more of this
are you worried though that the that
because states have different things
related to social programs that I mean
we sort of addressed this already but
just that different states will deal
with it so differently in terms of how
they're giving benefits off UVI that it
just is going to create this we may have
a gajillion people moving to one state
and leaving another state or the rest of
it or you just think that that's well
that's one reason why having
for benefits because right now there are
block grants that go to various days in
the States do different things with it
as you're suggesting and those are the
programs that would be swapped out for
ubi so the more people that opt into UPI
then the like smaller those grants would
be a largely medicaid that's what he's
talking yeah he the first thing he cites
on the how are we gonna pay for you bi
is SSDI and basically and I've looked
into this a little bit but mine is about
eight to nine million people on that get
SSDI payments and the average is over a
thousand dollars over the thousand
dollar yang dollar ones and that's for
like handicap transportation and stuff
like this is Social Security disability
insurance which is very very difficult
to qualify for and the idea that you
would basically take the most vulnerable
people in our society and use this as a
mechanism to erode their support systems
is just this is I mean when we've talked
about ubi in the past this that scenario
is exactly exactly what is problematic
and so just to illustrate this for
people imagine you were getting like
paying $1200 in handicap transportation
costs a month and all of your friends
who aren't disabled they get off their
yang bucks a thousand dollars a month
but you don't get the yang bucks cuz you
need to keep your SSDI payment your
friends are gonna be like hey let's go
to the beach with our yang books this
month you're not gonna be able to do any
of that because you're gonna be behind
them every month because you you have to
have you have to make the choice between
yang bucks or these welfare programs
like if this if the yang thing went to
everybody regardless of any kind of
assistance they got then I think it'd be
an interesting program but this
completely this makes it the story is it
a left ubi would be done on top of the
existing welfare state yes and and there
have been left cases for that kind of a
ubi like Peter phrase wrote a good
article in Jacobean called curious
utopia's sort of explaining how a ubi a
left ubi could hypothetically be some
kind of non reformers reform they would
move us
closer to socialism but that's not what
this is right and that's always been my
fear about the ubi is not so much the
app that you couldn't come up with a
good one is that it's too easy to come
up with a bad one and and in addition to
VAT taxes being somewhat regressive as
my understanding the idea that you're
going to take someone and say choose I
guess I guess at the beginning of the
year right like Oh
turns out you chose wrong sorry dude
guess what that adds to administrative
overhead right exactly of course and
then the idea that like what happens
like how my long do you choose when do
you choose how long is the period of
time you choose you opt in for and how
do you predict when you're on Social
Security disability how long you're
going to be on for I mean this is I mean
I get the appeal right like a thousand
bucks a month would change my
circumstances substantially but that
that's not the limits of my political
imagination Oh
for people that run patreon podcasts
it'd be great to have that many people
with that much money to spend but you
can't do this and shaft of the like most
vulnerable people like that and there's
no reason to other than ideological
reasons that you're running some like
sort of I want to make government
smaller campaign but don't want to be
honest about it
let's play this clip
