meanwhile across town the president of
the Jewish Pittsburgh hospital or I
should say Allegheny general he was he
is Jewish
and he explains why they treated the
terror suspect who gunned down 11 people
who attended the same synagogue that he
did and this is from channel 4 in
Britain yesterday I went up to meet him
and I was just curious as to who is this
guy
and quite honestly he's just a guy and
he's people say he's evil he's this he's
some other son and how did he get from
that where he is today that's gonna be a
large debate that we have to wrestle
with as a society effectively you were
sort of it at the head of a team that
saved his knife it may be a bit of an
overstatement but yes it's you know he
was severely injured and he got great
care here many of the people that
attended to him were Jewish you know
they're heroes they they did like the
cops did they did their job they went
and they they confronted the problem and
they were true to their core beliefs and
I'm very proud of them and as a doctor
but also as a parishioner of the
synagogue and he looked into his eyes
what did you see I just looked at him
and he's like a lot of people that come
in here that they're scared they're
confused they don't quite understand it
but once again my job isn't to judge him
other people give that that's a pretty
awesome responsibility my job is to take
care of him no it's a fairly impressive
response I don't know that I would have
that level of generosity or I mean I was
a president of that Hospital at the very
least his food would be so par it
wouldn't be funny if he added he's like
obviously we're spitting in his food
right serving him Dales that should go
without saying but beyond that I'm doing
we're doing our jobs and it's an awesome
responsibility to understand how a human
could become so fundamentally corrupted
I don't know I mean that's a you know
the I guess maybe that's what it takes
become a doctors too on some level I
don't know I don't want government
coverage I thought that was pretty
impressive and so it was good for them
good for the city of Pittsburgh so far
two for two as far as I can tell driving
Donald Trump out of there I think he was
maybe out of his car for about 11
minutes in Pittsburgh so well done
