so the blue wave gets stronger and
stronger so the need to lie about the
election gets stronger and stronger
Donald Trump said the other day
apparently that people were using
disguises to vote and here is Lou Dobbs
trying to stay in the mix with some more
lies about immigration and voting on Fox
News Fox Business what we're watching
you know millions of illegal immigrants
cross our borders and many of them
voting in the past election that's what
it was just a couple of weeks ago and
having an immense impact if there are as
is Yale and MIT say 20 to 30 million
illegal immigrants already in this
country you know you know what that
means for the districts of the US
Congress and the influence that they're
giving to for example the state of
California Illinois New York but New
York has such an aberration it's not
going to have much of so that's of
course wrong and the Census and
populations and people's ability to vote
are based on people who've gotten their
paperwork and so on at least your
ability to vote certainly is based on
your paperwork also in addition to that
there have nots there has been literally
literally a handful of documented voter
fraud cases in in the modern era there
are probably more cases that happened a
couple years ago there was this whole
little mini controversy in New York of
underage hassidim voting in a district
in Williamsburg just like walking in
like I'm here to vote that specific case
which drew a few eyebrows played that
had more attempt at documented cases of
voter fraud in one borough then it
happened nationally so it's all a lie
but this is the lie that is driving a
truth which is that Republicans need to
ethnically cleanse and ethnically
engineer a landscape
for a oligarch white identity party and
that's who blue Dobbs is that's what Fox
is and that's what Trump is David Roth
had this at David underscore Jay
underscore Roth on Twitter said about
this clip beyond the basic it's wrong to
lie and also extremely racist aspects of
which are obviously not great right this
is basically elder abuse by proxy it's
 up to lie to people like this for
any reason like this math skill line is
doing significant damage and this is why
I occasionally get in arguments with
people especially in the chat about how
like recruit acai Jimmy door but we
don't criticize voters specifically for
like a lot of I think really important
reasons and it's because we have this
this is the political education of this
country yep right and it's it's it's it
makes me so angry like this is why I
studied media in college it's because
like how does so many people around me
pass around like emails making fun of Al
Gore as the science continues to get
salt more and more solid on climate
change right right like it's it's and
it's such a slow people are stupid
it's another subjected to massive
sustained that in some cases extremely
sophisticated propaganda campaigns like
let's actually get I mean will dunk on
pod save a little bit but one of the
things that's really important to look
at in the Facebook story and obviously
the big takeaways we've already sort of
touched on which is that Facebook
actively suppressed the release of
information Sheryl Sandberg is in fact
abusive to employees and then throws
them under the bus and at no step in the
process had any concern about the actual
problems with what facebook was doing
she didn't have another leadership role
for the rest of her life she didn't have
another leadership role for the rest of
her life to say the least she should be
doing public penance
for and and working to nationalize and
break up the monopolies of Silicon
Valley companies if she had a outs of
integrity which she seemed clearly not
to have but in it and and also this spin
that they're just a platform and not a
media publisher you know there are media
publisher when they're juking statistics
and manipulating algorithms which have
major effects for people's jobs you know
when they sort of amplify a certain type
of news story and fake statistics on it
people get hired and then they get fired
when Facebook submits their manipulating
statistics and then when they say it's
all about video and it's all about
streaming and then they lie about those
statistics that lay it that translates
to people get hired for positions and
then are fired because they're get
literally getting hired on fake and
misleading analytics and that of course
leads to a bigger problem in this
country which is the belief in numbers
ISM and solution ISM and the fact that
there is some sort of objective
quantifiable thing particularly when
you're talking about business you're
almost never there's always a
presupposition that goes into them and
of course the presupposition for a
private enterprise is gonna be a
presupposition that's profitable and
self advancing for that enterprise in
the article when they talked about
whether or not Trump was violating in
terms of service for lying in hate
speech he certainly was now it's a hard
question of course for a leading
presidential candidate and how do you do
that on a media platform not saying
there is a difficulties there but to
pivot they made - were just an art we're
just a platform you can do anything on
here belies all of their micro controls
of people's personal you know practices
that belies the fact that they've teamed
up with right-wing think tanks in ways
that have implicated even you know sites
like Telus or which of course like just
like Al Jazeera and so on they have
government backing from sub states in
Latin America but they produce real and
important and frankly vital coverage on
Latin America right now and of course a
right oriented think tank in Washington
DC is gonna target tell us or while
they've not gotten their act together in
the United States they had weeks in
Brazil where whatsapp which they owned
there was slush funds of money going
into spreading fake news and lies about
the Workers Party in Brazil that down in
the last week of the campaign and for
what it's worth that was when the polls
started to close slightly but when you
look at the work that definer strategies
do with Facebook this is a you know
is how content gets seated you know you
set up a fake website or some type of
website that you say is some type of
public clearinghouse of information on
Silicon Valley you have people who work
at these firms writing blog posts that
get picked up by Breitbart as an example
and when you get into that ecosystem
particularly when you get into you know
coverage of either specialized you know
industries or general information
you either have straight up PR and
propaganda getting recycled by other
outlets or as in the case of my friend
Luke Mayville who just had this great
success of expanding Medicaid and Idaho
he'll say yeah like in Nuuk local news
places a lot of reporters rely on press
releases from things like the Koch
brothers because sometimes these numbers
are complicated sometimes they don't
have the resources to really follow up
on things and so they you know go with
the flow and so it's just you know just
my point being that this even the
conversation of whether or not you
believe in quote-unquote facts or not in
reality is so much more complicated by a
sustained and relentless propaganda
agenda which implicates everything from
PR firms to even scientific research
itself and you know and and so yeah it's
not about blaming people for not being
intelligent enough it's about really
understanding how these things actually
operate
