[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday July 18 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday and
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Juanes Canal in the heartland of America
downtown USA on today's program Dan
Burgess author of give them an argument
logic for the left can the Democratic
debates get better from the perspective
of having public debates that actually
facilitate better discussion let's talk
about that how the lies and propaganda
against medicare-for-all are sold the
case for why Sanders truly represents
something distinct new different and
significantly better also the brazil
coup and logical fallacies a lot to do
with Ben Burgess that better also on
today's program Donald Trump his base
wants a race war they'll give it to them
rhetorically will
the Democrats fight back
well of course a lot of them won't but
we will we will stand with Alon and will
most normal Americans see what these
people are doing and side against
bigotry the households William bar and
Wolverine criminal contempt illa hon
Omar with the most she's just incredible
she introduces a resolution affirming
the right the right of people to
participate in a boycott not even
specifically about BB not even
specifically about BDS against Israel
just in general because the anti BDS
bills are unconstitutional Rand Paul
he's terrible but in this totally
unnecessary crisis created by Trump with
Iran he might be the administration's
envoi to Iran and so with one hand give
the other hand take away Rand Paul
minding everybody he's a sociopath by
holding up the 9/11 compensation fund
single-handedly thousands are protesting
right now in Puerto Rico against a
massive disclosure of corruption and
must much else against the Puerto Rican
governor and his cabinet Amazon's facing
a target crackdown from the European
Union Glenn Greenwald and the intercept
are still disclosing new corruption
revelations against Sergio Moro and the
lava jato team that made Lula da Silva a
political prisoner and the balsan RO
government is apparently deeply
targeting Glenn Greenwald solidarity
with him and Bernie Sanders and Ilan
Omar Alon Omar's quite busy have asked
the department of labor to investigate
Amazon warehouses and young people move
forward in a federal suit against the
federal government on climate change how
its risked their futures
and the US government is known that it
would be a problem going back to the
1960s all that and much much more on
today's majority report I do want to say
just programmatically we had a great
guest Ben Burgess is an amazing guest
obviously he's a regular on T MDS so I
mean you know sometimes there's the same
guests they go back and forth in between
both shows obviously but I was I you
know especially I've had been on the
show on this show to talk about his
great book but we had a guest she was
gonna talk about why Biden care is a
disaster why we need Medicare for all
but there was a travel a significant
travel problem so that will be rebooked
but I'm stoked to speak to Ben Burgess
and thanks for responding to my text
been a little bit of some
behind-the-scenes action here folks um
we need to get to this there is a huge
amount of inbuilt cynicism about Donald
Trump about his racism about his bigotry
the three lines here of response are
actually really basic to just the racism
in of itself there's a group of people
that crave it and want it an affirmative
ace that's the Republican Party there is
a continuum of people that spans they
might sound rhetorically different at
times but there's a lot of quote-unquote
nevertrump Republicans there's Chuck
Todd types there's Democratic leaders
like Pelosi and so on who might you know
moralistically condemn or hector or you
know strongly wag their finger at it but
do nothing of substance or seriousness
to actually combate it strategically and
then there's those of us and right now
you know
obviously the lead is these four leaders
in Congress Bernie Sanders has obviously
also been incredibly unequivocal about
this and I and I say Bernie Sanders
because he's talking specifically about
these four liters I mean that's a really
distinguishing thing that you can find
all of the Democratic candidates and so
on we'll put out statements against
xenophobia and against hate and so on
but this has this has a face this has a
specific target list
it's Rashida to live
Alexandria Acacio Cortes Ayanna Presley
and most significantly and most
drastically and most grotesquely Allen
Omar this is Bernie Sanders yesterday
starts exactly with the simplest point
hashtag I stand with Ilan and I'm proud
to work with her in Congress Trump is
stoking the most despicable and
disturbing currents in our society and
that very hatred and racism fuels him we
must fight together to defeat the most
dangerous president in the history of
our country now again and it's not just
because I support Sanders if other
candidates were leading with the hashtag
or congressional leaders for that matter
I would give them the same props but it
just needs to be very clear that that is
how we start we don't start with some
broad big picture and you know certainly
none of this isn't and who we are Joe
Biden pablum we go with this is a this
is one of America's most important young
leaders someone who's incidentally
incredibly physically courageous
Elizabeth Warren this is really in 40
minutes ago 30 minutes ago and I was
saying this because as of last night
Elizabeth Warren had not done this but
she did it so now I'm very happy to give
her props right now it is Elizabeth
Warren hashtag I stand with excuse me
hashtag I stand with Elan against
attacks from this racist president and
we should all remember this definition
of patriotism and then she quote tweets
an excellent video from now this by an
excellent congresswoman in leader Elan
Omar from now this
so but it's maybe we could play that
later but the point is is great so
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren the
of the candidates I am aware of now have
been the ones that have used the hashtag
and have spoken directly and clearly
mm-hmm
I'll just say and earlier in the week
before this before Trump really went in
on the Ilhan stuff when the squad stuff
was going on Cory Booker also said
something about the for and it's amazing
what running for president can do to a
Democrat these days it's pretty amazing
because let us never forget that the
Democratic leadership the failed
sclerotic utterly unfit for purpose
Democratic leadership people like Nancy
Pelosi and Hakeem Jeffries have spent
more time and oh my gun to D just
unbelievably odious and grotesque Rahm
Emanuel manages to pop up in this as
well I guess he's not house leadership
obviously but they've spent more time
backbiting briefing against uh and
trying to damage these four leaders than
actually even taking on Trump let alone
you know seriously pushing a progressive
agenda so and now it's circled against a
lawn it's circled against Elan both
because look incredibly easy source of
extreme bigotry and racism
she's a Somali refugee she's a Muslim
she wears a headscarf these things are
really obvious and I think it's also
because and I don't mean this this you
know all four of these leaders are
incredibly important and courageous and
they all bring different distinct things
to the table I think we actually saw
yesterday or the day before the way I on
her the way I Anna Presley was able to
synthesize her attack on Trump with a
very clear indirect articulation of of
how Nancy Pelosi was playing and what
she saw and how she was going to follow
up on it Rashidah to live has always
been someone I've been a huge fan of and
has a grassroots background
than his DSA and has been very clear
partially obviously as a result of her
you know heritage as a Palestinian about
you know being clear about the
occupation and the abuses the
Palestinian people and AOC obviously has
an extraordinary amount of star power
and has used her platform in a number of
incredibly important ways on climate on
credit cards on the green new deal and I
would and to me frankly most
significantly and all of them now kind
of coherence ignant lis right now on the
concentration camps and the issues of
this Gestapo tactics at the border but L
on Omar in addition to her fearlessness
on calling out the coup mongering of
this administration in Venezuela with
the complicity in the support of
democratic leaders like Nancy Pelosi and
angle and so on she does not flinch she
does not back down and best believe that
this woman's life is endangered and this
is you know this is the clown fascist in
chief this is the idiot he knows what
he's doing and you know generic
rejection of it isn't gonna work here he
is in North Carolina yesterday saying
some people did something I don't think
some people did something yes some
people did something all right she
pleaded for compassion for right she
meant some people did something that not
every single Muslim should have to
answer for that was precisely the point
exactly he's referring to a statement
that Elano Maher made in the context of
talking about Muslims civil liberties
and civil rights after 9/11 and her
point was precisely that yes a specific
terrorist group committed a specific
terrorist atrocity and then the policies
that flowed out of that in terms of the
invasion of civil liberties not to
mention the millions of lives taken
overseas has spilled out into a sick
into many of the world's Muslims who had
nothing to do with that event it's quite
simple but AVI
Donald Trump's gonna twist it Isis
recruits attempting to join the
terrorist organizations here's looking
for campaign
Omar left that American speak of
al-qaeda in a menacing tone and remark
that you don't say America with this
intensity you say al-qaeda makes you
proud al Qaeda makes you proud
you don't speak that way about America
wasn't I if I understand what he's
referring to I think this is actually
her point of saying your pride and your
energy should be in your country not a
ragtag terrorist group and I'm I'm gonna
do red white and blue and agree with her
on that I think you should have a lot
more intensity and excitement about the
potential and possibility of a
complicated flawed but also very
promising place that Elon omar has done
more in her life and even just her time
here then Donald Trump I mean not only
then Donald Trump has ever had Donald
Trump is doing everything he can to harm
and undermine this country and the
planet obviously so III agree with her I
think it would be much better if you
want to build an identity in
relationship to your country to have a
positive and proactive one and one that
isn't neurotically obsessed with a
disgusting terrorist organization that
almost certainly none of the idiots in
this audience will ever have to deal
with and by the way you know L on Omar
groups like Isis and al Qaeda nobody do
they hate more than an L on Omar in fact
if you look at their strategy documents
there's a really I think it's called the
management of savagery I'm just a
strategy document that I think it was
emerged from al Qaeda in Iraq but it's
been a blueprint for Isis a big part and
I know sama bin Laden as well a huge
part of their game plan has been
empowering george w bush's donald
trump's the european far-right that is
precisely the tactics along with lone
wolf terrorist actions that they see as
most effect
for growing growing their toxic ideology
and enhancing their influence so if
anything you know Donald Trump is an
incredible incredible benefit to these
people and we also have this picture of
a speech a couple days earlier where
Trump was spelling el Qaeda al CAI da so
he's clearly an expert on him yeah that
does not sound to me like he takes al
Qaeda as seriously as he needs to
buffoon all right let's finish this and
at a press conference just this week
when asked whether she supported al
Qaeda that's our enemy that's our enemy
they are a very serious problem
that we take care of but they always
seem to come along somewhere she refused
the answer she didn't want to give an
answer to that question all Maher blamed
because he shouldn't have to the United
States for the crisis in Venezuela we
think of that one and she looks down
with contempt on the hard-working
American saying that ignorance is
pervasive in many parts of this country
[Music]
just one other thing to say here I mean
one's the obvious point that somebody
who's the co-sponsor of Medicare for all
student debt cancellation wants to
investigate Amazon warehouses and so on
obviously is doing infinitely more for
working people of every single
background in this country then Donald
Trump who's the enemy of the working
class white brown black and everywhere
but this is the other really bizarre
dual impulse of American white supremacy
and racism because there's you know
there's an even you know even though
Trump you know obviously is you know
kind of a you know sort of an idiot and
off in some ways despite his you know
instincts for demagoguery his sort of
backroom chat is I want high Q people
and there's sort of you know the the the
the pseudo-scientists a smart person
test the you know the the charles Murray
the the genteel pseudo-scientific racism
that I want people from Norway stuff but
then on the flip side there's this you
know you're an uneducated you know
you're probably not particularly
well-read and so on and again it's very
interesting because those are those are
frankly the quality I judging people by
where they went to school judging people
by their cultural currency what they you
know what how they present themselves
and certainly judging people by some
dumb test metric trash reject it period
but obviously we can make estimations
about people's intellectual curiosity
what they choose to investigate and
inquire about their own I mean I mean
you know just a hand the example but the
gentleman had called in last week he's a
farmer it's like yeah I farm and I I
like to watch and learn things that has
nothing to do with any kind of like
nonsense social capital game which is
what repulses a lot of people about what
is called like the coastal elites right
because it's all it's it's not about
genuine intellectual inquiry it's about
where you went to college and all this
crap which is in fact crap and how you
can prevail that massive income and how
you can exactly but this is but this is
speaking to to an attitude of I don't
want to know I don't want to talk to
people I don't want to read books I
don't want to enlarge my scope of
understanding the world which anybody
can do and most of those elites by the
way do not have an enlarged scope of the
world at all they just have a narrow
elite one but what he's speaking to
though is that is that duality where on
one hand were were white were racist we
dismiss other people and then on the
other hands you know look at Ilan like
she's global she's sophisticated she's
clearly hyper articulate she's well-read
she's got it intelligence she has a
savvy to her well the hell with that
she looks down on you and that's the
duality and there's no contradiction in
these people's minds because both is
filling a well feeding on the historical
continuity of the mythology of
essentialize ation and race and white
identity politics but it's also just
filling enormous psychological and
emotional vacuums in these people which
need to be filled by either inflation or
deflation because of their identity but
anyways finish it
[Music]
and obviously and importantly Omar has a
history of launching vicious
anti-semitic screen slides life is what
fascism sounds
and she talked about the evil Israel and
it's all about the Benjamins not a good
thing to say
so that's Omar that's Alma
and by the way many other things all you
have to do is press the right button or
in your beautiful screen so yeah they
chanted send her back sends her back
been saying for a while now obviously
Trump's 2016 campaign was dishonest
racist xenophobic misogynist everything
and then there was a scam and hustle
about protecting people's economic
interest but because he's a Republican
he governs against the 99% economic
interest so all he has left is this and
not the people I absolutely think that
there was a small but statistically
significant percentage of people who
voted for Trump because of those
economic things they're gone
you actually can measure that in the
midterms particularly Midwest but we got
to be real that a significant part of
the Republican base this is what they
want and it's also what the system is
has been sent up for centuries to
deliver precisely and it is disgusting
and it is you know it's every adjective
expressing moral condemnation you have
is all appropriate for that and as many
hassan tweeted today they're trying to
get her killed
we don't need to flinch about what this
collective action is and the only
response to it there are no sidelines
you are 100% with el on omar period
obviously it doesn't mean you can have
political debates you can disagree
whatever that's fine but the fundamental
thing that this is a leader this is a
congress person this is someone of an
immense courage and integrity that we
support 100% we fight against the lies
and smears about her you're gonna be
hearing a lot more about a lot of
crackpot theories that you know just
like birtherism began in the worst of
the right-wing swamps they're gonna get
spread through those networks they're
gonna correlate with the president
obviously you have a you know you have a
troll as president there's no difference
between him and and anybody you know
anybody spreading a lie on social
and then the broader struggle here is
getting an acquiring power and using
that power to materially defeat the
conditions of this politics and then
also understanding that in fact your
role as a politician is actually also a
cultural one and that's why there can be
absolutely zero ambiguity about
ruthlessly fighting back against the
stuff every shape or form every shape
and form and there is no room for
ambiguity right now in clear anti racism
and in the very specific character of
support for these four leaders as
they're terrorized and ill on Omar has
always been you know precisely because
she has been willing to criticize Israel
precisely because there are a few
comments one you know from 2012 which
you can you know take out of context or
distort and also precisely because she's
actually shown her own willingness to
evolve and improve which you know Nancy
Pelosi and Donald Trump certainly sure
as hell don't sure Ben Shapiro for that
matter hello Ben Shapiro is another one
don't let you know Ben Shapiro we got to
go in a second but Ben Shapiro watch him
very closely right now because his move
right now is oh well that's ten you know
the president can't say that she's a
vicious anti-semite so he's gonna
continue to lie and smear about her and
set the context for hate well he tries
to pivot his brand against the actual
incitement against he's neutral he's
doing the same thing in reality whether
he knows it or not that's what it is and
there's a reason why whatever his
intentions are there's a reason why you
know he's up there on those grids when
some terrorists attacks a mosque so
let's be clear about this and have her
back we're gonna take a brief break
we'll be right back with Ben Burgess
you
welcome back to the majority
Michael Brooks here joining us now has
been Burgess he's author of give them an
argument logic for the left available
now get it immediately you can also go
to Ben's patreon page and get essays and
recordings and all sorts of other
content from Ben is also the regular on
the debunk on t MBS as well
Ben thanks so much for being here yeah
so then I just more broadly I mean we're
we got some Democratic debates coming up
at the end of the month with the lineups
were released yesterday it looks like I
don't actually know I they've tried to
sort of mix things up a little bit more
so you don't have the same kind of stack
effect that you had a couple of weeks
ago where you had you know all of the
main contenders with the exception of
Elizabeth Warren on one stage and then
Warren you know on stage with with the
sort of more you know generally kind of
more marginal candidates debates are bad
and especially Democratic debates
because they don't have this sort of
like insane Carnivale grotesque aspect
of Republican debates which can be just
you know just sort of likely Roman
crumbling Empire entertainment but
they're still entertainment they still
actually don't have really all that much
substance what as a logic professor like
what could actually facilitate those
things being more more substantive more
worthwhile yeah so our mutual friend
David Feldman always says this you know
you should it should be more like a
Senate hearing where the moderators or
like inquisitors and I've never been
quite sure what to think about that
because of course that just gives more
power to those sort of narratives that
are being pushed by the big corporate
media venues that are hosting these
things but I will say that the way that
moderators ask follow-up questions is
really unhelpful in the format that
we've got now right because it's just we
superficial that right now it's you know
you get follow-up questions like you
know Bernie Sanders says Rachel Maddow
was was misrepresenting him on gun
control she action was by the way and
you know and he'll so you know and and
she'll follow up said oh no that's a
quote right you know like so you have
this kind of he said she said about
trivia you know and there'll be a little
bit of a fact-checking
but but you don't really get meaningful
follow-up questions about the content of
what they're saying and so I think that
if you're gonna have a debate and by the
way another thing that you could do it's
better really dramatically reduce the
number of people on stage it's just not
helpful to have twelve people up there
and I feel a little weird Nancy
democratic about saying that but you
know it really does I was gonna say
there's old there's gonna be a certain
contingent that's good if you got rid of
the total cranks advocating epi and
stuff like that they're not very hopeful
seriously like because because you have
so many people up there it's very hard
to you know everything was kind of a
mile wide and an inch deep and it would
be very helpful if when you know you
probably need a different kind of
moderator for that because the sort of
media hacks that you have doing this I
don't think what Nessa so would be very
good at this for the most part with some
exceptions but but if you had moderators
who would say hold on what you just said
I'm not you know that doesn't really
make sense right or you say this or you
say this what about this that would be
much more helpful than just kind of
trying to pin people down into things
that can do sound bites about is it also
uh the fact that and some of this goes
back to Tim Russert who's actually been
passed away for a while now but he his
methodology on Meet the Press was all
about
it was like it doesn't matter what the
merit or substance of anything is all
that matters is the contradiction so in
other words like actually a good example
this would be John McCain so when george
w bush was first elected and I do think
because John McCain was pretty much like
a purely ego driven politician he was
super pissed still because and
absolutely george w bush campaign did
run an incredibly dirty and in fact you
know totally racist campaign in south
carolina against him and he he both was
had a national brand that had built
built up and especially in in that you
know in 2000 still very post ideological
space so you know the terrain was sort
of like you know Third Way Democrat
compassion and conservative so he got a
huge amount of love from the so-called
liberal media and you know he was he had
this he had a grievance and a brand and
so in the beginning of the Bush
administration you can read there was a
couple years there where he you know he
voted against the Bush era tax cuts and
he actually said specifically at the
time it was because they favored the
wealthy they weren't gonna be good for
you know the middle-class working people
he voted against Bush on some
environmental initiatives and other
things I mean obviously not on war you
know John McCain was totally never
willing to compromise you know he could
set aside a personal grievance when it
came to an imperial adventure that would
kill millions of people obviously so I
don't want to deprive man of that but
that being said you know probably the
only reason we haven't invaded Iran yet
is that Trump realizes that you know is
John McCain's dying wish right exactly
that is actually super deep it's
actually probably exactly why we haven't
debated Iran yet that's the best theory
I've heard so but then you know when
McCain remade himself after 2004 back
into a conventional hard right
conservative to run for president 2008
and you know in embraced all of you know
trickle-down economics and everything
so the Russert method and the method of
the even the moderate is democratic
they wouldn't be like you know why have
you changed this policy set and you know
are your interests different now and now
are you actually just into rewarding
wealthy people and increasing inequality
if you cheat you know move back to the
right philosophically it would just be
well you were here then and now you're
here now that's a contradiction and
that's it
gotcha yes know exactly that because
that makes for a really cheap really
easy soundbite you know say hey here's
what you know you can play what he said
back then you could play what he said
now it's superficially embarrassing and
look if somebody is saying something
interesting and you think you can catch
them in an inconsistency that might
actually go somewhere but you know when
it comes to stuff like this it's a total
diversion from actually exploring the
the substance of it and you know I'm
like how much better would it have been
if people had been interviewing John
McCain in 2008 and they had been like
really challenging him on the merits of
invading Iraq and staying there for a
hundred years which he once you know
infamously said that he'd be willing to
do like actually digging into digging
into that and how he's you know
continued to stand by it after
everything that had happened that would
have been a public service you know just
sort of catching him on the fact that he
changed his mind and see it if he has a
smooth explanation of that is just
theater it's not a really very good
theater so that brings me then what is
the relationship between rhetoric and
logic yeah so logic is about giving good
reasons for beliefs but you know I want
you to agree with me I'm gonna give you
a reason to agree with me or I'm even
thinking about what even if there's not
another person involved I'm just
thinking about what the correct position
is and I'm like Wayne different reasons
for thinking one thing versus thinking
another thing what the evidence is
whereas rhetoric is about how you
package that and
when I say that the point is not at all
to you know to dump on rhetoric I think
rhetoric is really important they and
oftentimes there are lots of people on
the left I wish paid more attention to
it but you know but logic is about the
substance you know is about the
substance of your arguments rhetoric is
about how you present your arguments and
they're both important but I think that
the but I think that oftentimes you know
the lane that I'm interested in is
mostly about actually getting the
arguments right but of course you know
you will you also want to package them
at the most effective compelling way
possible if you're interested in
political outcomes because otherwise
what's the point right you know you want
to convince as many people as possible
so you you want to you want to put it in
the package rhetorically that is going
to convince as many people as possible
but if you just got rhetoric and there's
no good underlying argument then it's
just kind of pointless then it's a it's
a box with some really good Oh with some
really nice wrapping paper on it but
nothing inside has anybody done more to
confuse logic with rhetoric than Ben
Shapiro probably not yeah I think we I
think we discussed when when I was on
the show the first time the his his book
11 rules for arguing with leftists and
destroying them which yeah god I just
love that so much right you know you
just you know you just get this image
for that title of you know some ben
shapiro arguing with some big leftist
you know as usual Chomsky or somebody
and you know that guy just having to be
carried out a stretcher cuz pure just
Lloyd but they're like you read that
book like nine is the eleven rules are
just about how to frame the argument
like you know you know you know make
sure that people are talking about this
not this and that you're and that you're
walking you know that you're walking
into the fire as far as what you know
what they're what they're giving you and
that you you don't you know you don't
let them you know both change the
subject to accuse if you have been a
racist which is the problem apparently
he has a lot for some reason yeah when
sighing no right right yeah you know but
it's like what of like you know like
baby yeah I think it's like one and a
half of the rules actually have anything
to do with logic right even though this
is the guy the New York Times called the
destroyer of weak arguments there's like
one rule that's about Oh spot
inconsistencies in the other person's
position and all the examples he has are
you know ridiculously superficial like
you know uh you know like like stuff on
the level of you know oh they say they
care about people dying but then they
support abortion you know like just
ridiculous stuff like that
so there's like the there's like a drop
of it like in the ocean of rhetorical
framing and there's like a little
eyedropper drop of attempt to actually
engage with the substance of arguments
and yeah right and then that leads to
the well if even if I even if I grant
you global warming and the oceans start
to you know flood people's homes you
could just sell them right you know well
a pair of logic par excellence if you're
if you're beachfront property is flooded
because of global warming just flip it
on the market this egg is as ridiculous
as he is he is loud he's fast he's
confident which means that most people
probably I mean I I hope some of them
had this thought immediately but
probably a lot of people who listen and
say that didn't think until much later
oh wait a second hold on dead you're
selling it to who right you had some
real frustration specifically in the
debates with missed frames and lies
about Medicare for all yeah absolutely
so a lot of this has to do and it's a
kind of a kind of interested to see the
evolution of this because in 2016 the
big objection that Hillary made to
Medicare for all was that it would
involve raising taxes and you still got
a little bit of that this time right
like one of the one of the questions
that Bernie was given in the first
debate was
about getting him to admit as if he's
ever denied it but that you that that
taxes would be raised to pay for and of
course he made the obvious point that
but sure you're gonna raise taxes but
the overall cost for middle-income
family of their current tax burden plus
private insurance premium is going to be
less the cost of the raised taxes which
is all that should matter but that's not
the main line of attack this time around
it seems like this time the line of
scrimmage is shifted to all this stuff
at that well what about people who like
their health of church you're taking
away you're taking away health insurance
from people who like it you know what
about all the people who who love it who
say you know we've always been a
BlueCross BlueShield family it would
break my heart you know you know how to
say then I I mean I I'm long supported
Medicare for all
mostly because I've gone years without
having health insurance and also because
my values but damn I just Oscar as a
company has done so much to evoke brand
loyalty in me it's gotten a lot harder
no the way that they make it slightly
less financially calamitous for basic
coverage it just is like God what would
happen to them so yes okay why are you
taking away you know help you know if
people like their health insurance then
you know then they should be able to
keep it you know why not just have you
know medicare for all who want it I you
know just just just house have something
that's that is in exchanges which
everybody hates because normal human
beings hate having to fill out forms and
compare the fine print on different
plans but you know have an option on the
exchanges that you know that you label
Medicare for all and you're gonna charge
some kind of premium for it but it'll be
run by the government you know that's
good enough what's what's wrong with
that and of course one thing that's
wrong with that is it's people like one
of the great advantages of socialized
systems for healthcare whether it's you
know Medicare
for all a Canada or fully socialized
system like the UK is that you don't
have to think about it
that you never have to think or talk
about health care with anybody but a
doctor and this is added hassle and of
course people are still going to be
without health care during transition
you know periods like if you have if you
have employer-based health insurance and
then you lose it you have to go on you
know go on the exchange and switch to
this Medicare for all branded insurance
program that there's still that that
transitional period but ends of course
people don't want to thinking I mean I
have not you know not lately fortunately
but I've been on Medicaid and you know
and a lot of doctors don't take that but
there's no guarantee that they would
take this and most importantly the whole
framing of this is just based on a
massive equivocation about the idea of
people liking their health insurance you
know what that really means that
somebody would like their health
insurance and by the way if you look at
the polls about this they've never used
the word like they've never said you
like your health insurance they say are
you satisfied with your health insurance
which is a very different thing
satisfied means like hey you figure
given the options you know you could be
doing a whole lot worse you're not to
complain but to the extent that any
human being might actually say you like
your health insurance well I don't know
what it would even really mean to say
that you like this financial institution
middleman you know certainly not you
have some emotional attachment to it so
realistically what that means is well
you you think that it's it's the
cheapest option that's available to you
and of course Medicare for all you know
what you do paying in taxes you know it
would be since it's a much more
efficient way to do things would be much
less than what you're paying for you
know insurance premiums or it means you
like your doctor and you're afraid of
course as we all are that if you lose
your health insurance especially if you
have regular prescriptions to refill
then the doctor that you have is going
to be out of plan for your new insurance
you should have to what
for a really long time for your first
appointment with whatever new doctor you
find and there's getting another
appointment for the prescription and
it's a huge hassle you like your doctor
you want to keep your doctor but of
course once you realize that that's what
liking your health insurance means
that's actually an argument for Medicare
for all
because under Medicare for all the only
way to go out of plan is to leave the
country right well and theoretically
could even I mean you could actually you
know you would still have some form of a
wealth of course if you're traveling a
lot of other I remember even going to
lose a period of time where I was
spending time to Trinidad and Tobago but
every bill really funny of like you know
she's just like I was probably pretty
responsible about this stuff but it
looks almost like oh yeah and we have
health care here so like if you get
injured during carnival or something
like you're good that's interesting like
wait you know late like you're not even
just talking right about like yes like
think they got the common example that
like you know other comparably
industrialized wealthy countries all of
universal health care it's like no this
is also this is a not yeah also the
Caribbean smaller state we've got
something set up so it and I and I think
um you know it's it's that point of
emphasis of just having no worries and
and I think cuz I also think that that
is reflective in the polling to that
it's yes I think it's specifically the
worry potentially about losing a doctor
that somebody likes I think is
substantive and I think even more
generally and I think what's most
devious and effective of of the type of
thing that Biden says or Clinton says or
Buddha judge says is just anything that
triggers anybody's fear about their
health care coverage because people have
been so terrorized by this just in you
know completely inhumane immoral
you know predator system and these
parasite companies totally yeah people
are okay them whole yeah yeah that like
oh this would you know Medicare for all
would be and you would lose your
existing insurance well they're all
trains to start sweating when we see
that phrase lose your laces
precisely because we've right and and
not versus saying like hey look actually
first of all here's how much the CEO of
United Healthcare is making in
compensation while you know depriving
amell America of health and threatening
you personally and instead what we're
gonna do is we're gonna get rid of that
nonsense and get everybody good health
care and I but I think that that's a
really important point of emphasis and
and one other example I just just really
briefly I I remember in college looking
at in in a sociology of the European
Union class we had this printout of
taxes in Denmark and people should know
I mean we're not even with Medicare for
all you know and even with free college
and even with a real expansion it still
won't be the degree that it is in
Denmark you know I I don't I just don't
think that that's anytime soon and you
could sit there and even as a you know
pretty left perspective at the end of
the chart you're like Jesus that's a lot
of taxes but then what was immediately
corresponding was like okay but now
let's look at okay like here's your
private health insurance bill here's
your utility bill here's your rent
here's your car payment here's all your
stuff that is not quote unquote taxes
but is mostly just much worse quality
you know private alternatives that are
lower quality than in Denmark much more
of a hassle and in the healthcare case
can threaten your life and it came up to
basically the same amount and so and one
objection is like oh well you have a
choice but actually on most of those
things in fact you don't have a choice
right like until very until the mandate
healthcare was probably the thing that
you had the biggest choice about and of
course that's you know literally putting
your life in your hands but other things
like auto insurance or owning a car or
many of those things are simply not
functional choices in most parts of the
country if you want to like work and
keep a roof over your head no and
incidentally rent isn't a choice either
so very quickly when you actually went
over it your obligations to worse
services in the private marketplace come
out to the equivalent maybe slightly
more maybe slightly less and almost all
totally worst quality so that's
important to keep in mind as well I
think yeah absolutely and and just just
quickly we should really push back about
this rhetoric of of choice right you
know because if you think about what
really gives people meaningful choices
in life right if we're talking about
people's freedom to live their lives the
way they want to live it I think that
like choosing between Aetna and Blue
Cross Blue Shield there's not like high
up on the lid right maybe having health
care and housing and the ability and
even god forbid power over your economic
life in a democratized economy so you
can actually fulfill it and pursue your
potential in a real sense is somehow
more liberating than sitting down and
saying ah maybe Aetna will slightly
terrorize me less than the United health
or Blue Cross or whatever right maybe so
yeah exactly like you know right now as
long as the most people are getting you
know beautifully do have some kind of
public option for those who are as long
as most people are getting their
insurance through their employers that's
a massive like piece of power that those
employers have over them because you
know you have like everybody has this
experience it's so normal we don't think
about it that you know you're worried oh
if I lose my job then you know and I
don't get another one right away then I
am going to be without health insurance
my kids are could be without health
insurance or even if I do get a new job
right away I'm gonna have to go through
this ridiculous stressful process figure
it out to be a doctor and all that stuff
and that gives people a massive
incentive to stay at bad jobs right I
actually look I we just want to get a
couple more things in the last couple of
minutes but it attached to that and
there's a great book by Rob Larson
called capitalism verse freedom that
really really makes the case quite
clearly and succinctly that actually
in a functional and actual sense kappa
capitalism is anti-and antithetical of
freedom and many substantive instances
like the employment and healthcare
example you're talking about like if
we're using that word in a real sense
not a you know Milton Freeman like oh
well you know anybody could buy a BMW if
you just chose to go without food for a
year you know like that type of nonsense
that you know passes were argument the
libertarian neoliberal worlds yes Matt I
mean capitalism just means capitalists
decided not people right right precisely
so on top of that then I want you to you
know what what is it you know so much of
this debate and I and I almost want to
cool it down in a way of like I do I
like there's many things I like and
respect about Elizabeth Warren I will
say very bitterly on foreign military
policy I do not like her views and I
actually think I have extreme
disagreements when I and I think it is
just a fundamental problem that people
don't take those things as seriously I
think you have a absolutely a global
obligation to consider how foreign
policy is gonna be managed especially
because that's actually and this is a
big problem to this but the reality is
is that that's the most power that a
president has out of the gate and
there's very little in a lot on the
other hand in her record that shows me a
lot of very disturbing things but on
domestic policy yes it's not as left as
Bernie it's you know again I I just
don't buy that debate but a lot of
really great stuff and absolutely
somebody who I think has genuine
progressive genuine anti-wall Street
credentials but I I like this frame that
you and I have been talking about that
it's not just that Bernie's a better
candidate it's that it represent in
terms of the type of actual structural
potential could you just elaborate that
a bit yeah absolutely yeah that it's
it's not you know it's not a question of
being you know of which candidate is
better you know in terms of like two
quantitative differences on same scale
birding sees politics in a fundamentally
different way than the other candidates
do that he comes out of a socialist
tradition he you know he started out you
know his political life and the young
people socialist League very influenced
by the tradition of Eugene Debs and you
know of course he's been you know it's
been in Washington for a long time like
moderated certain views but he still
fundamentally sees politics in terms of
clashes between different groups that
have different interests and mass
mobilizations the thing that you need to
get things done that he has like when he
was asked that ridiculous question at
the day about all these other states
that have supposedly tried to do
medicare-for-all on a state level that
hasn't worked
which is you know total nonsense false
premise those are all states that would
block from ever trying to implemented
the first place by usually conservative
Democrats but the great part of his
answer the part that really goes to
question is he said now we're gonna get
it done the same way that we've got
Civil Rights done all these other things
that you know you need to have mass
engagement and a lot of a lot of people
who are good at her centrists will sort
of say oh this is a fairy tale it's not
gonna happen you're gonna you're not
gonna get you know this sort of like
large numbers of people who are going to
be involved in grassroots mobilization
to sort of push the programs that he's
talking about but then if that's a
fantasy then how much more of a fantasy
is like what Biden is push it which is
oh I'll be able to get this
incrementalist stuff done because the
Republicans will like come to their
senses
as soon as Trump is out of office but
you know that they'll you know though if
they'll decide to be reasonable kid
right you know which he somehow believes
after being haven't been Obama's vice
president for eight years so you know
this is but I did but this is a really
fundamental fundamental difference you
know that like that Berta you know
Bernie Sanders is somebody who doesn't
you know think
who doesn't think that the problem is
that we don't have a good enough plan
that's the right elizabeth warren slogan
you know you know she's got a plan and
you know and some of these plans really
are very nice but it's but I think
Bernie has an understanding that the
problem isn't that we don't have a good
well enough technically worked out plan
for what the policy would look like the
problem is that there are these
fundamental structural impediments to
making it happen so I that's just
undoubtedly true and it's true to the
point that actually Warren herself has
actually tried to start pivoting and she
didn't debate at least how are you gonna
do this and she said I'm gonna mobilize
people so that's another area you know
that's another burning Bernie lead on
this issue and I think obviously I think
another argument for Sanders is that he
already does have the movement army in a
way that's distinct and unparallel as at
this point but I I think the you know
the antenna and I will say in Biden's
case just to address that for a second
what will happen in Biden's case is that
he could collaborate with Republicans on
cutting Social Security Medicare which
he provided in the Obama administration
and then with his current attitude
let him launder themselves and all of
the same people who are 100% aligned
with the Trump white supremacy agenda
and terrorizing Allen Omar you know sit
in the Rose Garden with Joe Biden and
all act like they're decent people so
yeah you know in that case his message
is is incredibly pernicious but I might
I guess the thing and I think you know
frankly particularly some members of
this audience what's your case to people
who say and I still see this you know
even even people who watch and listen to
my show they it's they might even
understand on some level this argument
but they don't want it to be that way in
other words they'll say like you know
and this is another difference I think
that you can see is if some people sort
of see that like you know what Sanders
is saying and again I clearly in a very
moderate way right but he said it
there's some understanding that like it
isn't just corruption or lack of
regulation right
there is a structure you know capitalism
has a tendency to monopoly and at the
very least unique countervailing forces
and certainly you need to totally D
commodify certain areas like health care
now
Warren is somewhat gone in the direction
on those some of those issues but there
still seems to be an attachment and an
idea among the supporters that that
somehow you know they don't want to go
that far they want it to be somehow this
sort of middle of kind of reform without
transformation in a way and I just
wonder if you're speaking to somebody
who kind of has that view I mean what's
your best use of argument and logic for
adopting more of the structural Bernie
movement view over the progressive
technocratic one yeah well I would
certainly say that if you if you look at
the empirical evidence from you know the
the last the last couple of decades you
know of attempts to to do any kind of
incremental you know reforms that should
tell you something about the impediments
that exist but it's a very hard argument
to make because the very thing that
makes Bernie better position to actually
push a lot of this stuff through is the
very thing that makes a lot of these
people think that Warren is a more
serious candidate that the thing that
like the fact that Warren you know is
very focused on the kind of wonky
technical details of what the plan looks
like and she's she's more reluctant to
make a harder pivot towards seeing
things in terms of movements here's what
you know makes her less likely to be
able to get this stuff done I mean quite
apart from the fact that you know even
when it comes to some of the goals you
know like there are still some really
significant differences there right you
know that like as there's you know
there's a great article and jakab and
about how you know elizabeth warren has
planned for everything except for health
care for example no
and barri yeah that's been a real
question mark over that for sure any and
of course student debt cancellation it's
a she put out a good solid liberal plan
Bernie's no no let's just get
rid of it right like nothing
complicating wonky let's just liberate
people from that yeah yeah it is also
yeah and the video is objectively that's
much better politics like quite apart
for the fact that it's a better policy
that like there's abundant evidence that
means-tested programs are a lot more
politically vulnerable to the universal
programs that you know if you know if
there's some kind of cutoff no matter
where you put the cutoff you're gonna
get gray area cases and you're gonna get
people who'd not unreasonably think hey
this other guy is only doing a little
bit worse for me how come I have to pay
to cancel his debts but but you know but
nobody's canceling my deaths right you
know like that's that's a gift to the
Republicans you know because that gives
them talking points to push back against
it there's a reason why you know I mean
means-tested programs people can
convince themselves I'm never going to
need it this you know this is like this
benefit some other people you know
anything that's complicated that's hard
to explain there's a reason why the
Republicans before Trump spent years
symbolically repealing Obamacare and
they could still win elections after
that whereas in countries like Canada
the UK even conservatives have to
pretend to support the maintenance of
those socialized system so they would
never win elections because if everybody
benefits from a program everybody has a
stake in it you know which of course
doesn't mean that wealthy elites won't
try to push back against it but it's
going to be so much harder for them to
do so and again this goes to the
difference because if it's is it's
technically complicated if it's
means-tested if you know maybe you get
full forgiveness for this group and
partial forgiveness for that group that
you know two people who are trained to
think about politics at a technocratic
way that makes it sound like a much more
serious adult kind of policy even though
objectively it's
much worse politics right so as well as
we reharden
on the merits too because again it's
like right first of all I mean if you're
dealing with something like the student
debt crisis why not you know for just
err on the side of getting I mean you're
not gonna don't don't worry like even if
you're like obsessed with some like
wealthy Scion getting away with
something guess what they already got
away with something because they have no
debt because they were born in the lucky
sperm they were in the lucky sperm Club
right and then even beyond that like you
know yeah actually expand in the other
direction and realize that even people
who have you know very privileged
circumstances relatively speaking like
even just in a narrow economic sense
like yeah it actually would prefer a
young doctor not have a third of their
income eaten up by paying off predatory
loans
I would actually yeah probably prefer
that circulating the economy yeah of
course
yeah yeah as a better right that's a
matter if what's gonna be good for
stimulating the economy it's a matter of
basic justice but just know you know
just because something you know just
because somebody has an
upper-middle-class job that doesn't
actually mean that it's okay that they
should be you know in debt slavery you
know to this parasitical right lenders
like that's you know like which is
really you know I always you know like I
always liked one of the one of the hosts
on chapo Trap House you know once
summarized this point by saying that
getting one of the nice things about
data socialist as opposed to be the
liberal is that you have to stop well
you get to stop worried about who
deserves what you could just say every
bastard deserves better
hundreds oh yes right exactly that's
perfectly put you know that's just such
a bore for being human attitude it's so
much better on that level but it's also
something that it's going to be easier
to go popular support for people
understand that it's it's simple and
also again if everybody understands the
benefit from it you know there's a
reason why political and media leads
have been openly fantasized at about
cutting social security for decades but
it's been very difficult for the deck so
do anything in that regard because
there's a huge backlash because
everybody bets
from it and of course if you know even
as a matter of policy as a matter of of
justice if you say oh it's bad that you
know you're paying for the the student
you know the student loans or the health
care or the higher education for rich
people well hold on why not why not
embrace that argument to say you know of
consistently if that's bad then should
we means test Social Security like
right-wing Republicans want us to well
or what or if that's bad why don't you
propose a wealth tax no more to the
point yeah Ben Burgess yeah author of
give them an argument logic for the left
I love this book and everybody I knew it
was read it as loved it he teaches logic
at well he's been teaching at Rutgers he
has a new appointment that I think will
be unveiled soon he's taught across the
United States and in South Korea annie
has a patreon page as well which people
should definitely join I've joined it
Ben
and the debunk on TMDs Ben I really
appreciate your time all right thank you
Mike thank you so much all right folks
become a member of the majority reported
a majority dot F M slash become a member
subscribe check out the AM quickie Sam
is very excited about that
the am quickly with Louis dynamic night
things did you need it's Lucy Steiner
excuse me what I say Laura Steiner
Laura I'm sorry I do know it's Lucy
Steiner I think I actually I think I'm
anyways yes I know Lucy Steiner I think
I know I think I actually know a Laura
Steiner so I apologize for that slip-up
but seriously though do check that out
on it's a great condensed way of
basically getting your start in a
substantive way on the news of the day
just coffee cup ferret a tea coffee or
chocolate
check out the majority report blend
spread all of the words this coming
Tuesday on the Michael Brooks show
crystal ball joins us and then also
Joshua Khan with more practical lessons
for tactics organizing activism work on
climate change and First Nations rights
last on our last show among many other
things we talked about redefining an
enlarging human rights and post-imperial
foreign policy with Daniel Dessner this
Sunday a primer on the Sudanese
Communist Party and what's happening in
Sudan right now with Achmed Cabello
really interesting stuff patreon.com
slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube subscribe now we're well
we're we're first and foremost obviously
the patreon but i will say that we're I
think we're thirty something or forty
something away from our first fifty
seven thousand subscribers on YouTube so
over there and click the subscribe that
literary hangover a literary hangover uh
yeah pretty upcoming on the podcast is
gonna be James Fenimore Cooper that
won't be out this Saturday that will be
out next Saturday we're doing the
pioneers which is sort of his first one
his dad was a basically like he created
Cooperstown oh yeah so that's the
Cooperstown where baseball was not in
fact invented and it and we go into how
the sort of last the Mohicans novels is
James Fenimore Cooper sort of rewriting
his own sort of family history after his
dad sort of went bankrupt and all of his
holdings got liquidated in the 1820s and
stuff like that but at in the 1880s and
stuff his dad was a town founder and a
sort of minor aristocrat self-taught
because he swallowed up a bunch of
loyalist lands in in New York after the
Revolution so we're gonna talk about the
pioneers but subscribe to YouTube
because I'm about 27 patrons away from
when I said I would start doing some
video game streaming and then I'm gonna
be on YouTube initially and so you'll
want to check that stuff out there and
I'm also gonna get the episodes there's
two more episodes that need to be put up
there there should be up there in the
next couple weeks
Awesome's calls and IIMs are open ton to
get you see in the fun half all right
folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna
I am a total can we bring back the
EG dinnertime song yeah or a couple of
you put them in rotation DJ den well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough of a break that's have Markinson
and the alpha males Oh
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
Oh
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked alpha males
Oh
out there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
now the birthday to meet you boy I have
a thought expenditure foil and the alpha
males of black black alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price around
here welcome to the fun half everybody
so you're gonna watch this and
experience this with me in real time I
had to run to the bathroom and I came
out and Matt and Brendan asked me how is
Megan McCain gonna make the incitement
against Elle on Omar about herself and I
have a lot of very strong ideas in my
mind about this but I don't know so it's
your guest as good as mine
let's find out together what to say
about this mom no look it was really
discretion yes not I came but I was
trying to go out to dinner and ignore
politics and my family's in town and
like every night yeah that's that's okay
came home and thought on Twitter and
then said on TV and look everyone at
this table and I think people to watch
this show or have ever seen the dumpster
fire that was my interview on Seth
Meyers knows that I've been one of on
Omar's most vocal critics on her policy
regarding Israel regarding some four
comments that I and many others
interpreted as anti-semitic but the
problem right now is you're taking away
there's less of her to distinguish those
two things her policy on Israel and her
criticism which is anti-semitic usually
she I mean everyone come and even Meghan
McCain conflates those two things is the
same thing I've been one of Aloha
nomar's most vocal critics on her policy
regarding Israel regarding some four
comments that I and many others
interpreted as anti-semitic but the
problem right now is yeah never mind
make that distinction I would also say
you and many other disingenuous morons
but go ahead
apologies forgiving Turkish yeah look
when in doubt never I mean when in any
situation never give Megan McCain credit
cuz by the way and I say this because
I'm assuming that this isn't like a nice
clip where Megan McCain just says hey
you know I've smeared and demonize Dylan
Omar in the past because I'm an idiot
and don't know what I'm talking about
but the president obviously should not
say this it's pretty terrible okay
next topic
is real regarding some four comments
that I and many others interpreted as
anti-semitic but the problem right now
is you're taking away my agency to
criticize her policy because you're
making us so much about race xenophobia
racism I think any time you're hitting
in a territory where you're telling any
American citizen who is of a different
color than you are to send them back I
too didn't think this was something that
I would see in in my country especially
when we're going into 2020 and let me
tell you Republicans right now we may be
in power and have I mean if you're gonna
do the center-back chance at least do it
like in 2017 or 2021
what are you talking you didn't see a
Trump as president but are you no
ma'am
oh my god and now yeah by the way no
ma'am which is like a true McCain's like
great moment no one stops to ever
remember by the way there was one person
and I remember this when Obama was first
running for president and no ma'am
refers to some crazy woman at a McCain
rally and she really did look just like
deranged go up to McCain and say he's an
Arab and I am and McCain's like no ma'am
he's a good family man and : pal who
should primarily be remembered for going
to the UN and lying about before the
invasion of Iraq he was on Meet the
Press and he endorsed Obama and I I
don't remember the specifics but I
remember it stood out at the time cuz he
said the bigger answer to John McCain
should it should have been like no he's
not but so what if he was Arab or Muslim
I mean everybody has given McCain that
credit and sure like obviously compared
to Donald Trump I get you know fair
enough whatever but like the subtext of
that of him literally saying like no no
he's not Arab he's a good person
should be noted and by the way making
McCain's entire goal with regards to her
critiques of Ilhan Omar are to remove
Ilhan Omar's agencies yeah purely to
demonize and lie about her I think this
was something that I would see in in my
country especially when we're going into
2020 and let me tell you right now we
may be in power and have popularity and
Trump's numbers Beit may be real high
but let me tell you it's my generation
that's going to answer I am NOT
Republicans no not that I wear and have
popularity and Trump's numbers may be
real high but let me tell you it's my
generation that's going to answer for
this try selling conservatism to a
younger generation when they all they
see is this kind of crap on TV and the
Trump administration all of you Ivanka
Jerrod's you're around my age range what
where are you in this because if my
parents if my if my mom is reporting a
child is traffic at the airport in
Phoenix I would have to head up the
answer to that oh my god I mean Jesus
she gets an applause line I'll tell you
what though that's uh that's so of
course look she made it about her
because the big take I thought she was
gonna bring her dad into it more so but
she made a mercy by saying that you know
this basically it makes her ability to
go out on TV and smear and distort and
spread lies about Allah no more
difficult and I'll say that that's
actually true but you know what even
though I'm sure I'm sure Megan McCain's
one of those like yeah whatever haters
like the fact that she feels a need to
come out on that segment and you know be
like this is horrible
that absolutely has something to do with
the fact that she is basically getting
constantly reminded that she represents
pure privilege and a bigoted party
there's no doubt about that
what is this gd-r gd-r tweeted out
tweeted out the story says this and
truth is the real source of a lot of
anger among never Trump errs that
Trump's blunt forthright racism makes it
harder to get away with dog-whistle
scurrilous honest that's exactly right
that's 100 percent in that's not and I
mean we've been making that observation
since 2015 yeah we've been saying that
forever but that's not I mean we're not
going to play it but I mean it
Romney said something the other day like
well these web adieu rapper said ideas
that are able you know he did his his
vanilla ice cream cone version of well I
mean he's the self-deport guy so let's
be I'm to the right of Trump on
immigration immigration you're calling
from a 303 area code who are you calling
from
hey this is Matt calling from Longmont
Colorado I'm out what's going on what's
on your minds um well I I called in to
make a specific comic comment but real
quick if Meghan McCain doesn't like her
party she should leave it okay to start
out with I think she likes her party
just fine yeah me too so I like your
phrase no sidelines I've used that same
phrase before but in terms of not voting
I often hear that you know people say
that nagging or telling people they
should vote is finger wagging it's a bad
thing but isn't that a form of standing
on the sidelines and are we not in a
time of crisis we're not voting is
almost an injustice or is an injustice
to people following victim to this
administration and this party's
atrocities isn't it time to get involved
before it's too late if it isn't already
well I mean I yeah I guess that's I got
kind of antsy in two ways I mean I
actually think the bigger point that
you're making about needing to be
involved to some degree now is it
requires a lot more than voting and it
clearly frankly I mean look I'm totally
a strategic voting person and at the
same time I don't know how much more
clearer can get that most Democrats and
certainly the Democratic leadership
class are absolutely not the people to
actually reverse this and in fact
oftentimes they're active Co
participants in this so
that's one thing I think in general you
know I don't know man I I I have no
problem and I can already hear like a
certain contingent this is a classic
answer that will dis satisfy everybody
I can hear a contingent of people who
just seem gay to me to go for you even
doing her babe feedings doofy cube right
right right so they'll be pissed off
because they'll say I'm a hypocrite
because I'm gonna say look I don't think
in general that that's the foot to lead
on right
I could across the board I think
appealing to people's better nature if
you can really do it like something like
Cornel West can you know and getting to
people's sense of urgency is important I
think hectoring and moralizing to people
frankly about anything is not the way to
do it whether it's voting or anything
else right you gotta meet people where
they are and you got to have an
appealing approach so I would definitely
not take that frame I do think that no
side lines the no side lines thing
though works for a lot of things you
could say hey look it's time to take
action in this but you know I don't know
man that it's a it's a complicated
message because and I want to wait a
very long time before we start talking
about that because we're not in that
situation right now like right now we're
in a situation where you don't have to
just vote you can organize and vote for
Bernie Sanders you know to just vote you
can if you're able give a campaign
contribution to one of these for
congresswoman you can you know there's
infinite numbers of local races and
initiatives you can you know you can
reward bro Khanna for his you know
really significant anti intervention
anti war work right now so that's not
the right time I mean I look I don't
even want to I'm superstitious enough
that I don't want to have a Joe
Biden's the nominee thing right I don't
want to do that right right but you know
that situation comes to it I'll say
right now once again if Joe Biden is the
nominee I will recommend that if people
are in a swing state that they've
for Joe Biden but that is not what I
want to reduce politics to and that's
not where politics are right now yeah I
want to comment on that part because
I've been tweeting out a couple times
saying that if Joe Biden is the nominee
I'm not going to vote for him I'm not
gonna vote for either but the truth of
that the full statement there is I'm not
going to vote for Joe Biden in New York
now before he wins the primary I'm gonna
leave that I'm gonna just for propaganda
purposes because I don't think the vote
really matters what I vote for some
third party or Joe Biden's sure that's
not really why I'm saying that out loud
to like my followers I'm saying that to
send a message about Joe Biden now of
course if Joe Biden wins the primary I'm
gonna be spending my god we look don't
go there yeah don't go there now and
don't Hector and more Eliza people right
but I think when I think no sidelines is
is strong and clear because it is saying
it's like on one hand you can't go and
lay a whole trip on people and then on
the other hand you also just have to say
you know and that is why in some ways
it's simpler than voting in a way in
this case it's like you are gonna tell
me some like you know cuz take take
somebody I'm sorry I'm going all over
the place here but I forget her name but
there's there's some editor at the
forward who's constantly instigating
nonsense and smears against Ilan Omar
but your anger Sargon yes
horrible yes now I have very little
doubt that this is she'll probably vote
and she'll probably and I'm I would
assume she'll vote for a Democrat to
vote the right way against Trump uh but
not only is she on the sidelines she's
usually on the wrong team when it comes
to ill on Omar so you know in some ways
it's so simple and it's so unequivocal
alright so especially now especially in
the environment we're in where we're
actually having a battle about um you
know we have the primary we have clear
stark choices in the primary and we have
a clear stark choice inside the
Democratic Party conflict yeah a serious
injury party conflict where if anything
frankly a Schumer and Pelosi have
facilitated what Trump is doing if Hoyer
and Pelosi and Schumer did not go to
AIPAC several months ago
and cosign against amar to varying
degrees it would be I mean Trump would
probably look I'm not gonna lie trump
would probably do it anyways but it
wouldn't be it would be clear that there
was not buying into this outside of the
racist core of republicanism right
they've opened up a much broader Lane
just as they open up a broader Lane by
having how many democratics you know
operatives are lobbying against
medicare-for-all and against people's
health for the you know the parasite
insurance industry how many you know
even by the even by the metric of people
in their resistance who are obsessed
with a more narrow set of things than
people on the left they're not you know
dare not facility you know where's where
is Nancy Pelosi saying she supports Al
Green who by the way al Green's argument
for impeachment to me that's them that's
like yes I don't I still don't know what
has been proven or not proven about
Russia frankly I still don't even see
how fundamentally different we are from
where we were a couple years ago saying
there's something there it's
questionable and so on right we know for
a fact that this guy is a bigot and
inciting and my understand about greens
impeachment articles is that it focuses
on that and it's true
so impeach the they're not
doing that so I you know look well I
yeah I do
I think that voting is more than Omar's
election day I better go vote I wonder
who I should vote for and that you know
these days more than ever it it should
be taken as serious as possible I mean I
woke up Monday thinking it was still
high burp hyperbole to think that
America could be could become fascist
but then here it is Thursday morning and
that stuff he was saying that the rally
last night was off the teleprompter
agree with that I agree with you but
that it is mister cisely why it gotta be
bigger than voting and a much broader
engagement because yeah clearly
like you have a thousand candles in
every room of your house but you won't
invest in a fire extinguisher I mean
that's what it's like to be an American
at the moment to me and I you know silly
analogy aside well I don't know I think
but I don't even think I mean frankly
people did vote in higher rates in 2018
like you can't yeah so right now it
needs to be a much bigger set of
activities and it also needs to be a
fight to get you know look I won't
pretend to not have a clear choice here
but it needs to be Bernie sander you
know it you need to and you need to be
on the right side of this inter-party
conflict and I agree with you I'm of the
school that you can't mean that was part
of my thing in 2016
I saw what Donald Trump was saying and I
believed it and I also knew that he
wasn't gonna do anything for the for the
popula you know he wasn't gonna do any
of this economic populism stuff please
but I knew that he could make things
even worse I you know for the immigrant
community and I knew that having a
president who was overtly racist like
that would be really significant for
people who would catch hell in ways that
I won't cause of my identity right
that's just reality and I knew the toxic
identity you know white identity
politics was profoundly dangerous so it
was my obligation to say this just needs
to be stopped
even though Hillary Clinton is absolute
trash and even though Hillary Clinton is
part of a political class that among
many other reasons but what but
absolutely the complete corruption and
failure of modern centrist neoliberal
politics absolutely has facilitated this
across the globe that's you know that
Menai the identity and race end are
kidding themselves or lying and then
conversely people that would deny the
corruption and facilitation of
neoliberalism are lying and delusional
so you know I I agree with you but
especially right now we're not talking
about that it's not 24 hours before
Election Day it's a much bigger battle
right now and we need to fight that much
bigger battle because it's not just
about getting rid of
you got to get rid of the conditions of
Trump and right now Nancy Pelosi is part
of the conditions of Trump if Joe
Biden's elected president I mean look I
mean I know I'm saying a lot here but
the last thing I'll say if Joe Biden is
like the president and again I know a
certain type of idiot will use this in
the opposite direction yourself if Joe
Biden is nominee there's no good
scenario but every scenario of Donald
Trump not being re-elected isn't
absolutely necessary right but if you
elect Joe Biden right you will have four
years of the same economic conditions in
equality and deepening crisis which
Democratic leaders have expanded and
increased and facilitated themselves for
decades because he's part of that same
right-wing neoliberal class then he will
allow Republicans to rebrand themselves
and get away from the embarrassment of
trumpism all in time for you know
another thug maybe a more less eccentric
one you know maybe Tom cotton 2024 takes
out a you know an unpopular Joe Biden
you've got to get rid of the underlying
conditions that's bigger than voting
although I do think you should vote I
appreciate the comment I'm sorry there's
just a lot a lot to process here let's
let's actually just do something fun for
a second Dave Rubin was consistently
thoroughly dunked on by Marianne
Williamson I know we at least have the
shorter clip the 30 there's two there's
12 and 13
let's just play 13 you don't have it on
the list
we didn't play it all right sorry guys
so there's a DC yeah it's it's 13 on the
list maybe I do need to be more like Sam
so it basically Dave Rubin he did a
post-mortem about it which was kind of
funny maybe we'll play it later but
honestly I think as things are just so
heightened right now it was just so
depressing just the complete moral and
intellectual vacuum of the guy I'm not
sure that I want to actually deal with
right now do we not have you know where
that it's just the one where it's the
Dave Rubin
edited clip right that's 30 seconds no
yeah I know I know do you know where you
sent that to us in I didn't I assumed we
had it left over from yesterday it's
alright guys it's fine we I thought we
clipped it yesterday all right
maybe we'll get to that later glenn
kessler brock from virginia glenn
kessler fact check for marianne
williamson slander on the rubin report
when dave asked her if collective
thinking will inspire guilt and
resentment marion said no people are
smart dave what she should have said is
quote unquote most people are smart
since the person she was talking to was
clearly not smart to Pinocchio's sorry
michael you girls cancel yeah no it's a
fair point
that's a very effective kessler fact
check greg from oklahoma my democratic
congress person has kept their promise
to vote against a twenty at fifteen
dollar minimum wage for video saying why
she voted against that she evoked the
name my hometown saying the cost of
living isn't the same as san francisco
she got ratioed on twitter for voting us
to thank god I'm extremely disappointed
but not surprised she voted against it
next time tell us her name
it's a horrible vote okay let's let's do
these Bernie sounds yesterday Bernie
Sanders did a really important speech on
Medicare for all and there's a you I
mean the lies are back Joe Biden is
lying
incessantly about this Pete Budaj and
others are pretending that there's some
Universal system that isn't really a
universal system that costs will go out
even though in the aggregate they'll go
down and the quality of care and basic
material security will be now just
increase just incomparable
we'll go from a system where tens and
millions of people even after Obamacare
still don't have care many others are
underinsured millions prematurely died
and it's a still fundamental threat to
people to every human being in this
country has health coverage period no
so this was a funny video this is number
seven Bernie wants to know what the deal
of people lying about Medicare for all
is my Republican friends and some others
splinter put this together seem to think
that the American people hate paying
taxes but they just love paying
insurance premiums oh my god here the
insurance premium is here what a
wonderful day oh wow
let's celebrate hey another 2,000 a
month for insurance and school
businesses they just love it every month
paying those insurance premiums the
truth of the matter is that study after
study has shown that as a nation we will
save substantial sums of money and the
average middle-class family will save an
estimated three thousand dollars each
and every year on their health care bill
Bernie Sanders is ready to rumble
because he's cared about this he's
fought for everybody of health care his
whole political career and he's also
explaining why the idea that this can't
be done in a bold effective way is
nonsense you know I want to say a word
about this transition because I get I
hear over and over again from political
opponents from the industry it can't be
done stop and think about the in 1965
when Medicare was first introduced they
did not have then the kind of technology
that we have right now they were
developing a brand-new program with all
of the difficulty that that entails so
please do not tell me that 55 years
later with all of the technology that we
have that we cannot simply over a
four-year period expand a successful
program that is 55 years old
look at that it's purely a question of
political will and power any technical
arguments or lies distractions and
nonsense this is a question of
fulfilling and expanding a program that
already works extraordinary ly
effectively and giving it to every
American this is another reminder as
with yesterday with the Bank of America
exchange this is why he is the one
that's hated by Wall Street this is the
why you know the the the the first the
reports were anybody besides Sanders and
Warren now the reports are anybody
besides Sanders because Bernie Sanders
represents a fundamental threat to a
way of doing things that is a
fundamental threat to 99% of Americans
it is demented and insane
that private insurance companies that
provide absolutely nothing of value they
are purely a unnecessary predatory
barrier between you and your doctor and
a waste of all of our money and
resources are not phased out in favor of
a national program which is spelled out
in great comprehensive detail in the
Bernie Sanders Senate bill as well as
the primal Ajay Paul House bill and and
these other candidates that still sort
of are wishy washy on it
Booker Harris at times warrant they
should be asked very specifically along
with you know people who are just more
full you know flagrantly dishonest and
right-wing and of the insurance industry
like Biden Buddha judge what precisely
do you mean about the difficulty of the
transition not talking points not stuff
that you know kids could copy and paste
from Forbes magazine onto a term paper
what do you actually mean because those
answers in substance and merit are not
there and they've been answered in
actual legislation all right we have
this Dave Rubin clip this is a who did
this on Twitter this is at Emily Cohen
be I watched this about 20 times
yesterday I texted it to everyone
like literally practically every why
there were even a couple of people that
I tried to explain to Dave Rubin was
just so I could send this and it always
got incredible response as I said Dave
Reubens post mortem on the debate of
course he learned nothing
none of his empathy was expanded he is
the perfect fusion of Craven and cynical
and if you don't know who Dave Rubin is
look up who he receives funding from
then look up his exchange with Joe Rogan
on the ups code
check out timba on toast on youtube
check out samba on toast on youtube
watch any video that that we've done on
him and also i'll look at the before and
after titles on the the absolutely
morally repugnant videos he's done with
stefan molyneux and then yes the answer
to that question is he really is that
stupid and I think that this thirty
seconds after he's schooled for Marianne
Williamson we've got the perfect doorway
into the Rubin brain well do you think
there's a little bit of a risk in sort
of yeah I mean a couple of times you're
referencing the genocide of the Jews to
slavery seems like a little bit of a
slippery slope there now I don't even
know how we can say that actually and I
say that as a Jew if you read up much on
slavery yeah we're talking abducts
slavery day I mean nobody's in a contest
nobody has a monopoly on human suffering
this was object slavery because it's so
beautiful because she's looking at him
and she's so patient she really does
have the patience of this is somebody
who definitely has done some some work
on themselves to have this level of
patience because just even watching this
in and out we were responding almost in
real time on Tuesday night on CMBS and
you finally get to a point where you
just like Jesus Christ how can you be so
 stupid and so empathy
free it's incredible and she finally has
the slight crack like yeah Dave actually
the mass bondage and murderer of human
beings yeah that was pretty bad and then
just one more time because it's amazing
this is referencing the genocide of the
Jews to slavery seems like a little bit
of a slippery slope there now I don't
even know how we can say that actually
and I say that as a Jew if you read up
motto in slavery
yeah we're talking about
was it oh my god ten billion Pinocchio's
where's Glenn Kessler fat jack yeah
actually by the way name several books
in a super Poletti fair in a super
polite respectful way and you will
probably get blocked anyways if you have
not been yet go to Dave Reubens Twitter
and ask him if he could name two books
and this is the honor system okay cuz
obviously I if you're like me you me
they look son slavery better go and look
him up online it literally doesn't
matter if he is red him or not the ones
he cites anyway were yeah dinesh d'souza
slavery was great but honestly look up
ask him Dave you said yeah in response
to Marion williamson's question that
you've read about slavery could you name
two books because again I want to be
realistic and slightly fair here because
I don't get the impression that this is
a big reader name to tweet about tweet
Adam I'm really curious to see his
reading list y'all want to be to go back
and forth with Dave just mentioning
books that you've read about slavery see
how far who can go faster a little bit
of a slippery slope there no no I don't
even know how we can say that actually
and I say that as a Jew if you read up
motto in slavery
yeah we're talking subjects life I mean
nobody's in a contest nobody has a
monopoly on human suffering
this was object slavery does anybody
know what that's from oh my god when you
think of dave rubin think of complete
immorality and spilt milk there are
major demonstrations going on in puerto
rico right now i don't know if we have
any footage of it so
in the last couple of weeks or week or
so there's been a scandal that has been
set off by the a big set of leaked
telegram text messages between the
governor ricardo Rosello
and various members of his team
supporters cabinet and so on part of the
top lines has been that this is you know
there's a lot of just sort of crude
stuff there's a lot of homophobia a lot
of transphobia so on there's a lot of
really disgusting comments about poor
people and so on uh and they said hey is
just us kind of blowing off steam but
the more broad and really the structural
stuff and the things that are actually
dropping today point to bribe and
corruption networks in the Puerto Rican
government so then this is and now and
there's massive demonstrations taking
place on the street they've been met
with riot gear and a really brutal
response celebrities like Ricky Martin
and Benicio del Toro have actually flown
back-to-back the protests Ricky Martin
was it was mentioned in the text
messages because the whole day yeah I
was a homophobic comment about Ricky
Martin exactly and you know this is
really important and all solidarity with
Puerto Rico obviously there isn't I
think that right now it would be fair to
say there isn't a specific caste to this
right now it does seem to represent a
pretty broad section of society that are
just sort of totally disgusted by the
corruption the buffoonish nasteria vraa
Cardo Rosello and the current Puerto
Rican government and you know the
broader conversation you always have to
have a Puerto Rico though is that if if
these corruption networks and these
revelations go deeper I have no doubt
that you will see connections to
politicians obviously from both parties
in the mainland you will see how a small
group of corrupt politicians and
networks have
benefited from a colonial system in
Puerto Rico that is shockingly unjust to
most Puerto Ricans that benefits
predatory capital and hedge fund
managers in the mainland and you'll also
have to get to the bigger history here
of a truly brutal colonization if you
read Nelson Deniz as war against all
Puerto Ricans you'll know of periods of
US military administered martial law in
Puerto Rico of Puerto Rican independence
activists becoming political prisoners
of mass killings that's all been in
Puerto Rico then you add in Vieques the
island of Vieques had Miletich is a
small small I mean I was spent some time
there recently it's it's a very
ecologically vulnerable small and high
poverty levels place the US military was
developed was testing serious munitions
on the islands local people died in
military accidents as well and people
are reporting that the protests against
the government are the biggest scene in
Puerto Rico since the movements against
the US military testing in Vieques so
this is really significant but I want to
bring that bigger context in because
ultimately whether it's you know
McKinsey a McKinsey a-- did a
conversation obviously about Mackenzie's
role as consultants in administering
increasing poverty and slashing public
education in Puerto Rico all of the same
systems of of of corporate domination an
austerity linked with corrupt local
political structures and capital are all
in Puerto Rico amplified by the fact
that it still is literally a u.s. colony
in actuality taxation without
representation like DC like Guam a new
poll was released saying that recently
actually today poured in Politico that
two-thirds of America that two-thirds of
the union of Americans support statehood
for Puerto Rico two and three Americans
support stated for the island of Puerto
Rico according to a Gallup poll released
Thursday morning the sixty-six percent
amid support admits the 66% support for
omitting the island as the 51st state is
consistent with polling dating back to
the early 1960s support is highest
amongst Democrats younger voters and
non-white voters but nearly half of
Republicans also back the proposal which
is impressive party leaders do not then
it goes on to talk about Donald Trump
and Mitch McConnell's despicable and
bigoted treatment of Puerto Rico
although again this is a very bipartisan
thing Democratic Party's relationship to
Puerto Rico is incredibly pernicious and
and some cases deeply corrupt that um
that difference between the GOP
leadership and the GOP voters GOP is
basically the race of the GOP itself the
actual body of like basically political
hacks is like the mind the racist mind
and the voters are bit the GOP partisans
at the racist heart of America right and
I so I always say look I mean Puerto
Rico's and I as a colony Puerto Rico
should choose its own fate whether it
wants independence as a nation state or
if it wants to be a state in the United
States it should be a hundred percent up
to Puerto Ricans but as a matter of both
you know the right thing to do and
political strategy every single Democrat
should be pushing every single second
for Puerto Rican statehood it is a bare
minimum and and I'm again I would frame
it as have a referendum and Puerto Rico
decides obviously the status quo is
completely unacceptable it is a it is it
is it is a colony in a one of the most
economically I mean if you look at
things like the Jones Act the fact that
Puerto Rico has to paid importation tax
on some of its own
products that itself produces but has to
go back out of the country and be rien
ported in it's a it's an insane insane
obscene exploitative system so it needs
to be up to them but every single
Democrat should be saying if they want
it
we will fight our hearts out for a 51st
state with Puerto Rico as well as voting
representation obviously for Washington
DC Guam and and also there's actually
several Caribbean islands that could
fall into this as well but Puerto Rico
is a central focal point of that and
these protests thing are incredibly
important um see let's take another call
you're calling from a three wait three
one two are you there hello hello yeah
I'm where I think hey what's your name
where you're calling it up yeah what's
up I'm well I'm calling from Chicago
will and I'll go what's on your mind you
know we had the elections here in
Chicago so I you know I think it kind of
was exciting time I don't want to go
into that too much so I really want to
talk just a little bit about health care
but I'm not sort of frame that you know
in coming out of those elections you
know as an activist I can't realize we
needed to build our bigger a little bit
more if we're really gonna clean up from
the types of messes we see created by
you know the neoliberal and so one area
I kind of see where we could talk a
little further I think one to kind of
feel excited but one so that when you
kind of take control or you make
progress like we have in Chicago you
have some specific to push for you're
talking about all of those days a people
being elected the City Council you know
yeah I was pretty impressive election
but we also got a new mayor who you know
you could tell you want about it but she
doesn't always many people and I think
she's definitely moving in the right
direction I'm always excited about that
I've heard her in this feeling I'm very
mixed things about her but okay cool
yeah I mean I'm making up my mind to but
I'm actually seeing what she's doing and
I'm you know I'm realizing you know
anyway I won't get it at too much it's
my main point which was yeah you know
you're Ted
just when it comes to things like
medicare-for-all I think we also need to
expand the conversation to you know push
it for things like public health because
that's ultimately what we need to put in
place clean up this kind of choice or
anti expertise or anti system framework
and I had this experience with my son
when when he was younger you know I
think him to us very good a pediatrician
she's like passing him out all these
developmental milestones but then the
state of Illinois came in to his daycare
was like administer these tests you know
they do it every kid right that's public
health that's how you do it right and
when they did they're like oh he's got
all these you know developmental delay
sync milestones he's not meeting and
gave much broader picture and then they
followed up they sent like I think this
is called early intervention I think
it's part of Head Start I'm not sure but
they sound like three people to house
who are likes each therapist I think was
like oh t doesn't matter they said these
three you know specialist without they
did further evaluation and then they
actually gave him some therapy right
away they you know assigned him some
therapy this many hours a week and got
things rolling for him and I know a lot
of kids who've had that and really
helped them out but then you know I want
to get back in the private system you
know wait six months to see a specialist
you know then that specialist maybe
tells you all if your insurance coverage
might go for this therapy but it might
not make any recommendation at all you
know yeah so I think I think that's part
of the conversation we could have and I
think John I'm saying Antonio was kind
of talking about that a little too like
you know Bernie's can beat up on less
you want to get rid of regular insurance
you can having the full vision which is
one it's gonna be cheaper but one we can
start to build in these systems that are
really missing you know when you dumped
all that money into rehab you know you
talked a lot about we don't want
Bolognese we didn't pull anything but he
talks a lot about dental insurance
yesterday that's another really
important example of the need for dental
insurance and all the other thing mental
health everything I agree with you
completely I mean there's a huge terrain
to work on there because health care is
absolutely barbarous and doesn't work in
America thanks for the call man
appreciate it
you're calling from a 409 area code who
are you where you calling from
hey me Cleo from Southeast Texas
hey Cleo what's on your mind what's what
he what he got uh well I was wondering
how would you go about are anybody at
the studio go about trying to really get
into politics and make it their career
you have any ideas
I mean I think you do got you got to
start making actual local connections I
mean I everybody who he moved up here
well this is this is somebody else's
path but I'll just I'll just relay it he
moved up here basically you got a
finance degree moved up here for Bank of
America a little bit and then he went
did investor relations for another
company and he did all of this to make
money because he wanted to spend it on
his own political campaigns back in
another state and he's now currently
finding out that he has friends that
have still been in Texas that have been
working up within the Democratic Party
and it's a kind of interesting thing
because he's more to the left
of them for instance but they're more in
the party so they come to him with sort
of questions about like how do we deal
with this Ilhan Omar stuff or what what
is uh what is our how do we talk about
medicare-for-all or this green New Deal
stuff because frankly a lot of the
staffers for actual Democrats don't know
about this stuff so and basically long
story short my friend is going to move
back and get in with those groups of
people with his knowledge but I don't
know I think you I think you kind of
have to I don't have anything more
specific than that
honestly that to me though it's like the
funny thing about politics for is
totally up as it is it does to me
seem sort of like a field where I mean
you can read some bios of Peet including
people who are you know frankly like
they've done nothing that's good with
their political power but they did get
starts that are super like you know they
went and canvassed for a campaign they
went and got involved in some local
initiative and they had a talent of
capacity being there is important
honestly being there is the most
important thing so whatever
your local thing is I don't party
maybe there's a DSA maybe there's an
initiative to save a public library I
mean and go there if you care about it
get to know people put in some work
that's it and then you know sure and
then there's a whole lot of corollary to
it which I think probably we could speak
more to which is you can also then you
know you can build out a platform of
your political thoughts beliefs and and
also very much if you're doing this your
activism on social media as well which
is complimentary but the most important
thing is to pick something you identify
with and go get involved in it and
because I yeah I haven't heard of a
single political story that doesn't to
some extent will work like that
basically well okay thank you
how was your walking all thinking about
look locally there's there's gonna be
stuff and then find out what resonates
with you and and to the extent you have
any time you know obviously I know
everybody's super busy but go do it
thanks for the call yeah and Oh sir
before I go I should mention that we
have in excuse me but I can't remember
the district but its Jefferson County
and I believe Hardin County but we have
a representative running against Chris
Webber who has been basically a thorn in
the side of Democrats and everybody
really who wants to get anything done so
if you're going to the polls and you're
from Jefferson or Hart and vote against
Chris Webber vote Democrat
Thanks the only one running against
thank you appreciate the call man go
work for that campaign no problem
yeah that's good yeah sounds like your
your answer might be there if that's uh
that's close by shame Chris Webber's
gone so far down
the same Chris rubber I don't think so
all right one more call let me just go
try to alright you're calling from a 301
area code who are you where you calling
from hi hi this is Josh from Maryland
hey Josh I just wanted to hear your
thoughts on something I've been thinking
about when it comes to socialized
medicine which I support by the way mmm
um I feel like we would have to regulate
some of the dietary intakes of Americans
in order to I'm sorry I'm not laughing I
just know that how much this is going to
trigger people oh yeah I actually I'm
actually surprised I don't hear like
detractors bring this up late for
example European Union banned flavored
cigarettes as a way to sort of combat
that because everyone's paying for lung
disease basically so they're trying to
curb that it also uh that's a good point
what Brendan just said they all smoke
yeah and it also makes me remember um
they're disgusting how people reacted
when New York tried to ban gallon five
sodas well Brendan just said Europeans
are disgusting off mic Justin told the
solution did not say Brendan was the
here Brenda Lucas shadow or take the
cigarette of your mouth hey man I'm
sorry I can't I don't really know what
to say about I think um there's no doubt
that you I think to be honest a more
useful way of framing this would be to
connect socialized medicine with
environmental protection and what we
need to do about ecology because there's
a lot of areas like air pollution that
is not only bad for people's health it's
causing premature loss of life and
asthma outbreaks and things like that
that are you know majorly impactful on
people another area that you could deal
I mean here here's here's another way of
thinking it right the reason people hate
things like the soda ban is because it
is it is elitist and controlling
and it doesn't correlate with anything
else so part of the reason that you know
junk food is so ample and so cheap and
so available and why there's places
where there's little I mean food deserts
as a real term where you can both go to
neighborhoods where you can by the way
both not have access to fresh fruits and
vegetables and then actually have higher
retail prices than at other places right
like worst of both worlds and part of
the reason is because of the corn
subsidy system like we subsidize major
Agri businesses that have monopolistic
control on industries and a corrupt
corporate relationship with government
that makes certain foods which
incidentally are horrible for the
environment have abusive worker work
chains extremely cheap and plentiful for
people and you know and it's funny
because I'm not like look I'm not
somebody I know that we can get into
custom kind of like very obscure woke
discourses where people get upset when
you even suggest that there are you know
relatively speaking healthy or not
healthy decisions and I'm sorry like
that's nonsense of course you know
people have some agency and control over
their health to some degree and I have
no problem with acknowledging that and
you know encouraging whatever but the
big picture reason of why there's so
many health problems and things like
heart disease and and breathing and you
know and respiratory issues and obesity
epidemics is because of well one ice
mentioned things like air pollution and
- because we have a food system that
subsidizes and makes food that's really
bad for people cheap and plentiful and
that's what's available and incidentally
that food is actually also usually quite
addictive and you know loaded with
things that are horrible for people so
instead of like demonizing people and
trying to control their behavior and
these like you know and and I will say I
will admit like I it's funny for me to
say this cuz I'm you know look I'm a I'm
a socialist across the board I think you
should have a little bit of that allergy
to the idea that like you know Mike
Bloomberg sits and in his limo and like
oh there's so many things
people well I'm gonna be in the big gulp
versus what is it in our entire food
system which I have no doubt that that
Mike Bloomberg I'm sure at the very
least invest benefits and from being a
billionaire through his investments that
generates so much lack of health and
disease across the country if you want
to deal with that you have to break up
AG monopolies you have to reinforce of
food production you have to get healthy
fresh foods in the school lunch and
breakfast programs and you have to take
on air pollution and that's how we can
help improve people's health yes yes
yeah all right you give me a lot to
think about here thanks for taking my
call ma'am yes my pleasure thank you
ma'am I would just point out two things
philosophy tube has a good video on
health care and post modernism that goes
into why we shouldn't even get go down
the lane of deserving versus undeserving
us wet unwell or sickness
for instance what is the what is okay I
understand but I also oh shoot I just
forgot the other point I was gonna make
about that damn it there is a very
troubling dialectic that you can look
into between things and again I'm not
going into the opposite direction here
there's no question than on balance it
is better to eat healthy it's better to
exercise like you have the capacity to
do those things you should do them and
I'm not interested in pretending that
that's not the case or that somehow
wrong to say right that's ridiculous but
conversely the rhetoric of wellness is
incredibly punitive and neoliberal and
obscures the real reasons why most
people have health problems and those
and all I mean urban design but that's
another reason I mean most people even
taking the European example it's not
inconsequential that people have to walk
everywhere and are able to do that that
actually has a health effect so if you
want to you know get into that stuff
it's not about moralizing and
controlling individuals it's about
redesigning systems that are bad for
people's health right and societal
obesity is not an individualist problem
right so here's a stat that I came up
with when I the second day in a row I
mentioned I used to work advice but we
did a food episode 50 states currently
have an obesity rate over 20 percent in
1995 that was zero States right no it's
it's corporations
it's corporations I mean you don't need
to and honestly like the stuff about
like corn and the AG system you don't
even need to put on your socialist hat
you could read them good solid Michael
Pollan book it's not that obscure to
understand how those dynamics work and I
and by the way I don't mean I would
recommend reading Michael Pollan book he
does an amazing job at explaining how
these things work another area where
Bernie Sanders has put forward the most
aggressive and Elizabeth Warren is not
far behind with some real plans on this
with which you know nobody else has put
anything on the table and you know those
are not just usually important for rural
America when you start getting into
those subsidy systems that affects the
entire country and quite seriously so
that that's the way to talk about a
durable public health system you're
calling from an eight one eight area
code who are you where you're calling
from
hey what's up Michael
TMDs contributor day from Jamaica Dave
how are you they know I got upgraded
what's on your minds um well to kind of
pick up back on Marian and Williamson
starting with Dave Rubin I changed my
mind she's moved up to a solid third
choice no I don't get that no no she did
I think when she started out when she
will I know that rhetoric was more to
educate Dave for sutala talk to Tyler
toss that might be but it's the two
sightings of thing is does really grind
on my nerves I guess what I guess it is
for it
she was legitimately trying to teach
Dave so she went wearing moral so go
she went wearing it yeah anything else
which oh well other than that come to
the last colors point the you
restrictions are like the last thing you
want to do if you want healthier
outcomes in general you as you said you
want to promote healthier choices in
other words instead of subsidizing the
fast-food stuff subsidize healthy foods
may make them cheaper make them the more
economical choice that that's one way to
start and as you said free parks hell if
I had the money I did make government
put out free get um free health trainers
out there too that's not a bad idea at
all and actually I'm glad you mentioned
that
that's a whole thing white like having
you know basketball courts and tennis
courts and soccer fields and bass like
that's and that's a public health
question does your town have a good park
is there an area you can run and walk I
mean all of these systems are the base
lines of you know the health issues that
people have agency over those are also
totally social questions right it also
has a kind of knock-on effect like we
have social isolation issues in modern
world yes if you do that that helps beat
down that thing to people's lies people
stop going into their computer rooms
complaining about being in cells
it all it can stop it
absolutely I agree with you yep so
that's all I got Mike guys well I
appreciate literary hangover thanks Dave
thank you Dave uh this was a powerful
moment well actually let's let's do two
disgusting ones then we'll do a powerful
one so Lindsey Graham I mean
we know Lindsey Graham is Lindsey Graham
is a there's a sycophant he's a you know
he's a his game has always been to put
himself in proximity to a more powerful
charismatic person than him and play the
game of power through them so you know
everybody likes to point out that you
know in 2015 and 16 he called Trump a
racist than his xenophobe and all the
rest of it and it's Lou Lindsey what
happened nothing happened
Donald Trump was elected president and
Lindsey Graham has no convictions and no
concern about anything so he moved in
proximity to power and there are a fair
amount of people like this in politics I
mean I I don't think focusing on you
know individuals is really gonna be the
way to understand how these systems work
but it can draw a you know just the kind
of you know just a vacuous parasite
personality like Lindsey Graham whose
only consistent interest like and the
only thing way in which he you know
carries the John McCain torch is a
endless appetite for war and a and a
robust lack of concern about other human
beings lives whether it's Iran North
Korea Syria or anywhere else the other
day he went on a and and and you know
Donald Trump is giving all of these
people permission they want to go on
what seemed like unhinged drunk racist
tirades on Fox so it's good media for
him it's good media for them it's
probably what they really think anyways
look it's a lot of what Democrats
frankly really think I mean that's that
is what's so clarifying about Ilan Omar
and Rasheed it's a Lib right is that a
lot of people even people who've made a
whole career of supposedly showing about
how decent and responsible they are
they're not they don't want any form of
threat to what they perceive to be the
natural order and then if you're Lindsey
Graham though you still want some
plausible deniability and but at the
same time
well deniability you still have to work
to Donald Trump's insatiable ego and it
leads to a fusion like this which by the
way this is true I think this is a true
statement I think the president is
playing on the 1968 love it or leave it
I've said before that if you're a Somali
refugee wearing a Maggie hat he doesn't
want to send you back you probably had
dinner at the White House what does that
tell me that it's about the criticism
and the critic that's just the cheap I
mean look we all know that this you know
notion that there's some type of non
racialized
nationalism is a lie and delusional and
you know people at people are either
unable to understand why that's the case
so they're deluded or other people
understand that they still want some
plausible deniability strategically and
by the way it's also true I have no
doubt I would not be surprised and this
is another really important thing to
watch in this campaign and and
especially as we hold media hacks
accountable Donald Trump is gonna pour
the fumes on the race war and insight
and insight and insight and insight and
particularly as you get closer to
general election time he absolutely is
going to do moves like that to confuse
the discourse to create plausible
deniability and and get the you know the
counterintuitive take from Jake Tapper
so you you might see a Somali refugee
with a mag a hat in fact a Somali
refugee with a mag ad that sets up some
type of Trumpets YouTube channel would
be an amazing business opportunity right
now yeah I mean when Trump did his
Muslim ban which included Somalians I
don't think he had a provision in there
saying they can come if they have Mogga
hats no he did not say so no Somalis can
come and speaking of the game here
Kellyanne Conway she hasn't been on the
radar for a while nor should she be she
sort of she kind of but I guess she you
know she's still in the White House she
plays this whole
with her husband where her husband you
know says what Trump is and then she's
one of trumps biggest Seneca fans the
supposedly a lot of the reporting is
that she actually also briefs against
Trump
you know she's exactly the sort of just
you know completely deranged grotesque
thing that would be in this
administration and this is what you're
gonna hear from them even more
aggressively moving forward he or she is
playing the race game herself
Congress returns there suppose a person
what's your ethnicity
no no because I'm asking you a question
my ancestors are from Ireland in Italy
no it is because you're asking about
he said originally said originally from
and you know everything he has said
since and to have a full conversation
the president's already comment on that
the president the president's already
commented on that and he said a lot
about this since since that one tweet no
he said he's put out a lot of tweets and
he made himself available to all of you
yesterday yes he's tired he a lot of us
are sick and tired of this country of
America coming last two people who swore
an oath of office sick and tired of our
military being denigrated sick and tired
of the Customs and Border Patrol people
that have protection people I was with
who are overwhelmingly Hispanic by the
way in McAllen Texas sick and tired of
that oh by the way by the way if you are
one of these like pathetic thirsty
losers who is impressed that there's a
Hispanic port regards first of all
you're a gullible you you
think it was any mistake that they had a
Hispanic woman in front of the caged
human beings well I know that we're all
male also precisely that Mike Pence
walked by and even so I'm sorry if you
were a human being you would still die I
even remember as a teenager in the 90s
when photos of all men gated in cages in
the Balkans were used in the United
States as a trigger for what was also a
profoundly misguided humanitarian
intervention policies but you know what
it was on a higher moral plane that you
shouldn't do that to any human being if
that means something to you or you can't
oh well I guess you're part of like the
Dancy Pelosi or the Democratic Twitter
account because you can't distinguish
between an individual identity and a
structural act
so you know Kellyanne Conway's a
joke we know what she is all of these
people we have an update from Ilhan
though alright let's do this hashtags
dammit Ilan always bravest person in
America share my identities when you
have a president mister you clearly
think someone like me should go back the
message that he's sending is not for me
he's telling them that this is not their
country and what we tell them is we have
condemned but these racist remarks I
believe he is fascist because they would
not be deported but because I criticize
the president I should be deported I
want to remind people that this is what
this president and his supporters have
turned our country that is supposed to
be a country where we allow democratic
debate and dissent to take place and so
this is not about me this is about us
fighting for what this country
what it deserves more for America there
than anything that Tucker Carlson or
Donald Trump or any of these other
scumbags barbarous fascist
morons have ever done and you're with
her or you're not so it's time for I
mean look I'll just write Pelosi can't
get right but it's time for them to do
the bare minimum yeah I'll just read the
definition of fact of fascism as
supplied by Robert Paxton and the
anatomy of fascism fascism may be
defined as a form of political behavior
marked by obsessive preoccupation with
community decline humiliation or
victimhood and by compensatory cults of
unity energy and purity in which a mass
based party have committed nationalist
militants working in uneasy but
effective collaboration with traditional
elites abandons Democratic liberties and
pursues redemptive violence and without
ethical or legal restraints goals of
internal cleansing and external
expansion Trump's of fascism Trump
Stefan absolutely let's all right let's
do one more gross thing and then we'll
go to the opposite Jeffrey Epstein was
denied bail today which is obviously the
correct decision this is somebody who
should have already been put away to
just protect human beings a long time
ago he's a child rapist and a human
trafficker so it's innately important
now hugely important now I am curious
though I want to know what what comes
out of this that's bigger than him I
mean this is somebody that there's been
accusations against Dershowitz which he
denies but an accusation then there's
just the broader climate of hey this is
a human trafficker pedophile and Steve
Pinker was on his plane and Bill Clinton
was on his Steve drinker
uh doing a favor for alan dershowitz
helped part of the legal defense of
epstein indeed i said he doesn't know
much about him and perhaps that's true
but it's weird to head this is just the
thing right this is what we talked about
the milieu yeah I'll just help him out
I'll write something I'm a linguist I
got my buddy Alan Dershowitz here we all
like fly to Harvard events we all fly to
the Caribbean together we all go you
know we all get maybe even more to the
point we all yeah we get funding for our
centers at Harvard from the likes of
Jeffrey appslide so and obviously he had
a relationship obviously with Donald
Trump this is just kind of I mean look
it's disgusting and disturbing because
just the scene Epstein but this is just
you know it's just a victor gur it's one
of those moments I mean you know Trump
is a weirdo I mean he looks
weird even just like kind of partying I
don't even know what he's doing but
[Music]
now I should probably point out that all
those women look appear at least to be
of age in that video so we don't yeah
yeah no I mean you know that's that's
Donald Trump with the guy that he says I
don't like that guy never like that to
you guys if you girls heard of
2corinthians I was reading that Jesus
Christ these people are freaks
um in the Sudan there has been an
agreement that has tentatively been
announced between some members of the
opposition movement and the military
transitional council now this is really
it might be a step forward
certainly the African Union envoy is
saying that however and I believe
actually one of the people speaking here
from the military transition council is
the head of the Rapid Response Unit
rapid forces this is the remain renamed
jianshui militia which is the militia
that was responsible for the crimes
against humanity in Darfur
the Sudanese government when it was run
by Omar al-bashir and this is common
practice and the Balkans and Latin
America governments will when they want
to commit atrocities and want some line
of plausible deniability even if it's
being directed by the government or the
military they'll employ militias and
other groups to sort of subcontract it
you see this in US backed mass killings
in Indonesia as another example so this
agreement does not include all members
of the opposition and it doesn't
necessarily have any sort of serious
economic plan which is actually what set
off this latest round demonstrations
they were about austerity Sudan has a
powerful labor movement even still even
after all these use of repression let's
play a brief report from it on al
Jazeera the agreement stipulates that
each side will have five representatives
in the sovereign council with an
eleventh member to be agreed on by both
sides it is with pleasure on this
morning to bring the good news
to the Sudanese people that we have
signed the political document between
the transitional military council and
the freedom and change Alliance it is
historic moment in the history of the
Sudanese people and their journey of
struggle it's a new era of partnership
between the brave Armed Forces and our
partners in the freedom and change
Alliance and the Sudanese people this
document is the fruit of the efforts of
the people and us as well we honor the
fallen martyrs the bereaved mothers in
the youth the fuel of this revolution
the revolution started in December with
anti-government protests and turned into
Protima courses the team at the Army
Headquarters in April that came to an
end when the military raided it in early
June killing at least 100 protesters the
agreement signed on Wednesday still
lacks many details which the two sides
are continuing to discuss so General
Mohammad honden who and I'm quoting now
from the MPR who was a signatory for the
military at this power-sharing deal the
New York Times has reported that
protests leaders were uncomfortable with
the prominence of general Hamden and his
rapid to support forces which excuse me
it was rapid support forces which has
emerged as the as the bit as dominant
group in a Byzantine security apparatus
they are held responsible and were
responsible for killing hundreds of
demonstrators in the last couple of
weeks so it might be some slight
progress but this is still a very
charged and very problematic situation
and we know that you won't have the real
sort of serious transition without a
dismantling of groups like this and
their power Nate sweet Ben Shapiro and
poopie Buddha jej are the same person
with inverted colors silver spoon in
their mouth from an early age put on
conveyor belts power given every single
honor and benefit of doubt they amass
cultural signifiers of intelligence
without actually showing their actual
work the only difference is that Ben is
cut from a defensive peevish young
Republican cloth while Budaj age is an
aspirational conduit for white liberal
political consultants who want to run
for office one day both represent the
most corrosive aspects of the cold
meritocracy and at least beta
got some got a up trying his best
aesthetic to him I agree with all of
that take there's not a single part of
that take I don't agree with um let's
see Chomsky by the way if you tried
Sam's latest project alpha female
fatality vitality okay world gone wrong
can't stand still on a moving train
right let's take one more call then
we'll go to one more piece of sound
sorry I guess this is the typical time
to say we definitely cannot all cannot
get to all calls I do apologize you're
calling from a 406 area code who are you
where you calling from hi this is
Brennan from the Masonic Temple hey
Brennan what's up nice thanks for trying
yeah thanks for checking in Brennan
how's their algorithm doing no it's
really weird I thought that Google was
employing us directly to disseminate you
know destroying us I know we haven't
appeared of mass the last couple times
yeah you know we're I'm a little
disappointed I actually did have a
somewhat actual point to make and
question to ask you today nervous
actually
no no worries um but yeah I'm from
Montana
Lulla Libre no I don't hear that much
out here but thank you Montana two quick
points but I guess I'll get to the the
big main question I had for you guys
today especially I wanted to hear from
both you and NAT oh that's basically a
liberal normy before the 2016 election I
wrote in Bernie Sanders I basically had
zero intellectual curiosity until Trump
won and now my struggle has been
learning all the fundamentals that I
sort of shied away from before
I hadn't even taken so much as a civics
class in high school I was I'm a high
school dropout I do have my GED and
stuff but you know you don't go over
detailed government classes like that
and you can GED courses at least where I
am I don't you go over those lessons
yeah I don't know if you missed out
nicely yes that much yeah fair enough
but I was just curious if you guys had
any suggestions I I'm leaning more
towards Communists myself personally but
I would just probably say I'm a leftist
because of my like I said lack of
knowledge of the fundamentals how do you
guys even begin like especially me
getting a late start
to to learn all the old fundamentals
like Marx and Lenin and Stalin and stuff
while learning so I skip stuff while
keeping up with current event honestly
honestly man honestly I would assume if
you're watching shows like this you're
way more mugged up than you think
and this is not like secret esoteric
stuff that you learn at the Masonic
Temple
like you're just learn you engage if you
want to get more specific I always
recommend David Harvey's podcasts on
Capitol um it can get a little down but
he's like a super gifted teacher and he
really does a great introduction to Marx
and capital and that's a fun podcast
series I think actually honestly and you
maybe you've already heard of him but
like Richard Wolfe does an incredible
job like his podcasts are super
accessible and in all of them you're
learning not only key Marxist concepts
but even like the history of the Soviet
Union and China and with and you know
and he's a critic means this is not you
know he's not giving you some airbrushed
version of history so as far as that
kind of more kind of stuff goes I would
I would do that and I would also okay I
always plug the other two people that
would in terms of real historical
awareness I would always just plug to
just look up essays by say Bill Fletcher
jr. and Adolph Reed I mean those are two
people you always just learned a hell of
a lot from
yeah and I would just say I mean you're
right you basically come to the right
place for this stuff and I'm not just
talking about this show but yeah like
you know I mean there's a lot of left
YouTube channels I've been putting up I
have a thread going maybe I should pin
it about different channels that have
been doing stuff on YouTube and a lot of
podcasts I mean I think the the more
important thing is rather than thinking
you're ever going to get to approach
where it's like okay I know all the
fundamentals I know everything it's
mainly just you need to maintain a sense
of curiosity and humility about this
stuff because I mean as somebody who now
I have ten thousand Twitter followers as
opposed to when I started here at like
500 and that is that doesn't mean I've
become that much more intelligent from
right it's like that like or informed
you do it and and you and nobody is
really in this space you just kind of
have to diversify your sources a
majority or it's a good place to find I
mean the reason I found majority report
is because of how many different types
of authors you can expose yourself to
here I mean nobody does as many in-depth
dives as this show does every week so I
think just don't duh don't feel too
concerned about it too much anxiety yeah
and all of that stuff is in it's it's
all in dispute anyways but it's not
there's no like secret code that you're
not getting access to and and definitely
don't confuse you know somebody you know
speaking fluently with mastery of the
subject matter and this stuff is meant
to be helped you interface with other
people to and not to not to like sort of
just make your brain the best communist
brain ever right right you you're
looking for stuff that's actually useful
and in the current struggle were
undergoing right now so I think as long
as you can bear that in mind just read
widely and listen widely read and listen
widely okay can I just get a quick like
I have on my wish list audiobooks can
leave you one of you guys help me pick
one out from my list here the socialist
manifesto I have why Marx was right I
have stayed in revolution and democracy
at work and I also want to read members
a new book and Ryan Grimm's newest book
I would I honestly I I have listened to
the socialist manifesto by Bhaskar since
Cara that's a great one to start with
that
all of those books are great but I think
especially for the stuff you're
interested in what you're talking about
specifically I would grab socialist
manifesto and okay because I'm gonna be
a member anyway for that plate grab
socialist manifesto and definitely and
by the way read a bunch of articles in
the Jacobin I mean you know and and yeah
and so on hey I appreciate the
collecting I yeah
thank you guys so much for taking my
call again lula libre lu la libre thank
you so much
shout out Montana I don't Montana a
great call sorry folks we're gonna
that's gonna be it but I do want to play
just one second I want to play this this
is really really important what's
happening at the border or concentration
camps it can be solved and dealt with by
demilitarizing the process that
absolutely needs to happen now there you
know there can be a border there can be
a nation-state all of this nobody's
talking about ending that tomorrow
anytime soon we're saying people have a
right to apply for asylum people who
have been living and working United
States need to be immediately granted
legal status and that the process of
kidnapping children separating families
people dying and being tortured and
concentration camps morally unacceptable
and this is powerful I mean this is a
Holocaust survivor Bernard Marx
confronting the ice director Thomas
Holman because excuse me the former ice
director Thomas Holman because of course
for people who actually care about
history and humanity never again
literally means never again I was holed
up
by the Nazis and for no other reason I
was picked up and separated from my
family who was exterminated in Auschwitz
and I am a survivor of Auschwitz and
Dachau
[Applause]
I really have to play again
I spent five and a half years in
concentration camp a one season and one
reason only because we picked on people
and you as the Sheridan who we elected
as sheriff of this County we did your
the elections a sheriff of Washington DC
it's about time you certainty of the
people here and this gentleman stands up
there and he says he doesn't go after
any people he should wait today speak
because it's a base be the Supreme Court
justice of color a lot of state of
California objected to ice coming in and
taking people away from the courts don't
tell me that this is a lie you stand up
here mr. Jones
don't forget history is not on your side
[Music]
[Applause]
I don't know who the other person he's
referring to is I thought it was the the
former director of ice apologize about
the the details on that but the bottom
line is is that Sacramento sheriff Scott
Jones and Holman was there as well yeah
okay so not that you need this
validation
to be able to do basic deductive
reasoning yourself but to the extent we
hear of people who have survived the
Holocaust or the Japanese internment
they are telling you that this is
absolutely unacceptable absolutely a
crime against humanity and it is and
anybody I mean I think we're that most
people watching this understand that it
is wrong and it is unacceptable but
anybody that would equivocate on it or
soft sell it or issue a tweet on it but
then vote for a funding package that
does nothing to ameliorate the
conditions they're part of it and it
needs to end completely period and that
is again it is a simple process of
conforming with national and
international law and demilitarizing a
process that can still be conducted in a
legal humane fashion period rude Gus on
the periscope after the exchange of
ideas of Mary Ann Dave called Vox and
HuffPo pox and Huff poop I thought you
guys said dave was bad at comedy i
thought dave was against that homonyms
yeah that's very disturbing i thought
dave was interested in dealing with
people's ideas not calling names let's
see all right I see I get Iams like this
important to note that Cornel West back
Jill Stein after Bernie lost 2016 no
it's not nope it's not important who
cares
don't be a paedon don't and and that's
the thing is he does work he's done way
more work than you do frankly and I
don't know who you are but definitely
he's done more work for progress than
you have so you know what you get a
couple yeah I disagree with him on that
but I'm sorry then Pete and it goes for
people on the other side too Cornel West
no you're not right but like this is one
of the by far most important public
intellectuals we have with an incredible
clear articulation of values that he's
willing to take everywhere
and you know what if he's fed up
I disagree with it about the time I
literally publicly disagreed with the
man at the time I might what is it I
mean is it but it's not something to
bring up every time the man comes up
it's it's lunacy it's nonsense he's
putting in the work right now so I did
that because I always get somebody from
who says that and that's it no more of
that final I am of the day good I I
don't know if anybody's gonna have an
answer to this but it's kind of
interesting Emperor Tigers star the real
question the left must answer is it Iron
Maiden or Metallica I have no answer I
like Iron Maiden
and leave it to the metalhead caucus all
right it's Iron Maiden
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
well the option will you tell get paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
