meanwhile the attacks from the right on
a OC are pretty much garden-variety this
is where they pretend that their
ideological when they're really it's
about business and by that I mean here
is a guy Justin Haskins from the
Heartland Institute on with Steve Doocy
on Fox & Friends
now if you don't remember the Heartland
Institute they came up because there was
a treasure trove of documents that were
leaked in 2012 that spoke to their
strategy to fight any response to
climate change this was an organization
that received at least almost
three-quarters of a million dollars from
Exxon before they started to before in
the late 90s they stopped disclosing
their donors and they also oddly enough
were also involved in helping smoking so
I should say tobacco at one point the
former Heartland president wrote in an
op-ed that moderate smoking does not
raise a lung cancer risks and there were
a few of any adverse health effects
associated with smoking just gonna be
mater just gotta be modern not
politicized in the cider says I Got News
for you as someone who was an adult in
1998 it was quite clear that cigarette
smoking was dangerous this is not we're
not talking like the late 18th century
exactly
if you smoke a cigarette before the full
moon outside of the distance of a woman
on her period it's actually good for
your blood pressure
science from the heartland anyways this
thing this Heartland Institute is
literally a who's who
of a right-wing billionaires and
millionaires and also just like the oil
and gas industry the leadership PACs I
mean it's goes on and on and on so but
here is Justin is that his name Justin
Haskins on the degree new deal
good morning it's great to be with you
it's great to have you you know when you
hear green new deal and you think okay
this is just about the environment right
but when you look at some of the main
points and then I'll ask you you know
one of the one of the giveaways as to
why it's not just about the environment
would be the New Deal part in fact in
fact that's not I don't I don't I mean
that's sort of what it sort of baked in
the cake I think you would say yeah
green new deal in fact of those three
words two of them would imply that it
has more to do with the New Deal than
environment just but let's not get picky
you look at some of the main points and
then we'll ask you to comment on it it
does call for the elimination of the use
of fossil fuels within a dozen year
it calls for universal health care it
calls for federal jobs guarantees and it
calls for a basic income program across
the country that is not just about the
environment that's pretty much about
everything yeah that's right this is
actually not about green energy it would
be impossible to to switch the entire
electricity generation system in the
United States over to renewable energy
in just 12 years and I think Alexandria
of Cascio Cortes and Bernie Sanders and
people like that know that this is
really about socialism this is nothing
more than a socialist Trojan horse
that's why they've inserted all sorts of
programs into the green New Deal that
have nothing to do with green energy
right exactly you know and when you look
at those things and I've been again the
package is not called the green energy
program it's called the green New Deal
New Deal things like Social Security
came out of the New Deal and I
to Bernie Sanders rallies where you know
the audience there they'd love to hear
what he's saying because he said look
you have been kept down by Washington
I'm gonna open up possibilities that
have never been possible before the
problem is when you realistically look
at the price it's like wow can we afford
that yeah well we absolutely cannot
afford it I mean we're talking about
tens of trillions of dollars just the
single-payer health care part of this
alone there Mercatus Center estimates
would cost thirty two trillion dollars
in the first ten years and even if we
were to double all taxes including
individual and corporate rates right we
would not be able to pay for just that
one part of it pause it so one of the
things I really enjoy about that talking
point right there is that a as you
recall the Mercatus foundation did say
that the cost of of single-payer
healthcare would be 32 trillion dollars
they also said in the same report that
the cost of not doing single-payer
healthcare and just continuing on with
what we have now will cost 35 to 36
trillion dollars and on top of that it
also that talking point has the added
bonus of saying we could tax everybody
five times over and not raise that well
the point is the vast majority of that
money is already being raised insofar as
we're taxing people at this rate that's
how it's being paid out that money is
going to get spent in some fashion and
based upon what the US government pays
now for health care you don't need to
raise a new 32 trillion dollars out of
out of the massive expense that we spend
on health care you need to raise
probably less than half of that but do
you know he's not gonna explain that
part I always want to know who we means
when they talk about how we can't afford
it right because he's clearly not
talking about an aging senior who can't
afford their diabetes medication or a
struggling single mom right
already can't afford healthcare I think
with the the what they're thinking is
taxpayers taxpayers can that's a dog
whistle yes Oh indeed well and corporate
rates right we would not be able to pay
for just that one part of it why do you
think just in so many of these prominent
Democrats are moving so far to the left
is it because Bernie Sanders had such a
good run last time yeah I think that
that's a big part of it I certainly
think it helps but I think that the
party is moving to the left I don't
think this is just political posturing I
actually think that the Democratic Party
is becoming the Socialist Party of
America that it's slowly occurring and
that if we don't do something to stop
these individuals we're going to wake up
in 20 years and we're going to find
ourselves in a radically different
America in America that looks more like
the Soviet Union and less like the
United States
that's right starting with throwing you
in a query somewhere dude yeah not gonna
be able to wear those absum maple I mean
I mean resting everybody with glasses
would be pretty close but I would need
to get laser like they're not trying to
create socialism I believe Bernie and a
OCE are sincere Social Democrats but
certainly some socialist organizations
not gonna say who support them as part
of a you know a wider more long-term
project to transition to socialism oh
look at that
where did we get that list of donors so
they to the Heartland fire one is the a
lot of why is their donors capital fund
I don't know where that's from but okay
that's the one that's like the the Super
Friends of all the right-wing slush
funds that's where like coke brothers
did their first Trading Places bet
exactly and the Mercer Family Foundation
has given almost six million dollars
duns Foundation for the Advancement of
right-thinking
1.3 million dollars the Lyndon Harry
Bradley Foundation 1.2 the oh there's an
Exxon comes in with like five hundred
and thirty
taxpayers yeah there you go so lots of
tax pay all right we were saying folks
just a reminder you can support this
program by going to join the majority
report calm when you do you not only
support the free show you get the full
show without commercials and you get
extra content every single day
