we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday September 25th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Zeca ded iturra the American Prospect
David day in on their day one agenda and
of course impeachment speaking of
impeachment it's on frontline Democrats
come to understand why even they were
elected meanwhile it's the alleged
transcript and it's bad trump's phone
call with the Ukrainian president
meanwhile the Senate votes a hundred and
one hundred to zero I should say to call
for a release of the full whistleblower
complaint meanwhile on the campaign
trail Joe Biden's oil leak becoming a
gusher Warren the biggest beneficiary so
far Bernie creeping up to meanwhile a
federal judge says that an American
journalist can't question why he's on
the US kill list Donald Trump looking to
pull out of the Universal Postal Union
which will if you ever want to mail
something outside of this country
create a nightmare Chicago Teachers
Union hold strike vote today and
tomorrow and Don Trump looking to kick
500,000 kids off of a school free lunch
program because and lastly next
democratic debate will have at least 12
folks and could happen over two nights
all this and more on today's program hi
folks a lot of stuff has happened in the
past 24 hours since we signed off the
air yesterday I think that we knew that
a an announcement was impending from
Nancy Pelosi here is that announcement
yesterday afternoon this is a big deal
in our committees and litigating in the
courts so the house can gather all the
relevant facts and consider whether to
exercise its full article 1 powers
including a constitutional power of the
utmost gravity approval of articles of
impeachment and this week the president
has admitted to asking the president of
Ukraine to take actions which would
benefit him politically the action of
the truck the actions of the trump
presidency revealed dishonourable fact
of the president's betrayal of his oath
of office betrayal of our national
security and betrayal of the integrity
of our elections therefore today I'm
announcing the House of Representatives
moving forward with an official
impeachment inquiry I'm directing our
six committees to proceed with their
investigations under that umbrella of
impeachment inquiry the president must
be held accountable no one is above the
law okay so this is important to note in
the past there has been a special select
committee which becomes the Clearing
House that's not going to happen this
time and I think part of the reason why
that's not going to happen is because
Nancy Pelosi is still afraid
for some of her frontline members in the
case that this impeachment stuff somehow
goes sideways and she doesn't want them
to have to actually take a vote on the
creation of a select committee I I
believe I'm not a hundred percent sure
about this but in the past we've had
select committees instead there are six
committees who are looking on different
issues ranging from emoluments to
various other corrupt practices by the
Trump administration
maybe it's appropriating funds or
something to that effect they will all
report to the Judiciary Committee with
presumably some form of a report that is
we believe that this was conduct that
rises to an impeachable offense then
they will gather those at the Judiciary
Committee now and I'm not sure if
judiciary will do the investigations at
that point if they will call the
witnesses forward on those separate
topics or whatnot but we're gonna know
more about the process as this winds out
there's a great piece by Ryan Griffin in
the intercept which outlines the fact on
just how close we were to impeachment
even prior to this report from Adam
Schiff which took place now two weeks
ago when he made it public that there
was a whistleblower complaint they
probably knew this a couple of weeks
before then but the real turning point
turned out to be when a lot of these
frontline Democrats these are people who
won in either narrowly democratic
districts or narrowly Republican
districts in terms of the parties
and rating in 2018 freshman Congress
people who thought this according to
Grimm's piece thought that the big
jeopardy to their re-election was the
radicalism coming from the squad and at
one point they realized particularly
when they went home to their town halls
that the biggest problem with their
reelection was the fact that they
weren't doing anything to hold Donald
Trump accountable and that in fact a lot
of people wanted impeachment and so and
this is consistent with what we know
about how Democrats won in 2018 the
there is a negative partisanship for
better for worse that Americans tend to
vote upon based upon and people came out
and voted for Democrats in these House
seats because they hate Donald Trump and
now there's an opportunity to
nationalize that question and buy
nationalize it I mean not just in terms
of the presidential election but now it
is a question that is going to be
relevant and how effective it will be
will be a function of how effective the
Democrats are which is a scary
proposition but with that said there's
now going to be an opportunity to
nationalized every local congressional
race every Senate race across the
country because every one of those
people running whether even if they're a
challenger they'll be asked this
question they'll hem and haw about it
and it may change over time but
certainly the incumbents will all be
asked whose side were you on
were you protecting Donald Trump or were
you holding him to account
were you draining the swamp or were you
I don't know
how do you feed it's doing a tremendous
job or doing a tremendous job I mean
that's gonna be the question in in many
of these these campaigns you're going to
see ads I held Donald Trump to account
in but for Mitch McConnell and my
opponent blankety-blank Donald Trump
would not be president right now and
that's what you're going to hear
and obviously the presidential
candidates will be providing their own
agendas and I imagine the Democrats will
also be providing their own agendas but
in terms of nationalizing the election
this is what Democrats don't do very
well and this is going to give them the
opportunity to do it so that this is the
beginning of it and this is going to if
they're if the Democrats are smart we're
gonna see hearings they're gonna take
their time they're gonna make it very
clear to the American public and it's
not gonna be just about this although
the reason why this was the tipping
point I think was one because it's so
obvious and to its actions that are in
the future if there was you know it's
one thing to say like Oh Donald Trump
actively solicited the Russians help in
the 2016 election etc etc but he's doing
this now for the 2020 election we're
watching him engage in a crime where the
payoff is supposedly coming in the
future and it would be very much like oh
you should stay at my hotel and then I
will do this for you I mean it's
basically the same bottle of it I I like
a point that actually Kyle made to me
last night which is and would certainly
be more compelling to me morally which
is like yeah the Saudis actually are
overpaying
four hotels in DC and that does
correlate with continuing to sell them
weapons for a genocide in Yemen and
there's no monuments case right oh
that's gonna be in there I mean I think
there's you're going to see stuff like
that in there without a doubt I have a
feeling the reason why we're selling the
Saudis weapons is not just a function of
Donald Trump's Hotels though it's not
just a function but it might be a
function for him for him it could be
that narrow Club but certainly the
emoluments I mean are definitely going
to be part of I would imagine at least
the investigation in the inquiry and so
this is where we're at at this point
meanwhile Fox and Friends are trying to
break the news to their their audience
and their joy what you can see and now
that they've released the transcript and
we we have the transcript we're gonna
read you parts of it because the
transcripts pretty bad and we should say
that we don't even know if it's actually
the transcript Richard Nixon when they
released transcripts of those recordings
I hate to break it to you they weren't
accurate they left out a couple of
things at the bottom of this transcript
it says just so you know not necessarily
verbatim even with that it looks pretty
bad and so the whistleblower complaint
is gonna give us a lot more but I I mean
this is pretty obvious what he's doing
in this transcript and we will talk more
about it but here is Fox and Friends
trying this is gonna be the strategy
strategy is gonna be we can't do
anything but release all this stuff so
what we're going to do is say it's not a
crime it's not a crime it's consistent
with everything else that we're you know
I've been doing there's nothing there's
no why wouldn't I want to know about
this this is gonna be the argument now
it will work for the people watching
box of course it will but I don't think
it's gonna work beyond that and I think
that is the miscalculation that they are
making although to be fair they have
done everything they can to prevent
impeachment from happening but here is
Fox and Friends giving you a little
taste of what it's this is how it's
gonna they're gonna try and shove this
down the throats of their viewers
watching a post broke a story yesterday
afternoon that the President ordered
Mick Mulvaney his acting chief of staff
to freeze 391 million dollars in
military aid to Ukraine before he talked
to the president and that doesn't look
like good timing to a lot of people but
Fox News has confirmed that apparently
the president wanted to make sure that
the new president of Ukraine understood
that if you're gonna get this money we
really want you to end corruption before
we give you that dough but now you know
what's interesting about this this is
like they are trying to train their
audience to believe that the presidency
in terms of money functions more or less
like my giving my daughter allowance
functions like I'm not giving you
allowance this week until you commit to
me that you're going to clear the table
put the dishes from the sink into the
dishwasher not just leave them at the
sink too little think of the good Govan
right the problem is is that this is not
Donald Trump's money this is money that
Congress earmarked for foreign aid with
not the conditions that Donald Trump
decides you can't do that again
unilaterally decide like I've got some
other things I just want to put just a
with a button and a little put a little
adopt the eye on this one this is we
promised them a certain amount of aid
because they gave up their nuclear
weapons back in the day promised them
other things too maybe not to it
probably shouldn't have but we did so
these when Congress appropriates money
it is a it's they do it by statute
there's no like little asterisk that
says oh and if you have some personal
stuff you want from the guy you can also
ask for that too but they're not gonna
raise that give you that dough and then
there's some other stories out there
about whether or not other allies and
other countries were actually kicking in
as much money as they should on the
world stage
yeah does that sound like the president
every day really since since he was on
Phil Donahue in the 1980s where our
allies why are we paying the full way he
says it from there in the NATO meetings
to the United Nations meetings he says
in a private meetings he says in
interviews I have no problem at the
timing to me that time he makes total
sense before I meet with the new
president who's been a comedian me and
he comes out of nowhere I'd like to know
that before you get your board your
billion dollars you're gonna do a few
things and I want to pressure our allies
in the interim a mr. OMB director and
chief of staff to to pony up some money
after all rush is more of a threat to
Western Europe right in the art to the
United Stated no wait a second there's
no consistency between like I'm holding
the money off until I check out if you
ask him to do some things done by
yuk-yuk Club down with this many mica
media Fred in the meantime I'm also
gonna go to the other people say you
gotta kick in some cash too but it
continued upon him doing some things for
me too for good government get a problem
now of course to be fair to to kilmeade
we do all know that Donald Trump ran on
a drain the swamp in Ukraine platform he
was so upset about the potential for
corruption in Ukraine this is what he's
always been focused on here is here is
do see a little bit more like okay we
get one little it's it's just tricky
because sometimes comedians get elected
and they're nice guys but they spend all
the money on comedy sometimes you gotta
be real careful like what's the what
about what's the drink minimum thing I
need to know all about that
and here's Ducey going like now there is
this one thing that if it you know it
could be bad
but this is one I think that Dulce would
like to take back probably if the
president said you know I'll give you
the money but you got to investigate Joe
Biden that is really off the rails wrong
right but if it's something else you
know it would be nice to know what it is
Mark Levin yeah Joe you messed up Steve
yes Steve wait a second hold on if I
Brian what would the exact words yeah I
was supposed to have said because I
didn't say exactly that I said something
that was a little bit different here's
here's what he said we're gonna read
more of this but but just well turn to
the actual specific moment where they
mentioned Biden he's talking about
having the Attorney General and Rudy
Giuliani call you know because Rudy
Giuliani is the US government's nothing
he's Donald Trump's personal attorney
he's special rapat or for corruption he
is the special anti comedian corruption
comedian judgment of the head model so I
will ask him to call you along with the
Attorney General of course because my
personal attorney and the attorney
general do a lot of things together when
it deals with foreign corruption of
course like every other administration
if you could speak to him that would be
great the former bass from the United
States that woman was bad news and
people she was dealing with in Ukraine
were bad news so I just want to let you
know that the other thing there's a lot
of talk about Biden's son that Biden
stopped the prosecution a lot of people
want to find out about that so not me
but a lot of people and so whatever you
can do with Attorney General that would
be great
Biden went around bragging that he
stopped the prosecution so if you could
look into that it sounds horrible to me
later
in the next time that he speaks then the
president goes like oh yes no of course
right absolutely you're the best I agree
corruption bad yes you president good he
just basically went on he was it the
played
from quite brilliantly I think although
it's quite clear that I don't know if he
fully gathered below to an election
summit and then he goes well about the
the ambassador again well she's gonna go
through some things I will have mr.
Giuliani give you a call and I'm also
gonna have the Attorney General bar call
and we will get to the bottom of it okay
so in other words like every time Trump
speaks in this he says he repeats I'm
gonna have bar and Giuliani call you
okay here it is I'm sure you will figure
it out
I heard the prosecutor was treated very
badly and he was a very fair prosecutor
so good luck with everything your
economy is going to get better and
better I predict you have a lot of
assets it's a great country
I have many Ukrainian friends they're
incredible people and oh this is all
over maybe we'll get a Netflix package
for you
Dorsey those sneakers at your friend's
house look into those I like those
they're good sneakers if you know what I
mean and I predict Dorsey that something
may your bank account may grow how do
you like that Bank a crowd might grow so
that's good because you've got great
assets and I like those sneakers so
there it is that's basically it and then
Dorsey is the Ukrainian president he
goes this is how impeachment will affect
Biden exactly you understand me I love
Linkous Sam and I buy all of my blinka
subscriptions at blink its dot-com /
majority all of them but no joke folks
speaking of bling kissed
I don't know if you're like me I don't
know if you spent all of your waking
hours following on Twitter different
stories that are happening in the news
but there are times where you also need
to basically say kids enough leave me
alone and I'm going to deep unplug from
the news I want to read some some
nonfiction that actually will help me
get through my day in some fashion that
will up my assets as they were well
blinka is an app that compiles the key
takeaways from thousands of non-fiction
books so everything you need to know is
condensed down to 15 minutes either in
reading form or in listening form blinka
is super unique because it works not
only can you read it on your tablet you
read it on your computer read it on your
phone you can listen to it in all those
places well you'll find everything from
hell from health to self-help to titles
to history and business books including
in your blinkin
library for me I checked out the start
with why now I gotta be honest with you
by this guy's simon Sinek i didn't even
know what it was I guess it's one of the
top-selling one something I don't know
he is but this is not a book I would
pick up to read I'm sorry Simon
I apologize it's just I'm not gonna read
I would blink it Simon but in 15 minutes
it was interesting I think I already do
this but it's interesting to see like
maybe some practices that you have in
the context of trying to communicate to
people and then for me and have it
broken down that way so you can remain
conscious of it does that make sense
well that's what I get out of that that
the there's basically Cohen centric
circles of why how and what he started
why why are we doing this if I ever have
to hire somebody I know I mean that that
was one of the things but that was the
beauty about this is I got the whole
concept down it was something that I was
familiar with this stuff isn't to to
Haddie but it's a it's an interesting
way to sort of like and
to organize these thoughts and now it's
concise with blankets you get unlimited
access to read or listen to a massive
library of condensed non-fiction books
all the books you want one low price
bling cos now has a special offer for
our listeners go to blink accom slash
majority try it for free for seven days
and then save 25% off your new
subscription that's blinking the Li n K
is t-dot-com / majority to start your 7
day free trial and to save 25% off
that's 1/4 for those of you don't like
to work in those type of percentages 25%
off blink it's calm / majority all right
quick break
David day
you
the phone david dayon the executive
editor of The American Prospect and also
a longtime friend of show David Dan
welcome back to the program thank you
Sam
now David you guys at The American
Prospect are launched this week a like a
like a series that is entitled the day
one agenda and we have exquisite timing
and the timing of this it would have
been nice if Nancy Pelosi gave you a
heads up as to when impeachment was
going to come down now if it normally
does
I honestly if if impeachment had not
been announced this week I feel like
this would have been and I and I still
think it will be because there's gonna
be two parallel stories going on one is
going to be the election and one is
going to be this impeachment right and
the biggest question that I think people
have in terms of a Democratic president
excuse me is um what are they going to
be able to do so let's talk about this
and then I want to get your thoughts
about impeachment but the impeachments
going to take a back seat to the day one
agenda because all right you for just
this moment on just this particular
program that's right we got some
presidents that's right well no but let
me just start with this start with this
because one of the things there were
there were many of us who were critics
of Barack Obama for things that he did
and did not do in terms of the things
that he did not do the pushback that we
all got was this is magical thinking
this is Glink Green Lantern ISM explain
to us what that is so that we can
dispense with this notion because that's
I mean I would have loved you to have
been executive editor of The American
Prospect eight years ago so that we
have had this conversation then right so
the green lantern theory of the
presidency is something that was pushed
by no defenders of Barack Obama and his
political approach and it was basically
meant to highlight the fact that that
presidents are constrained constrained
by checks and balances by the Congress
by the courts by public opinion
what-have-you
the the idea was that foolish presses
have this concept of the Green Lantern
theory of the presidency as you know at
Green Lantern is a DC Comics superhero
who had a ring and he was only sort of
bound by his wilt of conjuring up
whatever he wanted with that ring to
fight crime or whatever he wanted to
fight and and the the theory is that
progressives or or people disappointed
in you know Obama thought that Obama was
Green Lantern and all he had to do was
was was summon up the will and he could
enact whatever he wanted and foolish
mortals that that's not the way that
that politics works that was that was
the very condescending Green Lantern
theory of the presidency it turns out
that leaves just a whole bunch of things
out of the story the you know some were
particularly the Obama administration
the fact that they had already
appropriated a seventy-five billion
dollar kitty for foreclosure mitigation
that they ended up using almost none of
to help protect people and and and keep
them in their homes that was the one
that I you know typically brought up
during the administration right but you
know in this package I lay out the the
you know we lay out the other point
which is that there's just
whole other area of the presidency that
is not really constrained by Congress
and that would be the execution of laws
that are have already been passed and it
turns out there's a robust agenda
available to any president that manages
to use these laws that have already been
passed to their fullest potential and
and and and you know the to move forward
the preferences that they want and we've
seen this under Trump right I mean we
obviously there are a lot of ways in
which Trump is is using executive power
in an illegal or radical fashion but
there are also ways in which the
president is using executive power by
simply executing laws that are on the
books so you know the the tariffs for
example that have been put forward most
of them are being done under a section
of the trade expansion act of 1962 which
gives the president the ability to enact
certain tariffs for national security
reasons or what have you the farm
bailout that the president which is in
response to his own failed terror system
where he's deliver twenty eight billion
dollars to farm interests mostly
agribusiness but but to farm interests
that is under a New Deal program called
the commodity Credit Corporation I
believe that so so you have Trump using
a New Deal program to funnel money to
the farming sector that wasn't
appropriated a it's it's just an avenue
that's available under this particular
legislation which is all still on the
books and has never been repealed in in
any way and so that's an indication of
the fact that a president can be
creative innovative and persistent
in enacting his or her agenda through
the laws that are already available and
the authority that is already available
to them well and I want to go through at
least you know and you say there are 30
like you say you said 30 meaningful
executive actions these are not
executive order also these are not
executive orders these are things we
found in the law and and 30 really
scratches the surface there really are
so many things that can be done but we
focused on on 30 through a series of
articles that we have and the tag is
prospect org slash day - one - agenda so
so if you go there or if you just go to
the top of our website you can see it up
brand new website I should say prospect
that org every piece in this series is
listed at that day one agenda tak and
these include I mean just a broad
overview the next president can lower
prescription drug prices they can cancel
student debt they can break up the big
banks they can give everyone who wants a
bank account wants one a bank account I
have a feeling I know what that is that
is that is our our old bailiwick about
the postal banking it is counteract the
dominance of monopoly power protect
farmers from price discrimination and
unfair dealing forced divestment from
fossil fuel projects closed a slew of
tax Hope loopholes hold crooked CEOs
accountable mandate reductions of
greenhouse gas emissions allow the
effect of the legalization of marijuana
make it easier for 800,000 workers to
join a union much much more you right
and I mean let me ask you this well why
didn't why why have we waited why why
did we have to wait for you to become
the executive editor of the American
Prospect and build a beautiful new
website and then come up with this I
mean what like honestly like I have the
same I have the same question I mean
it I'm it's stunning to me that I was
able to put this together and not be
stooped I mean I was thinking about
doing this when I interviewed to become
executive editor of the prospect so that
was like last summer I've been thinking
about doing this package and the fact
that we have such a and inadequate
political media that doesn't understand
the capabilities of the presidency and
doesn't really carry out the campaign
coverage in a fashion that is at all
relevant is is really absurd and
disappointing like I I'm stunned that I
was able to do this and we we have gone
through months of campaign season asking
presidents what they want what
legislation they want to pass when
that's not their job right and nothing
about what legislation they want to
implement which is their job and it's
it's embarrassing to to the the are the
media in this country that they don't
look at the the actual roles and
responsibilities of the presidency when
it's you know practically all they talk
about is is what the presidency is so so
I mean it's it just just makes no sense
to me and and so I have attempted with
this package I think we've attempted to
remedy that and and to really look at
what a president can do without
legislation without needing Congress
without needing Mitch McConnell decide
and it turns out there's a lot that can
be done without expanding presidential
power it's just simply choosing to use
it so let me ask you this I I mean it's
it's easier for me to understand why the
media has not undertaken something like
this
it's even harder for me to understand
like why sitting in the White House was
there not one individual who said hey
you know what maybe we can do some stuff
like why was there so much effort
expanded I mean it's one thing to say
like oh it never occurred to me to go
and do a piece like this it's another to
say oh I've expended a tremendous amount
of energy to argue that we can't do any
of this you know we coined the phrase
bend that's what I'm saying
did expend a lot of energy I mean you
know I remember the first six years of
the Obama administration getting a lot
of pushback on a whole host of issues
even at the executive order level you
know you think about daca and DAPA and
and and the president saying no I can't
do that no I I don't have the authority
to do that and then finally six years in
after having no agenda able to pass once
Republicans gotten a the Congress saying
oh I have a pen and a phone remember a
pen found that that's that's what I'm
going to do but it took six years to get
to the pen in the phone and there was no
reason that it had to take that long
this was this was something that was
available on day one and one interesting
thing so so we did one on cancellation
of student debt that's that was written
by marcia brown prospect writing fellow
and she tells this story that's when the
for-profit colleges were blowing up
these these predatory colleges that were
defrauding students uh and and and
claiming that they could you know
improve their their their livelihoods
and their situations by getting
placement after taking these courses in
terms that was all live llamas were kind
of worthless uh at that time they were
think about well what are we going to do
because these people have thousands of
dollars of student loans and they were
they were all defrauded too
all lawyers from the National Consumer
Law Center went the wrote a letter to
the Education Department saying well
actually under the law you have the
authority called something called
compromise and settlement authority to
settle up any student loan that was
publicly issued and you can cancel them
entirely if you wanted to and the
education barber said well we can't do
that no we're not going to do that they
ended up coming up with this very
bureaucratic bungling process that still
hasn't been fully implemented years and
years later so it's not like they didn't
know it's just they were resistant to do
it and the PostScript to that is of
course that the Education Department
under Arne Duncan several members and
high-level officials in in that
department now works for the for-profit
college sector so if you're asking was
this incompetence or was this very
deliberate indifference to the powers of
the office that that tends to make you
think it's the latter and so do you
think at least in terms of the well and
I guess you you have a it's not even
just a question of speculation I mean
you've gone to the all the candidates on
these on these questions from a broad
perspective then people can go and read
and see you know which candidates have
signed on to what but I mean broadly
speaking what what's your sense of their
willingness to do so I mean yeah I
imagine regardless of what was happening
the Secretary of the Education
Department that have Barack Obama had
said I want all hands on deck I want
every one of my my cabinet secretaries
to come to me with five things that they
can do right now they have statutory
authority to do that or that are you
know if not game changers game slightly
changers and at the very least and and
come to me and I want to know what they
are and I want to know what they are
and and and you got yes you got three
weeks at Obama demo right I mean there's
a tone at the top right okay so it all
starts from the top and and goes down so
the reason yes we sent a questionnaire
to every presidential candidate the
short version is that Warren and Sanders
were pretty favorable to this and and
bind and send it back you know I don't
know if there's anybody else that we
should even talk about in this race but
that's that's the top line version we
sent that questionnaire for a couple
different reasons well wait a second let
me just ask you that before we get more
specifically overall I'm just curious as
to where because I'm not surprised that
Joe Biden has no interest in these
things and frankly I'm not surprised
that Warren and Sanders would would be
receptive right to the extent that the
other people sent it in that gives you a
sense of like where the where what what
the sort of I may be broadly the
conventional wisdom is as to the
validity the efficacy the just the I
guess the the general sense that this is
something that should be done I mean
what old wing old one general terms
I mean sometimes it depended on the
issue right all but you know I mean Amy
Klobuchar is big on she happens to sit
as the ranking member on the House
Judiciary Judiciary Subcommittee on
antitrust so she has endorsed a lot of
the day one actions around anti-monopoly
rules Carla Harris has has talked about
this sort of three a.m. agenda and she
has backed up some of her plans with
things like and if you don't do that
Congress I'm gonna take executive action
so you know one of the more wide-ranging
ones that we have in the in the package
was around prescription drugs where you
can literally seized patents of
excessively priced drugs Harris's valve
to do that so
you know there are it kind of depends on
the area and better work has some things
where he's agreed to do stuff but just
what I want to say here is we we sent
this questionnaire for two reasons and
the first reason was to say well what
are you going to commit to and then we
can write about what they commit to and
and you see these all inside bars that
are at the hatched to every single story
in the package that we did the second
reason that we sent the questionnaire
now was to just sort of make the
candidates aware that we know that there
are these actions that you are able to
take and we're watching we we we are we
are fully aware that if you get into the
the presidency and six months later you
know your press secretary says well
we're just hamstrung by Congress we know
that that's not true we know that
there's an agenda sitting there waiting
for you to pick it up and we're going to
be on day one not six years in with the
pen and the phone on day one we're going
to be talking about why these things are
getting done so so so it was really a
two-fold reason to do the questionnaire
at all and it hopefully people will go
there so that when we start to see I
don't need to name names but that that
guy and that other guy on Twitter talked
about Green Lantern ism and then that
other guy say like wait president
blankety-blank is doing a great job he's
not she's not Green Lantern folks can
say day one agenda go read the prospect
and that's that's the idea we want to
preempt this thing and and and really
lay it out and I do think that you know
the way that we talk about presidential
politics is just wrong I mean the
definition of a president
constitutionally is that they take
the laws are faithfully executed and
here we have a bunch of laws that are on
the books they haven't been repealed by
Congress
they were duly passed legally passed and
it's up to a president to execute them
and for some reason we don't talk about
that in terms of any campaign I mean
it's fine to know somebody's platform
and what they want to do but it's also
good to know what they're going to do
and what they had the ability to do and
so in order to inform people of what the
stakes are in the election I feel like
these issues have to be front and center
all right let's pivot to the election
itself on some level then the there's
two parts of this election there's going
to be the Democratic nominee and there's
gonna be the Republican nominee who at
this point is looks like it's gonna be
Donald Trump but who knows let's talk
about this impeachment what you you
wrote a piece that this symbolizes the
an era of or the end maybe of the era of
no accountability I doubt it broadly
speaking but it's nice to see some
measure of accountability Nancy Pelosi
did not want to do this and it was
supposedly because she was afraid of
what it would mean to literally like
eight House seats as my understanding
but it is I'm just amazed at like the
the idea that well yeah no of course we
don't want to lose eight House seats but
it's not like a guarantee right there's
just no like iron law that says those
eight House seats have to be lost to do
this but what is a guarantee is that
like if you do not hold this president
to account for his actions what who are
you gonna hold to account yeah I mean
I'm starting you're starting to see a
lot of response
well Nancy Pelosi his gangster she
finally picked the right moment
the clearest indication of corruption
and and she just waited and waited and
and and she got it done and now she's
gonna have the whole the whole country
on board did what happened over the last
week is the final recognition of the
complete failure of Nancy Pelosi's
entire political project for 2019 so her
political project was we're going to
pass these these bills we're gonna get
so much attention for these bills we're
gonna show that we're working for the
American people and then she had this
idea that she was going to sew up the
majority for the next election this year
there was this idea that through
fundraising and which of course the
fundraising affects what the agenda is
and and the agenda is pre compromised
through fundraising and and and just a
various other factors we're gonna sew up
the election and and that meant you know
fighting people to her left the squad
and and and they were the biggest threat
to this political project that you know
that calling them out in the media and
using Maureen Dowd as an interlocutor
for that purpose but this was the
political project that she put forward
well here's what happened in 2019 nobody
cared about the things that she passed
that the Senate was obviously not going
to pass and work they weren't viable or
interesting enough for people you know
the the mass public to get behind them
anyway it was about sixty pieces of
legislation I think by last count I mean
and you know somewhere we're good
HR one was really good of course nobody
literally on the day of the rollout of
HR 1 which was their huge broad
anti-corruption bill that rolled in
voting rights et cetera et cetera
on the day they rolled it out that
entire week was dominated by nan
pelosi going after Ilhan Omar liked it
there was no they stepped on their own
you know semi I mean I thought it was a
decent thing to start with but it should
have been that and then now move on to
other stuff but they stepped on it
because they were so determined to yeah
the bills weren't important that they
obviously in the age of Trump the idea
that that house legislation in one fit
chamber of Congress is going to dominate
the news cycle is ridiculous so that was
stupid
the the infighting just made them look
you know just kind of Democrats in
disarray all over again and and most
important the in the ignorance of what
was happening from the the the the level
of Trump and how holding him to account
was was one of if not the main reason
why Democrats were elected in 2018 the
failure of oversight the the you know
going along with things like the the
border supplemental with the caging of
children all of a sudden what these
moderate frontline members were hearing
in their districts was actually the
biggest threat to their their election
was Nancy Pelosi was was her bungling of
this this agenda and miss caucus and
allowing essentially aiding and abetting
the corruption that we were seeing
coming out of the White House and so the
reason that this thing turned on a die
in the last week was not necessarily
just because of this Ukraine phone call
it was because they needed something to
turn this around because it was becoming
you know the agenda for the 2019 the
political project was coming a liability
for four House Democrats and
so so what we're seeing this week is
really a representin representation of
the failure of that political project
not some you know long game 12
dimensional chess success and this
provided a sort of a perfect moment to
pivot and make it be about we haven't
changed our mind or my strategy hasn't
been wrong or anything this it's just
that the facts on the ground have
changed which is true to a certain
extent but it's also it's a good thing I
guess that they found this this
obviously corrupt you know very neatly
put together peace but it's not like you
wouldn't have found one last week right
before or the week before or the week
after it it's it's sort of you know you
could have done it at the Lewandowski I
mean that the Lewandowski hearing could
have easily been that as a pivot as well
you could have come out and said I mean
it fell into their lap yes is what
happened and and Pelosi finally had to
realize this because her members were
telling her you better do something
because I'm getting killed at these town
hall meetings where I'm being told that
I'm ineffective that my my party is is
doing nothing in the face of lawlessness
and that this elite impunity is causing
you know unrest among my constituents
and so all right so there's a couple of
things from this point that's the that's
the backstory that's how we got to here
what what do you think is know and I
guess I should say that the the flip
side of that is is that this this bodes
well regardless of how this turn I'm in
the Democrats still have the opportunity
to screw this up and we can talk about
that in a second as well as the
Republican response but from an
electoral perspective it seems to me
that the grief that they were getting at
the recess particularly those frontline
Democrats the ones who hadn't signed on
yet to impeachment he
is the the inverse or the converse of
why it will help in the election against
the Republican because this is an
opportunity for Democrats to sort of
nationalize or localize Donald Trump in
every race right yeah I mean I think
that's that's that's definitely true I
think looking to pass performance as an
indication of future results when you're
talking about impeachment when you have
a sample size of one is not really a
that that useful a rubric certainly we
saw you know post Nixon resignation that
Democrats took this commanding super
majority in Congress certainly after the
Clinton impeachment which was seen as an
overreach
we saw Democrats do well in the midterm
elections of 1998 when that was being
talked about so so we don't know how
this is going to play politically what
we do know is that the last 20 years is
kind of what I wrote about the last 20
years or so we have seen just total
impunity total lack of accountability
for elites we've seen who you are
mattering much more than what you did in
all facets of society and and and what
we're seeing over the last couple years
with Trump is just sort of an indication
or an avatar of of that lack of
accountability and my feeling is is that
this has really disrupted the country as
has broken down our institutions and
someone anyone standing up and saying no
were actually are going to hold you
accountable I feel will be rewarded by
the electorate but you know I don't
really know right we're going to see
this play out certainly we saw today
this this summary of the
phone call between the Ukrainian
president and an and Trump which looks
pretty bad even though Trump is trying
to sort of Gaslight about it and say
that you didn't even read the transcript
which is in the transcript I'm totally
innocent it doesn't look that innocent
to me and and if that's the best that
they got if that's the best foot forward
then uh you know it seems like the
Democrats have a pretty strong hand to
play now how are they going to play it
are there they're going to be hearings
is there going to be a laying out of the
evidence is there going to be you know
for all to see not in a report that that
ten people read but but on national
television is there going to be and you
know an explanation of you know what
this particular piece of abuse of power
is all about and and maybe connecting it
to others I think I think now we're what
we're we have to think about is how this
goes down and how that will affect the
implications for the election and beyond
rather than whether to do it or not
right I mean I think we're we're we're
past the the do it or not
phase what so what so when you say if
the Democrats play their cards well what
is that what does that look like at the
end I mean let's assume for a moment
that Mitch McConnell either has a vote
in the Senate and Donald Trump is not
convicted or doesn't even bring up a
vote he just pretends like it's not
happening like it's like Merrick guy I
think it's gonna be the latter
he's like I'm not even gonna do I'm not
even gonna dignify this with a vote I'm
going to pretend like it's not happening
now there would have to be under Senate
rules if an impeachment resolution is
forwarded to the Senate the Senate does
need to act but those rules can be
changed just like the nuclear option
that we saw the change of Supreme Court
so that vote you know there would be a
because that would be challenged but it
would devote would be the vote would be
on change rocket right ok so there would
be a proxy vote change the rules that
way
no senator has to say oh I didn't vote
to not impeach him I just voted not to
have you know a vote essentially and
purposes that would be seen as a proxy
for okay let's assume that let's assume
that's gonna happen what do the
Democrats need to do to win this on
their terms
it's it seems to say I mean and you know
I don't think it's about winning or
losing it's about you know actually
standing up and saying if abuse has
occurred at the highest levels we need
to need to do what we can do within our
power to prevent that so I mean
certainly doing the ostrich maneuver of
ducking in the sand didn't work that was
not making right Democrats popular so
now I think you have to go in the other
direction
gotta lay out the facts you need to do
it publicly you need to I feel like the
momentum is inexorable towards
impeachment in the house and and and
that vote will be a very high profile
and then force Republicans to go on the
record defending the conduct that you
lay out in a long and and and very
informative way or not and that's on
them that to line up with with their
their their leader on that so I think
that's I mean that's kind of the only
thing you can do with this right I mean
IIIi don't know that there's another
option out there I mean the worst would
be that this impeachment inquiry which
was announced yesterday just becomes
pretty much exactly what's already been
happening which is sort of a
instead of attempts to attempt to
whether it's putting together hearings
and asking for documents and then not
getting them and going to court
I mean if it's the same kind of bumbling
oversight that we've seen over the first
nine months only it has the words
impeachment inquiry in front of it
that's going to be bad there needs to be
a vote there needs to be an
understanding of when these articles of
impeachment will come out there needs to
be a schedule here this is you know
especially if it's it's just focused on
this call and this can I don't think it
can be and I and my sense is it won't be
I mean that's why you have all these
different committees that are that are
getting involved they all have their six
committees that are going to be sending
I think they're potentially impeachable
offenses you know ranging from
emoluments and and whatnot I agree with
you I think earnestness on this is the
is that this is actually very easy for
the Democrats to win and by win I mean
and that is to simply hold him account
to simply like they they're not gonna
get them out of office to just simply
say we are mending a message to history
that this guy did wrong things and that
wrong things done by the president are
are are not right
I mean it's honestly it's honestly it's
like it seems to me to be that simple
and we need to make it we need to have
every American hear this we need to know
that we need to be able to say to every
American that this is a president who
was impeached because he broke the law
and I think if they can achieve that
that's all they need to do to make this
work for them I think it's you know it's
it's it is to come out with a strong
position and be strong about it and
there'd be no hesitation there be no
mitigation just to come out and do this
and then it is then just press the point
on Republicans and nothing else need
have
and it seems to me then then than that
and that is you know and and there's
obviously and just a flip back
I mean Democrats are really bad at being
able to tell more than one story at once
right you can walk into chew gum here
you can get these do everything that you
were talking about Being Earnest being
speaking to history talking about the
the corruption at the heart of this
presidency and also talk about the fact
that what we need to do in in the wake
of this is a a positive agenda that
presents tangible results for the
American people
absolutely and now it seemed to me the
presidential candidates are freed up on
some level to do that right they don't
have to go to war with Nancy Pelosi to
impeach they can say that's that part of
it's done and now here's the vision for
what happens in the future that process
is happening
I support the impeachment investigation
I support the inquiry I will vote for it
if I'm you know on members of Congress
and now what we can talk about is you
know all the things we could be doing if
we if we we get Trump out of office
David Dan I cannot emphasize enough the
need for everyone to go to Prospect org
and at the top of your very
well-designed very attractive website
you can see you've got like five major
issues that are facing people right now
trending topics trending ok trending
topics that's interesting and one of
them is impeachment the next one is the
day one agenda and then the climate
crisis working in American immigration
click on the day one agenda folks
because this is this is super important
we cannot if we are fortunate enough to
have a
Democratic president we cannot let them
off the hook with the argument that they
are in unable to deliver for the
American public because Mitch McConnell
or because Joe Manchin or because of you
know what's that guy running in Arizona
whoever is the next you know ben nelsons
gonna be we cannot allow that to happen
this time and the way that you can
prevent that is to understand what the
president can do on day one so that when
that guy whose name I'm not gonna
mention but we all know who I'm talking
about at least do you do the guy you
know that moderate who's always there to
protect whoever the Democratic president
is in the center says you guys are
fantastical all you're gonna do is drop
that link right into their Twitter feed
so David day and there you go I
appreciate it
you've done a big service for us and
we'll keep well I can't wait to read
more of it great thank you very much all
right folks gonna take a quick break
head into the fun half listen I want to
make an announcement I was going to drop
the it's this is not earth shattering
stuff but there has been a steven
crowder i have mentioned this in the
past has been avoiding debating me now
look nobody's obligated to debate me I
don't think anybody's obligated to
debate me that's silly
but steven crowder goes out there and
has built his career off of middling
comedy oriented towards people who have
a conservative perspective and there's
such a dearth of anything it's even
remotely amusing just dressing up in a
costume for conservatives is like you
know is is the pinnacle of comedy he's
built is really bad for you he's he's
built
career on that and going to colleges and
debating college students who show up on
campus see this dude there doesn't
haven't prepared they sit down and they
debate him sometimes they they do quite
well other times they don't because of
course not
and so because this guy has built his
career on that I thought it might be
interesting to see what happens if
steven crowder actually sits down and
does some of his change my mind things
with someone who actually has spent some
time thinking about these things so
there was a couple of opportunities a
couple of venues I'll be more detailed
tomorrow or excuse me on Friday where
Steven Crowder was lined up by the
people who were running these forums or
this these events fora they presumed
that steven crowder was gonna do it
because steven crowder will had agreed
to do something in general with them but
when it turned out the thing that they
were offering was to debate me
everything changed now it's one thing
for me to come up here and just say that
right like I could be Trump bask in this
I could be I could be doing a bill bar
completely exonerates you know Donald
Trump and then the report comes out and
nobody so to show that what I am saying
is not made up I will on Friday
present both audio evidence and written
evidence of my claims two instances
where the organizers of
a particular forum had as far as they
knew Crowder was in and then it was like
oh we've got Sam cedar for you and then
all of a sudden it was like oh no so we
will drop this on Friday we were thought
we were talking about doing it today but
all the impeachment stuff and wanted to
to get you know between the the day 1
agenda and the impeachment hadn't wanted
to get buried so cuck cuck scenario yeah
so on Friday we'll do this Lucy Steiner
will be here she is the co-host of the
the a.m. quickie which we are about to
launch on its new feed I will tell you
where this they would come yes but I
didn't expect it so soon there you go I
think none of us did yes in the fun half
today we will read the some of the the
phone call between Trump and maybe you
should do Trump and I'll do or no maybe
you should do the because yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah good I want so much from you
including cavity and you know like JB
and HBO special right we will get to
that we have more to talk about in terms
of impeachment we have some clips we'll
take some phone calls we will see you in
the fun half obviously we've gone long
today folks you can support this program
by becoming a member I joined the
majority report comm join the majority
report calm we support the free show
would give you a little extra content
support all the operations that come out
of this office we're we're trying to
build more I am quickie rolled out you
know Michael and Jamie do their shows
from here and we're attempting maybe to
have another show we may have an
announcement another couple of weeks
that we're gonna be you know helping
launch out of here and your support is
greatly appreciated in all
these endeavors join the majori port
comm also just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off today is
Wednesday class night it's Tuesday
Michael what happened here party I have
no doubt about it actually not at all in
fact uh a little bit of cleaning really
no drink last night I noticed that we
don't drinking is not every week but
don't you notice the change of garbage
bags and things like that you didn't
notice that dad did I do okay yeah well
maybe you should take those they're not
in the bags every time you cut well
that's young you certainly spend most
time in there that's true yeah I'll be
back you two 15 25 minutes exactly I'm
gonna be tweeting now that's true you
take care of that tweeting office you
take care of your 20 office we stay away
from it try to not get poisoned by you
on last night's show Makayla Wilkes
joined us she's running against Steny
Hoyer in the fifth District of Maryland
really great campaign I mean there there
are a range of people obviously Shahid
Butare who are running really great left
policy challenges and also you know just
a much broader set of life experiences
like her own experience inside the
criminal justice system and dealing with
it is shaping a big part of her race and
also one of the gravel kits is one of
her foreign policy advisors so it was a
really fun conversation Mike Racine came
in we talked about his Epstein theory
Sam Harris as a new incredible mess that
we talked about in terms of white
supremacy and went back to early marks
to describe strikes and their place in
politics what's happening with GM and a
whole whole whole bunch more Michael
Brooks show on YouTube patreon.com slash
t MBS for the whole thing including an
illicit history of social democracy and
just real quick get your tickets to see
us in Philly November 23rd October 6th
I'm emceeing an event for Laura
Ashcroft I'm sorry I believe that's her
in Astoria Queens she's running for
Congress she's another one of these
really great progressive left TSA
candidates challenging incumbent
Democrats and we're helping her out and
I'll have more info on that soon
check out the anti Fattah patreon.com
the anti fada
and also literary hangover patreon.com
literary hangover Jamie and Matt's
podcasts respectively see you in the fun
half Jamie and I may have a disagreement
yeah you can't just say whatever you
want about people just cause you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you're
idiots we're just going to get rid of
you all right
dude dude dude dude you want to smoke
this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
[Laughter]
five times yes this is a perfect all
right take quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to are these people Shitler
with such No
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
no prick cuoco no quo pro quo oh yeah
just precious let's put this up ladies
and gentlemen you know back in the day
we used to ask the question about the
Bush administration stupid or evil
stupid or evil and more often than not
the answer is yes yes stupid and evil
and I bring you Donald Trump's Trump
administration White House talking
points on how to deal with President
Trump's call with President Solinsky of
Ukraine it starts with what you need to
know Oh what you need to know press
reports have given currency to flat-out
falsehoods about the call myth the
president made a mysterious promise to
Zielinski in return for Ukraine reviving
an investigation relating to Joe Biden
in his son fact there was no such
promise the president wanted allegations
of corruption potentially involving an
American official to be investigated
myth who's the American official oh I
guess it was Joe Biden okay the
president offered a quid pro quo related
to military aid for Ukraine fact there
no quid pro quo in fact there was no
mention of the aid package to Ukraine at
all I should say D mythologized the
money was not showing up at the Ukraine
like it was supposed to be there weeks
before and it wasn't showing up it had
not been released them it needed to be
washed through a clean government
process question you're expecting 400
million dollars it's not there you're
talking to the guy who is stopping it
from coming do you need to hear about
that money before you entertained the
ask Oh incidentally here roll this down
you're asking how how could I get a hold
of these things I'm no note I don't
shill for the White House apparently
they accidentally mailed it emailed it
to reporters and to Democratic House
officials and then to be fair followed
up with a a recall where they asked you
to send them back please disregard those
talking points that you just got email
there's more any but the talking points
are fairly you know they're about as
good as you could they basically are
saying there was no explicit quid pro
quo it just so happens that the money
was withheld the call came there was a
couple of asks and that's it you know I
heard you're interested in opening up a
new Yuk Yuk's in Kiev mm-hmm is that
true a proposed nothing I remind you at
the end of the conversation Donald Trump
just drops in I think your economy is
gonna get a lot better I think it's
gonna get a little bit of juice yeah
if you know what I mean still having
time to work out new sets at the clubs I
mean this is the I mean it is
fascinating to see how it's done right I
mean and I imagine in the course of
doing business like this eight out of
ten times everybody is aware of what's
going on and there's two out of ten
times where the other person's just like
that's odd I wonder what that was about
and I would imagine that that 20% of
times where the the other party doesn't
know what's going on it's because
there's maybe a broad cultural divide or
you can't possibly imagine that somebody
would be doing this in and now you have
your answer of why were with the rod
right exist people you sit down you have
tea but first you say no thanks then you
need to have three teas it's too
complicated you can't just do a bribe
efficiently we do war it'd be nice if
there was a deal that was like Obama's
deal but it was called Trump's deal and
then they saying I think maybe your
economy will get better if you know what
I mean
then the guy offers me a disgusting
dessert how am I supposed to follow up
for that totally confusing totally
confusing deeply unfair pretty stunning
stuff this is gonna be you know and look
here's the reality of of something like
this impeachment is gonna be difficult
and they already have like 30 lawyers
working on this stuff and if Rudy
Giuliani is the is the is the point
person on this folks it's gonna be a
little bit rough in that White House
definitely close up on the cross fingers
I have my scalp I am the least bullish
of impeachment in this room but I love
the time consumption argument and oh my
god if we could have Rudy Giuliani be
like yeah you are you ordered ahead 2004
I don't know what that's got to do with
foreign policies protecting Israel feel
like wait a second Rudy did you just say
that you were aware of a hit that Donald
Trump ordered before he won out of The
Apprentice well that's what you say it
maybe that's what I said
anyways the point is Hillary Clinton's a
 Thank You ver there you go yes
please more of that now what is it what
is your skepticism tucum that
impeachments going to actually pass or
that i mean obviously it's not gonna
pass in the senate we already know that
right so you know I'm ambivalent about
how much time I want tied up in this in
the next several months I'm not entirely
sure it's gonna play out in the same way
that you're confident will play out but
I'm also I just I'm not I'm not
convinced that I am positive in terms of
the election yeah and I'm perfectly and
you know that I'm perfectly willing to
argue if you want things so this one is
just genuinely like I just don't have a
strong feeling so I could be and that's
obviously my hope because it's happening
right but I'm I don't think this is I
think some people you know some people
felt very ecstatic about this and I you
know we'll see that one thing that I am
a hundred percent convinced of and very
excited about and I think the most
salient thing to just keep hitting is
the time consumption thing that's well
wonderful absolutely but I also think
that a it's the right thing to do
unequivocally I mean the guy has broken
the law if you're going to hold a count
there's a reason why you get after
iran-contra after Watergate I mean these
things continue to go on you need to put
down some markers as to what you know
what a president can and cannot do
holding them to account on some level
it's not is it enough no it's
insufficient but it's necessary a B I
think what the Democrats have done is
dodged a big bullet and I think not
impeaching Donald Trump was the riskiest
proposition because then you are
basically saying to the lot of those
people who voted for these house
representatives that they wouldn't there
was nothing for them to do ineffectual
like what we we voted for you to be the
opposition party and you can't even
impeach a guy I mean they impeached a
Democrat for lying about sex in
deposition which i'm an ambassador and
enemy we don't want to bring that one
but because I was stupid of them to do
but although it did mobilize their base
but I mean look honestly my thing is is
that and in in the long run I might have
in fact helped them to play a kind of
hardball but my my my thing is really
honestly just it's happening so I hope
it plays well that's it oh yeah I'm not
I'm I have my skepticism I might I might
even have a little bit more of a sort of
but I'm asking you what is the
skepticism well I just kind of outlined
it for you but it's irrelevant it word
it's happening so hopefully it work well
yes and we'll get a better sense I think
of like how the Democrats actually
execute this that's also I actually I
should also add that and this is this is
there's there's big picture
institutional how does it play with the
bases ones which I'm just less invested
in now as I keep saying because it's
happening I am literally concerned on a
performance level of you know have they
learned how to manage this thing better
so part of this is spectacle well they
do if you know is it gonna be
the Muller hearings or is it gonna be
the one that we played a bit of wit
Lewandowski where they actually handed
her off to a you know they're not gonna
literally hand it off to a council but
my point is though that all or they will
okay oh yeah good that guy's been hired
by the judiciary he Isaacson I think
it's very I don't want these things to
be big laborious duds I want them to be
clear headline nothing that needs to be
explained nothing that needs to be
overly elaborated I want it to be simple
embarrassing effective and relentlessly
on message if they're gonna do it yeah
let's go to the phone's column from a
702 area code who's this where he come
from
hey Sam it's brothel mingle from Las
Vegas bro flamingo from Las Vegas what's
on your mind hey what's going on Mike
how you doing I'm all right two things I
want to point out uh first thing this is
kind of mine the league stuff but I
think it's worth mentioning okay before
I go on actually
sell it to the guys who shouted me out
on the call about Joe Biden I really
appreciated brother and you're
absolutely right
he's ban on women but uh looking into
that later but on the first I want to
point out was I did you guys see the
tweet about all make silver when you
basically talked about you know all the
way liberals have left Bernie right
yeah and loving but residue left I mean
I know I know there's a lot of news
going on guys but like people like and
Mike and I had this conversation and
Michael Thursday way back a guys like
that need to be punished when they say
stupid stuff like that you need to hold
them to account because that's
absolutely ridiculous and into your
guy's point he's not even a data guy
anymore this guy is getting almost I was
almost let's say like hotcakes there's
almost like trolled at this point like
how could even say something like that
well even billion dollars I think I
mentioned this actually the other day
Nate Silver had a tweet that was arguing
that you know people are saying you know
Bernie Sanders took grief last time
around for not having a diverse
coalition of supporters he has now the
most diverse coalition of supporters
measured by the way that people measured
diversity in just about every other
context except for in Nate Silver's
Twitter feed that one day when he said
that the reason why Bernie Sanders has
diversity and that there are there are
component his his his support is made up
of his multiracial and multi economic
status is because most of the white
people who supported him in 2016
left there by raising the percentages of
black supporters young supporters I
guess Asian supporters and that they're
just the residue of his support from
2016 which is just I mean it's it's
crazy we don't measure anybody else's
support in any other context relative to
the
of support that could be theirs in other
words we don't say like God you know so
few people voted for Hillary Clinton
relative to the world we don't say that
because there's a billion did not you
know a majority of the people of color
vote
Brett she only got this you only got a
portion of the American right god and if
you include all the people who didn't
vote yeah I mean it's it's just you know
if you completely don't Eva she actually
did not pick up the woman's vote it's
very very strained way of trying to make
it seem like Sanders diversity of
support is irrelevant and I mean but but
yes I agree but I don't you know what I
got to be honest with you I think the
reason why Nate Silver starts to tweet
stuff like that is that because the star
has faded on some level and it's very
difficult to be out of that limelight
and he does though I mean he that guy
has a like a lot of these people he has
a very very like look I'll draw some
distinctions and I make no apologies you
know there are big differences between
Sanders and Warren that need to be
spelled out but it's you know there's
degrees of either saying they're the
same thing which is absolutely false on
the on to the other extreme of Nate
Silver who really does I mean clearly
have a very bizarre or irrational
fixation and hatred of Bernie Sanders
and his supporters and and it's very
it's very weird and very bizarre and
very sick to watch and there is a lot of
lies and a lot of gaslighting so you
know it's that balance of ignoring the
trash but also um you know some of it
needs to be addressed I just I want to
say there's an amazing new piece by
Adolph Reed jr. that just dropped in New
Republic called the myth of class
reductionism which I would recommend
everybody read urgently yeah take on
this person you said something very
interesting you know with the pitchman
on the rise don't buy this premise is
completely in peril
and completely imperil and you guys made
this point and I think it's disciplinary
Pelosi basically again Joe Biden big
baby Trump no with this with him being
held to account allegedly you know
saying to the Pietschmann you know the
whole Joe Biden's whole campaign
premises is on is it in trouble however
we have to be very careful guys
when you know when uh when the media
types from the New York Times and all
the all the other media establishment
Mississippi and try to launder Nancy
Pelosi for doing this when it's been
completely in completely incompetent on
every level how she handled this because
you I remember you guys talked about how
Joe Biden if you answer the White House
he launder the Republicans wherever we
gotta make sure that these guys don't
get bit more under doing the yeah I mean
I the first thing I tweeted uh the other
night was something to the effect of
like we're gonna see a bunch of these
pieces saying that Pelosi lured him into
being so confident that he tried to
blackmail of the president of Ukraine to
campaign I mean that's gonna happen but
but but I think you know people are
pretty clear on what the story is I
would read that and share widely that
Ryan grim piece because it makes it
quite clear that that the that this was
a huge gift to not only to the country
but also to Nancy Pelosi insofar as like
a very explicit easy compact concise and
discreet example of his his dealing it
would be funny to see appreciate that
yes strategy whiteboard like it's just
like all right do we say that Elon omar
should be deported ourselves or do we
impeach Trump right let's game plan this
I mean honestly bye-bye well I don't
know what happened there I hung up on
him
you wanted to hang out for the joke yeah
except that's not merely a joke
so here is Rudy Guiliani
so we start with this Giuliani on on fox
news or the one on Ingram before we get
to the bill Bar thing probably the
Ingram one okay so here's Rudy Giuliani
now look there's a lot of crosscurrents
here that I don't think we fully
understand yet Senate Republicans are
not exactly closing ranks around Donald
Trump at this point they voted a hundred
to one well a fifty you know the
majority of course are Republicans to
have the whistleblower report come out
they can't control it but it's a
resolution but I think it's quite
possible that they're like okay this is
gonna happen we don't want to be on the
wrong side of trying to hide this it's
not inconceivable I would say there's
probably like a 1.5 percent chance or
two percent chance that the Republicans
decide like oh this is just too toxic
we've got a throat that now is the time
to throw trump over we could do this now
you get pence in there and then you know
everything changes I would say there's a
1 1 to 2 percent chance of that
happening no because there's no hundred
percent worth anything has Rudy Giuliani
has taught us but more than likely
they're waiting just to figure out what
we're supposed to say and to hear from
there are their their base which they
will within a day or two after Mark
Levin and Rush Limbaugh and tell them
what to do they will hear from them and
they will they will stand by their
president but there's also some exposure
for people like monk Pompeo in the State
Department there's also some exposure
from Mick Mulvaney because they have
been named in all of this and so Rudy
Giuliani it seems is basically trying to
argue that he he was just a play he had
nothing to do with this except for the
fact
that the State Department wanted him to
contact or to beat to receive a contact
from Ukraine which if that doesn't make
any sense to you it shouldn't
here is Giuliani explaining this all to
Laura Ingraham and it's it's a s so if
you will himself into the process
insider saying you muck this up your
response man I really did and you know
who I did it at the request of the State
Department I never talked to her
Ukrainian official until the State
Department called me and asked me to do
it and then I reported every
conversation back to them and pause it
for a second I mean doesn't it beg the
question why is a guy who thinks it's so
funny that the State Department would
ask him to take a call from the Ukraine
why does he get asked by the State
Department to take a call from Ukraine
like it means literally as if they like
the State Department called me and said
Sam you know nothing about the Ukraine
will you take a call from there number
two or three uh top official and just
let us know what he says like there's
something missing or more right like I
mean the thing that could not be missing
is also super questionable like hey Rudy
you had a private security consulting
firm that did work across the globe
including for some incredibly corrupt
governments with some extremely
questionable policy recommendations we
have something credibly shady we'd like
you to do or it could be Mike have Rudy
do it but I'm not gonna tell him to do
it you tell him to do it
area conversation back to them in Mora
I'm a pretty good lawyer just a country
lawyer but it's all here right here
the first call from the State Department
the debriefing of this day so why are
they why are they out to get you the
story is filled because I I will
compliment myself because I do a pretty
good job for him and they try to destroy
everybody around him but they're not
going to intimidate me
in fact I'm gonna work harder
because I don't get intimidated by
bullies I don't get in gym I have a
chapter in my book about standing up to
bullies oh the corrupt my ghostwriter
even wrote ridin was intellectually
challenged but a nice guy I never knew
the depth of this corruption its massive
it's shocking and if I played a role in
getting that out I did a service to my
country and I'm proud of it and
everything I did is defensible and
everything I did is legal and most of
what they're doing is to cover up for a
crime positive who is there
like is he saying that Joe Biden is in
league with the State Department cuz
it's the State Department that's putting
out a notice saying that that anonymous
source is saying that he mucked this up
in some way why didn't he say he was
just a boy from Brooklyn with a law
degree like that would make sense humble
I'm a country lawyer yeah I guys never
lived out of New York City his life as
far as I know I don't I don't think so
but he's a country lawyer you know what
that means I I literally don't like that
boy I don't know outer boroughs I'm just
like I'm like Atticus Finch
and I happy to have him challenge me
because every time they've challenged me
they go down and we win because they are
acting improperly yeah they are acting
with an abuse of power and the President
of the United States conversation with
that president if you consider what a
crook Joe Biden and his son were was
demanded it was necessary you cannot let
the vice president United States allow
his son to enrich himself to the tune of
millions why are you the one to do this
why isn't this the role of the Justice
Department or the FBI
why tasks you the personal attorney the
president did I think that's that's a
question that just layman was saying
okay I get it
I that should be investigated but why is
Rudy roll you know running the show on
that why isn't it FBI and just been main
justice that's a very good question that
is a good question because he FBI's
performance since his entire
investigation including up to this
moment is flawed why am i doing it Laura
can't you figure it out I'm his defense
lawyer I'm defending him he's my client
I don't know only Donald Trump is not
entitled to a defense in America wait a
second hold on a positive second Laura
Ingraham Laura Ingraham is just as Rudy
Giuliani even if we all accept the idea
that there was this deep dark corruption
with Joe Biden and I think it's the kind
of corruption that we see like Oh
China's gonna change their policies for
it's probably less than four Ivanka
Trump or Oh NBC is hired Abbey Huntsman
to work
third thing whatever it is I mean but
let's just assume stipulate there's some
corruption there that the US government
needs to investigate why is Donald
Trump's private lawyer the guy they
picked to do it and Rudy Giuliani's
answer is I'm Donald Trump's defense
lawyer oh so I don't have a right to
defend by the way I stood up the bullies
like sodomized African immigrants that
tried to disperse my NYPD it's clear how
much of a non sequitur this is you're
being deputized for some reason to
pursue a corruption case that presumably
has nothing whatsoever to do with the
one client you seem to have Donald Trump
like they're sending him to pursue the
investigation about Joe Biden and he
says the reason why I'm doing is because
I'm Donald Trump's defense attorney oh
yeah bad the FBI was do you realize that
he is just literally just admitting well
the reason why they sent me to do is
because it's going to benefit my client
like he's literally just admitted that
the investigation he's in charge of the
investigation because it's going to
benefit his client look I just in charge
and he seems to be the only guy who has
all operational control because the
FBI's dropped the ball on this looking
to fall oh man well let me take the
corncob pipe out of my mouth because I'm
a simple country lawyer but it
Latin it's J's the
they attorney is also political
consultants so it's the same thing let's
go little consultant in Ukraine stunning
Donald Trump he should just be put in
front of a firing squad he don't deserve
no defense go Donald Trump is not
entitled to a defense in America
defending him by investigating Biden
because one of the things that the
prosecutor that Biden had fired and then
the prosecutor that Biden helped to put
in one of the things they did was to
dismiss a case against an organization
that was collecting false information
about Donald Trump about palmetto fork
and feeding it to the Democratic
National Committee okay that explanation
was that was run by George Soros he then
hired the crooked FBI agent who is now
working for George Soros Laura
this stinks this is positive this still
does not explain any of the reason why
Rudy Giuliani even if I was to believe
this fantastical notion about
CrowdStrike in the server in Ukraine and
they've kept it there and they looked
for stuff from well you know the steel
dossier and it still does not explain
why someone's defense attorney would be
the lead investigator commissioned by
the US government to do this by the way
exactly the steel dossier he said it
yourself like you ever see Michael
Clayton unbelievable you ever see the
George Clooney vehicle Michael Clayton
now maybe if you did he wouldn't be such
a wiseass the he goes on Julie goes
Julie gone Giuliani goes on alright
we'll get to Giuliani in a second but
the this has relevance insofar as this
question after Giuliani apparently went
to Ukraine it was reported he went to go
find dirt on Joe Biden because but now
we know according to him the state the
apartment basically commissioned him to
do this bill bara was up in front of the
Judiciary Committee in the Senate and
this was in what was it May 1st one gets
the sense that Kamala Harris had some
knowledge of something around this
because she asked bill Barr an
interesting question remember on the
transcript with the president of Ukraine
Donald Trump is saying I'm gonna have
Rudy call you and my attorney general
we're gonna have him both call you
they're both gonna call you and
apparently back in May and this phone
call happened in July there was already
word that Donald Trump had already
started the wheels in motion because
this is the question that Kamala Harris
asked bill Barr
Thank You mr. chairman Attorney General
bar has the president or anyone at the
White House ever asked or suggested that
you open an investigation of anyone I
wouldn't I wouldn't yes or no could you
repeat that question I will repeat it
has the president or anyone at the White
House ever asked or suggested that you
open an investigation of anyone yes or
no please sir
the President or anybody else seems you
would remember something like that and
be able to tell us yeah but I'm trying
to grapple with the word suggest I mean
there have been discussions of matters
out there that they have not asked me to
open a investigation but perhaps they've
suggested I don't know I wouldn't say
suggest hinted I don't know inferred you
don't know okay in other words I I want
to figure out a way of not answering
this question I don't know what the word
ask means what do you mean ask what does
that mean ask did you
father write of bizarre book about sex
slave colonies in space attorney-general
bar did did actually yeah he did give me
that paper
am I asking I don't know I don't know am
I asking am I asking for the paper can
you restate that for me give me the
paper can you restate that for me I
didn't ask I didn't ask
I didn't hear there you go I mean this
is this is uh this is a mess actually
that it was a real mess for that fella
Jaguar this is the type of stuff that I
think like you know Bill Barr could have
some problems here Mike Pompeo could
have some problems here Mick Mulvaney
can have some problems here and the real
question is gonna be not just how the
Democrats handle the hearings and
whatnot but it's also gonna be are they
gonna use inherent contempt whoa whoa
whoa slow down explain it to me like I
just dropped off at Olive Oyl Bo
inherently I was I afraid I believe
that's the one but tell me restate in
your words why this is a problem real
simple inherent contempt is the power of
Congress to levy fines or to arrest and
imprison people who are in contempt of
Congress that is literally the only
thing that is gonna make any difference
with these people without a doubt is so
obvious we're gonna need to see like in
some instances ten fifteen thousand
dollar fines maybe more and they're
gonna have to trust the Donald Trump is
gonna reimburse them that's checks in
the mail because that's don't worry I
know of course you're totally covered
can't do it now because I'm president
but afterwards definitely what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna take that meaning in a
minute write that check right now first
after the meeting that I better write
that check peach peaches devolves into a
whole series delaying reimbursing people
exactly
alright let's just do a little bit more
of this here we have two more clips to
play on this or three and we now know
the Republican talking points they have
accidentally been released and to be
fair been told they've told every would
disregard those Republican talking
points but here they are in action here
is first office Hogan Gidley
he is the one of the spokes people's for
for Donald Trump here is his spin
they're all being sent out to do some
version of these talking points about
the about the the the phone call that
has been the trip you know the supposed
transcript that's been released that
it's probably dubious in and of itself
but certainly damning even in its
current form but here's a Hogan giddily
on Fox News president has admitted to
certain things and events that took
place leading up to that phone call
including the withholding of that four
hundred million dollars in aid to
Ukraine why did the president do that
leading up to this call right well the
president ran on this very issue he won
on this very issue and now he's trying
to implement the issues he ran and won
on they voted for the American people
voted for this listen it was did the
word Ukraine ever leave his mouth during
the campaign particularly in the context
of too much corruption in Ukraine like
the idea that they're selling this to
the American public
this is they've got to come up with a
plan like D I'm just saying it's Biden
that's what they're doing right it's not
Ukraine it's like it's all about I mean
and Biden could not even be running for
president but we'd have to expose this
because it's really bad right we can't
turn the page on this one I can't turn
the page on this one remember how before
I said lock her up I meant I was lock
him up
that's what that was about lock him up
last she felt sufficiently embarrassed
but Joan is fair too cocky too
cocky
alright let's eat and one on they voted
for the American people voted for this
listen every tax dollar that is spent
every dollar the American people send in
to this government the president wants
to make sure that spent properly we
spend hundreds of billions of dollars
across the globe and the president looks
at that all the time what are we getting
back for that we want less foreign
involvement others pay for their own way
should up their up there sherry but
we want more dirt on anybody the
president's gonna run on if we're gonna
spend American taxpayer dollars this is
really tough for them I think I mean
they haven't quite found it yet but
that's that's the first attempt
here's Rudy Giuliani with the other
attempt there's no quid pro quo there's
no quid pro quo all we have is Donald
Trump saying over and over again
Giuliani and borrow will give you a call
about this Biden thing and because that
prosecutor was treated very badly and he
was very fair prosecutor so good luck
with everything your economy is going to
get better and better I predict two very
odd thoughts to combine together if they
are not in some way contingent with each
other presidents they don't talk about
the economy I mean I might be from the
country swamps of Georgia play seriously
I hear is Giuliani making the argument
no quid pro quo a complete live from a
bunch of disorders you had a shadow
agenda regarding Ukraine a completely
nonsense first of all I never knew about
the 250 million military aid this whole
thing began with an allegation that the
president said to the president of the
Ukraine I'm not going to give you a 250
in military aid unless you investigate
Joe Biden when you read the conversation
there's no mention of 250 right there's
no mention of military aid there's no
quid pro quo this is the transcript
quote the president of the Ukraine
the only one who
sniffing in here if anybody was
pressured the only one who could be
pressured is the president of the
Ukraine not Adam shift and Jerry Nadler
so president of the Ukraine says I
wasn't pressured end of case I know ver
mr. maryk I asked you did you read the
transcript let's say it was read to me
it was read to you the whole thing by
Pope so in it there did greg jarrett and
fretted Dershowitz and others are quite
right when they say if the president
hadn't discussed the subjects he
discussed with the president of the
Ukraine he'd be a president like Obama
who closed his eyes to corruption
president itíd states has an obligation
to take care that the laws the United
States have faithfully executed under
article 2 section 3 of the Constitution
something that Democrats don't read
anymore if the president hadn't done
that he's been derelict in his duty now
who else can raise it with the president
of the Ukraine the head of the FBI can't
call the head of the Ukraine and talk
he's not going to talk to when I needed
something done with the Italian
government no investigating the Mafia
Ronald Reagan made the calls to the
president of Italy right not me he's not
gonna listen to us attorney the
president did bring up Joe Biden on the
call maybe he didn't bring it up could
be possible the president you came
Ukraine Russia it's possible but even
the transcript they released does not
have the president Ukraine bringing it
up did he not read the transcript
I hope they sent him out there without
seeing the trail halt by day day by the
way did somebody bring me this thing
because I'm you know I'm on Fox and
Friends but kill me it occasionally
asked a question by accident it would be
dereliction of duty if he didn't bring
up the the potential for corruption that
took place four or five years earlier it
would be a big major missed opportunity
but he's not like that moly he talks
about corruption he takes it serious Oh
through March I should have said that a
look I'm from Alabama
country lawyer how's the country lawyer
that's not derogatory where I come from
I'm from this the the deep country
swamps we don't know you big-city ways
he's caveman lawyer my what do you
prayed what do I do
I was just helping my friend apply it
who you people think doesn't deserve a
lawyer here is the other way I just it's
very loud point the president of Ukraine
is not gonna go out of his way in the
middle of all the stability Aldo I by
the way Donald Trump brought it up he's
lying right a periphery country to take
the Twitter of choristers from exactly
you did sir how dare you sir
and I count us with words like
McGonagall and I brought it up I know
not only did you intimidate me sir and
bully me but I know that Mike Pompeo
will ensure that we in the future don't
get in any way maligned by you thank you
and I also know that Mike Pompeo set up
the meeting through Rudy that's right
you cuz you leaked me the minutes of
this and then asked me to email them
back and ignore them we're not worried
whatsoever about the tanks that are
arrayed on the border of our country
from another major power
all right so therefore I say screw you
yeah exactly
unbelievable but you know what that's
actually the only talking point that I I
guarantee you that is the talking point
we're gonna hear the most yes that the
it is it's a victimless crime it's a
so-called victim says that it didn't
happen I guarantee you that's gonna be
the one they do because they know that's
the one thing that's not going to change
on them that's gonna turn on them it
turns out the transcript Trump brought
up Biden it turns out that in fact the
American public did not vote for Donald
Trump because they were hoping that he
would make sure that there was no
corruption in Ukraine there's gonna be
there's gonna be like I mean it's gonna
be literally how
the white house it was like like oh did
I try to extort him oh wait wait there
goes the president of Ukraine right
there period I do that Solinsky right no
oh I guess so
case closed witch-hunt presidential
harassment how many times do you think
zelinsky's gonna be invited to the White
House and be forced to come over the
next like eight months like every like
every lease was like twice a week he's
in there like oh yeah I know I just
wanted to come this one's actually just
a vacation for me now we were just
talking with by the way is Olinsky
stand-up comedian people should chair is
set funny very funny very funny great
leader great guy great map right here is
can you say that in English Kevin
McCarthy coming out and this is this is
the other thing you will hear but I
don't know how much this is gonna
resonate I mean if the Democrats were
smart at this point it's like they would
be saying even the Republicans want to
see this whistleblower report but
they're not that smart
here's that Kevin McCarthy thank you all
I just listened to the Speaker of the
House speaker Pelosi happens to be the
Speaker of this house but she does not
speak for America when it comes to this
issue
she cannot decide unilaterally what
happens here
they have been investigating this
president before he even got elected
they have voted three times on
impeachment on this floor twice they
voted before one word the Moller report
came back our job here is a serious job
our job is to focus on the American
public our job is to make tomorrow
better than today our job is to
legislate not to continue to investigate
something in the back when you cannot
find any reason to impeach this
president this election is over I
realize 2016 did not turn out the way
Speaker Pelosi wanted it to happen
but she cannot change the laws of this
Congress she cannot unilaterally decide
we're in an impeachment inquiry what she
said today made no difference of what's
been going on it's no different than
what Nadler has been trying to do it's
time to put the public before politics
Thank You Jen look at that clan friendly
fossil in the background I just don't
think that these guys are prepared for
this I don't think so
I mean III just I don't know that I have
ever seen the Republicans so poorly
equipped to deal with this now but
here's the here's the dynamic that's
gonna go down and this is the this is
the new media and political landscape I
think that exists and that is things are
so highly polarized they're speaking to
their people and their people is a
narrow is a narrow set of people and
what they want to do is keep their
people in tact which i think is going to
be the case this may depress some of
their turnout but they don't have the
ability to flip it and that's everything
we've just seen is already the reason
from a political standpoint why you
wanted impeachment because they are not
on the offensive they are not
able to lob any credible counter-attacks
here that could depress turnout going
down the road this is not a situation
where there's corruption everywhere and
this it's just not it's just not gonna
resonate with that said I don't think we
can underestimate the ability of some in
the Democratic Party to fumble the ball
you know I grew up in rural Kentucky
Brooklyn and throughout my whole careers
I fought the bullies I remember one time
the New York PD shot this Haitian guy in
the face and his family was trying to
bully the city out of money and an
apology and I said we'll stand up to
them
that's it I got nothing else that's an
example of a bully I go I said oh he got
raped in the basement of a police
barracks well what we'll do is we'll
release his juvenile record I'll say was
it an angel because that's what we do to
bullies where I grew up
even the luxury in rural canastas by the
way second story true yes Rudy
Giuliani's total a couple of clips from
the campaign trail
one that is I think indicative of what
Bernie Sanders are doing and one that's
indicative of what the Republican Party
is doing and this is pretty stunning
stuff let's play this mark Sanford one
Mark Sanford is ostensibly running for
president in the Republican primary now
the Republican primary is a nearly
non-existent there's like what half a
dozen states at least at this point that
are basically saying we're not having a
primary we're not gonna hold one we're
not gonna have a caucus just not gonna
do it and I would imagine it's gonna be
even more going forward nevertheless
Iowa seems to be proceeding for the
Republicans here is Mark Sanford he's
not lost folks he's not lost he knows
where he is he's not on some type of
walking tour
he is gone into a restaurant sitting
down and this is a part of the ROPS out
the middle I'm with some babe in Florida
so can't the old lady boy can't run
can't run can't run sorry I just uh I
got to go on a hike again but here he is
Mark Sanford and he's sitting down with
some young women in a restaurant in Iowa
and I think we can all when he says to
them it explains to him why them why
he's running I want you to just think
when those words come out of his mouth
what you would anticipate he's going to
be saying to these young people and then
you're going to be wrong
because I think we need to have a
conversation about where we're going in
particular with regard to debt and
deficits that are I mean
disproportionately gonna impact y'all
there you go
mark Sanford there's impeachment
hearings there yeah they're all just
like a you see yeah like what no thanks
that'll really help with my student debt
and deficit oh yeah exactly that was
just what I we were all sitting here
talking about we were all just sitting
here talking about the government's debt
and deficit that just so happened by
those tax cuts that you probably voted
for unbelievable but god bless him god
bless him he has a mission how much do
you think he's getting paid by a third
way to run I probably comes cheap at
this point here I'm 1/2 million just a
hair maybe a couple of tickets just yeah
airplane do I get a jacket yeah okay so
much about the deficit but I saw this
retired news anchor in Charleston so
race over so a children's future is
suspended and just to be clear no
minders on the jet yeah
nope okay alright good now let's do this
I like I mean bill weld at least is
having like his full time yeah I mean I
actually a part of me is a little bit
concerned by this escalation to be
honest but he's doing his real Tom
Clancy baby-boomer moment his race he
said the other day that he thinks that
Trump maybe well he walked again
executed for treason
he walked that but I'm saying that well
I wish he didn't you know if you're
gonna do this go for it Joe enjoy
yourself that that's the way you get
Trump's attention I mean do you have
zero attention baby something you start
running and especially bill weld he
looks like the most quintessential wats
because he is just like yeah I think
that guy ought to be shot in all right
governor maybe we will book you more you
expect some guy to come a little by
Republican Party respected or Institute
so yeah boring what else you got
I think you should be killed that she
leaves office that we like stay tuned
for four hours with Bill bill belts back
in the B Block meanwhile we said at the
beginning of the program that the
Chicago Teachers Union are in the midst
of a vote to potentially authorize a
strike if they receive 50 cent excuse me
75 percent of the vote a walkout could
happen as early as two weeks from now
though more than likely starting in
mid-october you'll recall that I guess
it was about eight years ago now there
was a Chicago Teachers strike which in
many ways became a model for social
justice unionism and was in many ways a
template for a lot of the labor action
that we've seen particularly when past
three or four years here is Bernie
Sanders speaking at the Chicago Teachers
Union rally was this yesterday or today
this yesterday here is
sit down ser you negotiate a good-faith
contract that is just that is fam that
treats the teachers and staff in the
city with the respect and dignity
I mean this is part of and again you
know we're gonna find out and you know
and within a couple of months as to
whether this is a a good strategy for a
presidential campaign and I mean it
certainly would appear to be a good
strategy to build a movement but you
know Illinois is not gonna play a big
role in determining who the Democratic
nominee is but shows up but he shows up
and other candidates would say well my
my time is better spent in New Hampshire
my time is better spent in Iowa my time
is better spent in South Carolina or
some of these other big Tuesday States
California and so I mean it remains to
be seen because I think some of it is
also sincerely I mean it's a strategy
and it's sincerely dispositional like
Cristobal told me when she interviewed
Bernie that they and she interviewed him
in Kentucky because he was there you
know yeah in another note place that he
did shouldn't necessarily be right now
but he wanted to be in solidarity with
the Harlan strikers which is one of the
most inspiring things that's happened
recently as well in terms of strikes and
and he looked at her knee and and she
kind of asked him about Kentucky I don't
remember what prompted it but he kind of
like really probably liked Kentucky's
never gonna vote for a Democrat anyways
I doubt she would phrase it like that
but I you know cuz she
but at regardless he looked at her and
he just he basically was like you know
this is where the action is right I'm
excited to be around this and this is
really the purpose of me becoming
president he's serious about organizer
in chief yeah and so and yeah I don't I
don't perceive it as a you know well I
mean it's a strategy cuz he's running
for president he's doing it while he's
president he gets a lot more attention
so he's he's utilizing this attention
for the benefit of of these unions of
these protests of different movements
around the country and and necks with
great organizers this way and we'll see
maybe it will I mean I have a feeling
that
regardless of what happens in the
context of the of the campaign the
implications of this will resonate right
it's hard to see you know in real time
what that means but down the road come
from an eight five six area code who's
this where you come from
hey Steven calling from South Jersey
how's it going Steven from South
Jersey's going well what's on your mind
hey I wanted to kind of bring something
constructive of sorts to the warran
verse Sanders conversation we've been
having increasingly over the last couple
weeks sure and a full disclosure I am a
Morin supporter but as I see the polls
changing and her surging and some polls
and him surging and other polls and the
two of them starting to close coalesce
around second place position pretty
solidly coupling that with Biden
starting to draw bit by bit leaking oil
as it were as you say once Biden Falls
and I think you will and I think we've
all come to the realization it's going
to take much longer than he had
originally expected well now wait a
second wait a second
I predicted that Biden being third place
by the end of October maybe mid October
I'm still not convinced that won't
happen but go ahead I always do
cautionary note Biden might be resilient
let me say it this way it's not
happening at the rate this quick of a
rate as we may have predicted number one
CEO
although my rope my real question is
once that happens what do you think is
going to be the most constructive way
for the respective Warren and Sanders
camps to build their coalition the scene
is
as soon as that I believe it's going to
be definitely one of them as the nominee
now I'd prefer a warrant full disclosure
again but if there were Sanders I would
support him very enthusiastically yeah
I don't have a sense that it necessarily
is a huge benefit for either one of them
to to drop out in any way that would be
early I mean they I don't I don't buy
into the notion that one of them has to
drop out you know particularly if Biden
is in third place
particularly if Biden's in third place
if Biden you know was to be maintaining
the lead he had you know let's say a
month or two ago then maybe it's a it's
a different situation but as Biden you
know begins to fade I think on some
level the existence of both of them
running protect each other and I'm I'm
more talking about when the actual
nominee is named how are we gonna bridge
the gap between those two camps in a
constructive way all right well I think
I think the the the loser has to commit
to helping the winner I mean I mean I
think you know in that instant you know
I mean I think that's where it's gonna
start I don't think there is I mean look
the gulf between Bernie and Warren in
terms of policy as it gets implemented
is so much smaller than it is between
Warren and Biden let's say or Warren and
Bennett or someone like that I mean I
think that's indisputable did I just I
mean I have a different perspective on
this obviously so I'm
one I just wanted really caution here
there are really big policy differences
and I want to caution people on one hand
because now I see people that are in my
camp over blowing them and you know
making them something they're not which
is also a mistake
we don't Elizabeth Warner's not Hillary
Clinton it's a stupid false argument
however I there are huge differences
between you know all medical debt all
student loan debt all uh you know
single-payer rent control but also I
wanted but would you say that really
spill you agree with though with really
specifically but you said but you're
commenting on my point would you say
that the gulf between Bernie and Warren
and I agree there's a gulf is less than
the gulf between Warren and Biden so no
and because I'm gonna include foreign
policy and foreign policies the issue
out of the gate that they have
indisputable power over this is the
thing that actually frustrates me about
this conversation sometimes there are
these arguments about theories of change
and in some ways they might be
exaggerated in other ways Sanders has a
case that is significantly more
compelling to me and I've talked about
that many times but besides that
regardless we know on day one I think
some of the things that you know Dane
outlined those are good areas where of
course Warren and Sanders are closer
than they are to buy it in on foreign
policy and she just did a CFR
questionnaire kit same policies on
Venezuela she's actually using the
rhetoric of blaming the Iranians for the
deal going through I won't spell it all
the list but actually on the area we're
out of the gate they have the most
discretion in power
Warren is Biden and Clinton and Sanders
is the only one talking about anything
remotely different and that translates
to millions of lives within days so I
fundamentally disagree with that and I
just also want to say it's okay that we
have this argument it's okay we have
this campaign and I'll remind everybody
I mean Warren would be my preferred
second choice but I say this all the
time like my priority number one right
now is Bernie and I'm gonna tell people
if frigging Biden
gabbard or yang is the nominee to vote
against the health Trump in a swing
state so to some extent it's you know it
to me it's just like putting the cart
before the horse if it comes to them
teaming up to take out Biden and some
sort of deal the convention great cool
that is another possibility and I just
pushed back a little bit I don't think
that - and and and Michael I watch your
show all the time I'm in the I'm in the
chat every day just respectfully I don't
think that on foreign policy even though
I'm I myself share a lot of your views
that warns foreign policy is black
luster I don't think that it's it's
perfectly fair to say that she is Biden
I well some other time when we have more
time you're gonna actually have to spell
it out to me because again she's not
Biden in the sense of a of a history
that's bad but her Madeleine Albright's
advising her her policy push Iran
sanctions Israel than Latin America it's
the Democratic consensus and that's
indisputable and she hasn't changed it
at all yes I don't get the sense that we
will have a chance to talk talk about
more because I just bought a couple
meet-and-greet tickets to your show and
showing well there you go that's the
smartest Warren supporter I've ever
talked to the in Philly buddy yeah you
just convinced him he's just changed his
opinion on warrants for him so I
actually think Warren's putting Spore
it's a pretty interesting idea that's
all it looks a little different Michael
why hi Michael I'm bill from the Warren
campus Elizabeth just want to let you
know that we're buying a group sales
ticket to your show and oh that's great
I you know I actually have been thinking
about how but as Wella is really I mean
do we want this country to be like that
as well I just like you know I don't see
why capitalism can't be reformed I'm
very disturbed but when Maduro does
there and I don't understand what
Sanders can't speak more clearly Michael
I got a colleague from an eight one six
area code who's this where you come from
actual patron or is this like playing
for my foreign policy and that's buying
a subscription to TMS come from an eight
one six area code who's this we call s
plants live for eight one six I hope and
I'm calling from Illinois
Colton aya from Illinois what's on your
mind um sorry a little nervous here I'm
huge dance I've listened to you for a
long time
[Music]
just wanted to call about sort of an
unrelated topic citizens united in
corporate personhood yeah so I obviously
agree with you but I agree with you on
like almost everything when I was
reading Adam Winkler's when we the
corporation's
had a bit of a change of heart on this
which he said actually when writing it
yet sort of the same change of heart I'm
the corporate personhood based on mainly
the tunnels but there have been several
important liberal or queen some
expansions of corporate personhood over
time of course is too much money in
politics and the fact that the railroads
and corporations used to 14th amendment
more than you know black people to
explain the writers of Churchill's right
whatever if I just lay out a couple of
examples
yeah please sure one question he points
to the n-double-a-cp
expanding the right of assembly to
corporations and when they were being
basically harassed by the part that's
being impeded and that was an expansion
of the assembly the corporation and the
press at this point to maybe a little
apple I'm sure what's going on with your
phone maybe got it you got to just talk
directly yeah
okay sorry I'll stop it's better I'll
stop pacing yeah in terms of the San
Bernardino shooter when the government
tried to force Apple to write a code to
basically break the password or whatever
and they invoked their first right to
not be compelled to compelled speech you
know as a corporation at that First
Amendment right and isn't that an
important right and aren't there good
reasons to not say blanket corporations
don't have any constitutional rights
well I mean I I'm not convinced that I
couldn't pass a statute that would that
would would achieve those same things
that the court relied on I mean I
imagine on some level there's no doubt
that there's some benefits to the
expansion of of of you know giving
corporations all of those the advantages
that a person has I just think the net
is not as I think the net is negative I
mean that's basically what it comes down
to I mean I think that I could probably
write a statute that law enforcement
could not could not compel a company to
to write something to crack you know
their own product or something in that
instance or that I mean I'm not
convinced that you couldn't find a
different of freedom of association that
was not inherent and them being
corporations I mean I don't know that
case but I mean I understand the
argument there's no doubt that there are
legal principles that can be turned on
their head and made to bring about
results that we like but I think in the
end the First Amendment is ultimately a
way that corporations are attacking the
regulatory state which protects you know
consumers and citizens about
also about you know I mean all sorts of
different potential really environment
you see Haley Sweetland Edwards
we had her on you can go back and listen
to that actually that interview I can't
remember what it was but if you google
Haley Sweetland Edwards on majority
report I think one of the last times we
had Iran was and this may have been four
or five years ago actually about how the
first amendment is being used by
corporations in this way so I mean I I I
understand the argument
I just think the net is probably not
there and that there wouldn't be other
ways to sort of skin that cat as it were
forgive that saying appreciate the call
you did a good job once you stop pacing
around I got time for one or two more
called from a seven six zero area code
who's this where you come from
hey Sam this is a nice in San Diego
ami from San Diego what's on your mind
Amy um well Bob's Burgers and new
seasons coming out soon and I was just
wondering above any update on your end
no no I haven't nope I haven't heard
anything nope nope I've heard nothing
somebody tweeted at the executive
producer where's Hugo in the movie and
he favored in it and I've been hanging
my hat on that and that's basically it
but I haven't heard a thing so feel free
to get on Twitter grass Larry Murphy
harassed Larry Murphy as much as you can
about this he sort of tries to play it
off but he plays characters yeah Teddy
oh okay
for Hitler hair for the Herald voices
yes do they write your info to Bob or do
you come up with those because I think
those are so funny sometimes we do when
Benjamin and I do stuff together
sometimes we roll a bit and it's very
easy for me to
find insults for him just cuz I know no
person and there's a lot of problems
there I appreciate the call alright
thanks man
he's an easy target he's an easy target
all right
final call the day I'm sorry folks
[Music]
calling from a 3:05 area code who's this
where he come from
you are not the final call of the day
sorry
this call is 7 1 3 where you come from
who's this what happened did something
change seven one three seven one three
oh my god I'm sorry everybody
hey 108 100 hi yes find me yeah Michigan
who is it Nicholas from Michigan
Nicholas you're the final color of the
day awesome thank you how big fan Sam
you're amazing you're my favorite
political pundit well thanks I have a
couple things really quick there's a
couple polls that we haven't heard from
John's from San Antonio I don't think
there's a couple polls in Iowa and New
Hampshire that were really pretty bad
for Bernie I thought and I guess I just
wanted to note that and and see if you
if you think that Iowa and New Hampshire
being you know very important and he was
doing very good in polls before if
there's any momentum there I guess I
mean Allenwood momentum more I don't
know he in the past you know I know that
there was a bad Monmouth poll just like
the other day in
New Hampshire yeah but you got a you got
a look you got a look at the trends
right you got a look at the trends I
mean it you wait for another couple
polls right now I think the average is
something like Biden's like at you know
2223 warns it like 20 maybe is the
average and Sanders is somewhere around
19 in Iowa I think you have another I
guess similar dynamic Iowa I feel like
is much harder to sort of like get a
pulse on you know caucuses are very hard
I think to to poll and and who knows I
mean I I I get the more the more sorry
well I just think it's difficult to get
a handle on these things in part because
of the nature of of Sanders you know the
sort of theory of his campaign that he's
going to be bringing out people who
aren't likely to normally vote and I
don't think Biden is certainly not
relying on that and I don't think Warren
is based upon on who are supporting her
so it's it's hard to say
Minoo California seems to be basically a
statistical heat and it feels like
Warren is is gaining some steam and it
very well may be I think a lot of that
is coming at Biden's expense if if you
look at California the trend is going in
the way that I would want it to largely
Biden's sinking Warren and Sanders are
rising and you know so I don't know I
don't know I mean obviously you would
rather Sanders if you were Sanders
supporter like I am you would rather him
you know have doubled the numbers that
he has now and have a 7 8 10 point lead
against Joe Biden and Elizabeth Warren
died there's no doubt about that I don't
I don't want to you know be Pollyannish
about this I just I think it the the
only thing that I would be feel
comfortable saying right now is it's
still a 3-way race
that to the extent that there's any
trends Warren seems to be going up Biden
seems to be going down Bernie seems to
be basically static some place is up
some theis is down and I you know I
don't know that we can tell anything
else really at this point the things for
Bernie that I would really like to see
him do is be a little more specific like
with especially with Medicare for all
about the taxes like that no matter what
they're gonna keep asking him about what
are the tax you're gonna raise the
middle class taxes aren't you and like
if you look at his actual plan his main
thing for how to fund Medicare for all
is a 4% payroll tax right and there's
this website Bernie tax calm or you
could see like you could type in your
numbers and see how about your taxes how
much you're gonna save on medical
healthcare and it's a lot like thousands
of dollars I make under under a hundred
thousand a year you're gonna save I
agree with this can you help insure I
agree with this I think they should get
out there and say you're gonna get taxed
whatever four hundred dollars a year
more and you're gonna save five thousand
dollars a year so you're gonna get like
be Pacific with the number that's what
I'm saying there's got to be a way that
they can camp with with a number like
that and of course they'll take a lot of
grief and this and that but I would be
surprised if you don't see that at the
next debate but we will see appreciate
the call Joran sir with the final caller
of the day folks tomorrow John McGuire
Joseph McGuire will be he's the acting
DNI and he will be in front of the House
Intelligence Committee Michael we'll be
talking about that tomorrow I may hop on
YouTube at one point during the day as
I'm watching it and before before or
after the show and to the extent that I
can and will maybe comment on it because
I will be endeavouring to watch that
in the meantime bye-bye
to get to where I want but I know
somehow I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
no luck
[Music]
