[Music]
here is this is a clip as you know there
were about 680 immigrants who were
rounded up in was it in Mississippi yeah
I think they were mostly in Jackson
Mississippi on Wednesday night the
largest was at a coke agricultural I
think Factory and there is some question
as to whether it was a coincidence that
all these people were rounded up after
there had been numerous complaints to
government agencies about the working
conditions at these places as if there
was a message to be sent you're here so
that we can exploit you and keep you
terrorized in some measure we appreciate
the work you're doing but we're going to
under pay you we're going to sexually
harass you we're gonna harass you on the
job and you're going to take it
otherwise we'll put you in jail and
separate you from your children there is
other footage you can find out there too
of people at these places
call them for their mom let's let's play
this clip this first one is an 11 year
old girl her name is Matt Alania gomez
oh yeah let's just leave it at that I
don't want to give it all the last name
frankly and she was on the channel 12
news and gets the local news and here
she's just I don't know where they found
her probably outside of the ice facility
or maybe outside of the factory blow is
that the Bell
so we've made that to be freed a veil
kreygasm Jannetty bomb is
no he has been exported with nothing bad
just inside the company
just get her dad's out of there That's
not me I'm against yet you just see what
I'm doing I'm crying cuz of my heart
that was Cera's or grinding their wife
in their husbands or now cuz the
immigrants everything for me to live
over here she uses the word immigrants
for ice in this because she's only 11
and the idea that you know I don't know
how many of those six or seven hundred
people had have children or wives or
husbands or sisters or brothers or
parents or whatnot but I mean I don't we
all feel safer now don't we all feel
like we're in a better position and
those jobs now I guess presumably are
gonna open up for Americans or are they
just going to take you know I don't know
maybe they'll they'll now then the next
crew of immigrants that they get in
there will understand that you got to
take the abuse know what's up or you're
gonna be sent back good this is it shows
exactly why the criminalization of
migration is absolutely a capitalist
project and it's absolutely a ruling
class project but
when you have videos out there like this
when you have people scared that their
kids are going to be crying and have
nothing to eat and can't get to school
they're going to be a lot less likely to
try to form unions they're going to be a
lot less likely to stick up for
themselves and that's exactly what the
ruling class wants and if you are
wondering like what kind of punishment
are they going to give to the Koch
organization as far as I know none there
may we may end up seeing some type of
fine there was an interesting piece in
The Times today for nearly two decades
the Trump Organization is relied on a
roving crew of Latin American employees
to build fountains in waterfalls
sidewalks and rock walls at the
company's winery and golf courses from
New York to Florida other employees that
Trump clubs are so impressed by the
laborers who did strenuous work with
heavy stone that they nicknamed them
Louis Pacific Piedras Spanish for the
Flintstones and for years their ranks
have included workers who entered the
United States illegally according to two
former members of the crew another
employee still with the company that
remains to today said that President
Trump doesn't want on documented people
in the country said one worker
Jorge Castro 55 year old immigrant from
Ecuador with legal status who left the
company in April after nine years but
had his properties he still hasn't so I
mean it's just unbelievable and
here's another clip from those same ice
raids this horrible ice raided several
companies across Mississippi this
morning all at once the operation took
nearly 700 people into custody
Wednesday morning raids took place
surprising workers on site but in the
afternoon US attorney Mike Hurst
unveiled the details HSI special agents
executed administrative and criminal
search warrants
resulting in the detention of
approximately 680 illegal aliens one of
the sites was at the pinko Foods in
Canton Tony Frazier says he works there
and saw what happened all of a sudden
they're calm he's handing you a letter
to give to his wife his piece
families are now trying to find their
loved ones like 10 year-old Stephen
Matthias who's searching for his mother
we can try together
so that she doesn't experience she
doesn't want to go back to de life she
was back in her country the acting
director of ice says each case is
handled on an individual basis some of
the parents that were arrested will be
released they'll be placed on an ankle
monitor and be monitored throughout the
pendency of their immigration
proceedings this is an ongoing federal
criminal investigation it's just
unbelievable the where all these people
are paying taxes like it's just like
kind of like this the the just I mean
even from like for one moment step back
from like just let's just put ourselves
in the minds of someone who's just
completely inhumane from even a
practical standpoint like what is the
upside to this these are all all of
these people are paying taxes the taxes
are deducted from their paychecks but I
think it keeps the workers scared and
frightened and afraid to stand up for
themselves I'm talking about the
practicality I understand what the
practicality is to two people who want
to exploit these people but I'm just
saying from your from anyone else for
anyone else no and I think people can
understand that which is why I get
annoyed when people say oh the left
should only focus on mass action
immigrant rights don't affect everyone
they absolutely do and the average
worker understands that they don't want
their fellow worker to be taken away and
locked in a cage right I mean you talk
about social cohesion there's a you know
there's this this guy who saw I don't
know how many dozens of guys folks that
he would work with on the in the factory
you know taking away and watching their
families and watching their kids cry you
did a note to give to kids from a parent
and well in thing the thing about it is
to that I you know this this is like a
spectacle right ice decided to do this
yeah I just decided to do this within a
week of an elimination esteem a sakr of
immigrants right
somebody went to the Walmart and
slaughtered people because they were
furious about the immigrant invasion
that the President and FoxNews keep
talking about right that happened on the
weekend and then nobody dice said well
maybe we should like backburner this one
the opposite they they escalated and you
know that's the thing that's the context
for the like you know Trump calls for
unity versus racism or whatever that
this same week as somebody freelanced a
massacre in support of this of the
anti-immigration messaging the federal
government escalated its own enforcement
actions came in with their own body
armor their own weapons this time at
least what they did is they instead of
just separating the families by killing
them right they just they they put him
in jail you know and the footage of the
crying children there's you know there's
some you know some people have
criticized you should we be like putting
the Canada cameras on these children and
this time of the trouble but it's just
to be it like felt exactly like the
footage of the kids being led out of
Sandy Hook they're like an atrocity had
happened yeah and these children were
suffering because of something terrible
that had just been done and like that
you know that and people I think have
have reacted to it on those terms too
you know and again and also the thing is
right that that we're having this news
cycle about SoulCycle
right we're having this news cycle about
our people being too mean to Trump
supporters this week right like Joaquin
Castro tweeted out the list of El Paso
based or just an attorney base right
because he's yes an attorney who tweeted
out a list of the the people who maxed
out their donations to Trump you know
and then there's like a tantrum about
daxing people for their political
beliefs which you know I mean their
address is warning or included was just
than just their names but like
should be should people be targeted for
their support of Trump and what happened
is we've you know we've fallen into this
this you know one side than the other
news cycle we're now we're gonna have an
argument about whether Trump's opponents
have been too rude and uncivil and
whether it's fair to target people who
support Trump you know in these ways and
are these boycotts impinging on on
people's livelihoods right and
livelihood and and you know ability to
freely participate in the democratic
process and so you know there's I think
tweeting about this earlier today is
there's like two ways you can construe
this week's news cycle you can have this
one right where like from did something
controversial and then did overreaction
was there did they overreact well you
know has the backlash against Trump gone
too far so that's one way you can talk
about what's happened in the past week
the other way you can talk about what
happened in the past week is what we
were saying before which is that there
was a massacre against immigrants and
then there was a heavy federal law
enforcement action designed to put on a
public show of suppressing immigrants
you know and and are you a supporters
raising millions of dollars along the
way supporters raising millions of
dollars for him right that is are you
are we talking here about a sort of
cyclical politics that's being
transacted among the people who are who
are politicians and you know political
donors or are we describing an
escalating politics of xenophobia and
persecution right and like it seems
pretty clear to me which one is is a
more persuasive frame to put around this
week's events right I mean the the
notion of like we can't get we have to
maintain civility and we can't play I
mean look what Castro did is exactly
what the system is designed for right
like my reason why donation you had why
you have an index like this is to say
that like we need to know who is funding
who right and there you know and there's
certainly room to talk about like
overall
given the sort of the way that the
Twitter
amplifies things and calls to action you
know the the fact that something exists
as public information is not a
get-out-of-jail-free card obviously like
you like somebody's number up in the
phone book and it's in the photo of
course you tweet out their phone number
that you looked up in the phone book
like yes that's a different category
thing with public record but max donors
to the President of the United States is
not like a sensitive class of people
like you do you don't get to to be a top
donor to the president and want and
treat that as private behavior that's
public behavior you're publicly and if
you are worried about that type of thing
if people feel that we don't want to get
we don't want our politics to become so
debased where if you give money to a
friend like your Ross and you're you
know you help out a friend who've known
for 40 years or if you just give money
there is a solution to that and the
solution is publicly financed campaigns
if people are afraid of like having to
not have their vote secret and want you
publicly financed campaigns like I mean
there are mechanisms if we really decide
like we you know you shouldn't you
shouldn't be penalized you know for
wanting to do the maximum to have your
preferred candidate win then let's
eliminate actually giving money to that
candidate and then you're not going to
ever be held to count on that I mean
there's in other words there's
mechanisms if we think that's a real
problem
there's mechanisms in which to deal with
that right and then you wouldn't have to
feel bad about the parts of his agenda
that you don't support exactly after
exactly actually it would increase the
value of you criticizing him vocally
because you're not offsetting it with
you know he asks you for money to go I
would except for we're not allowed to
give any money and you know but I'm
still I still I think you're great
here's what I can do please I can praise
the thing we're not complete your tax
cut because I liked it yeah I can
criticize your
because I don't agree with them and and
you know now I have spoken I've put my
voice out into the public - and I'm a
billionaire my voice counts here's a mic
much they'd much rather sit back and let
the white working-class get blamed for
Trump yes call from a 6 1 0 area code
who's this
