[Music]
speaking of Bill Barr let's let's just
go over this because this is Bill Barr
gave a an interview last night with I
don't know who with CBS it's exclusive
they'll probably ding us for this maybe
we can slow it down or some a let's just
do sound on this okay let's start with
Bill Barr this is May first right is
that what you have right there okay this
is May first he's not he's not sending
this to Congress but he's basically
saying this in a press release we
accepted the special counsels legal
framework for purposes of our analysis
and reaching our conclusion about
obstruction let's listen to this clip
here although the Deputy Attorney
General and I disagreed with some of the
special counsels legal theories and felt
that some of the episodes examined did
not amount to obstruction as a matter of
law we did not rely solely on that in
making our decision instead we accepted
the special counsels legal framework for
purposes of our analysis and evaluated
the evidence as presented by the special
counsel in reaching our conclusions okay
here we go
we accepted the special counsels legal
framework for purposes of our analysis
and now as he sits in front of a
fireplace in Alaska I'm not sure why is
up in Alaska god knows what Horry is
doing with Anwar or whatever it is but
here is a bill bar sitting down with CBS
television saying the exact opposite
said that he couldn't exonerate the
president you looked at that evidence
and you did I mean what's the
fundamental difference between your view
and his well I think that he was not
going to engage in the analysis he was
he was not going to make a determination
one way or the other
we analyzed the law and the facts and a
group of us spent a lot of time doing
that and determined that both as a
matter of law many of the instances
would not amount to obstruction as a
matter of law as a matter of law in
others we didn't agree with a legal
analysis a lot of the legal analysis and
the report it did not reflect the use of
the department it was the news of a
particularly or lawyers and so we
applied what we thought was the right
law that yeah so the legal framework ie
what law you're going to apply he's
changing his story a little bit because
Muller has now spoken yep there you go
no bark big liar
