so Stephen in the last segment you were
basically providing us with more or less
inside information a long time of
experience on the up close and and
personal would the would the greed that
the pharmaceutical industry and the
medical device industry exhibits in in
in in marketing products that can harm
people you mentioned there is a vast
deficit of regulation in terms of price
controls relative to the expenditures of
these companies on developing products
and the fact that they get most of their
development from the government via
universities grants that are given to
universities but what I'm curious about
is what is the regulatory scheme that is
set up ostensibly to protect us right I
mean this week we had we had ketamine I
think it is that was that was that was
okayed by the FDA there's some real
controversy around what in fact it is
what what is what is the just give us a
sense of like how rigorous is the
threshold that a drug has to pass to be
proven to be both effective and safe for
people it doesn't appear to be that
clear and in fact one of the biggest
problems is the FDA does is it doesn't
tell you that aspirin is equal or better
than most of the painkillers that you
spend a lot of money on they don't
compare there's not a comparative or
required and our regulatory processes so
that's one of the biggest problems so
you you listen to an answer of a company
saying my drug is the you know the my
aspirins the best stuff on earth and
there's nothing there that really
protects you to really know that you
don't and it just happened when a new
opioid type drug came out just in the
last couple of days it's cool
ketamine ke ta mi na and the American
Journal of Psychiatry just this is an
editorial saying is it simply it's
really a potentially an opioid it could
be a problem so in other words in our
present situation with the addiction to
opioids this may be a major problem drug
and yet it's been approved by the FD by
the FDA it is not in my opinion have
been imprudent
how is that possible I mean I understand
how there could be a an organization
that doesn't seemingly have any vested
interest in keeping something like this
off the market right why would they and
yet they're saying this is extremely
potentially dangerous and yet the fda
approves it so my question to you is how
does that happen
is that is that a design flaw or an
execution flaw on the part of the FDA
and means does that indemnify the
company from any harm that it does in
you know the drug that the the harm make
the drug that the the drug may cause
well the yes in a way it does protect
the company because they're going to say
that the FDA approved the drugs if it
wasn't safe and effective they would
have approved and even though the
reputable Journal comes out the American
Journal of Psychiatry comes out with a
lengthy article is ketamine as a
potential problem and should not have
been approved in my opinion particularly
with the opioid epidemic that we have
going on in the country right now
and it's yet it gets approved and you
gotta wonder why and that the reason why
has to do with the the main problem is
the standards the FDA uses for approval
the going back and forth of people
working for the FDA who go to work for
the companies and leave the FDA and the
you know that they're buddies at
different companies get talked into a
proving these drugs and that the system
is just totally runaway you know it's a
very serious problem
and we need to really get on top of it
yes jurors you're you see juries all
over the United States whether it's a
hip implant where they give a huge
verdict
we had a verdict recently in rispa door
for 70 million dollars on a individual
case and we cut several plaintiffs
verdicts in respond the reason is the
jurors are just looking at that and and
then we're fighting the battle in the
courts we originally were barred from
getting punitive damages in these
risperdal cases on the theory that the
johnson and the company is based in New
Jersey and New Jersey State Legislature
passed the law you can't sue one of
their companies based in New Jersey a
Jersey company for punitive damages so
we had a spent years litigating and we
finally were successful in overruling
that those decisions at least in our
courts here in Pennsylvania on the
grounds we can now get punitive damages
in a risperdal case based on the law of
the state where the person was injured
which is the way Hwy should have been
but that wasn't until some years of
litigation and the litigation the
battles go on overtime in this area the
companies get the best possible students
at the law schools out joining these big
law firms they build for sometimes
you'll see them billing for 800 to a
thousand dollars an hour for the young
lawyers time or the lawyers time and
these battles just go on and on and it's
a very very difficult task
there's limits to that compensation for
these cases all right so let me ask you
this and we just have about two minutes
left here this week the the head of the
FDA Gottlieb left it was somewhat abrupt
leaving it appears anyways
what are the implications of this two
minutes left yeah the implications are
I'd like to know why there's rumors
about abounding about the the new kinds
of cigarettes that are being approved
the vapor of a person where they call
them yes and that the he was trying to
actually he was trying to do the job of
controlling them and the Rue and this is
strictly rumor that the drug industry
was not a happy camper about it and got
him out of there normally they don't
have usually the FDA director protects
the drug industry in the story I heard
as a rumor strictly is that he was
trying to do something about it and the
low and behold he says he left for
family reasons but we need to get to the
bottom of why he left and that's going
to be a congressional investigating
committee let's find out why Gottlieb
resigned yeah certainly abrupt and there
definitely feels like there was a lot of
unfinished business I mean one generally
has a little advance notice if you're
going to leave for your for the sake of
your family in these instances about
that and and of course we've seen this
this is not this would not be a
unprecedented in the context of the
Trump administration we saw people
forced out of the the VA because they
wouldn't go along with a privatization
scheme the idea that there are certain
forces that felt like this chair of the
FDA might start cracking down on stuff
is is not hard to imagine well Stephen
sheller
thank you so much for your insight in
this in this realm because it's lawyers
such as yourself see read through a
bunch of stuff and discovery I know that
is rather disturbing and I think if the
the general public had access to the
stuff it would frankly freak them out so
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it
