[Music]
Bernie Sanders in in Nevada has a town
hall he is called out there is a
perception that continues to linger
amongst Democratic voters that Bernie
Sanders did not exert an effort to get
Hillary Clinton elected in 2016 I want
to see the numbers on that well there's
there's there is you can google it if
you want you standing in front of two
computers I mean we don't for a fact
that okay
Bernie voters turned out for Hillary
more than Hillary voters turned out for
Obama in no way yes well Democratic
voters and but but yes that is true but
that necessarily isn't a function of his
efforts the point is his efforts are
also well documented the guy traveled
around relentlessly
to get Clinton elected there is a
perception though that he did not also
Sanders has within the Democratic
primary according to polls the largest
number of people who would not consider
voting for him it's not that big it's
not that but it is it is that is a
reality here he is addressing that
question in Nevada
Oh posit posit we should say he's asked
the question he's asked is will you
support the Democratic nominee and
somebody in the crowd says where were
you in there you go I mean I'm more
worried about the Democrats not
supporting Bernie I think that what's
that yeah that's true Howard Schultz is
not around the black male worked well
we'll see but yeah and I think you know
frankly during the the 2016 campaign I
was of the mind that the bigger issue
would be would Democrats support Bernie
Sanders not not voters but but I think
more like people more invested in the
debt and the Democratic Party
and I think a lot of that is some of
that is ideological but I think mostly
it's like everybody wants someone from
their team to win you see that all the
time there is a you know we have
tribalism and then we also have you know
sectarianism I think and I want to see
income correlated with never Bernie
voters because I'm gonna guess that
they're wealthier than people who would
vote for him
baby it's possible but all the things
you're saying or we like literally
within your grasp
I think there's there must be data on
this there must be
