oh it's just gonna be Matt well what are
you guys doing here I don't see I feel
here too but I don't know I could get up
just you to do it he needs to learn a
lesson
yeah now he's not supposed to go to the
back no he's not and he deserted he
needs to be punished so let's do this
Wow
so this is uh I am surprised to see you
guys here yeah Chris men will manicure
no I'm Brendan James I came to Jesus in
crisis I get that a lot
people say well and I think you were
looking a little bit like disheveled I
was gonna say I don't know how to go
from here I've already been ambushed in
this interview by being mistaken with
will sorry about that so calm what are
you guys doing here I like I did not I
mean am I am I wrong to to be a little
bit surprised that you're here
no I think that's appropriate we I did
it honestly just because we went to CPAC
earlier this year it was a lot of fun
tit for tat exactly and I thought like
it would make sense to just because like
if I remember correctly this came out of
an explicit desire to create like a
liberal version of CPAC right was that
the idea that wasn't the idea I don't
think so
I I just I remember from those those
days of like the early daily coast where
they were like the the Conservatives
have so many institutions they've got
all these think tanks they've got these
conferences we don't have any of those
we need to get them so I always thought
it was like an answer to CPAC maybe
that's not correct I don't know way oh
sorry I
I didn't even what are you talking into
the mic I am do you think do that again
oh there you go okay hello everyone out
there in radioland okay good I mean it's
I don't know if it comes out of a direct
competition or inspiration from CPAC
itself but I mean it's clearly supposed
to be organizing a book a festival for
an activists we got press credentials
very easily to go to CPAC so I just
thought let's try it there and they got
them very easily so like well let's just
do it did you get see it's even closer
did you
credentials here oh yeah baby now are
you guys like are you doing a show
no now it's honestly for me it's because
I kind of want to write an issue a piece
about the two events and the two
experiences see back at Netroots nation
so that's my agenda CPAC I think didn't
start until 2011 I'm looking at this I
don't think it started tilt what Wow
Matt Chrisman owned a net fact checked
and dabangg kept on back is like a
venerable institution on the right are
we sure we're thinking of the same thing
no matter I'm not trying to gang up on
you but I don't really think it did come
out of like a conference was founded in
75 yeah yeah yeah
it goes back okay I'm taking crazy pills
here big a slit yeah sam cedars
gaslighting people folks that it's not
okay we're making a lot of factual
errors left and right today
so it's Virgil's fault it is it's all
Virgil's fault I got completely thrown
off Virgil was supposed to be here but
apparently he had he had toilet right
now that's not a joke it's not a joke
he's in the bathroom
so alright so so give me a give me a
little taste how long you've been here
you've been here for two days we just
got here yesterday yeah but we didn't
really do anything I want oh yeah yeah
today no no no we're not no we don't do
a lot when we done to these things you
just kind of walk around okay
what's the what's the early verdict I
don't know I mean it is it has a lot of
industry it has very much the same model
as CPAC you've got the copy you've got
the breakout sessions and you've got the
things you've got the big panels you've
got the radio row you've got the swag
area all I could say is that this one is
it's more diverse out honestly obviously
everyone is more casually dressed
everywhere at CPAC is wearing a suit
right and the at least what I seen it
seems more I mean they're human beings
they're not they're not reptiles you
know like they are CPAC I have to say
though that the that the Town Hall area
is much less lit than CPAC was I mean it
sounds like from I wasn't with you at
CPAC but that the CPAC was high octane
oh yeah and that makes sense of course
you know their guys in power they're
very energized by that however one would
then expect the opposition to be as
energized from a different place and I
don't know I wasn't at CPAC but it feels
a little a little thinner and a little
less Ariel yeah it's a little feels a
little more a bunt to be honest I mean
like like not to say that the perp that
the left or whatever center left or
progressive side is is itself moribund
but that this isn't maybe the place
where all that stuff happens anymore I
don't know I mean we're we're we're
mouthing off you a middle that's saying
anyway well I'm mouthing off but I mean
it does feel that way and it's it's
probably a good thing to at least
acknowledge what that it's that it's
that it's more low-key or that there
seems to be well there's different
strains that are that are fresh on the
left right now than there were say back
when this was founded I mean now you
have an actual sense of the beginning of
a working class you know engagement from
certain candidates I mean most of all
Sanders probably in my opinion really
only Sanders in the purest sense that is
probably more of a vehicle for the kinds
of ideas and agendas that people used to
think only could only happen by
organizing things like this you know now
you have a candidacy that is sort of
doing that on its own and it and and a
lot of people here I think are good with
Sanders but I don't know I get the sense
a lot of morale so kind of more
professional middle-class Warren type
people and that's a it's a different
energy it's a different you know section
of the base or whatever and I think that
that that's reflected walking around so
yeah I mean I think
in 2015 actually it was there was a big
movement here to draft warrant yeah
before I think Sanders had gone Dre's
maybe it was even 2014 yeah I know I
remember yeah and the it obviously it
didn't happen I mean I think that's
probably accurate in terms of like you
know there's a lot of people here who
work in institutions and there's a lot
of institutional on the left and I just
saw a I saw Paul today that said the
story I guess it was in maybe it was in
Politico about the morning console poll
showed or maybe wasn't from that but it
showed there there really their
strengths are two different strengths
yeah we were just looking at that yeah
it's like really sorry buddy Virgil you
just show up when you want did you show
up when you I'm happy to cede my seat
now that you're here but you know I
haven't been on the show in awhile and
I'm here he thought I was well that was
a whole thing yeah now it makes sense
it's not them we've mistaken no that's
true no seriously do you want to get in
on this Sam tell I don't know
progressive why don't you sit down start
talking about polling and that's really
more your thing go ahead tell Virgil to
wait for will to be done we were just
talking about the exact poll we were
talking about well right before you went
to the bathroom the one that showed that
Warren and Sanders have different
different slices of the demographic pie
yeah for the primary electric Sanders
better with african-americans
we've rural folk worn better with folks
with graduate degrees it's a different
what are the implications of that
because the the left is split between
two different paces I mean it depends
what you mean by the left because you
know there's a lot of people in the
anti-capitalist side of things who say
you know we need to be going after you
know more blue-collar workers people who
are more distinctly working-class
distinctly doing worse than someone in a
comparable position forty years ago and
that's people who will have lower
educational attainment
they don't more rarely live in urban
areas if they're white obviously
african-americans are a substantial
chunk of that recent immigrants Latinos
and so on and to say we don't want we
should not be going after the PMC's the
the professional managerial class types
who might still be you know under some
sub Marxist analysis you but arguably
still call them working-class but if you
were say a graphic designer who makes
eighty-five thousand dollars a year
you're a single person you don't raise a
family you know your needs are very very
different from someone say who comes
from a cool family in West Virginia
where there's really just isn't that
sort of industry and that those sorts of
opportunities but can you but can you
can you go after one of those groups and
not the other and win I think you go
after I mean if you're talking about
going after I honestly think you only
really have to go after one and that's
the more working-class voters who is
less engaged because they're the ones
who you risk losing during a general not
necessarily to trump but to indifference
and that's the real issue that's what
defeated Hillary it was not people
flipping the trumpet was people just not
bothering and those are the people who
they're least engaged in politics most
likely to sit an election out if they
don't think that there's someone to vote
for whereas these PMC people were
talking about they vote every
I'm they're gonna vote and they're
mostly liberals they're convinced
liberals so even if they don't like
Sanders is a first choice they're gonna
vote for him whereas the people who
might alienate by going with a PMC
strategy might stay home you lose you
lose Pennsylvania you lose Michigan like
you did last time the other argument is
that some of these PMC s that we're
talking about they might have a class
interests that are hostile to that first
group right and so arguably you know it
would become a theoretical impossibility
to create a functional permanent
coalition there maybe right now because
of the exigency of Donald Trump you
could get these two groups to unite but
in terms of actually creating a
governing coalition that's another story
who was it that stayed home though like
relative to let's say the Obama
coalition because my understanding is
that a lot of the the the people that
stayed home were African Americans in in
in maybe a lot of them were also
disenfranchised you know when you're
talking about Wisconsin talking about
Michigan Pennsylvania I imagine it was
more of a cross-section but where did
they
where did they I mean who's and and
Bernie does better with
african-americans then then Warren does
but Biden does better than Bernie right
I mean so is there a is there a sort of
a a set of material of benefits that you
can offer that will motivate people in
that way well but I I want to address
that point that Biden does better than
Bernie with african-american voters
because first of all they have
essentially the same favorability
ratings among african-americans in this
country which is astronomically high I'm
sorry say again
Burnie and Biden have comparable
favorability ratings among
african-american voters which is
extremely high they are the two far and
away the two most popular candidates in
this field among black Democrats so I
don't really but it I don't really think
it's a case that one will do better than
the other what do you think that what
way but they're offering it seems to me
very different very different
prescriptions they are but I mean here's
the real thing everyone talking about
how you know all of these voters are on
some ideological spectrum right and that
you know if Kamala Harris is a cop it's
gonna be deal-breaker and all you know
all this all this little stuff or or
that Warren is taking voters from
Sanders the vast vast majority of the
people who are gonna be voting in these
primaries do not really have coherent
political agendas they have a general
idea what should be done they have
strong views on certain issues you know
pretty clear litmus tests but beyond
that you know for a lot of them you see
you know Joe Biden yeah right he was
Obama's vice presidency so he's a
liberal he's a lefty guy I know Bernie
Sanders he's a liberal you know right
they don't they don't they're not
focused on this this granular
distinction between democratic socialism
and liberalism and things like that yeah
that's my sense - I mean so then the the
question becomes like how much of this
is just you know turn off the sound and
people are you get a notion of who
they're gonna vote I think that
ultimately policies have never decided a
Democratic primary and it's really come
down to - think there's two types of
Democratic nominees you get one is
someone who seems like a president who's
gonna win and there's no particular
affection for this person John Kerry's a
good exact right and the other is
someone who represents I really liked
John Kerry you like him
well you yeah you Sam was the only guy
who was like you know I identity
politics for John I did have lunch with
him my mom won lunch with him with the
JCC auction like 30 years ago and I had
lunch with him good
and the other is someone who doesn't
represent necessarily a platform but
represents a general concept a general a
strong idea or ideological bent and
Obama is a great example of that right
which was just sort of some vague notion
I'm a change agent I've changed this is
the reaction to Bush I'm not Bush it's
we're gonna turn back roll back the
clock on all of the bush and also
represents like a breakthrough you know
like a demographic that has been
unrepresented in presidential to yeah I
mean that was the the sort of subtext of
the word change at that point I was like
we're gonna we're gonna this is a big
change yeah right by virtue of being a
black presidential candidate you know he
himself by his skin color represented
his message
I'm vice versa so matt has this
conversation change your perspective on
what's going on here no I've been
hearing this from all year long now I I
mean I know I have to change your
perspective on the conference I oh I
mean I don't really have one like I said
I've only been here really a day I
haven't really I went I dropped in on
one of the panels for a few minutes I'm
really looking forward to the tomorrow
when they have the the roundtable or
whatever it is the the presidential
candidate show it's kind of interesting
though it seems like a thin herd right
yeah I mean I'm I'm very surprised that
I'm not surprised that you know it's
like Joe Biden didn't come that doesn't
surprise me I'm not I'm not shocked that
Bernie Sanders didn't come but I'm super
surprised that like Cory Booker's not
here right and Kamala Harris who have
been here in Kamala Harris honestly is
the one that baffles me the most because
she's like she's gaining steam she's
becoming people's like people's give her
her second look and it's time for her to
like get some sort of identity outside
of him one a snap moment on Biden in the
debate and coming to a place like this
seems like it would be ideal and so yeah
people that you want to charm right now
yeah have them say oh I'm with you right
or you want people here to be like she's
now my second right exactly at least
beyond someone's like score card yeah if
you have someone who's gonna go back and
it's a well-known local organizer you
know you want them on your side even if
they're not in one of the first four
primaries which I kind of think a lot of
people just aren't really looking
forward to Super Tuesday at this point
but there's no reason come on Irish
should not be doing that yeah it's it's
a little bit surprising in that regard
it's gonna be interesting to see if
we're gonna see the same activism that
we've seen in the years past and this
sim if I could go back one second to a
question you post a Matt if anything
that he's been hearing from our
conversation has changed his mind and I
believe the answer was no on that one I
he's an you know he says he's been
hearing this sort of thing for me for
months i I want to say that I've been
saying a lot of things for months that
are currently being manifested in
reality absolutely true and one was the
emergence of the org gang 100% true well
yeah that was all you and I give you
credit for that the other was and I said
I said it on our show I sent it to you
months I said to you before 2019 began
and I believe and you can you can you
can you can go back to the table on this
I believe I said it on your show - and
that's Joe Biden will not be the nominee
I think it's too early for you to say
that you've been affirmed in that I've
obviously have not been confirmed in
that but the process that I described of
why he won't be the nominee has been
happening and Kamala Harris Hasen died
on the debate that's the exact thing I'm
talking about it is I think you can go
back three months on our show and hear
me say that by end of September
beginning October is third in the polls
and I would only amend that now by
saying I think he's gonna be fourth in
the polls by that these people don't
like Joe Biden people think they know
Joe Biden but they don't know Joe by
they just remember him standing behind
Obama for eight years exactly yeah and I
mean yeah I will I was I will agree that
the the process that he put out of just
as soon as the first real attention gets
paid the numbers just starts going
yeah the trendline that is what people I
mean I that was my original thought to
us yeah it's gonna fade it was I play
the tape back I said it okay
it's just that then he had that huge
lead and of course because you know if
you're on the left you give it towards
panic and horror at all times you just
assume oh it's over you second-guess
yourself and third guess yourself do you
guys have a lot of like instances where
you you think that you said something
and the other guy did or vice-versa
like I mean that happen we have we have
had moments like that but thankfully we
can go to the tape and we can make sure
these guys you know well we're we're
hoping someone else goes ideally and the
thing is our fans are I guess I'd say
focused enough to do that for us yes we
have enough people who are very very
assiduously attend to the program who
can remind us who said what and we don't
have to actually do it well yeah we have
a couple of fans who do that as well yes
keep a very specific record of almost
everything I've ever seen I do want to
put another chip down right now and I
forget if I did say this on our our last
election round up for our show but I'll
say you know I'll iterated on your
program that I will bet on the trifecta
and say that this race will come down to
Bernie Warren and one other candidate
which I believe will be Kamala Harris I
think I think I think it substantially
likely especially after her debate
performance and the thing is I guess my
I kind of agree with that and I see the
contours even shaking shape now I think
the difference and I will stress that I
am trying to be largely agnostic about
all this stuff because one Connecticut a
me again
I lost enough bets that I know that I
cannot see into the hearts of my fellow
citizens nearly well enough to be
confident that man you know I bet I'm
not yeah I'm not a very good gambler I
mean shoes why don't we just you know
hey look I don't really want to bet you
but yeah if you I mean if you want I
mean you're practically taking money out
of my wallet yeah all right keep going
but now
I think that if that does come if that
does come to pass if it's that if that
shapes up to be the race certainly early
by the Super Tuesday then I don't see
Harris losing honestly is the thing
that's the that's where we differ well I
think I mean for whatever Harris's
strengthen says she has many strengths
and then you know under this theory that
this this theory says that the the sort
of establishment forces of the party the
the the anybody but Warren Sanders crew
really anybody but Bernie though right
right right would coalesce around Harris
but I also think that Warren is broadly
acceptable to most of the party and I
kind of think it would more look like
anybody but Sanders will divide between
Harris and Warren in that position I
mean I think Warren is is best position
but you just can't count out Sanders
organizational capacity and write a
national organization Allah that's the
thing I think we have yet to see really
because I would see yeah he didn't have
that last time and I think we won't
really know until we start to get into
the primaries like if that is actually
what we think it might be right and but
will man occur Vergil Texas thank you so
much thank you thanks for coming thanks
for having us so I'm usually the one
thanking yes views there thank you so
much
all right folks
