they're doing two things about what's
going on there are three things that
really strike and speak out for me in
terms of the Pelosi thing is one that
for those of us on the left who want to
see a change in the Speaker of the House
it's important to make sure that we get
something better that sounds a little
bit less sexy and in my mind sort of
basic but there's a lot of people lose
sight of that and I'm not convinced yet
that there is a candidate on the left
who can win remember because the
Republicans vote in this for the Speaker
of the House
it's just ostensible Eve that you need a
certain amount of Democrats to maintain
the majority so Republicans could
theoretically vote for a candidate a
more right-wing Democrat they probably
would vote for a more left-wing I mean
they they would rather Nancy Pelosi
because they've dedicated a significant
amount of resources in time to demonize
her but to the extent that there is a
reason to get rid of Pelosi for me the
biggest reason for me in the past has
been her stated support prior to the
election even for Pago what is Pago Pago
means that anything that the Congress
passes any programs that they vote for
in past must be offset in terms of their
cost pay-as-you-go no deficit spending
this is absurd from a policy perspective
it is absurd from a political
perspective there is no constituency out
there for Pago I was listening or
reading democracy in Chains again the
libertarian Koch brothers are big fans
of Pago and have decades of course
because it constrains spending and so
Republicans get in and this is the game
that's played
let's get in they increase the deficit
then they immediately find after they've
done this they immediately find a more
fiscal responsible profile and that's
the way that they use it you know they
attempt to leverage the cutting of
Social Security and Medicare etc etc so
Pago is a problem and to set that as a
constraint it is almost like a it's a
it's a transcendent policy insofar as it
impacts every other policy and every
other ability to get to push a
progressive agenda there's now a
proposal in a change of the rules to the
house because incoming leadership gets
to change the rules of how the house
operates you could do it every year at
the beginning of the session it is
proposed by Pelosi and Massachusetts
representative Richard Neal it would
quote require a 3/5 supermajority to
raise individual income taxes on the
lowest earning eighty percent of
taxpayers now that sounds all well and
good first blush it's like yeah good cut
the I mean increase the taxes on the top
20% don't raise them on the rest of the
country the only problem with that is as
you start to realize it particularly in
light of Pago in particular you take a
whole host of progressive policies off
the table right now that bottom 80%
incidentally along with the top 20% is
paying essentially the lowest have the
lowest income tax burdens in the history
of the country well maybe not the
history in modern times since mmm at
least let's say 75 years I suspect it's
actually longer than that but let's call
it 75 years
and what it basically does is it says it
takes off the table all of these
progressive initiatives and prevents
Democratic representatives for having to
make a so-called tough vote to raise
taxes on people in the middle class and
theoretically living in poverty it just
puts unnecessary constraints that are
really there just to protect people from
taking votes that are meaningful if the
Democrats want to actually pass a rule
that is helpful in terms of let's say
populist policies then instituted a 3/5
supermajority needed to cut Medicare or
cut Medicaid or cut Social Security and
now this again wouldn't be a problem
if Nancy Pelosi hadn't been so adamant
about Pago if the Democrats came in and
said like we have no problem adding to
the deficit and let's punt this if the
Republicans so concerned about fiscal
responsibility let them raise taxes on
everybody when they eventually take the
house so this is really problematic and
you know this is a fight I don't know
how much people outside of Congress can
really influence but good thing to tweet
at freshmen representatives that you're
aware of this and to to tweet at
representatives don't handcuff
yourselves we are putting you there to
vote on and to pass and obviously
without the Senate none of these things
are going to become law but it's
important that Congress puts their stamp
on it now we want you to pass
progressive legislation and anything
that's going to stand in that
I do not vote for like these new
proposed rules important to have some
awareness of what you know the depth of
these issues the other stuff about that
you hear from the left about Nancy
Pelosi largely I think is just
misinformed I'm in favor of new
leadership in the house but not at the
cost of having someone more conservative
there nevertheless like I say there are
some reasons to find real problem with
what Nancy Pelosi is doing that proposed
law it strikes me is a gift to the right
the best argument for the left agitating
to unseat Nancy Pelosi so that she feels
she has to give stuff to the left rather
than give stuff to the right you need to
balance out the pressure that's coming
from the right
