[Music]
let's let's actually play one more clip
I want to play this Mehdi Hasan with
Eric prints clip you know I've said a
lot we've all said a lot that it's much
more profitable to look at don't get
fixated with Russia don't not
acknowledge you know Russian oligarchs
either obviously people are way too
fixated on Russia don't nationalize it
to Russia yeah don't yeah this is an
oligarch problem this is a corruption
problem this is a global influence
peddling problem and one of the most
disturbing and sick parts of the Trump
relationship is a resurrection of a
bush-era figure Eric Prince this is
somebody you know Jeremy Scahill wrote
Blackwater that's great book horrifying
great book about this global mercenary
firm which should be illegal and their
conduct in Afghanistan and Iraq their
private element of the u.s. Empire and
murder of civilians across the globe and
Eric Prince is connected to Bannen to
trump he's the brother of Betsy DeVos
that horrorshow in charge of our
education department and in charge of 10
yachts and right exactly
and for some reason he agreed to sit
down with Mehdi his son Mehdi Hasan is a
very good interviewer and whether he
just is I'll plug it again you gotta
listen to interview he just did with
Cornel West Cornel West is absolutely I
don't think I've ever said it this
unequivocally before Cornel West is
absolutely the best public intellectual
in America III period i no one is in
that realm so please listen interview
here's Mehdi his son grilling the
absolute opposite of moral of Cornel
West just the complete moral dregs of
civilization Erick prints on whether or
not he lied in congressional testimony
about a trump tower meeting in 2016 I
certainly disclosed any any meetings at
the very very new I don't in the
congressional testimony you gave to the
house we went through it you didn't
anything about August 2016 meeting in
Trump Tower they specifically asked you
what context do you ever knew didn't
answer that I don't believe I was asked
that question you were asked whether any
communica formal communications or
contact with the campaign you said apart
from writing papers putting up yard
signs no that's what you said the
transcript of the conversation here sure
I mean I might have been I think I was
at Trump headquarters or the campaign
headquarters probably August 3rd 2016
usable and Israeli dude a back channel
to the Emiratis and the Saudis Don jr.
Lee Miller were there to talk about Iran
policy heard sorry mister by Iran policy
no I think that something important to
disclose to house antennas committee
while you're under oath he did you
didn't we just went through the
testimony there's no mention of the
Trump Tower meeting August 2016 why not
I don't know if they got the transcript
wrong they got the transcript on so we
good I don't know I remembered I
remember certainly just do because we
know that Robert mullah he hasn't been
able to establish collusion yet but he
has got a lot of guys for lying to the
authorities and not telling the whole
truth is that a problem now even if you
accidentally didn't tell them that could
come back and haunt you I fully
cooperated I haven't heard anybody I
haven't heard from anybody in more than
nine months
pray to God I'm not I am so it's funny
because sometimes I I have desires that
certain things happen to certain people
that I will not say publicly on air but
in general I am NOT I'm really not a
punitive guy but I'm very much like a
removed from society because of danger
they pose me be and if ever there was a
person that needed to just be I mean I'm
taken off of the playing field because
of just the fundamentally dangerous and
unacceptable world they play from here
to the Emirates Def Ganis then to Iraq
to new business in China it would be
Eric Prince and if we don't get this
global system under control if we don't
come to a new way of doing things he is
a prototype of the future yeah there's
something very chilling about a guy
would just say yeah the transcripts
probably wrong that's like--that's I can
fake news to an entirely novel in
another level it's like truth is just a
function of you
or alliances basically 100 power
Brooklyn Bart
