this story I I've been following with
some interest for a couple years you
know one of the things that the Obama
administration and the name of the
official in the Education Department
slips my mind and I think he's now on
the Federal Trade Commission he one of
the things that the Obama administration
did that I thought was was an
unmitigated success and good thing was
their crackdown on for-profit
universities very recently in fact I
think we talked about this last week
there was a holding in the DC Circuit
Court that the Education Department
could not reverse the the the payments
that were owed students who have been
ripped off by for-profit universities
here's the scam with the for-profit
colleges a huge percentage now look
they're not all horrific personally I
think none of them should exist at the
very least the question is should they
be eligible for federal funds in terms
of loans and what the Obama
administration did was basically start
to actually scrutinize the accrediting
firms of these colleges so these
colleges would get accredited by
accrediting outfits and that would mean
that they were eligible to get student
loans and what they do it's sort of like
the radio business and the radio
business the key was always holding
people over that first break at 15
minutes that's all that anybody cared
about you just gotta hold people over
that break over the quarter hour and
that's how you get your ratings at these
for-profit universities when it comes to
loans anyways they get their second
they're always looking for this the next
installment of the loan because the loan
gets dished out per semester
and they want to hold the students over
to the next semester and many of these
students tend to be people who did not
have the opportunity to go to college
when they were younger they've entered
the workforce they want to they are
looking specifically less so for you
know sort of broaden their liberal arts
understanding let's say but want to
enhance their careers so there would be
a very simple metric in to measure the
success of these schools that is what is
the rate what is the rate of return on
this investment you borrow 30,000
$40,000 $50,000 to go to this for profit
University how much money are you making
more than you would on the trajectory
you were making three years out two
years out five years out this is a
fairly easy metric but it's very hard to
find that metric at these schools oddly
enough and so the Obama administration
begun to crack down on him in fact two
major universities if I remember
correctly we had to go down ITT and I
can't remember the name of the the
second one but it was it was a very
large enterprise and so these for-profit
universities which are big business big
business publicly owned businesses in
fact in many instances you can buy stock
you can buy their stocks their stocks
started to decline because there was
more and more scrutiny and the vast
amount eighty ninety percent of their
revenue comes from the US government in
the form of these loans so here's an
interesting thing I have been able to
find one that that that takes us to the
present day but this this one captures
the first four months following the
election starting in November of 16 you
can see the day of the election that's
where the the stocks are basically and
if you had gone a month or two earlier
if we could have found that you would
have seen a a slow decline actually it
you've gone 16 months earlier you would
have seen a slow decline and then look
at that they jump within literally a
week of the election the stocks jump by
10 percent they go from 0 to 15 now 15
percent before November 68 before
December 1st of that of 2016 and and
then they continue to skyrocket some go
you know by February they're up 25 30 40
percent almost in their value and if you
look at the the SP 500 it's about 10
percent you know by that time so like
three times and and and I think these
stocks have continued to skyrocket why
is that well because Betsy DeVos was the
is the Secretary of Education and these
universities knew that essentially the
cops had been told no longer scrutinized
you don't have to worry about this in
fact the Trump administration now plans
to release a draft of proposals to
further deregulate higher education on
Monday that would be I think it was as a
was that yesterday um I don't know if
they've released them yet it's gonna
make it very easy for non-accredited
unvetted institutional providers to
access federal student aid money it's
going to allow these entities to to
further outsource the things like you
know quasi Berlitz outfits to provide
education for its students it's also
going to get rid of the prohibition on
outsourcing more than 50% of their
programs to non accredited providers so
you basically create a very small
University that can meet accrediting
standards but then 70 percent of your
revenue comes from people at non
accredited institutions it also a limit
things like credit hour definition it
would let colleges and accreditors
decide on how to evaluate a student's
progress right they can inflate credit
hours they can charge students
significantly more money and look a lot
of the people who sign up for these
colleges they are not terribly savvy
they know that they're looking around in
the job force and they're seeing people
who have college degrees do better than
they're doing and they want to help
themselves and their family and they
don't have the time to go to a you know
a typical college and so you know that's
the situation you have you basically
desperation is great it's basically
great marketing you have the Education
Department basically just just uh
enabling con artists here's another one
little disappointed you think that Trump
would have cracked down on them just out
of pure spite because his was sued out
of existence in 2010 he can appreciate
it he can appreciate it appreciate a
good clarity here you can see the prison
stocks also followed a similar
trajectory where Trump's win helped the
prison stock skyrocket so yeah well
private prisons of course so that's
always fun
that's another added bonus we're gonna
see thousands of people get saddled with
student debt that in no way is going to
help them neither as a citizen or as a
in terms of return on investment so
alright meanwhile let's do you remember
how at the end of Trump you farted a
call to violence correctly you get to
meet him was one of the things that
could have promised and you would get a
photo next to a cardboard cutout right
Donald Trump it's like you could just
pay an appearance fee but you also have
to go through like months of schooling
before you actually could but then you
don't know but you didn't meet him it
was literally a cardboard David Cay
Johnston no no there was a guy who
worked for Trump University oh yeah a
fire I don't know like it's some
vacation show it was sort of tacked it
onto something yeah it wasn't my
favorite interview but I was curious to
see and I thought maybe people would
find it somewhat worthwhile but this guy
earnestly thought like I was in there to
do good yeah and then he ended up
teaching one of like there didn't he
know more about real estate than like
the teachers is some weird
