we're talking about the incredible
stories that have come out about and
images two of these concentration camps
I mean I don't know what else to call
them really where you have people who
are basically rounded up and you know
kept you know in these basically jails
mass jails where you have children you
know we have malnourishment where you
have like you mentioned that I think the
the New York Times piece where the
people who work there the the stench in
these facilities is so bad that they can
smell it on their clothes when they
leave the facility I mean it's it's it's
horrific horrific conditions that we are
people keeping children and and other
folks in as a way of scaring them back
into the places where they are terrified
to live and this week or I should say
last week there was a bill that the
Democrats were pushing that involved
funding humanitarian funding to provide
better facilities down there but it also
involved oversight some measure of
transparency so that you don't have to
have Congress people smuggling out
videos of what's going on in there and
the the the it seemed like Nancy Pelosi
was pushing and was going to push
through this bill that it involved a
certain amount of oversight she did went
to the Senate Mitch McConnell brought up
one that didn't involve any of that
oversight and you had the vast majority
of Democrats in the Senate vote for it
and then Nancy Pelosi caved now I think
there's some other bigger problems we're
going to be talking to Jeff Hauser about
what the Democrats are not doing for
some unknown reason but this is
legislation this is supposedly where
they're gonna make their mark and part
of it it seems to me is Nancy Pelosi
is a little bit tone-deaf as to what's
going on in her part
and the other part of it could very well
be I spoke to Alex Breen about this on
my on the majority report last week that
Chuck Schumer is so inept that Nancy
Pelosi knows that she can't get enough
votes in the house because she can't
trust Chuck Schumer and the Democrats in
the Senate not to sell them under you
know throw them under the bus I mean
when the vast majority of Democrats in
the Senate vote for this Republican bill
how do you not lose people in your
caucus in in the house I mean this is
this is a real problem well I think
that's exactly what happened don't you I
mean this will and it wouldn't have cost
that I mean setting aside all the other
things about Pelosi which we can talk we
can talk about but in this particular
case I think that that she was you know
it illustrates one of the dynamics
that's going on in the Congress which is
again that that it's it's Chuck Schumer
who is absolutely refusing to keep you
know you have if he had kept the
Democrats all the way in line they could
have gone to those wobbly members of the
House and said hey look you know you
yeah some of these guys you know we only
lost Manchin right you know I mean
that's the only one so everybody else is
on board with this this is a party thing
you've got to stick with us you know and
she could have maybe you know pushed it
at least to the next level and tried to
get another round out of it right and
and you know they were under the gun
because you know it what there was a
case to be made that that you know that
there's not been enough money not that
Trump couldn't have found the money he
can always find it for the things he
wants but nonetheless the case we made
it we've got to get some money into this
because these people look at what's
happening at the border we've got to put
some money down there and so you know
there was there were a lot of cross
currents on that particular thing but
you know again why why it would have
cost Schumer and his people nothing to
have at you know held out and not voted
you know and voted against that bill the
bill would have passed anyway they could
have just said you know we're doing it
on principle blah blah blah
nobody it would have hurt nobody to do
that but for some reason and
ineptitudes is what it is or maybe it's
just you know they were anxious to get
out of town I don't know what it was but
it really did mess that whole thing up
and and look there is a serious problem
with oversight of this in Titan of the
entire Department of Homeland Security
I'm now convinced I was a little bit
leery about the abolish ice thing you
know just because it was so extreme well
I'm sorry it is clear we're really no
Facebook posts finding out that they're
pulling some Abu Ghraib type stuff in
these camps where they're making guys
run around with with signs that say you
know I like men and subjecting them to
humiliation not that that should be a
humiliation but you know what I mean I
mean it's sort of forcing somebody to
you know subject themselves to the jeers
and whatever of their peers and playing
with them you know this humiliation game
that we saw in Abu Ghraib and apparently
it's happening in these camps to perhaps
not to the same you know total extreme
that it was at Abu Ghraib but hey how do
we know because you know that everything
is is kept under lock and key it's all
sealed up it's very difficult to get
information out of there that of course
the the you know the people who were
detained in there the prisoners they're
reluctant to say anything because
they're totally at the mercy of the
government these guards and everybody
else or they're going to get deported I
mean it's very difficult to sort out
what's really going on this whole system
which you know people need to remember
the Department of Homeland Security
didn't exist until after 9/11 it was
created out of whole cloth to bring all
these groups under one under one roof
and what it's done is kind of create
this sense of war time you know war
footing in it this big huge domestic law
enforcement agency we've got that has
got to change and I really think that
that they have there has to be a
wholesale reform of the entire system
that has to do with with you know
domestic terrorism fighting terrorism
the border all of it because it's rift
is completely insane it's gone
completely out of control which by the
way some of us who were observing it at
the time said guys not a good idea
Department of Homeland Security is just
that is a bad idea do not put everything
under this
Rufe because it's going to go out of
control and it has yeah III agree with
you totally I mean the the this is it's
almost definitional right like
institutional rot when you see this fate
it is a it is an organization that you
simply gone awry it needs to be it needs
to be torn down reconstructed in a far
less militaristic way well I mean
without a doubt we can have borders but
we don't need to have them fortified as
if winter is coming these things do not
represent that type of threat we had
perfectly good success with releasing
some of these immigrants who are
awaiting trial and with some type of
like 80 to 90 percent rate of return I
mean we've done this in the past we can
do it better and it is really a national
shame we've got to take a quick break
dick me if you'll join me for the third
hour
I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire radio
