so Matt when we broke we were we were
making the point about this story by
Jane Mayer in The New Yorker about Fox
News in just a and the reporting you
know largely about Fox News there was a
you know there was a a piece of
reporting this week by Gabriel Sherman
saying that Rupert Murdoch had asked
Donald Trump to get the u.s. spy
apparatus to basically spy on or assess
whether Rupert Murdoch's ex-wife is a
Chinese spy it's a bizarre request
Rupert Murdoch is not in the business of
making requests for things he doesn't
think he's gonna get in this instance
but but there's no reporting to the
effect that this actually went through
but I want to talk about why despite the
fact that Fox News has always been
somewhat unhinged has always been
carrying water in many respects for the
Republican Party why it is different now
like there is a structural difference
here and despite the the exit of both
the company and the planet of Roger
Ailes this relationship with Trump and
Fox News seems even like more I want to
say stronger but it's almost like it's
it's intertwined it's almost like
they're fused in many respects yeah I
think one way to look at it is that
Donald Trump has basically replaced
Roger Ailes in this structure the
division at Fox News going back to the
very beginning was between Ailes and
Murdoch Ailes is the the Politico
someone who came up through you know
working for Richard Nixon worked working
for Reagan and Bush and is a deeply
committed Republican political type
Rupert Murdoch is a conservative in some
ways but he's also mainly a businessman
he's in this for the money he sees where
this market place is and ways in which
he can take advantage of it and he
enjoys garnering power through his media
outlets
using them to get politicians to take
positions that end up benefiting him
down the line with ales gum the
political side of this arrangement
really moved almost entirely towards
krump himself
that's because Trump is probably more
obsessed with fox news than anyone else
I can think of he has been watching the
channel hours a day for years and years
he got his political rise by going on
Fox and Friends one morning a week for
several years and just taking their
questions about whatever the
conservative movement was interested in
and learning about what that was and how
he could manipulate it when he started
running for president he was appearing
on Fox basically constantly calling in
appearing on air what have you really
became president he basically merged his
operation with Fox's and so you have a
bunch of former Fox people in cabinet
roles in White House roles throughout
his administration think about a dozen
of them now you have former Crump
employees going over to Fox itself and
you have the whole operation being moved
to buttress his message basically top to
bottom night in and night out and so you
know you have the situation where he is
watching this programming on a constant
basis they're giving him ideas he's
tweeting out what he sees giving
interviews to the network is that both
give him a basically free rein to talk
about whatever he wants because they
don't really bother to challenge him and
simultaneously increase the power of the
network because no one else can get as
much time with him as Fox can you know
it's a really insidious arrangement and
basically a total merger between the
White House and this conservative
propaganda outlet and in it really I
think is has created a
what I think is a fairly new dynamic in
American politics and that being the
idea that you know it used to be Fox was
dangerous because it would it would
essentially launder stuff from the fever
swamps and it would end up on you know
it would go from you know Drudge to Fox
to ABC News and now it's as if the game
is not to to infect the narrative within
the mainstream media it is as if to
create a secondary sort of parallel
narrative to to the the narrative that
is you know I don't want to say
conventional wisdom because I think it's
a little bit of a loaded term but the
the narrative that most people subscribe
to there's this counter narrative that
can sustain itself and it seems at least
to some extent sustained Donald Trump
and a key facet of this I think is that
traditionally as you say Fox would pull
these stories from the fever swamp and
push them out try to get them into the
mainstream media what happens now is
that whole system is short-circuited
because what will happen instead is Fox
will do the reports and then Trump will
start tweeting about them and all of a
sudden by virtue of the facts that the
president's words are treated as
intrinsically newsworthy you have the
rest of the media jumping on his tweets
and trying to figure out what he's
talking about or when he was talking
about to be some sort of conspiracy
theory from Fox News that's how you end
up with you know in the weeks leading up
to the midterm elections number one
story being covered by virtually every
news outlet being a caravan of migrants
a thousand miles away from the US border
that happened because Fox News was
reporting on it constantly Fox News
started telling Donald Trump that he
should use the caravan as a campaign
issue and then he started doing it he
started talking about it on Twitter he
started talking about it you know with
impress availabilities and before you
knew it
was what everyone was covering because
it was what the president was talking
about all right so we have about two
minutes left here I want to turn our
attention to the what I found
fascinating about a Trump using the
government apparatus to essentially
benefit Fox News and that is like a like
a two-step or three-step process one is
sign off on the fox's sale of their
assets to Disney which was certainly you
could make an antitrust argument about
but then simultaneously keeping Sinclar
media from buying a Tribune which I
happened to agree with I thought that
was a there was a big waiver there but
they certainly looked like they were
trying to do that and the the the AT&T
Time Warner merger which I am also
against but I don't think that Donald
Trump and I share the same reasoning
behind this it was really more of a
function of what was going to benefit
Fox I mean whoa what what what can you
say about that well this is the tricky
tricky thing about all of these merger
stories right because on some level we
might think that the results are good
that they are reasonable things to have
happen but the reason that the president
is pursuing them isn't because he has
some sort of real sense of American
antitrust law or a desire to move the
country in a particular direction on
that it's because he really hates
particular Atlas and really likes other
particular outlets and that seems to be
what's focusing his attention I mean he
cares about the AT&T merger because it
involves CNN which he hates and calls
Fox News fake news on a more or less
constant basis he's much more upbeat
with the merger that helps the merger
the Murdoch family he is against the
merger that would have given more power
to a potential Fox rival and so that
that's really the problem here that at
the end of the day you know the
president's reasons
for doing the things that he's doing are
naked ly corrupt right
we are corrupting the the system in
which these things are adjudicated and
the the point of antitrust is certainly
not to give the chief executive monopoly
power based upon what helps his one
particular friend
mcgirt's thanks for your time today
folks should definitely check out this
jane mayer article it is long but it is
well worth the read thanks again
