[Music]
President Trump announced via tweet some
type of statement I guess that as a way
of deflecting attention from the
impeachment talk and as a way of dealing
with the crisis at the border as he
calls it what he's going to do is and I
believe what is illegally legally impose
a five percent tariff on Mexico are
goods coming in from Mexico starting I
think in ten days June tenth and then
increasing it by five percent every
month unless Mexico does something to
stop migrants from entering into its
country right they're not illegal
immigrants in Mexico they're people who
are allowed to travel through here is
Lou Dobbs so confused as to the news
that he has to give to people on Fox
Business fourteen I think it's 14% I
think our second or I think the second
biggest a country we import from I think
is Mexico maybe the third 14% somebody
can check on that but I think it's about
fourteen or fifteen percent if you enjoy
avocados or any type of fruit or
vegetables avocado toast is in trouble
yes now the Millennials will vote in
droves exactly there's gonna be it's
gonna be things are gonna get a little
hairy and I imagine people in on the
business channel are just like we what
here is Lou Dobbs trying to either
either having a stroke or trying to wrap
his head around this policy from the
border and the White House President
Trump tonight tweeting
On June 10th the United States will
impose a five percent tariff on all
goods entering are coming from rather
company into our country from trying to
edit the president how foolish from
Mexico until such time as illegal
migrants come through Mexico and into
our country stop the tariff will
gradually increase until the illegal
immigration problem is remedied at which
time the tariffs will be removed details
from the white house to follow let's
let's read that again I think I owe the
president a better read than that if we
could begin again on June 10th the
United States will impose a will excuse
me five percent tariff on all goods
coming into our country from Mexico
until such time as illegal immigrants
coming through Mexico and into our
country stop and there it is the tariff
will gradually increase the president
says or beast be stopped when the
illegal immigration stops okay so
there's here's the thing there's no
illegal immigration like in this
calculus there's no illegal immigration
they're not illegal we can't decide
who's illegally in Mexico we can't
decide that and to the extent that
there's a crisis it's because there's
all these people who are coming for
asylum part of that is a function of how
horrific things are in their countries
part of it is frankly my understanding
is that people are afraid that he's
gonna shut the border and they're not
gonna have the opportunity to get in
there so there's like everybody's you
know rushing to come up there I thought
it was because of Mexico's imperialist
foreign policy thereby making it
Mexico's Falls the fascinating thing is
it's not many Mexicans that Mexican
immigration is net is is is below is a
net negative at this point
there's more Mexicans leaving the
country this country in going to Mexico
than coming in so we're basically
threatening Mexico to attack the
citizens essentially of other countries
that they let into their country I just
don't know that this is gonna work folks
I am a little bit skeptical in dubious
and I'm curious as to the legality I
haven't heard much about that well it
will work to make basic goods more
expensive for Americans it will
certainly do that it will certainly have
I think a not terribly good impact on
our economy I imagine it might hurt
Mexico's economy trade with Mexico
apparently is 15 percent of our total
trade third and imports behind China and
Canada so we shall see we shall see and
we shall see you know for a guy who
wants to get impeached Donald Trump
seems to be changing the subject a
little bit weird
