getting back to what we're already
seeing in terms of 20/20 and in terms of
the Democratic Congress where you have
people who are trying to shape you know
what is what is possible at this point
and I just don't think that this is
going to I don't think it's gonna work
this time
I mean I think one of the things about
social media is that there is just a lot
more accountability and it's much harder
to maintain a narrative in the that
bubble and you know one of the things I
think we're gonna be talking I don't
know when it's gonna happen to greg
sargent who wrote this book that has a
great quote or a great narrative from
ben whittler about the the asymmetry in
terms of what democrats listen to in
terms of media versus republicans but
that's why when you see a guy like Terry
McAuliffe going on a CNN to make an
argument about about what positions you
know candidates should be taking going
forward you should pay attention because
Terry McAuliffe isn't dictating it but
somebody's sending him out there to do
this they freelance too but they
freelance because they think there's
somebody who wants them to say this so
it's both a it's a it's a it's an
audition for a job but it's also a you
know they put this out there I remember
at one point Mark Greene had approached
me about writing some op-ed for Hillary
or something I think back in like 2008
wrong answer lock and yeah and I was
like wrong message wrong messenger for
the wrong purpose but almost everything
else was right and and I was like oh
absolutely not know don't know why you
would have thought I would have ever
done that
and then I saw like four days later
lanny davis was super insulting right in
the same pool well no it's late Davis is
in every pool he's just at the bottom so
here's the point
the you should watch this stuff because
guys like McAuliffe they are there for a
reason and here's Dana Bash asking
McAuliffe about which one should we
start oh yeah here it is okay about free
college it's not where this is number
five we can't be making promises that
are not realistic listen I like the idea
of free college but there was no way the
Democratic Party should support paying
for children of wealthy parents to go to
school I can afford to send my children
to school the federal government
shouldn't be paying for my kids but
there are things we need to do access to
credentialing and apprenticeships to
match the skills with the what about
Medicare for all we all support Medicare
for all the system as it exists part
Medicare for all yeah but we've got to
figure out how we or it's unrealistic in
its terms of how we pay for it today but
do we want everybody covered under
health care of course we do but this is
specifically you know what we're talking
about this is an original Bernie Sanders
idea that a lot of potential 2020
competitors have signed onto or you're
saying you're for that I'm saying I
support that everybody in this country
gets access to quality affordable health
care whatever you may want to call it
because the system today and I was a big
supporter of the ACA but we do need to
tweak it to take it to the next level we
got to fix it mi for health care for all
individuals affordable quality care you
bet I am
the key is and this is why I say
governors are very important because
when we make promises we have to deliver
we have to all right I don't need to
hear the pablum we've already heard the
jokes doesn't yes I think he does not
support Medicare for all well let's just
do this exercise Jamie asked me if I am
four for four
or for right-wing podcasts Sam are you
for right-wing podcast yes of course I
am I'm for podcast I think everybody
who's on the left should have a podcast
absolutely definitely so yes when you
ask me if I'm for right-wing podcast I
say absolutely anybody who's on the left
you have access to a bug yeah should
have a podcast that's that's basically
alright well first off there's two
things one is he's using the same line
that Hillary Clinton did I mean this is
this they are this is basically trying
to say we either are trying to stop a
Bernie Sanders campaign or we want to
discourage it we want to get the
narrative out there this is a picture of
Hillary Clinton saying the same thing
about Donald Trump's kids shouldn't get
a free ride to college
first off let's just be very clear about
this you don't hear that same argument
about Social Security which is a
universal program you don't hear that
same argument about Medicare which is
also a universal program for everybody
over the age of 65 you don't hear it
about so you know that they believe in
universality and you know they
understand that you don't need to means
test Social Security you don't need to
means test Medicare the way that you
means test that is you tax wealthy
people more period end of story you do
the same thing the best thing that could
happen to this country would be that
Donald Trump's kids go to a free college
provided by in every state that there is
a free option the best thing will happen
is they they go to the the CUNY college
that is free so they can actually be
around other people real social benefits
yes world war two of people coming from
different you know the studies on inner
means I don't think that's going to
happen I think Donald Trump's kids and
grandkids and wealthy kids are still
gonna go to private colleges they're not
gonna take that public college option
but it would be great if they did and
the cost of the taxpayer would be
minuscule it
not it would we're talking maybe a penny
of taxes annually to support the number
of wealthy people who would take
advantage of this but that would be
great
that would be great if we had
billionaire kids millionaire kids going
to school with someone whose parents you
know are are making $40,000 a year that
would be the best thing for this country
that we could imagine when it comes to
college so this but this argument that
we don't want rich kid it's just absurd
it's absurd and if Terry McAuliffe is
for a medicare-for-all then he should
sign on to a proposal I'm sure we can
get a letter for him to sign on but he's
not so you got to just be careful about
what they're saying he's saying he is
okay he wants universal health care
health insurance and that just means
taking the ACA and making it slightly
more affordable in his mind and that's
about it and that's just simply not
enough people are sick of it people are
really sick and as you always say as
soon as you stick in that dishonest word
access then we already do of universal
health care right everybody has access
nobody's blocked from walking into right
they just live access to BMW right it's
the sort of fundamentally dishonest I
don't know why you're stopping there you
got access to where those sweet Tesla's
whoa because we don't do Elon Musk
shutouts on the show matter of you sorry
I'm just trying to be at but I just saw
one of those that the at the car wash
he's doing a lot of work there
I literally every time we do an Elon
segment you guys so unfair
