[Music]
meanwhile the big story John Bolten gone
by here is Fox and Friends try to work
this out so this is number two actually
kill Meads the outnumbered one okay this
is outnumbered okay so what happens is
why am i outnumbered I'm there's a lot
of other white people here oh oh I got
confused sorry there this morning it's
announced that John Bolton has been
fired right did he tweet it out did
Trump who did enough that's sweet okay
so Trump tweets it out first
John bolt though clearly not Trump not
well yes somebody with somebody who can
put together a sentence tweeted it out
and in his name and then moments later
Bolton apparently a little bit upset a
little bit upset said that he offered to
resign last night and President Trump
said let's talk about it tomorrow and
apparently after I fired you was the
part that he left out of that sentence
gotcha
but here is it was just like what a
Barossa yeah I don't like to hear that
let's take on this tomorrow let's talk
about it tomorrow I mean look this is
what you do because you don't want it
you want to make sure that they don't
steal any pencils so that's the way that
you do that that's the way the axe
dropping sharpies that is disgusting
mustard you know we don't want we don't
want anybody walking away with the
microphone so it's like oh you're not
fired
we'll talk about it tomorrow and then
all the locks are changed I didn't know
what to do
I just didn't want him to take home his
mustache grooming kit everybody to keep
that here but here is a Brian killed me
trying to explain this to everyone on
outnumbered Joe just texted me
oh just now he's watching yeah he said
let's be clear I resigned and I said do
you mind if I say that while you were
talking and he wrote yes so John
Boehner's just told me texted me to said
I resigned okay well wait a second so
let me just be clear what happened so
Bolton says tweets out in response to
Trump saying this like
I said last night a resigned that he
told me you talk about it tomorrow
and then probably somebody got to Bolton
and said like dude you got to take that
back and so he texts kilmeade and says
okay now you can say that I I resigned I
totally resign I do like the comedic
potential though that Brendan pointed to
though of like I mean of course Bolton
said yes go ahead say it but it is funny
of like do you mind yes well that's the
weird part
I do mind seriously I do mind I resigned
okay so he answered yes go ahead
bones just answer the president's tweet
by saying why are we doing this like why
are we see I know why we're doing it
it's a talk show why are they doing it
what why are we seeing this play one
against the other almost in terms of you
know what the narrative is is it
important or is it just that the
president has moved on and he's going to
hire a new national security well yeah
I'll tell you why we do this because
they're completely incompetent I mean
that it's very simple this is the 80th
time this has happened well you know
somewhere around like the tenth or
fifteenth time it became pretty obvious
is great why aren't you doing with
Shearer and comma just don't understand
this doing it over Twitter thing it's
very odd let's well it was just a new
face is so strange Brian why are they
doing this Brian you're an idiot you
know the capacity to pretend that
there's nothing has happened right we're
- it's like you look at your kids
homework it's like three times seven
equals 28 and you're like what does this
mean why are we doing this all right
let's go to the phones
can we just say though I mean very
positive news from the perspective of
war mongering with Iran and maybe even
regime change in Venezuela and just to
underscore two things this all amounts
like Donald Trump has put the whole
globe into a tailspin for something that
amounts right the globe that amounts to
absolutely nothing for the past couple
of years and then that he's still better
than your average Republican who
she wants war with Iran sometimes
incompetence if used properly
I mean seriously yes if this was Rubio
or Jeb Bush yeah to a certain extent
like God to a certain extent it reminds
me of the time at Air America when we
were in bankruptcy and we had no
executives like literally it just ran on
inertia and the absence of people
screwing things up was one of the more
successful quarters that we had had
let's go to the phones you're calling
