let's go to the big story over the
weekend of course was Ralph Northam and
I am really well I'll give my opinion on
the on the substance of the story I also
think it's sort of interesting that this
did not come out until he had these what
were considered controversial statements
about abortion in Virginia now it's
weird to me that this stuff hadn't come
out when he ran he obviously it's weird
to me that you have a yearbook for
medical school where you take pictures
like I mean I get it why people do this
in high school
have a good summer and who's got time
for this in college and and I feel well
this is not comical school dude okay
yeah I mean including oryx listen I went
to a small school in college and I'm
pretty sure we had a yearbook and I
remember thinking at the time this is
corny but you know it's your college
years but in medical school gets pretty
corny and of course it turns out that in
Ralph's Northam yearbook in Eastern
Virginia Medical School and my
understanding is that that's the old
school Virginia the that area there is a
picture on his yearbook page of him
sitting by a Camaro or some type of like
cruising car and then of course he's got
the Liggett or II hat and outfit and
then of course there's also the
obligatory picture of a man in blackface
and a man in a full-on KKK outfit
presumably going to a party of some sort
I don't know some have to get up now
Northam has let's come out and his
defense was that that's not me but that
picture somehow
I ended on my yearbook page and it was
somebody else and he and he determined
this he first came out and said it was
him then he said he called around to two
friends to see if it was him and people
had different stories but none of them
said it was him did he keep a calendar
but uh he doesn't have a calendar he
does like beer storage shaggy defense
but here he is here is his this is the
okay he said I know that was not me in
the blackface because I did put on
blackface one time to do a an impression
of Michael Jackson doing a moonwalk and
here's a guy who well you really get the
sense that he's a little bit lost in all
this look at this clip yes that's right
[Music]
my wife says in appropriate
circumstances okay so he looks around to
see if there's room for him to do the
moonwalk anything life just has to go
like hey dude are you some type of
effing idiot well now there's an even
bigger problem with Ralph Northam he's a
 yeah I mean that is totally
Donnie's pretty
this guy's completely like he doesn't
quite get it now Billie Jean is here's
here here is a another question they
asked him turns out that his nickname at
least as written in the yearbook was
 man this was written in the
yearbook something like Jesus Christ
yesterday evening was the first time I
saw this photo it was shocking and it
was horrific
[Music]
my main nickname in high school and in
college was goose because when my voice
was changing I would change an octave
there were two individuals as best I can
relax at VMI they were a year ahead of
me
they called me kun man I don't know
their motives or intent I know who they
are but that was the extent of that and
it ended up in the yearbook and I regret
that yeah I bet you do now here's the
thing I don't understand like is this
the first time he's seen is a yearbook
he should have he should have gone on
offense he should have got like one time
I saw a guy I mean I think like this is
the thing that I understand about this
and and I think this is this is you know
important because I'm on the right right
there's a whole mechanism for this that
is I you know I have since come I found
Jesus and forgive me and this fits in
into a whole different thing but on the
left and you know obviously I don't
think Ralph Northam is you know he's not
a member of DSA but on the left and in
terms of Democrats there is no there is
no mechanism for this there is no like
I'm sorry or this and that and I think
the problem here I don't think the
problem is that he he wore that stuff 25
years ago because I don't think he has a
history since then of anything that
would in any way implicate those
feelings it's quite possible to me that
25 years ago in Virginia there was no
sensitivity to dressing up that way
right like you know one guys got on it
so no sense to the parts of Virginia
well that's probably true too but even
but I'm saying amongst people who would
now have more sensitivity to it okay and
so and item line is is you got to come
out and look at this stuff and if you're
gonna be a pub
figure you've got to own up to it and
apologize for it or at the very least
you know explain it
contextualize it before it becomes an
issue and then when you come out and
deny it because you're it is then it
becomes a question of just sort of
leadership and if you want to be a
governor of the state then you're also
saying I want to be a leader and if you
want to be and this is the case I think
too with like I want to be a famous blah
blah you know the fact of the matter is
is that one of the things that come with
fame is that people are gonna scrutinize
your life and your life decisions and
that's the way it is in this day and age
just be lucky that you're not you know
14 year old where every single thing you
do is documented in a digital fashion
and is going to be there forever
and you you're gonna have not even
anything that isn't going to be
something that you're gonna have to own
up I have a question idealistic question
do you think if he was running for
governor and cuz I was thinking about
this like what cuz I you know I think
like yeah I think he doesn't have a
record of these things I don't think
that every single you know mistake or
controversy should ruin somebody's
career but it occurred to me like he I
don't know I guess what I'm saying is I
don't know if this would have sunk it
before he began but if he came out when
he was running for governor yeah it was
like look
of course you by the way as a heads up I
did this stupid disgusting racist
embarrassing thing in college and as
part of my transparency with you to
because I want to lead all of 100
percent
he showed that was yeah this right here
and this during his reign
are you done at any point and said look
either either apropos of what ed Henry's
doing you know we run ignite ed Henry Ed
Rollins me is running apropos of these
ads I want to say something I don't
think that you can that that just
because you had racist police in one
time or you're you were acculturated in
in one way growing up in one fashion
that you can't go beyond that here's an
example I dressed up in blackface or I
took a picture with somebody who was
dressed up in blackface and it's on my
page in the thing and you know in in and
I took that picture and at that time I
thought I'm just you know it's goof
maybe it was a function of not you know
taking black people you know seriously
as other individuals as humans and and I
regret that now and if he had said that
um but he's but he's not only Z off the
hook in my mind he's better for it right
be fair he first ran for office in 2007
so that was a totally different time
what do you mean like you know just
blackface wasn't the same kind of
liability that it is now well I'm saying
if he had run for during his governor
race that was my I think yet if he had
come out and said well look I mean 2007
when was it when Ted Danson wore black
face to a roast for his girlfriend
Whoopi Goldberg it's a joke but a lot of
these things have changed a lot in the
last I mean sure we knew blackface was
not okay in 2007 I don't know when that
happened with Ted Danson and Billy
Crystal did a think for New Orleans
Katrina relief where he just did like a
black eye accent for like 30 minutes is
really weird I mean the you know the the
sensitivity to this stuff and the
awareness of it I think is is is a lot
more recent than you would expect and I
should have done it I should have coming
out and this should be a model frankly
and cuz now to me it's like I think he
definitely needs to resign because of
just how it's underlined a certain sense
of disconnect and disrespect which sort
of I think inhibits his ability to
govern because of how he's responded to
it even just the thing we played it's
hilarious but like I don't know should I
moonwalk no you shouldn't you should not
moonwalk during this press conference
well no
yes that's just that's just like that's
not racist that's just going them but
that's kind of what I'm saying I'm not
just implicating the racism here I'm
implicating the lack total awareness
situation right yes that's what I'm
saying I mean I will say this in 2000 I
did a movie which in which one of the
characters I had put in blackface and it
was there was a thematic reason to do it
at the time that I don't know that it
worked
it was ostensibly to to mock the concept
of it and it didn't work it's not a
choice I would make today for something
like that and the movie had other
problems as well and that's why I never
officially released it in the context of
people who know my work broadly speaking
I feel like they can interpret it but if
I was to put it out there publicly I
would be I would be more concerned if
that's the first thing that someone saw
of my work there would be too much
opportunity I think of people
misinterpreting it so I wouldn't I
wouldn't publish it in that manner and I
think that Northam could have said like
look this is not something I was trying
to present to the world or to the extent
that I was to present to the community
people knew me and a context like
whatever if he had offered some
explanation of it or had said I feel bad
about it I apologize I didn't know what
I know knew then I think he wouldn't be
in this type of mass and I mean and if
it wasn't like I find it hard to believe
he hadn't looked at his yearbook it's
also an issue for the people who were
supposed to be feting him when he first
got into politics right yeah and his
opponents like clearly Gillespie's like
like he's gonna go up five
like my basic this comes at yeah if
anything they were afraid of losing
supporters to him for that
meanwhile tell you what a shrew like a
nickname so part of the calculation I
think and and in terms of like calling
for his in calling for his resigning I
mean to the extent that I would call for
his resignation it would be a function
of just like he's not handling it well
that's what I'm saying that's what I'm
saying it's about not him I don't think
that you necessarily need to resign no
because there was a picture of you in
blackface 25 years ago I just think that
he hasn't come out and dealt with it in
a way that gives me any confidence one
way or another about that he's either
learned something from it or that I just
don't believe in it that's it
right now you also put this in context
with the Klan robe right because it's
one thing to have like a culturally
insensitive Halloween costume were you
like you're trying to dress up like your
favorite celebrity and y'all realize
you're on blackface the Klan robe makes
it pretty hard to misinterpret there I I
agree and I think he needs to explain
all of that and and hasn't sufficiently
one of the things I think that has made
it easier and in this may sound a little
cynical but I think it's the case I
think was the case with with Franken to
to in a similar circumstance that has
made it easier for Democrats to come out
and say resign immediately because also
the other there's another factor here
right and that is party politics one
factor is social justice and we're
trying to change the culture and that
means that there's necessarily going to
be people who pay maybe a
disproportionate price then you know we
might want in a perfect world that's
going to happen with stuff in the me
two thing and stuff like this and there
are gonna be individuals who end up
paying a certain percentage more than
they probably should I don't know how
you quantify that you know but that is
nothing compared to the price that has
been paid by those people who have been
oppressed by these things and that's the
way it works with society that's just
the way it works and it sucks that we
don't have a magic wand and say we're
gonna reverse the mistakes of history
and no one's gonna pay a price
now I'm gonna convince the price being
paid that much but maybe it's slightly
disproportionate but the thing that made
it easier and then for the question
that's a social justice question right
then there is a party politics question
does it behoove the Democratic Party to
have a governor who has not been able to
Abele deal with this scandal okay
putting aside what the scandal is he has
not been able to deal with this if this
is no big deal he certainly hasn't been
able to deal with it in a proper way he
could have been off on the Appalachian
zhh with his uh you know with his uh his
amore you know and and that would have
been a different scandal but this is the
scandal he's in he's not handling well
so the calculation is isn't worth it
trying to defend this guy or do we
jettison him I think a lot of people
learned a lot of lessons after Bill
Clinton frankly I think there's still
some of that but people have been
anticipating that the lieutenant
government governor in Virginia guy
named Fairfield there Fairfax I should
say just in Fairfax and there was one
question about Northam he did not
include Justin Fairfax on his campaign
material and that was a little bit
controversial because Fairfax is black
guy and there was some controversy about
that now that's all I can I can tell you
I don't know enough of the details
understand you know to put that in any
other context however last night Justin
Fairfax put out a statement like at 3:00
in the morning I saw this building a
late night on Twitter that in responding
to a publication by but big league
politics it's a right-wing website first
posted the photo of North America school
yearbook page that he was charged with
or accused of having assaulted a woman
at the 2004 DNC and he wrote now she
seems she's a professor I think she was
at the DNC so I think she was at the
time anyways a Democrat in this
statement released early Monday morning
Fairfax office said the Washington Post
had already investigated the allegation
chose not to publish a story due to
significant red flags and
inconsistencies Fairfax has an
outstanding and well-earned reputation
for treating people with dignity respect
read the statement he has never
assaulted anyone ever in any shape or
form he called the the publication false
and up stanch eiated
against the lieutenant governor the post
carefully investigated claim for several
months after being presented with the
facts consistent with the governor's
denial lieutenant governor the
allegation the absence of any evidence
of corroborating the allegation and
significant red flags and
inconsistencies within the allegation
the post made the considered decision
not to publish the story so what we need
now I think from the Washington Post is
a report on that assessment because now
that they've been implicated in this
story this is going to be the the this
is going to be the next big question
because Fairfax could not only assume
the Virginia governor's office but he
would not be time that would count
towards his term limit so he could run
for re-election and essentially serve
almost two full terms so this is a big
deal to keep your eyes on that
