obviously last hour we dedicated to
impeachment we're gonna dedicate much of
this hour to impeachment as well we'll
have other stories we'll be talking
about but this is pretty big stuff any
first off just like you know broadly
speaking it was it was the right thing
to do because you cannot allow this
flagrant of law breaking to take place
by the president the United States and
not hold him to account you just simply
cannot do it there is a reason why
impeachment exists if impeachment was
not a necessary tool to use and call
upon it sometimes it wouldn't be in the
Constitution and to ignore it basically
and you know I think I made this case we
talked about this for the past couple of
weeks the the founders contemplated at
Donald Trump right they contemplated a
guy who would use his office to enrich
himself in one way or another they did
not contemplate up until this week a
Nancy Pelosi figure who would refuse to
impeach and to say well the American
public will have a chance to to on elect
him or I guess to throw them out of the
office now
the situation has changed there's some
talk this past week of just focusing on
Ukraine and this phone call which I
think would be a huge mistake not the
least of which because lets you know
transition from what needs to happen in
terms of protecting our democracy to the
politics of this people elected
Democrats to hold Donald Trump to
account for his actions and the fact of
the matter is is that this also gives
the Democrats and ability to nationalize
this race I think you mentioned this in
the last hour but in every single race
across the country House race Senate
race the Democrat can turn to their
Republican opponent and say I voted to
impeach Donald Trump what did you do or
what would you do
and that is a bad situation for the
Republicans right because we know how
many people support Donald Trump we know
how many people don't support Donald
Trump and this the numbers are on the
side of normal Americans who don't like
Donald Trump well exactly I mean this I
mean I don't
yeah when you've got a president who has
never risen above 45 percent approval
rating and is hovering around 40 most of
the time you're not dealing with someone
people love to compare you know him this
situation to Bill Clinton when Bill
Clinton was impeached in 1998 he was
already as a 66 approval rating job
approval rating people you know he has a
tremendous amount of support so when hit
when yes his his approval rating went up
after they impeached him but that's
because they were impeaching somebody
who was popular over an incredibly
stupid you know and ridiculous matter
that had no business being part of even
the national conversation so even this
is a completely different situation the
evidence against Trump is overwhelming
they are you know they have a special
councils report that is devastating in
terms of the the obstruction of justice
that exists there I mean this is all it
is a completely different situation
they're fighting the last war on this
and I do blame Pelosi and some of her
her lieutenants on this because they
were around then you know I don't know I
guess they think it's everything's the
same but it really isn't and I don't
think I think anyone who wants to run on
I have integrity I care about the
Constitution I care about this country
the norms the laws I am standing up for
the rule of law in an in a in a time
when everyone on both sides of the aisle
Republican and Democrats say that
everyone's lost faith faith in the
government everyone's lost faith that
there's any honesty they're all a bunch
of corrupt you know to jerk that is not
a bad thing to run on it really is not
it is not a bad thing to say I
I had the integrity and by the way if
you're in one of those swing districts
you can even go to the people and say
you know people told me I was taking a
risk when I did this people said that
this was a very very you know a risky
thing for me to do and I did it anyway
because it was the right thing to do now
maybe there are no people in the country
who care about that but you know if they
aren't then we've got bigger problems
because you know that should be a
message that a lot of people here and go
you know yeah I mean that that was a
risk they did it and and they deserve to
be reelected because they're honest and
have integrity and you know it's better
than running on the well I did really
didn't know and Donald Trump did he
really do anything I mean that's that
kind of machinist makes Democrats lose
over and over and over again so you know
I don't think I don't think it's a big
risk was it was a Bill Clinton that that
had better to be strong and wrong than
then right and weak or whatever it is
and I think you know going all-in on
this I think is I think you're right
about it and I think it also you know it
eats up a lot of oxygen from the ability
of Trump to get out there and I mean cuz
look this election which I think it's
you know it's becoming clear and
certainly I think the last election was
like this but I think and I think we're
in for this for a lot more I think like
the the the conventional wisdom is
slowly beginning to sort of realize that
our elections are driven at this point
because of the polarization in this
country by negative partisanship and the
dynamic that took place with with
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump was
basically a race to see who could become
more unpopular quicker and as things
went on and and unfortunately Clinton
just edged him out in a couple of states
in a couple of bat you know states that
were not they were unfortunate to do so
and this had to do with a lot of
obviously there's you know I don't want
to relitigate this and there's a there's
a dozen reasons why Hillary Clinton lost
but one
them surely was that the voting was not
just suppressed in these areas it was
but also depressed in in areas
particularly when it came to the
presidential line and part of that was
because of Donald Trump is very good at
slinging mud and it doesn't matter how
dirty he is at one point you know that's
like the Republican Party like he said
he could shoot somebody on Fifth Avenue
those supporters are never gonna leave
him but frankly most Democratic
politicians most politicians more
broadly don't have people supporters who
would allow them to shoot somebody on
Fifth Avenue at one point they have a
line and the more you dirty up your
candidate if you're Donald Trump to your
opponent the better you're gonna do just
because you're gonna depress some of
their voters and they're not gonna come
out and vote and by doing something like
impeachment it does two things it seems
to me one it keeps the Republicans on
the defensive right it keeps Donald
Trump on the defensive it keeps each
House member each Senate senator on the
defensive they cannot sling mud they
cannot claim you know I guess they could
go out there and try and claim like
there's no legislation being passed but
there has been a legislation for ages
they couldn't pass they couldn't they
couldn't even repeal Obamacare and but
it keeps them from from slinging mud and
it also discredits them I mean the fact
of the matter is you're under intense
investigation right now and why should
we believe anything you say so I think
this is a wise move when it comes to the
the presidential campaign and speaking
of which let's take a break when we come
back we'll talk about that and later in
the program of course we're gonna be
talking about what's happening with
climate change report out from the UN
and of course a lot of protests around
the UN speaking of protests a UAW strike
all this and more Sam cedar ring of fire
radio we'll be right back we
their pardon
