[Music]
now where do right-wingers get this type
of of mentality I will say this good for
her for actually you know coming back in
and looking at the video and looking at
the context and appreciating the
clarification because there are some
right-wing leaders who will never ever
learn let us go to Nashville Tennessee
where Steve do she has put on the
world's most obnoxious sport coat to go
along with Kid Rock's outfit now I don't
know why the two of them are in
Nashville maybe Kid Rock is getting I
put in drunk
yeah drunk knows but he's on Fox and
Friends because of all the kid rock fans
who tuned in to that to that show and
here's what Kid Rock has a simple plea
for all of us to just get a little more
civil you know the division in the
country right now that it's so hard for
people just to get past that we can
disagree and still be cordial with one
another you know and just talk about
things without going for each other's
throats and protests and everything and
god forbid you say something a little
bit wrong your racist homophobic
Islamophobic this that and the other
people need to calm down get a little
less politically correct and I would say
you know you know love everybody except
I'd say screw that Joy Behar
everybody listen she's just got a
different point of view than you're
doing exactly know hey maybe we'll go on
and I'll hash it out with her we'll talk
about it but anything exactly aside she
talking I was it's just go out you
know hash it out with people and happier
and have your thoughts and ideas but be
able to still go have a beer with
somebody and just let's have different
ideas but
try to move the day we're all Americans
never joint they are Jewish you know
what dulce means and dodge now Joy Behar
turns out is Italian so yeah he said
he's not there's nothing there's nothing
loaded about his car look let me say
this and obviously it can't be a racist
because I'm saying it but one word more
that's the only thing that the crowd
erupts in applauding we gotta be
friendly with people we got to be you
know take him out and this and that and
of course she's a
well it's a hundred percent more honest
than when they usually say that stuff
we've long we should all have beers we
should all talk to each other it's my
thought to see you we this is them just
continue yeah let's let's just hear them
can you see me into aqua in Flemish
[Music]
it's a party of seven thirty six in the
morning their local dump I get those two
one Fox nation every day we did we do
need to apologize we don't we don't feel
that way about Joy Behar so that's and
we don't condone that language yeah yeah
I'm gonna voice bomb that segment yes I
like how they apologize it's like we had
no idea Kid Rock was such a classy act
we had no idea we would say something
like that and we don't kill music I want
to yeah I want to go there yeah
guys so cool we can I go to national
next interrupt you see wimp
alright folks we're gonna take quick
