[Music]
of the anti-immigrant policies of this
white house I mean that seems to be the
one thing well there are two things to
be fair that Donald Trump has remained
steadfast and consistent about
throughout his administration it is the
only two things that they've been able
to achieve one is massive tax cuts many
of which actually just benefits
specifically Donald Trump but also
largely corporations the second thing is
to make it us policy stated policy to
intimidate to harass to marginalize to
deport to criminalize immigrants
refugees people who are here because of
civil wars people who because who are
here because of violence because of
natural disasters people who are here
simply because they want to make better
lives for themselves and their children
I've got a story in the from the New
York Times of of children who have
diseases who are being kicked out of the
country
they've been here on deferred action
because of illness Jonathan Sanchez
looking to be deported to Honduras if he
is he will die rights Jorge Ramos in the
New York Times opinion 16 year old
suffers from cystic fibrosis the same
illness that killed his older sister
though the government official who sent
Jonathan's parents a letter telling that
they should leave the United States
within a month didn't seem to care what
will happen if your setback to Honduras
I asked him during an interview well
basically I will die told me he was
talking from near Boston Children's
Hospital where he receives a treatment
that
him deal with a lethal cough among other
things cystic fibrosis causes a buildup
of mucus in the lungs that cannot be
removed if I miss treatment for one day
I start coughing a lot I get tired I
find it hard to breathe I have stomach
aches and I can't digest food this is
going on around the country and not only
with people who are here the 16 year old
apparently does not have a documents
does not have citizenship here there's
about a thousand people in this country
who benefit from life-saving program
this year which is that deferred to for
two enforcement because of of illness
they're all gonna get booted meanwhile
yesterday we reported on what was
happening coming from a ship from the
Bahamas a an investigative reporter from
from Florida was on that boat and do we
have the footage what's the name of the
report Ryan Anthony Brian Anton and he
had footage that we played for you
yesterday where he interviewed a couple
of people who were getting kicked off
this boat the last minute they're on the
boat they're being told that all of a
sudden for the first time ever they need
a visa to go to the United States that
the normal documentation wasn't gonna
work here's dad with his daughter being
thrown off the boat these are people who
have nowhere obviously where to go
they're evacuating the bomb
yeah so you have to take your baby off
yes okay and so that was one of 119
people who were had to leave the boat I
want you to take a look at the folks
that are coming off a lot of them
holding kids a lot of them are kids
walking off men women just people who
are escaping because of the the massive
destruction that took place in the
Bahamas supposedly the CPB
officials claimed that when they were
interviewed in Florida that oh no no
this was a function of the the cruise
line of the boat operators they they
just didn't want to do what they needed
to do or whatever it was however here is
Donald Trump explaining no we had to
kick all those children and parents and
people off that boat to save America so
we're talking to a lot of different
people on that you know we're recovering
from the hurricane also Florida did get
hit not as hard as we anticipated and
you look at Georgia you look at South
Carolina North Carolina I'm going to
North Carolina right now North Carolina
to have a rally for Dan bishop but
before I go to the rally we're going to
be stopping at one of the sites that got
hit very hard by the hurricane
so we're also recovering from Hurricane
but we have to be very careful everybody
needs totally proper documentation
because the look the Bahamas had some
tremendous problems with people going to
the Bahamas that weren't supposed to be
there I don't want to allow people that
weren't supposed to be in the Bahamas to
come in to the United States including
some very bad people and some very bad
gang members and some very very bad drug
dealers so we are going to be very very
strong in that let me let me just
explain posit well I mean let me explain
something to all these people had
passports all these people had passports
and had been certified by
the police that is what is typically
needed to get into the United States so
he's lying he's lying about that large
sections Believe It or Not of the
Bahamas were not hit and what we're
doing is bringing the people to those
sections of the Bahamas that have not
been hit we've done a lot of the USA aid
we've done a lot of work with our Coast
Guard with our FEMA people who have been
phenomenal so in other words we can't
let these people in because they're
criminals but actually what we're really
doing is just taking them to other
places in the Bahamas which is okay now
clearly I am sure there are other places
in the Bahamas that weren't hit nearly
as much maybe maybe more or less you
know nothing more than a tropical storm
but the people are on this boat
obviously are coming because they have
family in the United States and we just
have an administration that hates
immigrants particularly when they are
not of the same complexion as Don Trump
I mean it's just it's irrefutable and
the idea that in this type of like it's
just amazing to me there isn't more
outcry about this it's disgusting
it really is disgusting yeah there were
about 300 people there at the last close
the camp's action that I went to in New
York and there should be thousands of
people at this point in time at this
point in the in the journey shall we say
I think people have just become I don't
know exhausted or I have no idea what it
is but it's you know in part frankly in
part this I think largely this is a
function of the demobilization that
Nancy Pelosi Chuck Schumer have overseen
by tamping down the investigations and
just the assault on the the Trump
administration I mean look
here's the bottom line about this about
impeachment this is sort of a side note
the founders of this country the people
who wrote the Constitution they
contemplated Donald Trump not him
exactly but they contemplated a person
like Donald Trump being president that
there could be someone of this ilk who
is problematic who is enriching
themselves who is flaunting the
Constitution and different statutory
requirements etc etc what they did not
contemplate was Nancy Pelosi was an
opposition party that just says no
biggie people have the chance to vote
them out we don't need to do anything
because people will vote him out they
did not contemplate that they gave the
apparatus for an opposition party or
theoretically I guess the same party to
deal with a Donald Trump they did not
anticipate that they would not use it
and so when we think about what has gone
wrong in the United States just in this
very and limited we were talking about a
very limited issue said here because
obviously a lot of other problems that
Donald Trump is symptomatic of but when
we talk about why Donald Trump is in
office with no threat and I know they're
doing stuff now the Judiciary Committee
but but but Nancy Pelosi successful you
know mission accomplished but that just
purposely denying refugees from a
natural disaster the ability to come to
this country 125 people that should be
like the latest thing that is added into
the inquiry an inquiry that should have
been already on in operation for six
months and
when we look back on this era when
historians look back and say what went
wrong in terms of the way that the
country could deal with Donald Trump
it's gonna be Nancy Pelosi that is the
that is the apparition here it's gonna
be Nancy Pelosi was the sort of flaw in
the system that was not contemplated
that you would have an opposition party
that would just say he'll impeach
himself I mean it's ridiculous yeah I'm
mad about it
