[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday January 15 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
hearings on would be AG William Barr
start I have already started they're
actually ongoing amid his promise to
allow the Muller investigation to
proceed but is that enough meanwhile
Republicans shocked to discover Steve
King is a racist and they are mad very
upsetting when he finds something
shocking out like that
Georgia orders the census citizenship
question struck from the 2020 census and
the Supreme Court saves the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau for the
moment meanwhile ACA birth control
mandate remains and Democrats begin
investigations into the family
separation policy as the shutdown adds
twenty thousand cases a week to the
immigration backlog
ah good news ice loss from the
Antarctica is not eight times faster
than it was 40 years ago it's only six
times faster everybody said it was 40
years ago worry about it
phew and speaking of the environment the
EPA enforcement is almost non-existent
right now at a record love we are just
hours away from a vote in the British
Parliament on a brexit plan
I guess leadership in the UK is
basically in the balance and Rand Paul
has escaped to Canada all this and more
on today's program ladies and gentlemen
Constitution yeah we will we will get to
that he got beat so bad he became a
social the there we're also will also
talk about this apparently the the
five-alarm fire that is being caused by
a razor company saying that you
shouldn't be you shouldn't be an a-hole
in your daily life but I mean this is
just we're in these sort of like this is
a weird time for politics right now
it is because the government is shut
down the the pain that is being caused
by this government shutdown is not clear
to most people unless you know a federal
worker and the damage that it's doing to
this country is is not obvious it's like
one of those kidney punches right like
it starts to cause problems like two or
three weeks later and that's what we're
going through now we're the implications
of this I had a piece the other day from
the I don't know the Norman paper in
Oakland
Homa or something talking about how the
local services for battered women and
women and children who are victims of
domestic violence they were starting to
have to lay off support staff to help of
folks like this and so it is always
people at the margins who feel this pain
first and we go about our daily daily
lives don't necessarily aren't
necessarily aware of it and it won't be
until we get another couple of weeks
where the TSA and maybe the the air
traffic controllers start to say like
you know what I'm sick I can't come in
to work today where we start we will
start to hear about it I mark my words
on this when plane travel starts to be
constrained we will hear a lot more
about it because that's when wealthy
people start to be aware of this stuff
and if someone god forbid somebody gets
super sick from a lack of sort of the
the consistent FDA inspections I mean
they're apparently going to be putting
inspectors on and deem them as necessary
workers for the most high-risk foods but
broadly speaking you know the reason why
you do consistent investing you know
investigations and and scrutiny of the
food system even in the low risk foods
is that sometimes something happens but
but mark my words when the plane travel
starts to be impinged that's when you'll
start to hear about it more and I
imagine a local level you know if you
live in Iowa or you live in Kansas
you're reading about the farmers you're
starting to have problems
I would imagine like everybody's got a
story around this around the country but
in terms of it being a national story of
course
these things are all regional that's the
whole point of it it won't be until you
get to something like plane travel
because that becomes a literally a way
that the nation is connected and wealthy
people experience it directly I mean
you'd hear about it if refund checks are
late that you'll also hear about but so
but in the meantime we're you know it
ends up being a culture war and we end
up seeing freak shows like the president
the United States and look I don't care
that the president the United States
loves fast food great and I don't care
about a football team that thought they
you know got excited about going to
visit the White House and they basically
end up going through the drive-through I
mean that seems like a drag but Castle
house yeah but I don't care really about
that but this is a freak show
I mean I'm sorry we're looking at this
golden candelabra and these big macs or
whatever it is stacked up on these curta
pounders on these silver trays and
donald trump is sitting there like
beaming with pride and I mean this is I
don't I don't even know I don't even
know what this is party rules what do
you think he finally gets to fulfill his
destiny as a burger Somali yay you you
watch like things like the you know for
people who watch Game of Thrones they
had this thing on the Mad King was a
storyline and you're just like how does
stuff like that happen and then to be
living it nuggets is the Mad King hands
[Laughter]
now what's your favorite thing here mr.
president
American posit for one second I'm also
like others in the table very legal very
cool there were some moves that Anthony
Adam rec had on the president show that
I felt were like character caricatures
of of Trump and Trump with his pivoting
here sort of just like swiveling back
and forth as if his neck is like doesn't
have the ability to smooth he moves his
whole body like there I keep seeing more
and more of Anthony Adam Eric in the
president like I feel like the president
is becoming the caricature do you prefer
McDonald's or Wendy's that's many many
many french fries probably too many to
count
reason we did this is because of the
shutdown we want to make sure that
everything is right so we sent out got
this
and we have some really the white house
they helped us out with this and I will
say the Republicans are really really
sticking together we have to have should
have happened 30 years ago 20 years ago
10 years ago and it's gonna happen now
gonna happen now thank you very much
everybody
Thanks enjoy the slop that we have
presented to you of course
oh yeah where else could you go though
like it my by the obvious analog is is
is Obama shutting down the government to
like expel European immigrants and then
inviting like some like African soccer
teams over for like tahini it's like we
got the but we got to Puli
we've got grape leaves we got pumice I
tell you what we should have got rid of
people from Norway a long time ago 30
years ago 20 years ago 10 years ago but
we're gonna do it Democrats are sticking
together even the devils and what do you
like better Yemeni food or Iranian food
it's all good love it all well cups for
Muslim countries great if you think
that's weird just wait till he appoints
the Hamburglar to the Supreme Court yeah
exactly here is all great foods all
great these guys the players come in and
you can hear one of them say I thought
this was a joke because they showed up
and someone clearly said look guys we've
got a ton of fast food for you and
they're all like we can come all the way
to know what I guess we did
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I got three burgers that I could only
get if I had about twelve dollars and
went down the street and got into the
drive-thru here is Anthony Adam Eric
automatic as the as Donald Trump where'd
it go did you get it
yeah why would Trump ever joke about
that like this is his favorite stuff
right here finally it's time to shine
now the best thing about Wendy's isn't
square get more burger you want to get
down and dirty
get some Burger King that's whenever
when that's when mama's not home to
watch mama's not home he's just a little
baby oh no I'm not
[Music]
that should've come with a warning today
was the day Donald Trump became
president indeed not to bowl a we got
hummus we got Lemna folks it's 2019 are
you still doing the doing things the old
way at work start the year off by
replacing that software that caused you
angst and agony every day and find
software that fits your business needs
using kaptara dot-com kaptara is the
leading free online resource to help you
find the best software solution for your
business they have over 700,000 reviews
of products from real software users it
has everything you need to make an
informed decision this is the kind of
thing that I really I fed s eyes like
review sites this is what I thought when
I saw the ad I said oh sam fetishizes
services it's true any products I
recommend anything I go and I read a ton
of reviews you can search more than 700
specific categories of software
everything from project management to
email marketing to yoga studio
management software everything nice no
matter what kind of software your
business needs kaptara makes it easy to
discover the right solution fast you and
millions of people use kaptara each
month to find the right tools for their
business visit kaptara dot-com slash
majority for free today to find the
right tools to make 2019 the year for
your business kaptara dot-com / majority
that's kept era Capt e RR a.com slash
majority and as always it's it's more
than a pleasure to to tell you about the
new yorker i literally is something that
i brag to my parents about the new
yorker advertises on the show it
represents the best writing in america
today both online and print
New Yorker covers a full range of topics
politics news International Affairs
climate change
popular culture fiction arts food movies
theater cartoons
not to mention New Yorker touches on
subjects that many readers may not have
previously put much thought into like
the world's diminishing supply of sand
paper jams stink bugs hunting down
heirloom beans last night I read the art
of decision making which is their little
lead story sort of fascinating one of
those things were you know I end up
reading it and then I'm gonna read it
twice I think it also has incredible
writers that you are undoubtedly aware
of Ronan Farrow who of course broke
those massive stories about Harvey
Weinstein and Les Moonves Helen Rosener
a James Beard award-winning food writer
who contributes essays and reports and
stories all things gastronomic we just
they just did a big story on a tulsi
gabbard
that was it everybody should read I
forgetting the author's name but the
profile in tulsi gabbard is really great
and of course Jane Meyers their mayor
and Isaac charter who's really
interesting interviewer you can read a
lot of his interviews in print but he
wrote a piece on how global warming
changes international relations there's
what else did I mean there is how how
the garage became America's favorite
room is on there and you know we talk
about design tons of stuff constantly
they get a story on how you know The
Apprentice basically puffed up Donald
Trump by somebody who worked there all
sorts of stuff that you can read from
The New Yorker and now our listeners can
save 50 percent and get 12 weeks of The
New Yorker for just six bucks are you
gonna do is go to New Yorker dot-com
slash module
and enter majority you'll also get an
exclusive tote as well as unlimited
access to New Yorkers apps online
archive crossword puzzle and New Yorker
calm with 10 to 15 exclusive site only
stories every day that's New Yorker
dot-com / majority enter the code
majority get 12 weeks of The New Yorker
for 6 bucks
folks do the math that's 50 cents a week
that's crazy
all right you don't to dig in just to a
couple of things about the the William
Bar hearings I mean look the the fact is
is that William bar is a smarter Jeff
Sessions and the only question is and by
that I mean in terms of like race
everybody's smarter than Jeff Jeff's an
idiot Jeff's dumb he's a hick bill bar
is if you if you enjoyed the idea that
cops were able to basically have free
reign and no record there would be no
oversight of the way the cops treat
marginal communities minority community
it's really across the board well then
you're gonna like bill bar but that
elections have consequences and and this
is what what came in with Donald Trump
and with the Republicans frankly
particularly a the you know the even
more racialized Republican Party as we
have today the big issues in terms of a
bar of course are things like hey if
Donald Trump and in recall that Rex
Tillerson said you know sort of like as
a joke but not really I had to tell
Trump not to do illegal things all the
time right mean that that is the
reporting that comes out the question is
will a guy like Bill Bar also remind
Donald Trump you
can't do things illegally because once
bill bar comes in here there's there's a
good chance we're gonna see a full
wholesale clean you know cleaning house
and so there's not gonna be many sane
people left in there and Bill Barr also
wrote an 18-page memo to Donald Trump
unsolicited some people call it a job
application where he basically outlined
why it was impossible for there to be
obstruction because collusion is not a
crime now of course that's not what
Donald Trump is gonna be charged with if
he's charged with anything or if he can
be charged but the idea that obstruction
cannot exist unless there's an
underlying crime well you can't prove an
underlying crime a lot of times because
of obstruction you can't say well you
can't you can't arrest me for the bank
robbery because I drove the getaway car
so well that you couldn't catch me
exactly
logic anyways he wrote this a 19 page
unsolicited memo and the the key
questions are will Barr interfere with
the investigation will Barr interfere
with the release of the results will
Barr if Donald Trump says let it's time
to arrest Hillary Clinton I mean these
are legitimate question not that far off
I'm laughing because like it's possibly
true
exactly here is Bill Barr
this is his opening statements right
here we go
listen to this first I believe it is
vitally important that the special
counsel be allowed to complete his
investigation I have known Bob Muller
for 30 years we work closely together
throughout my previous tenure at the
Department of Justice we've been friends
since and I have the utmost respect for
Bob and his distinguished record of
public service
and when he was named special counsel I
said his selection was good news and
that knowing him I had confidence he
would handle the matter properly and I
still have that confidence today given
his public actions to date I expect that
the special counsel is well along in his
investigation at the same time the
president has been steadfast that he was
not involved in any collusion
with Russian attempts to interfere in
the election I believe it is in the best
interest of everyone the president
Congress and the American people that
this matter be resolved by allowing the
special counsel to complete his work the
country needs a credible resolution to
these issues and if confirmed I will not
permit partisan politics personal
interests or any other improper
consideration to interfere with this or
any other investigation I will follow
the special counsel regulation
scrupulous ly and in good faith and on
my watch Bob will be allowed to finish
his work
you know that would have been a great
opportunity to say and we will release
this information to the public so the
public will see the results of this
investigation regardless of what it is
that's where you would have added that
if that's what what your intention was
so it's quite possible that over the
past couple of months six months ago
that when bill Barr wrote that
unsolicited 19 page memo saying there's
no it's impossible to find the president
guilty not even legally speaking but
that there is no it's not even a
question of fact this investigation the
investigation itself is impossible to
find a violation by the president even
if he has had a has reconsidered that
perspective the real question is
are we going to hear about it because it
sounds to me like they have basically
figured out a plan B and Plan B is to
just basically suck this investigation
down the drain you finish and when
you're done thank you goodbye we'll just
put it in the put it in a file cabinet
here is Lahey asking more about that and
if confirmed both seeking and following
advice of the department's career ethics
official I'm sorry posit I'm sorry this
in this instance right the questions
gonna be so patrick leahy and this is
what happened with Whitaker and this is
what happened with Jeff Sessions there
is an internal agency essentially within
the DOJ it's a committee subcommittee
made up of officials at the DOJ who
assess whether there is a conflict of
interest or an appearance of conflict of
interest which would require various
officials to recuse themselves jeff
sessions it was recommended to him by
this ethics committee recuse yourself
there's an internal DOJ committee you'll
recall last time marcy wheeler was on
she anticipated that this committee made
up of like four or five senior DOJ
officials would tell Matt Whittaker to
recuse himself and then Matt Riddick
Whittaker announced they they said I'm
okay and it wasn't till like three or
four weeks later that we hear the
reporting that in fact no he was told he
should recuse himself so the question
becomes with Bill Barr
if it's determined by other DOJ
officials that because of your position
in the past it is best for at the very
least the the the the optics so that so
that the American public can have
confidence
that the investigations not being
manipulated or buried or interfered with
or underfunded or whatever it is that
you recuse yourself will you listen
unlike Matt Whittaker to the
recommendations of these members of the
Department of Justice here's the
question if confirmed both seeking and
following advice of the department's
career ethics officials and whether you
must recuse from the special counsels
investigation I I will seek the advice
of the career Ethics personnel but under
the regulations I make the decision as
the head of the agency as to my own
recusal so I would consult with them and
and at the end of the day I would make a
decision in good faith based on the laws
and the facts that are evident at that
time same thing if you're talking about
a conflict of interest well no some
conflicts as you know are mandatory yeah
thank you
so in there's also obviously another way
that you could have responded to this I
will give deference to that committee
they will have a priority it's
conceivable that I would disagree with
what they would say but I would show
deference to them but not I'm just going
to listen to them when they give their
Proclamation everybody gets to say bad
that's right I'll hear them and I hear
you right now look at the talks
everybody shares your feelings brah
in other words there's no commitment
from this guy that he's going to not be
essentially corrupt excuse me uh pardon
me sir I just gave you a commitment to
listen I believe this that's right
he's gonna go on a listening tour this
is a guy who put in who submitted a 19
page
memo saying that there is no even
construction in which you could be
considered guilty because the charges
themselves don't even they can't even if
true they can't be true even if you
obstructed it's not pot would not be
possible for you to obstruct well I am
totally willing to hear you out on that
now he's going to you know he's gonna be
the next AJ but he does seem quite a bit
more savvy than session right you know
he couldn't mean who knows maybe he'll
be totally symbolic the next couple
weeks and I'll stand corrected one does
seem a lot more kind of adroit at
manipulating this process it's not
inconceivable I mean you know these days
it's not inconceivable that you know
this guy's a former Reagan official IG
George Herbert Walker Bush a fess
official maybe maybe some of these old
line Republicans said oh do the old
right at 19 page memo trick where it
sounds like you'll totally be on board
we can sell him on you and then you get
in there and you accurately function
like a you know a real Attorney General
a real Republican one who's just going
to use the power of the office to make
sure that black people don't have any
redress no people coming in here and OD
targeting black people and that's not my
problem
obviously targeting black people's great
but at a certain point you need to take
care of numero uno
exactly first mr. magoo the dumb inbred
guy doesn't do it and now he writes a
whole 90 page memo and all of a sudden
I'm still being harassed this is really
unfair now I know what it feels like to
be a black guy ironically totally unfair
meanwhile the Republicans have
discovered that Steve King is racist and
this is sort of fascinating when you see
the implications of the Democrats taking
the
Mitch McConnell has stated as of
yesterday there is no place in the
Republican Party Congress or the country
for an ideology of racial supremacy of
any kind representative King statements
are unwelcome and unworthy of his
elected position so as you know this is
a huge breaking news that Stephen King
is now a racist
apparently this is huge
breaking news particularly since only
three months ago well here's a picture
of was it that's not McConnell with
Steve King that's just you know when
this guy tells you that you've got to
race his problem you know you have a
problem but let's look in on Chuck
Grassley who only three months ago said
Steve King was great it's amazing the
transformation that Stephen King has had
like what happened in the past three
months that made this guy turn so so
horrible I mean it's just three months
ago here was Chuck Grassley basically
having a stroke I mean endorsing Steve
King Iowa needs Steve King in Congress I
also need Steve King in Congress pause
it for one second that actually sounds
really I I even I am but but let's let's
but let's go back to the beginning here
and it's like here's a tip for all of
you congressional staffers who listened
to the program watch the show if you're
going to videotape your boss and put it
on the web there's you have two options
one is you either cut out the part where
you go three two one or you use your
fingers so that's why I like I mean if
you were counting down from let's say
thirty six this would be uncomfortable
but you're doing three
to do one Iowa needs Steve King in
Congress
I also need Steve King in Congress I
feel like I do a good job of
representing Iowans and so often I have
found Steve King to be such an ally an
ally that I need in the other body
called the house representatives he's
worked with so many things that are
important to Iowa agricultural issues
the farm bill alternative energy things
that are very important to Iowa like
wind energy particularly Oh an ethanol
and biodiesel as well without his help
in the house representatives Iowa all
right he goes on and on we don't need to
get as energy protecting white babies
what now they start they the Kevin
McCarthy are Stephen McCarthy as we like
to call him has said that King will not
be sitting on any will not get any
committee appointments the the big deal
for this is right there in Grassley's
comments because King will no longer be
on the Agriculture Committee which means
that he will no longer be able to offer
all sorts of Bennie's for for Iowans and
and and big AG there and so this is
going to he's gonna if he's not
reinstated and I don't think he will be
he will lose in a Republican primary and
he's already got I think a couple weeks
ago some some local Iowa Republican
announced he was gonna take him on yeah
and it was all like you know this is
tasteless but like it's a distraction
it's embarrassing and now you got that
you know now there's the meat to fill it
in right he'll be not really must been
really a big surprise for all these
Republicans to find out that Steve King
was such a jerk it's shocking it's a
shame they couldn't have found that out
before the
election and it could have worked with
us to get him out of office yeah but you
know the information comes fast I'm
searching well like you know make a nice
living like addressing like European
like fascist soccer clubs like totally
where daily has already started to build
a set I think right but this here's the
interesting part there's a lot of people
were probably wondering like why now and
it is because the Democrats have the
ability to control the agenda in the
house
and that makes Steve King more of a
liability than he was two months ago and
they had the ability to vote to censure
him which would have kept it in the news
and the Republicans thought okay this is
the definition of this guy taken one for
the team and it also gives us an
opportunity to talk about Rasheeda Talib
and the fact that the Democrats won't
censure her for saying mofo bun also she
said that Arab civilization can't be
saved with gypsy babies that's right and
that because we created algebra
was I believe the direct quote and just
cuz she thinks that the Arabs are
particularly blessed by Allah doesn't
mean that she thinks that Allah's other
creations are invalid but just inferior
right so I think we need to be really
fair here about what she actually said I
love how my Rasheeda two lips also just
Jimmy door right exactly we created
what the hell's your brain allows it I
mean it's basically look they are in a
the they are on the back of their heels
because they're getting blamed for the
shutdown they did not want the twin sort
of like recommendations of being
coddling to a racist and also denying
basic services to Americans or the
hazing he's paddling right modeling to a
racist
coddling to a racist it takes two to
tango that's right don't forget yeah we
look we're all implicated in this too
because we all heard what Stephen King
said and if we hadn't heard what he said
then would he have said it on the one
hand Steve King is saying absolutely
racist things on the other hand where a
lot of Democrats are hearing what he's
saying so there's a lot of both sides of
this Catherine you just just briefly
judge orders the Trump administration to
remove the twenty20 sit as a census
citizenship question do you remember
this story a question was added to the
2020 census which would have been about
the citizenship status of of someone in
the census now look the census is a
constitutionally mandated exercise and
it is specifically to count all the
people in the United States not all the
citizens not all the adults not all the
Americans all the people in the United
States and when you asked a question
about citizenship it scares off a lot of
people this was a question that the
census people did not want to put in
there it was a question that came or I
should say rather it was a question that
came from the the political not from any
there was no valid reason to put it in
US District Court for the Southern
District of New York has been hearing
the lawsuit over this
apparently the there's it's anticipated
that just may go to the Supreme Court
Wilbur Ross testified or at least in
written testimony it's basically been
showing that the administration has been
misleading the public they misused Ross
that is you misused his authority over
the census
and discriminated against immigrant
communities of color it's not the end of
this but it is another indication or
another example of why the federal
judiciary is important here's another
one there are two judges that one in
California and one in Pennsylvania both
federal judges which have at least
temporarily blocked Trump administration
rules that would limit the ability of
some women to get birth control at no
charge the idea was that Trump
administration was expanding the
principle in the Hobby Lobby case to not
just religion but moral qualms with
people women taking birth control and so
the the methodology that the Obama
administration had come up with in
working in doing workarounds where the
companies would not have to touch the
money and would not have to pay extra
money well they weren't gonna pay extra
money anyways but would not have to
touch the money that would go to the
insurance company that would offer this
as a benefit it's the most milquetoast
liberal thing I've ever heard what's it
well they had to get around the Supreme
Court I know it's just funny yeah I mean
it's ridiculous but there's no other
means in which to do it you I mean the
the other means to do it would of course
been to not have health insurance in any
way tied to employers but they had
worked out a workaround where a third
party insurers would cover birth control
even if the employer did not because
when you get health insurance from
employers it's the employers who pay for
it and so
that was the work around the Trump
administration wanted to end that and to
federal judges both appointed by Barack
Obama have at least at the very least
enjoying the administration we do that
in the meantime also the US Supreme
Court on Monday denied cert in other
words they're not going to look at the
case brought by a Texas Bank saying that
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
was unconstitutional because the
president cannot fire the director
without cause the court didn't hear it
because Cavanaugh is recused because he
heard a similar case at the circuit
level it would have been for for it
wasn't worth their time they're gonna
wait till they get another case that
Cavanaugh can rule on in this instance
not necessarily a bad thing because by
the time this case gets up there you'll
have a Democratic president hopefully
who could then fire Donald Trump's head
of Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
but the Republicans hate this agency it
was set up very deftly by Elizabeth
Warren
so in anticipating this being a an
agency that was going to be the subject
of Republican ire and stress and not
just a Republican but the banking
industry and so it was set up in such a
way that it was self funding and could
not be attacked easily and it is worked
from an administrative standpoint it was
sort of a brilliant structure just got a
little bit of time here
so I want to talk about this
ridiculously stupid Jonathan Chait here
we go may I say go off king
well this okay okay so Jonathan Chait I
don't know this is just I've never seen
anything this sort of naked ly stupid
by someone who is ostensibly respected
by the I think an increasingly smaller
and narrower band of people I mean at
one point jonathan chait who is
ostensibly a a democratic partisan is
going to end up being a a member of the
sort of the bill kristol never Trumper
never AOC R yeah I mean Oh without a
doubt
the Democratic when he attacked
Elizabeth Warren and he writes the
concerns I have well here's the headline
what happens when Elizabeth Warren sells
out to powerful interests now may I ask
a question so is he doing a hypothetical
scenario where Elizabeth Warren caves to
the credit card industry and she
reverses herself on the history of her
advocacy of financial reforms that when
I saw the headline I was like hmm that
yeah people will be bummed
or maybe he's talking about like what
happens when she has to compromise on
something are the you know purity trolls
gonna have a and I was like I'm
not reading another one of those dumb
Jonathan Chait things that are like
hippie punching because that's usually
what he writes right like and so I was
bored at that but I didn't realize how
stupid this piece could be so he writes
the concerns I have about Warren as a
policy maker and not the issues she
talks about but the issues she doesn't
hear are two issues where I believe
Warren has done the wrong thing there's
a common theme here they challenge and
complicate her populist appeal now the
reason why he picks two things is
because he wants to launder one of them
the first is the medical device tax one
of the ways the Affordable Care Act was
funded was via the medical device tax
and the Democrats when they controlled
the Senate under Obama we're coming very
close to repealing the medical device
tax Al Franken
was one of the people who wanted to do
that because Minnesota has a big medical
device industry guess what else does
Massachusetts lots of devices this
repeal of the medical device tax right
particularly in the shadow now of a 1.5
trillion dollar giveaway to corporate
taxes or the Chuck Schumer plan to
repatriate offshore taxes is negligible
is it something that I am in favor of
absolutely not but the idea that this
has been sticking in Jonathan Chait skra
crotch or craw or whatever it is
wherever he's been keeping it for this
time is impossible the idea that this is
some type of deal breaker that people
are gonna care about in this day and age
the medical device tax after there's
been a 1.5 trillion dollar corporate tax
giveaway after the repatriation which
Chuck Schumer and Hillary Clinton and
Paul Ryan had planned as per Chuck
Schumer's bragging in October of 2016 is
just absurd it's absurd and I love the
fact that he leads with it because he
thinks he's being clever because what's
his real agenda what he's really
concerned about is now this is something
that she's co-sponsored legislation to
repeal the medical device tax she's
written an op-ed advocating the tax
repeal for the industry's own newsletter
and proposed the bill that would
penalize manufacturers of
pharmaceuticals but crucially not the
medical device industry for
misappropriating funds intended for
scientific research so
Lawrence she has been really good at
going after Big Pharma which is actually
you know one of the bigger problems but
not so much with the medical device
industry that we're we're we're
splitting hairs here particularly based
upon what issues this guy's had in the
past but whatever I agree with them we
shouldn't have a repeal of the medical
device tax but this is like the idea
that this would derail Elizabeth Warren
this is sort of like a version of Bernie
Sanders and guns if guns were a wholly
irrelevant issue to the entire country
but then there was another thing too now
that I'm now that I'm writing this piece
I'm gonna write another thing about it
education reform so a valid although
unbelievably narrow right objection to
set the stage for the real aim of the
piece right which is that Elizabeth
Warren has sold out to powerful
interests in this instance the teachers
the national teachers not done a very
very small constituency of the
Democratic Party right like I mean this
guy even if this guy had written this
five years ago it would have seemed
awkward but right now it's just
incredibly tone-deaf and stupid there
may be no state in America that can
clearly more clearly showcase the clear
success of charter schools than Warren's
home state of Massachusetts professors
Sarah cojones and Susan dynarski
conducted a study proving the massive
gains produced by charter school
students in the Bay State because
Massachusetts has a cap on the number of
students allowed to tend charters its
students have to enter a lottery to
apply this allowed CODIS and danowsky to
compare the performance of students who
won the lottery with those who lost a
perfectly randomized sample across a
broad suite of metrics the students who
won the lottery and attended a charter
outperform the lottery losers in every
way state test score
SAT scores number advanced placement
classes test scores in those classes in
college attendance okay let's just
stipulate that this study was done
perfectly well and is accurate that
those people who applied for the lottery
and got in and went to the charter
schools did better than those who
applied for the lottery and didn't get
in
and so you are eliminating at least the
control of parents who are equally
motivated to be involved in their their
kids education you can't necessarily
make up for maybe the disappointment
that the kids that the parents feel you
know and maybe their did a little bit
less engaged in the kids but let's just
let that ride okay let's just imagine
that you that is a perfect test and you
can you can measure that the gains were
equally large or larger for low-income
students students who entered school low
test scores etc etc the Charter sector
would like to admit more students in
Massachusetts but the state has a cap
preventing more students from enrolling
there was a state referendum in 2016
to increase the cap and the teachers
union spearheaded the the opposition to
this measure and Warren also joined that
opposition - question - which he writes
crushed the chance for thousands of
low-income urban students in
Massachusetts to have a chance at a
great education and a future in college
okay
now first of all his characterization
that last line there it did not crush
the chance for thousands of low-income
urban students in Massachusetts to have
a chance at great education and future
in college because the thing that also
doesn't mention is that public schools
in Massachusetts outperform all other
schools around the country so while
even if we stipulate this study is
absolutely accurate there's no
indication that these people that these
students in the public schools didn't
have the same opportunity to get into
colleges or have a future that's not
what the study measures the study
measures SAT scores certain percentage
to increase in SAT scores and certain
skill sets a B what he doesn't mention
about Massachusetts charter schools is
that they are unique in that
Massachusetts has an incredible amount
of control as a state over the
authorization of these schools over the
accreditation of these schools over the
entire process of these schools
Massachusetts has a better system to
deal with charters there's a lot of
research that also suggests the reason
why charters do well in Massachusetts is
because the public schools themselves do
well because there's an already a large
foundation for public schooling in
Massachusetts and thereby the charters
are platformed on that but the other
reality is is that every time you put
money into a charter school what you're
doing is you're taking money out of the
public schools so there very well could
be a point of diminishing returns
charter schools are not set up to be an
alternate form of Education in a locale
it's supposed to be a mechanism in which
to provide a laboratory to enhance
public education so that ideas can be
dealt with in charter schools that may
have a little bit more flexibility but
then be scaled up it is not meant to be
a replacement for public schools and the
fact is is that there is certainly a
time without a cap there's certainly a
point where you start to undercut public
school
for the for all students not to mention
the fact that that's important because
charter schools even if it's lottery
don't take the same array of students
that the public schools do you still
have rules and where people can be
kicked out of even if Massachusetts
charter schools are not like the vast
majority of charter schools which are
for-profit because you're for-profit
ones are not allowed in Massachusetts
the reality is they do inhibit the
quality of public schools and there is
like I say a lot of evidence that shows
to the extent that you have charter
schools succeed in a place like New
Jersey or Massachusetts it's a function
of the underlying public school system
so if you start robbing Peter to pay
Paul Paul is actually going to start
doing worse as well not to mention all
the other apostle's who aren't allowed
to get into the charter school yeah but
they break the power of those greedy
greedy teachers unions well that turns
out to be the sellout to the powerful
interest now mind you the money on the
pro charter side was much bigger
so the problem elizabeth warren has is
she sells out to be lower bidder you
just imagine a teacher like rolling a
gold-plated pencil across the desk
towards her like here have this Apple
exactly my concern is what these issues
tell us about Warren as a policy maker
she has done an effective job of
mobilizing public opinion against the
finance industry which has many
nefarious impacts on public policy Oh
incidentally the biggest contributors to
this charter movement because they know
there's tons of money to be made in the
other states even if Massachusetts at
this moment does not allow for-profit
charter school
there's tons of money for these big
finance ears to make in other states
hedge funds are deep into the Charter
movement but presidents have to deal
with all the issues and many of them
have organized lobbyists defending
terrible policies that fly under a tear
there's no such thing as a perfectly
pure politician of course but from my
standpoint medical device tax repeal and
the Massachusetts Charter can
I mean the entire ACA is founded on such
compromises and the idea that the
medical device repeal is the one that
really sticks out in his mind is just
laughable definitely was not the lack of
a public option that was not it
definitely not it were the the lack of
negotiating with drug prices with
pharmaceuticals oh no no no keep your
eye on the ball or the eyes medical
device tax do massive subsidies to the
insurance companies the whole thing was
a compromise bill do you have some money
tied up in a Worcester medical device
company that you're downplaying but from
my standpoint the medical device tax
repeal and the Massachusetts Charter cap
are especially unjustifiable policies
first of all the fact that that charter
schools in Massachusetts do marginally
better than public schools for kids even
if that was provable does not mean that
capping how many students go into
charter schools is a bad policy that
just doesn't follow on Twitter jate was
questioned about this like dude there
were two powerful interests one that had
more money than the other and she went
with the one that had the less money in
this fight in Massachusetts and his
response was fascinating insight
it's behind there it sits behind the
it's behind the razor one see it on the
left oh no no I guess it isn't sorry his
response was fascinating and it was
fascinating because he doesn't realize
what a cell phone it is aside from it
being something that he writes
so someone says to him oh he's talking
about incidentally the forces that were
for this we're hit with the largest fine
and state campaign history for illegally
hiding the identities of its billionaire
donors and Ben Mathis Lilly says if it's
selling out to the powerful to not
support that group it seems like maybe
selling out is not the right frame for
that issue and chaid says the interest
group in this issue holds power over
Warren's political futures the teachers
union if it was a Republican the
calculus would be different the donors
to the charter schools may be rich but
their interest in this issue is
philanthropic making it quite different
than an interest group protecting its
own income now here's aside from the bow
astronomically disingenuine ochio's
there a couple of Pinocchio's okay
because the donors to charter schools in
Massachusetts and the charter school
first of all they're not donating to the
charter schools they're donating to a
political action committee or trying to
expand charters it's a comment they want
to privatize you dense and they
want to do this in other states where
they make a ton of money so but even if
we were to believe that the reason why
these billionaires are all giving money
to the Charter movement because it's a
philanthropical
and that they are giving the money not
to the charter schools themselves and of
course not to public schools with no
strings attached but to the political
action committee supporting charters
even if we were completely moronic
enough to believe this this last part
making it quite different than an
interest group protecting its own income
what he's saying is that when you're
talking about protecting your own income
and you're advocating for something that
is extremely suspicious that is
extremely suspicious and so when you
have
scenario where someone's advocating for
something like that and their income is
in any way involved you should not take
what they're saying seriously or at
being in any way an honest reflection of
their opinion well sadly Jonathan shades
wife works for charter schools this is
the same guy who like was like oh I
can't believe we utilized the bike her
bosses the dice is bought now I ever had
I happen to believe that it's possible
that the teachers even though the
teachers union even though it would
protect their own income that they
actually have the education of students
in mind that's a big reason why you go
into education but um you're there for
the cold card currency this is the
George Mason economics also by the way
this public choice theory because when
she worked for a charter school wildly
irresponsible of New York Magazine not
to make him disclose that in this piece
yes absolutely every time he writes
about charter schools you should be
saying like I'm not the kind of scab to
like try to tweet at someone's employer
in an effort to get them fired but if
I'd scab on anyone it would probably be
Jonathan shake because he's also a scab
he's already scared early yeah fall you
scab scabs this gap this gap but I but
also like the only thing Jonathan shade
has ever done that has like any
credibility is you know writing I mean
frankly pretty easy pieces about why
like libertarian economics is delusional
and here he is forwarding it in the
entire public education arena yeah
without disclosing a massive conflict of
interest well I mean a UH one that he
actually believes is necessarily a
conflict of interest right you can't
possibly advocate for something that
protects your income in any fashion oh
he's such a dumbass it's unbelievable I
mean if we're gonna cherry-pick
statistics maybe we should talk
all of the studies that found charter
schools have often horrible racial
disparities in their punishment of
students that's simply a fact it's they
have disparities in that regard they
don't have the same obligations around
the country to to let in all sorts of
students from public schools they don't
outperform broadly speaking across the
nation public schools so the idea that
Massachusetts is limiting the number of
of charter schools the idea that that is
inherently a bad policy is just absurd
it's just absurd it's not in
particularly in the context of
criticizing air as a national candidate
yeah this whole piece is bloated with
neoliberal ideology well this whole
piece I'd say you could say about it do
you hold this whole piece is a is a good
reminder of even as I prefer Bernie and
critique her the really admirable parts
of Lizabeth Warren's record I was gonna
say thanks i if you're Warren this is a
cigar this Jonathan Chait Pete is so bad
that it has occurred to me that warns
people paid him to write it people that
would it's that bad my respect levels
for Warren's people and Jonathan she
would skyrocket he could very well be a
a secret huge proponent of Elizabeth
Warren and realized I got to take one
for the team this is the only way I can
help is you write a massively
unbelievably just embarrassingly stupid
piece without disclosing a conflict of
interest for us all right sure you know
what the mission is more important than
my ego all I can do so New York Magazine
just unionized and that's pretty cool oh
just this moment very recent oh yeah
yeah he was crying about it when that
happened I said hey you know what guys
you just unionized why don't we bring
back a little social unionism
a little social consciousness to your
union demands so in addition to you know
better wages better benefits whatever
whatever I think it would be to the
benefit of everyone in society if you
make firing Jonathan Chait
one of your demands in your contract so
see how that goes all right we got to
take a break
ahead into the fun half we will have
aerial footage for the first day of the
LA teachers strike which was pretty
impressive and well we got a couple more
things some good aground Paul stuff yeah
we get stage we have wait we might have
a roots ramble take take your number to
your phone call six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty I'm turning on
the phone system now also your IMS
reminder this program exists because of
our members you can become a member at
majority dot join the majority report
dot-com tomorrow I think we're gonna
play the live show that we did on Sunday
so you will be able to hear that and
maybe see that and we decide to release
to everybody why not and just a reminder
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate Oh members I should say
also to this program get the show
commercial free so no ads for you today
is Tuesday that is the Michael Brooks
show day and as such there will be a
Michael Brooke show tonight is that
correct Michael indeed Ana Kasparian
from The Young Turks our friends will be
joining us she me in studio no she'll be
over the phone and we're also gonna of
course talk about the news coming out of
brexit a bunch of and also get into
frances fox piven is regulating the poor
and how it relates to understanding the
government shutdown a bunch of other
stuff and the majority report live show
was incredibly fun and it was an honor
to meet people and come out and see the
TPMS live show february first get your
tickets that's a 7 p.m. show 7 p.m. show
I think you ride a nice all right
day night little get it started and
actually I think after the show's over
there's a dance party at the Bell House
host so you could really just stay there
and have a great night
so yeah come to the
we're streaming live at the Michael
Brooks show YouTube channel starting at
around seven ish and Jamie what's
happening with auntie Paula so this week
for our patrons only
we have a real Polly hours in which we
break down an article from two z.com
about the polyamorous community uh and
you know what I'm gonna leave it a
little a little vague until you listen
what our take is on it is polyamory
bourgeois decadence that only serves to
aggrandize our tech bro overlords or is
it a totally normal and fine life choice
here's my impression Sean we pass a lot
about people should be in monogamous
relationships and not ever stray
sexually because counter-revolutionary I
refuse the show I guess you'll see if
that's accurate or not we also recorded
a bout this very crazy trotsky series on
Netflix which actually kind of ties in
in a weird way like there's this funny
scene where uh Frida Kahlo and Diego
Rivera and Trotsky are all like running
around playing grab-ass trying to get
this uptight Stalinist guy to join their
poly cool and he's like I don't know
about this so uh it ties in in in
strange ways that we weren't expecting
so that'll be out soon too also Sean
recorded a new history is a weapon
last night with a very special guest and
that will also be out very soon for
everybody I'm Trotsky uh literary
hangover coming out a recording on
Thursday on the House of the Seven
Gables by Nathaniel Hawthorne a very
interesting book about how terrible
inheritance is so look forward to that
alright slant six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
turn on the I mmm machine right now see
you in the fun half Jamie and I may have
a disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
they're buggy whipping like he's bought
I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you you nervous a
little bit upset you riled up yeah maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you all right
dude dude dude dude dude dude you want
to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's
win-win
oh yeah now listen to me five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five seven
56:27 1/2 5/8 Wow don't you see Limbaugh
everybody's taking their dumb juice
today come on Sammy
dance dance dance
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat with a woman I'm hoping that more
moves to my repertoire all I have is the
dip in the swirl fine we could double
dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
not bad use me
 you you little leaf I think
you belong thank you for saying that all
right gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some ability
Ria's out there dick whatever vehicle
you want to drive to the library what
you're talking about is jibber jabber
lastik I'm feeling more chill already
hood Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
I do see people Shitler with such
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
I had to use the lavatory do you see it
was so funny because we actually timed
it and I said Sam do you need to use the
bathroom in the break and he's like no I
don't and then 40 seconds later he's
like oh my god I need to use the
bathroom can you guys get a libertarian
to call in while I'm in there thank you
I would appreciate that greatly do you
see we on yeah we're on there we go
welcome to the fun and sorry folks
sometimes that creeps up on you and
you're not aware of it
teachers in LA on strike day - I guess
now and this is aerial footage from
yesterday the superintendent school said
there was about 3,500 people a bear
striking this is other reports say
closer to 20 to 30 thousand this is a
lot about their striking for company
Bentley's and right about like 0.5
million here the cafeteria caviar in the
cafeteria - our work day Honey Crisp
apples these are just I there's I think
slightly more than 3500 people there as
it stands and this is you know these
people are amazing is they're doing this
for all of us people going out in the
rain in Los Angeles is one of those
things you rarely see
woz has lived in LA for maybe just a
year now right after being a lifelong
New Yorker and I don't know I think he
went to Pennsylvania for a year or
something and a couple of weeks ago he's
on Twitter being like it's like Seattle
it's like Seattle like it took him less
than a year to be a week la person
whining about the rain yeah it was
pretty quickly I think
that that ability to deal with the
weather but they continue to strike you
know part of the story is not just that
there is no dedicated system funding for
things like a nurse in elementary
schools or a librarian in in middle
schools there's also a there's a reason
for the teachers to believe based upon
the way the moves that have been made by
the superintendent of schools that there
is going to be an attempt to continue to
privatize and this is a this is a major
problem across the country there is big
money to be made in these privatized
schools and for-profit charters the idea
like look here is the the the the
classic I mean this is an extremely
reliable explanation for most phenomena
that we see that involve huge amounts of
public money right like we have a huge
amount of money that is publicly
administered in the Social Security
system right there's it people pay in
there is no lockbox per se but there is
basically a line item that is that for
all intents and purposes cannot add or
diminish the deficit and Wall Street
wants their hands on that money they
call it dumb money they also want that
their hands on that money that is
collected for schools Betsy DeVos is on
record as
saying I'm not against public education
I'm against public schools so in other
words you collect the money in taxes and
I will help divert it to private schools
in her case she really wants the money
to end up in parochial schools but they
realize like if some secular schools get
the money that's fine too
that's not gonna hurt us as long as we
get enough to fund our madrasahs we'll
be okay oh and I just saw that uh some
defense contractors are getting into the
charter school business so that's fun
there's a lot of money there there's a
lot of money it's you know private
prisons it's it's all the same thing
wherever there is a a a big pool of
money that is going there's gonna be
this impetus to privatize it and it must
be obviously this these resources must
be protected let's go to the phones here
let me just get online there we go come
from a 3:09 area code who's this where
you come from it's Mike from Peoria Mike
from Peoria
what's on your mind Mike I just wanted
to let you know how well Glenn Beck is
doing nowadays he he's now advertising
on your YouTube videos um for the blaze
so well they've gotten well you know the
we used to get all the ads from CR TV
and they have merged and so I am very
angry now I imagine it's the same money
well you know nobody's doing better
after the Alex Jones deep platforming
then Glenn Beck himself you know all
that Koch money had to go somewhere so
Glenn Beck is definitely going to be you
know getting that money right I don't
know I don't know if it's coke money I
my suspicion is actually that it's more
like either Mercer money or like a
Foster Friess I don't think it's the
Koch brothers who have invested in
they'll be filling the void of Alex
Jones being gone but now you get bowling
along with steven crowder and Glenn Beck
you get two you get you get that
neoconservatism mixed in with your Nazi
or libertarian worldview so well it's
always it's always makes it a little
more pleasant appreciate the call
come from a 608 area code who's this
where you come from my name is Joe I'm
come from Illinois a I'm libertarian
hello Joe what's on your mind so you
were talking about charter schools and
you mentioned in there that
Massachusetts doubt about for-profit
charter schools but you did say in there
I think is in the article that that
they're kind of charter schools tend to
be better when they're nonprofit do you
would you agree with that I think
they're less problematic when they're
nonprofit they're not they don't
necessarily perform better when they're
not a non-profit mm-hmm okay well you
did admit that you know it kind of
supposed to be you know the limits are
doing it's not to exclude people but
it's to have a small number you know to
experiment with a small number of
students and see if it works before you
consider you know replacing potentially
public school witness no no that's not
what I said I said I said the idea is to
develop teaching techniques that are
scalable and so in Massachusetts they
have the most rigorous controls over the
charter over charter schools of anywhere
in any other state in the country they
do not allow for-profit charter schools
they they do not have even you know they
have not even could devolve control
locally it's all on the state level
almost everything these charter schools
have to do have to be authorized by the
state itself not not local school boards
which is very different from other from
other states and the idea being that you
also drain money from the public schools
so like anything right you you you want
to do an experiment you want to test I
mean I could I could make an analogy to
what I do with this business hey I want
to try some youtube advertising am I
gonna spend all of our money on YouTube
advertising no that would be stupid but
if the YouTube advertising works I'll
put in a little bit of money and see if
that's a worthwhile endeavor and on some
level that's what they're doing with the
charter schools to use them as as as
model schools to determine are there
certain pedagogical techniques there are
certain ways of structuring the day that
might be helpful to apply to the entire
public school system all right well
thanks for explaining that I mean for
what it's worth I mean I'm not you know
expert in the area but for what it's
worth I think that one of the possible
libertarian solutions to having
alternatives to the state involves
having you know experiments like that
you know charter schools voucher systems
for example maybe seeing a states can
handle their own issues well voucher
systems voucher systems aren't going to
help you at all in that respect I mean
the charter schools are public schools
that are that are simply they have a
different set of rules in which they can
do they have much more latitude relative
to public schools I don't know much more
is really accurate in in a state like
like Massachusetts in particular in
other states it's different but vouchers
are very different you realize the
charter schools were an idea that would
develop by the teachers union the
teachers union that at first you know
trumpeted the idea of charter schools as
a way of experimenting but unfortunately
they have largely across the country
become weaponized they have become a way
of either privatizing
education and making money for for hedge
funds and or a methodology to to break
teachers unions so that we could pay
teachers less which is sort of almost
incomprehensible but true yeah I don't
want to disparage unions or say the
teacher should be pay less or anything I
definitely think their unions that
weren't more deserved to be hated on
like police unions but you know as a
libertarian for what is worth I think
you're right to call out Elizabeth
Warren and I think progressives have
been good I mean you know to have middle
centrist people who claim to be
progressives or kind of screwing with
people who are on the real left in the
Democratic Party and you know Warren was
on the right side of it look I wasn't I
wasn't calling out Lizabeth Warren I was
calling out the writer who was
critiquing Elizabeth Warren support for
limits on conch Artur schools excuse me
I have an important question for the
caller before he goes would you as a
libertarian support Sam's presence and
the 2020 libertarian debate stage to
help clarify these essential matters
inside the Libertarian Party and
movement could you go on record with
support for that today yes I support
that because a lot of us are high and
can really keep track and aren't paying
attention very closely
oh yeah point out real world facts am i
you're absolutely my favorite
libertarian caller I respect you I
salute you I love the honesty I love the
integrity and welcoming Sam to the
debate stage which is you know
definitely gonna be posturing annoying I
would guess proud to have you as my
constituent constituent how about
advisor just please please promise me to
either run with Jimmy door or let him
convince you into denouncing Hillary
Clinton and you'll have a real shot at
it and you'll have a good chance against
the guy with a boot on his head I
appreciate the call know what I'm here
in we ordinator
all the time
now Sam doesn't because he false-flag
he's Sam's a demo you notice Sam gets
really silent whenever we talk about we
critique Clinton Sam's just like I don't
know she would be a good company of New
York I'm not convinced that you wouldn't
be a good oh all right I am calling
calling from an 8-week every hedge fund
I'm not charters today I don't know if I
was just so funny like eight one three
no no no I don't think she's eight eight
one three who's this where you come from
hey it's uh it's Manny from Tampa
Florida Manny what's on your mind
hey I've been listening to philosophize
this podcast and it has two episodes
about winning an argument and it
described different types of logical
fallacies but um I'm trying to study
immigration law and I was just wondering
that in real life these tactics work in
politics or in everyday conversation and
I was wondering what was your opinion
and when you're debating libertarian
like what's your like what's your
opinion that's pretty much it
my well alright I appreciate the call
I'm not a hundred percent sure I know
what the question is but when I'm
debating libertarians my my approach is
just to talk about reality for more than
three minutes and then things start to
go south for most libertarians is what I
find I mean it's you know a theoretical
worldview is all well and good and
that's fine but you have to be able to
transfer it into reality and I'm not
sure I would want the libertarian utopia
but I'm quite sure it's impossible and
I'm even more sure that every step along
the way to that utopia makes for more
human suffering and so
that's that's basically it calling from
a six five one area code who's this
where you come from
hey this is Alex from Minneapolis hello
Alex from Minneapolis what's on your
mind and I just want to say I'm a huge
fan of the show I've been listening for
about six months now I love you guys I
love Michael Brooks show how did you
find the show but I just want I just
kind of stumbled across it just kind of
accidentally on YouTube
yeah and YouTube okay but I think I
because I'm a huge fan I want I want it
I think you said something that was
factually incorrect earlier about
charter school so I just and I just
wanted to double-check but I think you
said that the vast majority of charter
schools are for-profit if I heard you
right
III believe my understanding is the the
the majority of them are for-profit yes
okay and I'm a progressive I'm kind of a
rare progressive I actually believe in
there's a lot of potential in charter
schools it's actually something like 85%
are not-for-profit they're actually Bank
private church school are banned in a
lot of states I know that's true okay
well yeah it's something that's either
84 or 85 percent or nonprofit and
additionally that the for-profit
designation is actually kind of it's
kind of a mischaracterization because
like there's the Kipp charter network
and they have a they're managed Natalie
by a for-profit company but the
individual schools are nonprofit and the
none of like there's no government money
going to the network it's they've raised
the money with private donations and
that kind of thing so I was just wanting
to make sure that we're factually
correct about charter okay because
there's a lot of fair enough but do you
have a sense of and look I am NOT
against the existence of charter schools
okay I I thought it's it's super
important that they be under that they
have you know a model like we have in
Massachusetts okay where there is
incredible oversight of these schools
yes
where there is a full accountability is
much healthier like I say I think there
is value in charter schools as as a as
laboratories but not as replacements and
and and you've got to keep that balance
there and the laboratories have to be
stuff that's scalable now one of the
things that happens with nonprofits okay
is that you will establish a non-profit
charter school and then what you will do
is you will buy the underlying real
estate as a for-profit company and that
that charter school will then rent that
that that real estate I mean there's a
lot labor this way there's a lot of
different ways in which you can use a
non-profit entity as a way of making
money for for-profit entities now III
don't know the the statistics on this
but it is and it is not a rare enough
phenomena that you couldn't google and
find more information on that yep yep go
ahead and I think I totally agree I
think I think I think there should be a
lot more regulation I think charter
school teachers should be unionized I
think and cut I'm not sure if it's
Denver or if it's Colorado but charter
schools can't like rent from like a
commercial real estate you know they
have the building's themselves or run by
the district right the other thing you
know the problem we have like in a party
the Diane Ravitch piece I think about
90% of charter schools are non-union so
that's a big I mean I agree with you but
the vast majority yeah number the and
that's the only reason Republicans are
supporting charter schools and and and
part of the problem too is like you know
in in a city like New York we have
charters that because they're associated
with big money they have a lot more
political clout they end up taking
physical space from New York City public
schools I mean you know on the whole
like you know like I say like I think
there's value to charters
the problem is that they've been
weaponized as a means both to to
undercut the unions but also to
privatize education and a lot of kids
are left behind I mean it's just the
reality of it the charters generally
speaking do not have the same
requirements in terms of servicing the
broad public as as as normal public
schools and that's impressive
the truth there's a myth that they can
be selective about who they accept on
that well I mean well first off first of
all they're they're self selecting
insofar as right like you need parents
who are either more engaged than other
parents or have more ability to be
engaged right I mean just in terms of
the process yeah okay and then on top of
that charters have the ability broadly
speaking
like I say in an in place like
Massachusetts maybe maybe somewhat
diminished but broadly speaking they're
not required to to service the the the
broad spectrum of students you can get
kicked out of a charter school you get
you you can't you know you can't get
kicked out of the public school system
or I should say the threshold is much
much higher or lower depending on how
you okay yeah I think I mean I think
they have to accept anyone who applies
just like any others theoretically
theoretically right but but charter
schools are selective and so you know
and they don't necessarily have a
transparent system in which people are
are accepted I mean look there are
problems with this even in the public
school systems here and it's a far more
transparent process but Eva Moskowitz is
not allowing people to sit and Aude it
you know who's getting into certain
schools I mean we have a lot of evidence
of this stuff of teachers who are told
by administrators yeah we can't
explicitly kick this purse
now but if you can discourage the parent
enough the kid will be gone and that's
what happens yeah and they don't have
the same internal processes in which to
to report these things there's just not
the same level of accountability I mean
all the issues that people have with
like it's harder to fire teachers in the
public school system and there's a
redress and whatnot
well those also are you know the they're
cumbersome but they're there for a
reason because you have administrators
in schools who are highly political or
can be you have administrators in
schools who are competing to try and get
you know back in the day federal funds
based upon the performance and so
there's an incentive for them to
jettison kids who are trouble I mean
this is this is you know we've just come
out the other side of this and we still
haven't fixed it but and some
progressives I think their solution is
just to ban charter schools altogether
when I would say it's more just make
charter schools you know give them
teacher unions and regulate them and
give them this accountability rather
than just stand them out right well look
I mean I you know I would agree with
that broadly okay you know I mean we
need to see the specifics but the
problem is is that you're you're you're
arguing against forces that are bringing
a lot more to bear in this fight then
the the more nuanced take that you have
and so you know it's not necessary
choice in a lot of these situations you
also have to remember you can't just
give teachers a union like from a
top-down policy level like the teachers
at charter schools that have unions
they've had to fight for them and the
charter schools don't want them to have
you but the point is is that you could
say as a state right we're not going to
fund any non-union schools yeah that's
you that I mean that's what you could do
and but I get well I mean theoretically
the state could say we will not issue a
charter unless you have a union and
you're unless your teachers are
unionized
I mean you could theoretically do that
and that's that's a great idea no I
agree with you but but my point being
that in these political battles it's
sometimes a little bit more binary and
sometimes you have to you know quash and
then build up you know to do it the the
right way but I mean so but but in the
main I've been you know pretty clear on
this for four years that I think there
is value to charter schools the problem
is that they is that in practice a lot
of things have gotten out of hand
but I appreciate the call yep thanks
yeah thank you and we have you can go
back and listen to the we've done a lot
of shows on not necessarily charter
specifically but some extent charters
but with a lot of educators we haven't
had many on also late but you mean I
don't know the National lover but 80
percent of Michigan is private in terms
of their charters and that's honestly
what Betsy DeVos trying to do nationally
and I'll never for the Tom Friedman but
when I was in Detroit getting into a
lift with a woman who was also a
full-time public school teacher was just
like what the
that's insane yep yeah I mean
considering all the problems that
charter schools can and do cause like
isn't there a way for the government to
experiment with new kinds of education
without leaving it to the private sector
like is there a different way for them
to do that it seems like there is well
that's what the charter schools were set
up to be originally I mean it's not you
know it's like it's not a theoretically
they're still public schools it's just a
question of what constraints are you're
going to put on these schools they get
public money and so they're the they're
not all run by private companies I mean
you know some are run by you know
universities some are run by just
consortiums of
educators you can have good prior
schools that are funded by the state
that are accountable to the state the
problem is is that too often they're set
up to have a lack of accountability but
there should be no for-profit schools
and and people should also be clear the
designation of for-profit doesn't mean
that people who aren't working here are
not making money it just means it was
shareholders means they're slaves but
don't know there is I mean there was
like near an in Holyoke they created a
Paulo Freire a charter school based on
his ideas for radical education and yeah
so it's not it's not of course and if
you and I do think it does Stan my
understanding is that as Massachusetts
is significantly well regulated and it
is a better performance and better
situation and it has at least in the
area where I grew up and it did bleed
into the public schools they started
what are you doing for arts programs
they started dealing with different
learning styles and cognitive diversity
better like it actually worked the way
it was supposed to because it was so
regulated and nonprofit and public
spirit driven speaking of slavery on
stage so it comes out you remember that
court case that Rand Paul was involved
in where he got beat up by his neighbor
being such a jerk or something I'm not
sure I don't know the details of this
and I'm this is not this is not you know
Judge Judy I don't care I believe there
was a leaf-raking dispute Judge Judy
he's dead on first principle it's
possible Rand Paul was upset because
this guy had hybrid peach trees and
thinks that's the way that our bodily
fluids are being are being drained from
us who knows but Rand Paul had a he's
got a lawsuit against his neighbor and
the Louisville courier-journal reported
that there was a revelation in these
papers about a surgery scheduled for a
week from now or so two weeks from now
January 21st
maybe maybe Paul was gonna be out of
town or something I don't know exactly
why it would be in these papers but and
the interesting about it is as you know
we have the greatest health care system
in the world
princes come from all around the world
come here to get their health care
however libertarians apparently go to
the socialized medicine mecca of Canada
when they need hernia surgery he is
headed to Canada to have surgery at the
the sholde i seeee hernia hospital which
i don't know exactly where in canada it
is but it is a it's gonna cost five to
eight thousand bucks he's gonna buy buy
it it's gonna pay for it because he's
not a Canadian citizen you can go in you
can pay for the services I imagine a
Canadian if they wanted to could go pay
for the services but if you were
Canadian it would be covered and oh I
guess the reason why I was in this thing
cuz it was related to the injuries you
suffered when he was beat up and it is a
privately owned Hospital right but
almost all of its work is done under
contract with the Ontario government in
Canada so in other words it runs under
the auspices of a single-payer system
privately owned hospital that is paid
for its services either by an individual
decides because he's coming from another
country because he's a libertarian and
only he wants to try some of this good
old socialized health insurance and the
system it supports it's going to pay for
himself
but if he was Canadian he could go to
that same hospital and the hospital
would take the money the payment from
the Ontario government because it
accepts Ontario's Hospital
insurance plan which is part of the
nation's public healthcare system
maybe it's like how Alex Jones smokes
pot once a year just to remember how bad
it is right I got a kippah where you're
gonna stay where now I will remind you
the disgusting part about this okay is
it's what it's all what Rand Paul is
doing because the employees at this
hospital say privately run hospital but
you understand they are paid
predominantly there are people like Rand
Paul will come in no pay but the vast
majority of the business they do is
accepting payments from the Canadian
government under their single-payer
system and we all know what these
doctors are they're not just doctors
they're not just Canadian doctors Rand
Paul will tell you what they are because
of the single-payer system with regard
to the idea of whether or not you have a
right to a health care you have to
realize what that implies it's not an
abstraction I'm a physician that means
you have a right to come to my house and
can script me means you believe in
slavery it means that you're going to
enslave not only me but the janitor at
my hospital the person who cleans my
office every we assistants who work in
my office the nurses if you have a right
to their services basically once you
imply a belief in a right to someone
services you have a right to plumbing do
you have a right to water do you have a
right to food you're basically saying
that you believe in slavery you're
saying you believe in taking and
extracting from another person our
founding documents were very clear about
this you have a right to pursue
happiness but there's no guarantee of
physical comfort there's no guarantee of
concrete items in order to give
something concrete or someone's surface
you got to take it from someone so
there's an implied threat of force if
I'm a physician in your community and
you say you have a right to health care
do you have a right to beat down my door
with the police escort me away and force
me to take care of you that's ultimately
what the right to free health care would
be if you now
now though it's
put aside the fact that the hypocrisy
involved in this right would be going to
the kidney because he's getting service
from people he believes are slaves he's
literally personally using he is
personally taking advantage of these
slaves but does that mean according to
Rand Paul if I have a right to property
but I can take any of your stuff I mean
if I have a right to property like I
mean does that mean that I can
necessarily conscript all your stuff
it's my is that right absolute that I
can actually force you to get I have a
right to property give me your bag it's
absurd this is like this it's just an
absurd construction well if he wants to
talk about slavery and coercion like
which does he think is more coercive a
system where everybody works a decent
amount and gets free health care that
they need as a form of social insurance
or a society where people have to work
like two jobs or they starve to death
and they don't know that they're gonna
have you don't have a right to food or
health care but the the the absurdity of
his argument is just that the idea that
people having a right to health care is
a right that necessarily has to be
fulfilled by specific individuals I mean
it's just absurd it's just absurd I have
a right to property and that obligates
the the state to defend property that is
mine that has been acquired by means in
which the state seems to be appropriate
I just appreciate that does not mean
that I have the right to go and take
your Puma shirt you guys right the
property that's just absurd I'll be so
funny well it surely starts the theft in
the wrong place right like when you talk
about he thinks that taxes are theft
right and you know most the majority of
taxes come from the wealthy and
corporations right I don't
numbers in front of me but that's a lot
of taxes but where does he think they
got that money in the first place well
they got it from exploiting other
people's labor yeah but I mean even
before that whose money is it well yeah
why does that money have you not yet the
right to take the dollars out of your
pocket and burn them you can get
arrested for that that's cuz it's not
your money remind me the next time I
light a spliff bro right I mean this is
just absurd the idea that this guy is
like you know responsible for for you
know such a significant portion of our
legislation right like you know as a
senator relative to everybody else
around us let me take a moment to the
fact that the Constitution actually and
the things like the Federalist Papers
are challenging and interesting and of
course problematic but also documents
that we can work with in some ways and
that the founding fathers were not
actually like if the Constitution
literally read like first principles
that anything that involves an
inconvenience upon me is that's the real
slavery by your logic like the
Constitution and the founding documents
gave everybody enough room and or even
having people who are like cool from the
beginning like Thomas Paine we're like
MLK could be like this is actually how
it is right but if they actually wrote
like that that would be a real bummer
well it's like we were contending the
Constitution but the Constitution really
was like a now a thought experiment
exactly it was a necessary step in human
development and I think capitalism was
an improvement over feudalism right the
bourgeois state being something that
arose with capitalism and upholds it and
there are some good things about liberal
values right we don't want to get rid of
freedom of speech we don't want to get
rid of all those good ideals that come
from the French right Liberte Galit a
fraternity we just want to like do a
better job at guaranteeing those rights
for real right next phase of you know
whatever we come up with Rand Paul as
Kunta Kinte
I will not treat you will doctor you
will your freedom is not yours you'll
give that boy inhaler I will not treat
the sick well I mean the according to
Rand Paul as soon as you say health care
is a right then what will happen is that
people will be mandated to go to they'll
be mandated to become doctors okay at
birth you will be determined based upon
you no matter the type of sci-fi movie
exactly go through leak he gets screened
and you're like you will be a doctor
people can go to your house at any time
of day anybody who works for you
including even doing this paperwork is
also constricted that's in the Medicare
for all it's in Bernie's bill it's like
this is also the surgeons or slaves
amendment so that in my opinion any time
you should have so much as a sniffle you
should be able to go to any goddamn
doctor's house do you want a problem
with libertarianism it's so
theoretically that they presume they
presume to that everything is going to
be to function along these sort of req
rigid lines so that that there is no
first of all there is no absolute right
in our in our society there's no one who
has absolute rights to anything like I
say don't have an absolute right to
property you some be property is yours
some property is mine state intervenes
to determine who legitimately owns it
thirty knew you weren't oh yeah wench
core you didn't come out of the boot you
didn't come out of the womb owning that
Puma sweat yes I did and even talking
about it is tantamount to slavery I'm a
United States Senator
it's think about that first no
they have a very limited understanding
of coercion well that's that's also true
that's that's the angle that I would
usually come at a right-wing libertarian
along because what they say that they
respect you know people's freedom to
make voluntary choices or you know
reject certain choices as the case may
be but
most people don't have that for you to
mind that whole thing is sort of like
this this manure baterry ness of like
the non-aggression principle right the
non-aggression principle says you cannot
touch me cause me pain by hitting me
with your fists so does that mean if you
have a laser can your laser do it can
you do the stick can you do it just by
if you have the ability to sort of like
what about like those audio what about
those those was that audio weapon that
they used at at no it's a kadhi park
they used these sound can sound cannons
or can you do it by taking away
somebody's health care well that's my
point is that like you know I'm going to
create a I'm going to collect all the
money and keep you from having any money
to pay for healthcare how's that yeah
it's the violence of the status quo that
they refuse to recognize I don't know
why maybe some of them are privileged
maybe they're just dumb I don't know
this girl this young girl has a
high-pitch fever and you will treat her
boy like it's struggling like the kid is
about to die and they're trying to force
the stethoscope it starts before that
she is sick now get sit down start
reading how to become a doctor you're
gonna stay here and you're gonna study
and then you're gonna do well on that
test then you're gonna start doing it
start surgery where you know it you're
gonna be goddamn brains we've got we
write nothing you can do about it
[Laughter]
press-gang people like a pirate gonna be
doctors just ship full of pirate doctors
tell you now there's an underground
railroad people out of Canada's I tell
you now boy you start cutting into that
Hansbrough
vixx's brain looks like that child right
now bring me the switch freedom let's go
to the phones come from an eight for
seven area code who's this where he come
from Josh from Chicago nice to hear you
again what's going on oh thanks for the
enthusiasm Sam oh my gosh yeah I wanted
to talk today you guys talked about that
stupid on the Navarro thing if you she
said she saw how Democrats need to
provide right love Journal in her
someone she can vote write it love juice
right love juices okay okay okay it's
very disturbing um I guess the thing
that I wanted to know from you guys
over the past few days I've gotten two
arguments with centrist Democrats mainly
about either their anti Bernie or they
don't think that the party should go
left
and I'm wondering even like progressives
who aren't nearly as left as I am do you
think that we need to sort of treating
some of these centrist in the same way
that we treat the Amin of our other
world even though they are technically
again on our side just because their
argument are essentially essentially for
Biden and other candidates are pretty
asinine and actually what what what's
the argument what's the argument that
that we need to have this to appeal to
yeah all right yeah yeah tell them show
me the data
yeah the data there was a there was a
there was a report done by data progress
just recently I think they did it it was
commissioned from by move on but
showed that people who ran and on the
policy of medicare-for-all
it in no way impacts
I think there's a perfectly legitimate
argument that running on
medicare-for-all won't necessarily
enhance electability I think there's a I
think there's a pin' to disagree with it
but I think there's an argument for it
but there is clearly no argument that
someone's going to be rejected by the
general population because and
particularly particularly swing voters
it's quite conceivable that your friends
will say well actually I'm against this
being so left and so I'm going to
agitate again it's going to impact my
vote but the but the the swing voters
they don't vote on ideology there is
nothing that they say they don't say
this is this this medicare-for-all I
don't I don't subscribe to that I'm not
voting for no the the people who won't
vote for medicare-for-all are the people
who aren't going to vote for Democrats
anyways those people in the middle they
are the last people to be concerned
about ideology not to mention all the
people who don't normally vote who could
hypothetically carry a candidate like
Bernie toupee sorry I don't even think
you need to to raise that in the context
of that argument but I think that's true
that it's conceivable at least you could
bring more people in to vote but there's
nobody on the sidelines going like I'm
only gonna vote to stop single-payer
there's nobody's like I've been
completely I don't pay attention to
politics I don't feel like it can do
anything for me that's why I don't vote
but if they're gonna go for single-payer
that's gonna motivate me to get out and
vote against it that's not gonna happen
it is conceivable I don't know that
there's necessarily hard evidence of
this but it is conceivable that someone
say like oh wait a second you're gonna
give me a material benefit and yeah
maybe I will vote that seems a lot more
can see
to me but there's no data to suggest
that there are people in the middle who
are voting based upon you know ideology
against ideology did you that's just not
that's just a fallacy it's just a
fallacy there weren't people who voted
against Hillary Clinton that voted for
Barack Obama because they felt that
Hillary Clinton was to the left
except for maybe based upon race there
are no good faith arguments against
single-payer at this point in time if
somebody is arguing against it they're
either a useful idiot to the right I
guess they're ignorant or they are
actively your enemy or they oppose
slavery I mean but but but but but more
to the point in terms of electability
there there's just simply you just gotta
say like where do you where do you get
what that's just what you're feeling
you're just talking about yourself
you're not talking about yeah you're
just like you're just like anybody who
claims that Joe Biden is more electable
because of his politics is talking out
of their ass you could say like well Joe
Biden has a much more likeable
personality if you wanted to and say and
that's why I think they could win that's
actually probably a more accurate
statement Infant people are saying like
people are really really pining for you
know a lack of a bankruptcy cramdown you
know that's the thing and it just
continuously shocks me because I think
sometimes like for those of us who
actually do have a more you know
ideological agenda in a good sense
we're like like I always say I think
Obama would have beat Trump and in some
ways that's hard for both for this whole
for both sides of the argument which I
don't I think is a false argument
anyways but people who focus on you know
Hillary lost cuz she's in corporatist
and you got a sure people on economic
issues which is true and then also the
massive upsurge of racism and so on
right and I think for both sides of that
equation it's difficult because Obama's
a centrist and he's african-american and
he would have beat Trump and the reason
he would it be Trump in my opinion is
because he's really frigging charismatic
and a great candidate and there's
another element of there's a lot of
evidence in the same way that a
see appeals to a lot of people outside
of you know who aren't necessarily as
left because she's just a really you
know likable appealing great politician
and like and frankly I I mean I have I
really don't like Joe Biden but I think
that's very sound they if you say yeah I
think people are looking for a prison
expansion and and you know anti consumer
protection laws of course not but can
Joe Biden maybe resonate with certain
kind of voters and good ways yes
I will also say though that in terms of
Obama and the race thing Obama had to
talk about race much less than Hillary
Clinton or did talk about race much less
than Hillary Clinton and that's you know
one of the things that came out to the
original question though as to whether
like a centrist dem at this point who
says they're not gonna vote for a
Democrat who supports single-payer or
Democrats shouldn't support single-payer
because people won't vote for it that
wasn't the question they are not that
different than Anna Navarro and if
you're gonna try to realign the party to
the left and include more quote-unquote
socialistic ideas it's gonna have to
shrink a little bit on the right and
those people can either like get with
the program and come along
bend the knee so to speak or they can
get out yeah but that wasn't the the
question was like are should we treat
these people differently than we treat
Anna Navarro well I think the point is
we shouldn't yes we shouldn't be going
and getting moving to get Anna Navarro
and Bill Kristol but the idea that you
need to have a more centrist candidate
to win is just not it's just simply not
there's no data to support that
yeah well he's saying like are these
people saying these arguments are they
better than Anna Navarro just because
they call themselves Democrats and I say
no okay yeah I'm okay I had one thing
though there was a poll reason that
showed 52% of in support Medicare for
all a high percentage of Republican
support Medicare for all and as we've
heard on the show from people who called
in a lot of former conservatives people
have
come to Jesus moments where they either
had problems with the American
healthcare system and realized that you
of a more progressive economic policy or
as my friend is a former Republican he
literally had to come to Jesus moment
where he woke up and it's all a
medicare-for-all supporting their left
mccr at and so because of the gillette
commercial what did what Josh
all right well listen yeah I get a jump
here but let me just say this you can
look at something that says Republicans
support Medicare for all fifty two
percent but when that starts becoming a
program that is presented by a Democrat
I bet you that number drops in half and
the same reason why Republicans support
the wall now twelve to fifteen percent
more than they do twelve months ago I
have to have a touch more I think
there's so much data suggests that if
you present a program and say no there's
no doubt about that just there's no
doubt about reality of our Paulette the
dynamics of a program that I mean it's
you know the reason that you'll
unfortunately probably be right about
that is just purely because of the trust
barrier but I think if you did it like a
real grassroots campaign on it and went
door to door and I can say anecdotally
like it wasn't that long but I did do a
day of for Medicaid expansion in Idaho
and when you yes and and they knew they
would I think that it was they would say
like I know you guys are left I know you
Democrats but you know what everybody
needs health care you're absolutely
right
and when it's as simple and as tangible
as that and with people who are a
credible messenger which is a Bernie
advantage and potentially a Warren
advantage it might flip those dynamics a
bit the I mean I think that's the point
when day and also said you know focus on
the issues because as soon as it starts
getting wrapped up in partisan politics
on some level it is it becomes
problematic and not just you know D or
are it's left or right I mean so that's
just the one of the realities of our I
mean for instance let's talk
about this this new I mean this is how
absurd our politics have become and
become is the wrong word I mean it's
been like this for for-4 for almost two
decades now at least maybe more but the
the centrality of this is also
fascinating and I think part of this is
because of the government shutdown right
now because in the absence of an
argument over policy and like you know
there doesn't seem to be any arguments
left right about the government shutdown
it's not until like I said earlier
people wealthier people start feeling
the pain will we hear the stories of the
the most marginal who are feeling the
pain so it's really a air travel but
right now and this is gonna seem bizarre
to a lot of you the right wing is up in
arms about this web ad for is it for
Gillette now you know how like that they
had that slogan Gillette is the best a
man can get well
Gillette has done a short film on
essentially toxic masculinity right that
which is I think it's you know it's a
it's a glib term but there is a a
problem when you have the overwhelming
number of mass shooters are male when
you have a tremendous amount of domestic
abuse perpetrated by males sure there
are examples of the opposite no doubt
that's not to diminish it when you have
the incredibly high incidence of of rape
and sexual harassment when you have
environments that are difficult for
women because of the attitudes of of men
there when you
you know all of this it's a problem for
society I understand it's not a problem
necessarily for all men it may not be a
problem for some women but as society as
a whole it's a problem and so a
corporation sees that they decide we're
going to take a position because it's
gonna help our sales I don't think that
Gillette is a particularly good company
because of this but yeah if you just by
Gillette just because of this you're
buying into a broader logic that's right
oblem but without saying no it's good I
don't think it's bad no be a message to
get out there right brands but very this
is a very dopeboyz cut it's it's it's
symbiotic it's a very dopeboyz
conversation and it's like you you
praised the brand for moving in the
right cultural space and forwarding
things but you also don't fall for the
bigger hustle of like oh well here's how
I've you know I don't even have to
praise the band I can just say you gotta
have something wrong with you if you're
upset about a Gillette commercial that
says men shouldn't be abusive to people
play this is this the best a man can get
is it we can't hide it's been going on
far now posit just explain what we just
saw we saw a kid a boy crying and the
implication is he'd been bullied bike
being called a freak and a
but whatever it was and then we see you
know some sitcoms that are you know the
joke is about a woman's ass or breasts
or something like that I mean stupid
stuff some stuff that we would just look
at is like just boy that is you got to
be moronic in this day and age to think
that's funny and or oh that's incredibly
cruel there are kids who are really
bullied in school and and certainly
bullying happens with girls without a
doubt I know this for a fact but again
the message here is hey we used to have
an image of our product that we think is
anachronistic and we want to update it
and we want to say that there are
certain things that maybe that that
concept of the best a man could get was
a little bit maybe a slightly
problematic or at least was not
aggressive enough and saying you know we
there's some responsibilities whatever
but continue
[Applause]
we can't laugh at all
what I actually think she's trying to
say making the same old excuses but
something finally change that's cool and
there will be no going back because we
we believe in the best in men man need
to hold other men accountable Oh sweetie
come on to say the right thing
to act the right way not cool not cool
Sami already are in ways big your men
and small I was wrong
[Music]
but some is not enough
we treat each other in there
because the boys watching today
we'll be the men of tomorrow disaster
well I wish that madman had gone far
enough into the future for a very old
Don Draper to have to deal with this
kind of advertising culture he would
have made the ad well yeah but you guys
feel very good alerted about it gotta
stop a blink I know this I don't like
this is I mean you look at this and the
the amount of outrage that has been I
mean I just like what possibly how could
you possibly get upset about that bad ad
if you love toxic masculinity I mean
honestly what do you say I am
it's inhibiting boys ability to beat
each other up at a at a barbecue well
according to a very smart YouTube
commenter all of you guys on this show
have actually been feminized by your
exposure to radical feminism so for that
I must apologize I do remember
Rush Limbaugh complaining about the fact
that people wearing pink ties it was
feminizing of course more aggressive
psychopathic boys they simply don't care
oh by the way I will be wearing a pink
tie at the TPMS live show on February 4
is that right yes I mean this isn't
right
Jordan a purpose no I it was the
wardrobe choice plan Rick before this in
fact you've planned out your wardrobe
choice yes Sam I'll take these and don't
bully me for it
you know what hey hey real problem with
that Gillette ad yeah hey that's not
what we do
hairy's would never never do anything
like that we don't boil you in this
office yeah a lot of time for a lot of
self-assessment around here
can we just hear a Donald Trump
pontificate on Louisiana Purchase like
what context was he talking about this
he's in New Orleans and he's getting
this speech he's talking about basically
you know trying to I guess in some
respects you know cover for the
government shutdown assuring farmers
don't worry help is on the way
except there it's not but here is he's
gonna explain to us about Louisiana
Purchase what he's reading this right
this is not extemporaneous not only did
we gain New Orleans we doubled the size
of the United States we secured new
parts and ports new parts of the map and
globe that we never thought that's what
happens right you've got this prepared
statement and we got we gained new ports
and then he realized like I sped parts
parts and ports parts of the country in
ports parts and parts so important so
important ports ports ports are places
where boats go back and forth in a port
here is talking about again getting lost
in his teleprompter in the same speech
talking about farmers you know trying to
explain to farmers why the wall is
important despite the fact that they're
not getting the slush fund that is
necessary because of his uh trade
barriers thank you as president the
defense of our nation is my highest and
most important duty
and this is the defense of our nation
just like we prepare for other nations
that you think more traditionally is
what that sentence refers to when it
comes to keeping the American people
safe I will never ever back down I
didn't need this fight this is a road
can we go back to the beginning is it
because he this is the problem it's like
he tries to go off the script and then
he just gets completely lost take it
again
thank you Thank You president the
defense of our nation is my highest and
most important duty and this is the
defense of our nation
just like we prepare for other nations
that you think more traditionally is
what that sentence refers to in fact
when it comes to keeping the American
people safe I will never ever back down
I didn't need this fight this is a rough
fight we're dealing against people who
think that if they can stop me from
building the wall again we've already
done a lot of work but they think that's
a good thing for 2020 because they're
not going to win they think if they can
stop me from building the wall that's
good this is the reason why they don't
want the wall built because they all
know it works they all approved it
numerous times I mean Chuck Schumer had
his hand up every time this would come
up the Senators know this they're only
doing this because of the 20/20 election
because I said I'll build the wall and
I'm gonna build the wall and it's only
one of many things that I promised I
mean if you look at I was able to make a
lot of promises
Mexico gonna pay for the got you the
biggest tax cut
beyond the Ronald Reagan tax cuts
Anwar getting rid of the individual
mandate the biggest cuts in regulations
in the history of our country and there
you go Wow well I mean part of it is
true
right like the Democrats did say the
Chuck and Nancy did say we need better
border security which was a real groaner
moment and that's why we need someone
like Bernie who can't be forced to own
the dumb things that didn't that the
Democrats have done or may be made to
look like a hypocrite by this idiot well
I don't know that Bernie wasn't on board
with that wouldn't have voted for that
deal had they made it last year daca and
whatnot I don't know he probably would
have but I think that's really important
actually to you know look there there
has to be a discourse on this that is in
between like a future utopian goal of no
borders and like cow telling to
Republican fascist talking points today
and I think that just like part of these
litmus tests could be like do you
support demilitarizing the border like
what kind of border are you actually
talking about is a major difference in
policy that I want to see all of them
start to different right but they also I
don't know I mean the reality is though
right now is that the the Republicans
control two-thirds of the the the
lawmaking ability and so the question is
what position do you take i I don't
agree with the the rhetoric of the
Democrats I think they need a have an
actual immigration policy that lands
somewhere rather than just sort of these
empty rhetoric anyways the American
public is you know I don't loop it this
way I don't think the Democratic Party
in saying that we're all for border
security is frankly too distant from the
the vast majority of the American public
I mean maybe you have polling that
shows that they're there the vast
majority of American public doesn't want
border security definitely not but I see
but could it be like polls on gun
control where most people if you like
the top layer is like oh I'm I'm
moderate or maybe even like conservative
on guns but if you actually go down and
specific proposals support maybe week
for what border security yet most
American most Americans on a border but
they want to protect daca do you think
there should be border security of
course I would imagine that that it
pulls somewhere around 75 to 85 percent
like core border security because that's
what Chuck said if you said the words
more border security I would imagine you
would get 75 to 85% also I mean I've
seen some polls where Americans are
generally supportive of immigration I
think they are generally in concert I
don't think they see a contradiction
there at all I mean it's certainly been
the process that we've had in this
country for the vast majority of it so I
don't think they see a contradiction in
I mean the reality is to expect the
Democratic Party to be more progressive
than you know at least in terms of
rhetoric then seventy five percent of
the country or whatever that figure is I
think is just you know it's that's it
would be nice I think a conch I mean I
think Democrats can be pushing that way
but I think they need an immigration
policy right and I think they could lead
a little bit by saying we're gonna have
without a doubt a strong secure blah
blah blah border the stuff you need to
say but we're also not gonna handle this
like it's not a military threat and
we're not gonna talk about it like a
military threat that's inaccurate right
and so on yeah and also we're gonna get
rid of ice because it serves no purpose
other than to terrorize population
any movement to get rid of ice it's
coming from the Democrats that's another
one that we got very clear about what
they mean by it right because they're
all saying it but then that's gonna
there's gonna be a lot of devil in the
details I think there's enough rhetoric
going on that in the event that there is
a Democratic president and a Democratic
House and Senate you're going to see
reforms and and to what extent those
were
forms happen.i we don't know but all
right lastly as we're talking about
Democrats this was this come up and of
course now there's a lot of stuff coming
up about Tulsi Gabbard now that she has
declared they're gonna fall this mayor
I'm gonna smear her by playing this
interview that she gave on NDTV what is
the NDTV Indian Indian TV yeah and this
is in 24 John don't give a about by
the way India now she's she's not gone
full well actually yeah now let me just
say this before there are people who are
really upset about us playing this video
and criticizing her position the first
thing you've got to think about is how
many times you have called or written
into the show or I am the show to
complain about what I have said about
Sam Harris's defense of torture because
the defense of torture the tulsi gabbard
offers here is identical to the one that
Sam Harris offered in 2004 identical in
fact it's almost the identical example
that she uses as to why it should be
justified also the popular television
program 24 also yes but here she is on
Indian TV in 2014 let me ask you in the
end as a soldier how do you respond to
the much-discussed
report on the CIA's use of torture and
and what what some americans have called
a blot on american values do you share
that opinion or as a soldier do you have
a very different perspective on the use
of torture very bluntly I'm conflicted
I'm conflicted on this report there are
I think the jury is still out on the
report itself there have been comments
that there are things missing or it was
incomplete and there there are differing
opinions on the report itself but I as I
think about it myself
positive incidentally there were really
no differ
opinions on the report in terms of did
it go too far in talking about rectal
feeding or did it go too far
in terms of how much people were
waterboarded or forced to stand on limbs
or you know had dogs sicked on them or
or whatnot there was there was the the
the report to the extent that there was
criticism of the report is that we
weren't allowed to see all of what
happened about it myself clearly we
would not like to see any human any
person around the world being treated
inhumanely on the other side I can also
understand that any of us if we're in a
situation where our family or our
community our state or our country is is
in a place where let's say in an hour a
nuclear bomb or an attack will go off
unless this information is found I
believe that if I were the President of
the United States that I would do
everything in my power to keep the
American people safe I posit for a
second oh here's the thing the scenario
she's talking about in the CIA report
they don't talk about that scenario
because there was never that scenario so
you can make up a scenario that has
never happened that cannot happen
because we can never know that we're an
hour away from a nuclear bomb going off
right unless um the the the guy from
Spectre has broadcast it because he
likes to brag to James Bond but we can
never know that and that was certainly
not the issue in in our torture of
people at Iraq in Iraq and here's the
other thing is that the president could
torture somebody if you want to torture
somebody as president you can torture
them but that doesn't mean that it
should be legal it should mean that if
you think you're saving the world from
nuclear catastrophe you make the
decision I
I'm going to subject myself to
prosecution after this or hope that when
everybody realized I've just saved half
the world from nuclear annihilation that
it was worth it then I'll be fine then
you make that decision I'll go out on a
limb and I will say that if that was
actually proven to me totally it would
pardon yes you probably I would I would
publicly advocate for that but if you
make it legal based upon a hypothetical
scenario which could exist at every time
right every single person you bring in
what if they know that the world's could
get blown up in an hour we won't know
until we torture them I have mixed minds
about this Specter is working on a lot
of programs as we know in Tardelli again
this is the exact same argument that I
had with Sam Harris's literally I think
it was entitled an apology for torch in
defense of torts or in defensive towards
an enemy torture program and if you said
it was Pro torture then you're taking
amount of content right of course
naturally I was president of the United
States that I would do everything in my
power to keep the American people safe
so this is this is an area that I have
conflicting feelings although of course
there are questions about whether
torture actually leads to the correct
intel right that debate carries on that
debate carries on there are those who
are in the position of conducting these
interrogations some who have said it
does well it does and others who have
said it doesn't yeah it doesn't carry on
gotta hear both sides you must hear both
sides it carries on yeah I mean that is
um she's the only Democratic candidate
that I'm aware of and it's not I mean
look obviously Clinton and Obama were
totally insufficient in terms of holding
Bush accountable by and that's probably
why we even have this conversation still
but I think she's the only Democrat
that's talking about running for
president that doesn't just have a
priori legal and moral you I opposed Joe
Joe Biden came out and said this
meltdown
can you imagine total No can you imagine
that there would be anybody who would
defend I know to be fair yes I could
imagine a certain type that would defend
him but those would be the same types
that you know some people that are
standing for her would say would be like
the pinnacle love you know sellout
corporate and they're right they are
and so you one should I mean I I would
say that you know torture would be one
that we that should be a pretty basic if
you have any type of remote claim to
humane politics this is gonna have to be
one that you you did there's no gray
area what's funny to me about all the
Tulsa backers is how like they never
never missed an opportunity to dunk on
Obama because of foreign policy things
like especially drones but they never
mention it with regards to like that
Tulsa is basically the same drone
position as Obama does you never anomaly
I mean yeah they never mentioned that
she's the same drone position and and
then that her only sort of real
objection to Obama was that he wasn't
like heating up the rhetoric in terms of
much you wouldn't say Muslim terror
Islamic right we had a problem with that
all right folks we've run out of time I
apologize I can't get to the phones we
have 28 people on hold apologies
didn't get to any I am so I guess but
here will I'll do 10 I am right now
starting with his guards Lake
can you explain explain to me why your
female buds Jeannine and Sarah can't
find any solidarity with the women louis
c.k has assaulted into harassed keep
making excuses for them it's like when
oj said i'm not black or i'm oj if
they're not women they're comedians or
is it just a natural tendency to do well
I mean I think both Sarah and Janine are
you know Sarah I think statement was was
was pretty good I think the idea being
that you know they're our friends and
they they probably don't feel that they
can be anything but biased in this
context I mean put those two responses
in the same basket at all
III do I wouldn't put them in the same
basket and I make allowances for Jeanine
because I think to a certain extent
her her perspective is informed by you
know the idea of having a society
aligned against you and I think you know
I've said many times that I think that
her experience in being one of the few
voices in the country to be publicly
anti-war and and and exposed to what
came back from that in the run-up to the
Iraq war I think has sort of informed
her her sense of empathy for for Louie I
also think that look look within the
comedy community the reality is that
people's understanding of these events
are informed by by by more than the New
York Times reporting that's the reality
to it and it's not just coming from
Louie I can tell you that and you know
I'm not gonna traffic in it it's not
relevant Lu in terms of you know there
are other people who have a different
sense of what happened at least in one
or two of those occasions nobody was in
the room but there were people who were
around shortly after that 10-15 years
ago and I you know so I don't know that
that's informing their perspective on
this he admitted to doing some bad stuff
what he admitted to well first of all
what he admitted to was his role in that
reporting the I can tell you that there
is a there is a sense amongst people
particularly with the Aspen event that
the roles of the other people involved
were not explicate Edyta same way so the
actions of one person seen in isolation
can look
worse than they might be if you don't
know the roles of the other people now
with that said look I I raised this just
as an explanation for maybe they're
right maybe they're wrong for you know
particularly for you know in Janine's
response I'm not trying to relitigate
you know what Louie did and I certainly
don't think that the way that he's come
back I mean people heard you know we
spoke about that the other day the way
that you know the his response to it I
think has been quite poor worse than
that but that's you know that's I'm just
talking about what people ask me why can
I explain it that would be my
explanation as to why that they've
responded that way but also like you
guys took a noble stance against the
Iraq war and you got yelled at and
savaged for it that's not really the
same thing as I don't know Louie or
maybe take a more clear-cut case like Al
Franken like people getting mad at them
for that it's not the same thing at all
and I hope that John is able to move
past that at some point well III don't
think that she will I mean I don't think
that I don't think that any that I mean
I was very in close proximity to that
and I don't think anybody can understand
what it's like to you know to be
attacked and depicted the way that she
was and so I offer a lot of allowances
for that people's perceptions of reality
can be deformed in a variety of ways and
it's just well I think her perception is
of capacity to feel empathy for when
you're completely isolated and she or
she has a friend who's going through
that and so that's what I think that is
I don't think that's necessarily you can
feel empathy without going on the
counter-attack though well I don't think
she was going
counter-attack somebody she was on a she
wasn't going on that podcast to defend
Louie and they were pressing her and she
responded she's not calculating it's not
her job to do that so I mean I think
that you know it's easy to judge from
your perspective and I have a different
one which I think is you know allows for
more allowances for Jeanine and that's
and you know that's that's just my
opinion on Colin from Nebraska Trump was
so happy last night not because he was
able to pay to feed Clemson football
team because the leftover 300 Happy Meal
toys to play with after they left the
Chris lapacho any thoughts on the alex
jones decision the judge has forced him
to hand over documents pertaining to his
coverage of Sandy Hook what do you think
they'll find I don't know I what kind of
doll what is he gonna say he didn't say
public I don't know what made the
documents would you generate like we
don't generate and then the third lock
we're gonna lie about Sandy Hook I just
want to tightly plant and in write again
that down we're going to lie around god
damn it we're going to lies out of my
sheet I don't I mean it's conceivable
that he writes like but I could tell you
if someone was to sort of subpoena all
our documents about our coverage of
anything here they would find nothing I
think the fact that you voted for Trump
would be embarrassing but I don't I
didn't write it down
split Specter hey guys just wanted to
give you a heads up that I'll be
subtweeting
a Rick Wilson retweet of an endorsement
of Joe Biden by Nicole Wallace around 3
p.m. Twitter's ever see TMR fans Oh Jay
did mention his wife's conflicted
interest in his Twitter feed but he
calls it by saying it does not engage in
advocacy according to one Twitter
comment his feed his wife's LinkedIn job
description says otherwise
love the show disco Stu was nice to see
Glenn Greenwald on Tucker Carlson last
night this time to join Tucker defending
Tulsi gabbard's such a good progressive
oh my yeah
I hope that's not the case is that right
hey that is sad they both hate Muslims
mid-july anytime anyone asks how we're
going to pay for any type of social
programs I'm going to tell them we're
going to socialize the oil industry and
watch them freak out Nick from Manitoba
looks like you could use a haircut there
bud you're starting to look like Raskin
the look of rodion romanovitch when he
confesses to his crime to the eccentric
the detective porphyry Petrovich Crime
and Punishment folks thank you train boy
regarding yesterday's interview I think
it would be very interesting if you went
around the table and each listed your
five favorite Pullman trains minor the
r46 the Superliner one the a CMU the M
1001 me M 1002 can't wait to hear your
picks I was sorry we are out of time it
was exactly the same ones lead me what
if Michael just needs to enunciate more
and more not a problem with his
microphone lesson lesson tears ball
scenario maybe moving to address the
Venezuelan refugee crisis soon the
government views Venezuela as they're
serious so expect absolute worst from
Brazil on this crisis ice concentration
camps times 10 a Alex from Ohio I
overheard two friends discussing Rogen's
podcast they were talking about how nice
it is to have a podcast that talks to
all sides without getting too political
once it said his favorite guest of
steven crowder the other says he likes
jordan Peterson it took all I had not to
say anything I'm a progressive in a sea
of red and since 2016 I try not them
awaits my time debating people because
it goes nowhere would the backlash
towards announced progressive running
for office I'm starting to give up hope
that anyone can win besides Bernie
we will I'm sorry we will cover this
more tonight but they've rejected
Theresa Mays brexit deal and might be
going to elections so that's a pretty
big deal a my Michael yesterday I
watched TYT talk about Tulsi what is it
what was the vote they rejected it it's
not happening
really getting intense they're very very
make-or-break in all senses hey Michael
yesterday I watched EBIT talk about
Tulsi Gabbard was disappointed that they
acted like her problems all happened
fifteen years ago any chance you can ask
Anna what she thinks have say Gabbard
not boycotting Netanyahu's speech to
Congress in 2015 when even Tim Kaine
didn't go we're gonna touch on it
Anna and I are gonna touch on it Clinton
Omaha Candice Owens is challenging a OSE
to a debate on Twitter any interest in
debating her Samer Michael sure Oh
Kenneth Owens yes dr. KSM Day would a
single-payer health care system help
stave off future government shutdowns I
know as an entitlement program payments
for care aren't subject to
appropriations in Congress but does that
also apply for their staffing you know I
don't know it's very hard to say because
it's just a question of what's deemed
necessary you know employees
babaganoush pee breaks sneaking up on
you is called an old man's bladder this
is from an old man I want you to know to
get used to it thank you I appreciate
that
and the final I am of the day can I read
one from train boy it's good I just read
it from train boy he has another one it
is the 100th anniversary of the murder
of the great left communist thinker Rosa
Luxemburg who really leaned in to her
Marxist political economy and made a big
difference in the world
terrain boy has sent it I am
commemorating it and he says in the
event you don't get to my call can you
please give a shout-out to Rosa
Luxemburg and a you to her murderer
who is not only walking free but
representing the state of Vermont in the
US Senate there you go all right and the
final IM of the day
[Music]
[Applause]
Adam Coquette sick Dave Rubin burns on
Twitter does he still support universal
health care and small government he's a
 lol see you tomorrow
in that
[Music]
Oh
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
