I want to get obviously to what's going
on in Michigan and well Michigan and in
Wisconsin we spoke to Ari Berman earlier
in the week and things have simply
progressed that on the same trajectory
but we'll get that in a moment let's
talk about the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau because this was up
until about two years ago considered by
many to be one of the most successful
agencies I don't know if in the history
of the US government but but certainly
in modern times and because because of
the way that it was financed right I
mean and personal tell us why yeah I
mean you mentioned the financing and
then and the point of that is that it
was not financed through congressional
appropriations so it couldn't be you
couldn't have the money spigot turned
off it was it was funded through the
Federal Reserve which guaranteed its
its resources I think more so the reason
that CFPB has been successful is because
of sort of the way the agency was
imagined this is an agency with a
mission that is entirely and singularly
to protect consumers previously these
laws that it has jurisdiction and
oversight over were put into agencies
that had other missions safety and
soundness of the banks things like that
and they were sort of at cross-purposes
with this mission of you know making
sure consumers are getting a fair shake
on these very important financial
transactions well he designed that way
on some level right that's sort of like
a like a mitigating like a built in
right like the the critique is built
into the into the product so you're
weighing that you know those two
missions and and and usually it comes
out on the side of the the group with
the most money right was power and
influence this was distributed
differently and was also staffed
differently I mean as you recall for the
first year
Elizabeth Warren was the person who
stood up this agency and she built the
organizational chart she created the
ways in which the priorities were were
made for this agency
she staffed the agency at the very
beginning a lot of those people are you
know we're still there through the first
term of Richard Cordray who was sort of
the hand-picked director and so all of
those things I think came together it
was seen as a new agency it was it was
vibrant it brought people in who had a
cub liqu service mission so there were a
lot of reasons why there were you know
it was set up for success and it was
successful to a degree I mean I don't
want to overstate it there were some
things I think that CFPB did where they
they kind of kept the powder dry pulled
the punches a little bit and rulemaking
but generally a successful agency until
last Thanksgiving when rich Cordray left
to unsuccessfully run for governor of
Ohio and Mick Mulvaney who was
moonlighting he was the director of he
was the White House budget director who
would come in three days a week to screw
up the CFPB much easier when you're
screwing something up it's much easier
to be a short-timer three days a week
and be like you know 9:00 to 3:00 banker
yeah exactly go out in the golf course
after you destroy this agency steel I
mean on some level I mean I don't want
to go off on a tangent here but on some
level that is the entire sort of
conservative project right if you get
into government destroy it and it's you
it's so hard to be incompetent at being
incompetent like I mean if you're not
quite though because I actually heard
from some people that Mulvaney
I mean we talked about Kathy crane
injure she's the woman who was confirmed
yesterday and how she has no consumer
protection experience whatsoever and
that's absolutely true but it's not like
Mulvaney did right I mean he was he was
a congressman he had no executive agency
experience before this he was a budget
director
that's a very different thing than
consumer financial protection I'm not
sure he was even on the Financial
Services Committee in Congress he was
certainly a critic of CFPB but that was
mainly because of you know who was
coming his office so he actually did not
know the mechanisms by which he could
particularly on rulemaking how he could
undo those rules so he would say to
people in the office hey I want to get
rid of this payday rule maybe like all
right and then they just kind of
wouldn't do it so on rulemaking it had
he has not been quite as successful
where Mulvaney was very successful is in
enforcement right and you know the
Washington Post this week put out a
pretty long article showing that
enforcement was down 75 percent it took
several months for any enforcement
actions to be brought by the agency and
you know there's this thing that the
Washington Post attributed to people at
the agency but I wrote it six months
earlier called the mill vanie discount
and the Mulvaney discount is these
various enforcement actions where there
would just be a reduction in the penalty
that's the easiest thing to do right you
guys that it comes on your desk and it's
like sign off on this 300 million dollar
penalty and you go you know what drop
this down to 25 yeah exactly and that's
exactly what was done on up till today
you know I was there an algorithm or it
was a teacher's picked a number he liked
you know I mean literally the percent
reduction literally they would say in
the enforcement documents that well
initially we wanted six million but the
we don't feel like this company that
ripped off people has the ability to pay
that so we're gonna drop it to two
hundred thousand I mean that's almost
verbatim in in some of these documents
going on up to yesterday you know the
day that crane injure gets confirmed
CFPB did an enforcement action against
State Farm Bank the insurance company
but they also have a bank and it was
about
credit reporting errors they would
report to credit reporting agencies
incorrect information about customers
well that's not a big deal for you to
get a reduced credit score right so much
for the house or the car that you wanted
or the loan fraud to help your kid go to
school or whatever it is so they
reported this incorrect information
never corrected it
we're delayed in in actually getting
that information out and finally
reversing it ruin credit scores and the
enforcement action and I'm not being
hyperbolic this was the enforcement
action promised not to do it again it
was zero dollars you have to do that in
writing or they just and writing that
compliance you know there's compliance
around not doing it again zero dollars
in fines zero dollars in restitution to
these people who had their credit scores
and and that was the enforcement so you
know I mean there's a sense that oak
Rangers coming and she has no experience
she's gonna ruin the agent it from what
I mean you know Vania is already well
really they do seem to have a scheme to
do this but but let me just also
interject the you from your perspective
right there's no punishment for that
agency but I think libertarian
philosophy tells us right that of course
consumers will stop going to that agency
because they did this to still go out of
a firm bet they will go out of business
right so you'll never see State Farm
commercials right State Farm before that
a business because why would people a
you know why would anybody use them if
it's doing it's the discipline of the
market what you're talking exactly
exactly so I just add I'm being
facetious
[Laughter]
there was a has 200 crane injure gets
confirmed yes
she obviously thanks to Susan Collins
woefully unqualified a 52-49 decision so
all Democrats voted against this and
only and I guess Thom Tillis was absent
yesterday for some reason her and
which means it was 50:49 so any one of
the Republicans could have voted the
other way and she would not have because
even if the Mike Pence came down to vote
right 50 50 49 it wouldn't have met mean
if Tillis is gone he's gonna break a tie
right okay okay so if it was 49 50 right
nomination fails now there is a sense
that it's not necessarily a good thing
that croninger has been confirmed but
consider the alternative so Mulvaney's
there in an interim capacity this is a
five-year term and it's independent of
who is in the White House so Krannert is
nominated is confirmed today December
2018 she it has a five-year term will be
there till December 2023 which means the
regardless of you know whoever gets
becomes president in 2020
that's so depressed Granger is allowed
to be that now she's you know there is a
attempt a possibility to do a for-cause
removal of the CFPB directly he's not
doing your job obviously never been done
before because it's a you know a new
agency but you know that's an option you
know if you have a president warren
maybe maybe she tries to do something
like that but it's a little dicey I mean
you don't know if that's going to happen
so but at the very least but but
president democrat who might win in 2020
will have the opportunity to appoint
someone as opposed to if this had gone
five years well but think about the
alternative so think about what if they
you know the courts decide well no you
can't this isn't a cause you can't fire
them so right now prey injures their
till December 2023 if they voted her
down and Mulvaney just stays there and
and does the the lack of enforcement
he's doing and they don't fill it until
the end of Trump's turn then it's five
you know it's another couple years out
right so there was a school of thought
that yeah let's confirm this person as
quick as
to get her out of there right it almost
would have been better to do this a year
ago because you just want to get it over
as quickly as possible instead of that's
a school thought but you know I mean you
can you can see it both ways okay let's
just before we move on to a different
topic Mick Mulvaney is saying that
according to the Charter essentially of
this agency yeah that it's name is not
really the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau it is the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection
yes now this is Rory this is nuts
so he wants to change it to reflect the
real name which is going to require all
of these companies financial entities
that file with the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to refile with the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
right and at a cost of somewhere around
300 million dollars there was it just to
be clear there was a CFPB report that
was put out to say what is the effect of
the name change both on the agency which
obviously has lots of forms and and
write and things and you know moving the
the B number from the beginning of the
end what's amazing about this is that
he's literally taking consumers and not
putting them first I mean that's
literally what he's doing by doing that
so so they did this report to show you
know how much is this going to cost the
agency and then how much is it going to
cost the firm's who then have to do all
these changes in their databases changes
in their compliance forms and things
like that and yes what they showed is
that it would cost the agency 19 million
dollars just to change the name and it
would cost regulated firms regulated by
the agency up to 300 million dollars and
the purpose of this is to show how bad
this agency is right like that it's
making people it's causing unnecessary
what you it'd there's a sense that
that's the point like it the point is
the cost 300 million dollars to show how
how silly it is but it there's also just
this like bizarre like well actually
what I found is that the they've been
naming it wrong these stupid liberals
have named it wrong this entire time
it's just bizarre um elizabeth warren's
bad at naming things but but I mean I
think the idea Mick Mulvaney is Mick is
not his name Mick is a nickname his name
is John Michael Mulvaney and he's saying
this is ridiculous that we're not using
the statutory real name but it's not but
it's not he's not doing this out of like
some type of OCD he's doing this because
they want to further create animosity
towards the agency and create an
argument that this is an agency that's
out of control and it's bad etc etc I
mean this is sort of like it seems to me
equivalent to the the way that a
Republican Congress deals with the
postal office right it's like you have
no control over what you're doing we're
going to impose upon you certain
obligations you're gonna have to pay out
you're gonna have to fully fund your
pensions system in your health care
system for a 75 year horizon to pay for
postal workers retirement for postal
workers aren't even born yet right it
has to be fully paid there's no other
entity maybe in the world that it that
that that imposes that requirement on
themselves or is imposed in it and it
doesn't give the Postal Service an
ability to deal with it it's just a way
to inhibit in any capital there's a
somewhat alternate point in that mauvais
knees argument has been that CFPB is out
of control
they have gone well beyond their
statutory objectives nobody's reading
the statutory language said me John
Michael Mulaney and they have they have
overreached beyond the legislative
intent so what he's really saying is you
have so ignored the legislative intent
of this agency that you dip you're not
even naming it right see here in this in
this language that you've never read
that it's wrong that the irony is that
the dodd-frank Act refers to the bureau
of consumer financial protection and
also refers to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau in different parts of
the statute
so there's CFPB sometimes and there's B
CFP as well
so you know under Mulvaney standard he
could not sort of for example the agency
is called CFPB in the context of putting
the director on the board of the FDIC so
under what Mulvaney's saying if it's
called the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection
he couldn't be on the FDIC board right
so if you're gonna be that literal right
exactly
all right well let's talk about
