we have a presidential election and one
of the guys who's been out there who has
been one of the billionaire's who's you
know been pushing their pret pet
projects he's a guy named Tom Steyer
who's been pushing a project frankly
that I feel pretty good about this is a
guy who used to be fighting climate
change quite a bit he started on the
pushing for impeachment Democrats have
been well entrenched in apparently the
establishment of the you know the
leadership has been deciding not to do
that so this guy decides he's gonna run
for president and he's committed to a
hundred million dollars of his own money
I cannot tell you how just enraging this
is I mean I you know like I don't think
very highly of billionaires period I
think that they should not exist frankly
in our society I don't care how people
spend their money although in this
instance I gotta say not only is this a
waste of a hundred million dollars it's
going to have a net negative effect on
the chances of Democrats making it
beating Donald Trump and I just I'm just
completely befuddled by this well I'm I
think I understand why he's doing it and
it's a stupid reason he's upset because
he saw the first debate
just one debate and he saw that they
didn't bring up impeachment and he feels
that climate change is getting short
shrift so he figures if he jumps in the
race and gets in the debates he'll be
the guy you know waving the flag for
impeachment and climate change and with
hizmet but you know I mean it money
isn't going to necessarily get him in I
mean he's got into these debates he's
got to show up in polling and he's got a
you know have a number of donors I think
the next one he's got to get a hundred
and thirty thousand something individual
donors but that's what I think his his
plan is and it's it's absurd and it
points up what you say these people have
too much money that's a ridiculous thing
for him to do and to assume and I'm just
extrapolating from you know various
things that I've read about what his
what his
you know purposes here but it it strikes
me as a you know someone with so much
money that he can say well I'll buy my
way into the presidential debates and
then everybody will hear what I have to
say about impeachment based upon the
idea that you know part of the problem
in the last debates listen nobody
brought it up you know the the moderator
didn't bring it up so you know it wasn't
I don't I I think we know that most of
those those candidates would have you
know given us strong you know support of
impeachment if it came up and talked
about it but it just didn't so you know
but I assume it will and in future
debates and that you know that'll get
talked about but for some reason he's
decided that he's got threw himself into
this thing and here's you know I mean we
don't need another billionaire amateur
to be in the White House we really don't
I mean if we vet you know it's funny in
rough Broderick died this week and you
know there were a lot of you know
retrospectives on him and you know I
mean he had you know a serious effect on
American politics you know he was
another one who came in you know
screaming about the deficit and yeah he
was kind of the pre Trump Trump in a lot
of ways although he you know sort of
appealed in image in to a narrower
affection than then Trump did but you
know this idea of these you know heroes
with their big bank accounts coming in
to save us all
you know from Stiers you know we should
I said Howard Schultz I mean you know
Bloomberg at least Bloomberg has a
little political experience but even so
you know this is just ridiculous let's
get this they don't get you know no I
mean you know here's the thing Tom
Steyer can be a hero he can take that
hundred million dollars and he could
turn to States he could take it he could
ensure you know practically insure you
know I don't know an election in in
Colorado or in Arizona like he could win
two states for the Democrats in the
Senate he could go rum in Winstead late
state legislators around the country if
he wants to be a hero be a hero this is
really just he might as well just take
that hundred million dollars and build
the gold
statue to himself and yeah I don't know
put it in Las Vegas I mean that that is
the the the value of what he's adding to
this although he's also going to
diminish I think the time that we get to
look at other candidates who have some
political experience I'm just I I it is
so aggravating and you know the idea uh
it's just one more example to of how
that much money puts you in you know
this is sort of the bookend with the the
Epstein thing right it's like they live
outside the law
they are policy failures in their very
existence but they live outside the law
they have no idea what's what seems to
be going around them because no one will
say no to them no one will point out
anything that doesn't enrich them you
know they're they're enablers around
them so they they corrupt everything
around them whether it's you know what
it would regardless of what the starting
point is and so there's a lot of
opportunity could Devine really needs to
spend a hundred million dollars you and
I could do an entire show on where that
money would be better spent but we don't
have the time for that in fact we're out
of time so a Digby until next week
always a pleasure
