[Music]
no I think he does say at the end though
he says he goes a loofah scrub he uses a
little for scrub on his brain he also
claims that old ben shapiro claims the
only jokes you can do or sex jokes now
if this is all a bunch of garbage I'm
sorry
he claims that the only jobs or sex
jokes or just left this commentary you
can watch our motto like he thinks
Maddow is a comic and then someone says
it's Jenny McCarthyism oh yeah hi this
is this is Rachel Maddow what do you
call a Vladimir Putin orchestrated
awesome all right I think I found I
think I found that operation here we go
around three story around three o'clock
tomorrow afternoon I'm gonna be doing
some yard work and if there's anybody
else in the crowd who wants to drive by
and it was like the beginning of the
mask or something where the eyes are
covered and that's now looking back at
that that's the hardest I've ever left
I've everything this is I was with the
convenient named Jeff Caesarea now I
look back on that I don't have any
choice in that I look back on it is it
like great moments in comedy no it's not
exactly deft but it was just so wrong
and the the equilibrium sounds very far
business but it just made me laugh my
ass off and I often think now all that's
dead Sam would be out of the business
that I so would Rickles I mean he's
pointing at a mechanics and lines and
claiming that nobody could do that line
today and then he also says pepperidge
farm Milano's as a reference to Alyssa
Milano I mean he's on the cutting edge
the cutting but but you know here's the
thing that is is if Rickles or Sam
Kinison were alive today their comedy
would be different like the idea that
that did they they're they're their
comedic brains had no sense of what was
going
around them at the time I mean I think
like you know you look back on don
rickles in the era he was doing it it
was a very different social scene he
also was a fun he was a mean I'm kind of
a biased towards him because I he was
hilarious he actually was hilarious and
anymore the world but he wasn't his
stuff if he was starting now he would
not be have the outdated molded ideas
like he was someone's like Archie Bunker
in a way but he was completely you know
not trying to be mean about it but he
would change ya know I mean there was
there was in that era there were taboos
about language that don't exist today in
right like today concepts exist the
taboos that are there are a function of
how they implicate other people they're
not a pretense right like the taboos on
language during that era right what that
Lenny Bruce spent a lot of time you know
dealing with had to do with trying to
convince people that certain things to
Gaslight people right like you know
Lenny Bruce did that famous n-word yeah
a bit and that was because he was
railing against he wasn't doing that
because he wanted to say that word he
was trying to do that because he's
saying like look this sentiment exists
out there and yeah and and this is the
reality we can you know by not saying
this word on stage we're trying to
pretend that there's no racism or that
this word isn't used but that there was
using the word
but-but-but rickles I think in many
respects was doing the same thing
he was also can it you also I'm sorry
interpret Kennison for example case I
mean I never saw chance in life but when
Tennyson was doing things like you know
why are these people in the desert you
know the problem with the people in the
desert they should move to the food I
mean that was social he was doing social
commentary and he absolutely would be
able to do that material today and
like Bill Hicks his image of who he
thinks Kennison is or image of all these
people are so distorted because he said
he doesn't remember when he was maybe
edgy for a day and a half when she was
at some point and it was also a function
of the time I mean frankly you know my
sense is and I am you know the older I
get the more I think this is the case is
that good comedy does not stand the test
of time very well in a way that that
drama does because so much of it is a
specific critique of the moment and of
you know there's some comedy that deals
with you know sort of like more about
you know sort of relationship you know
relational dynamics but that are you
know about emotions that exist through
time but but so much of good comedy in
the moment is that it's capturing the
moment and it's capturing what people
you know believe like a lot of the
industry reports that you have done 15
years ago you know unless you live
through that era right you wouldn't the
register you're not gonna mean anything
and you know I've been I see it even
with my you know with my own you know
the time capsules of comedy that in the
in the moment you know stuff that we
thought 20 or 30 years ago was gonna be
timeless just it's not it turns out well
for example I still every night say who
died made Jim Belushi a big star I say
that I said every night I don't think
people know Jimbo they'll know who Jim
Belushi or John Belushi is exactly I
don't enjoy this show exactly exactly I
think we got a little bit more on the
segment if we want to go for it let's
just do it
brickles I mean yeah I think Rickles
might get through because he was a
softie he had a good heart but Sam was
just playing Sam had a good heart videos
more malevolent I don't think either
those guys could work now and that's a
weird place to be in that starts gonna
ask you next is it that also standards
ed
which means they couldn't work now but
God could work now that's a weird place
to be in that starts gonna ask you next
is about the modern stamina fake voice I
can't believe it this bunch of you are
really a darling of the right
I can't imagine somebody who has left to
say even just to even provocatively say
something to insult me at least and what
do you think it is no comics today and I
felt good right Andy Kindler is a real
Fredo
the modern standards you know it seems
to me that we've actually returned to a
sort of Puritanism about comedy where if
the only jokes that you're allowed to
make are basically sex jokes all the
other jokes are out the window because
they realize the stereotypes or they
rely on observations about reality that
could be offensive to somebody sex is
inherently funny so you can make a sex
joke and get away with it I'm not
folding it in half for anybody six
inches I'm not only getting half for
anybody I love these big jokes I got a
dick I got a dick oh that's the only
thing get left I mean it is very good
sex is inherently funny oh I forgot Ben
Shapiro has the sexual awareness of a
junior high student that's my wife is a
doctor so he's as you can imagine it's
even more funny that way so every time
we have sex it's really a form playing
doctor I mean the judges write
themselves that sart's gonna ask you
next is about the modern standards you
know it seems to me that we've actually
returned to a sort of Puritanism about
comedy where if the only jokes that
you're allowed to make are basically sex
jokes all the other jokes are out the
window because they're relies on
stereotypes or they rely on observations
about reality that could be offensive to
somebody sex is inherently funny so you
can make a sex joke and get away with it
or you can just shock somebody by
cursing or saying something incredibly
lewd or vulgar but it seems like that's
it's either that or or you know
probing social commentary meaning just
left his social commentary you can watch
on Maddow so is there a future for
comedy in this in this world Maddow is
mad aus leftist social commentary that's
the only thing you can do what do you
want to do sex jokes what do you call a
Russian penis enlargement surgery you
know something's going to happen in this
country that's gonna uncap this pressure
it was the guys name ray Donovan where
do I go to get my reputation back or I
think there was a guy named Walsh who
one time said have you no shame
you know Hollywood's running the
tightest Torquemada type thing now it's
a it's not McCarthyism as a no it's like
Jenny McCarthyism yeah you can be you
can be kicked out in a second for saying
something wrong supposedly by the cool
kids that that makes me I never sought I
never thought I'd see that coming and
now I can't say how I see it going but I
do think there'll be some moment where
something is overplayed somebody has a
ranked it might almost happen with
Monica Lewinsky but she saved that dress
I mean when you look back on that people
always relax what he's kind of lied down
what is he like that it's just like
almost like everything that he had
planned yet to he's just trying to dump
it into the last couple of minutes of
the interview Maddie and blue dress the
end he says they says Ben Shapiro is
brilliant that's my favorite part we
don't need to watch that trouble yet
yeah well that was good nice and I say
to my wife is it time for another
physical I mean you could just see the
jokes just it's almost unfair you know I
mean I feel like we say this every time
but Dennis Miller just seems so tired
that it's almost like he's not providing
the energy that we need to mock him in
some ways and I find that a little bit
upsetting Benjy that is a little bit up
saying because if you watch this whole
hour Nate first of all the greatest
thing I've ever seen in my life is ben
shapiro right in the middle of an
interview he goes if you have problems
going to the post office well then you
can go to Stan's calm and
since uncommon is a place to go now
Dennis what do you think how'd you get
you start I mean it's literally he
turned it's a really is great it's
fantastic
hey do you have to hire people
zip recruit or hire people ship Rico not
Dennis well how did you first get a
sound I live we do a bench Bureau does
not seem to have like any sense of where
it's appropriate to do ads didn't he do
something didn't he do master March for
Life little Martha March I did there's a
genocide of babies and now that's why I
want to talk with you about a new
nutraceutical of the brain nutrients
remembering the right-wing guys are
always like advertised handy we like go
back to my PC you know like all this
genius stuff that the right-wing people
are saying they don't want to lose it so
we have a special memory stick oh my god
it was a quick it was for calm how close
the same is for comma sleep meditation
like the second leading cause of death
after the genocide of babies is stress
[Laughter]
fascism making a little jumpy if they're
jumpy because you're a fascist and maybe
you need to combat at night with some
herbal tea yeah so it's so caught it
come was the the ad read and then he did
a zip recruiter one two and then quip
actually pulled their sponsorship
because he read the other ones during it
so oh my god good for the wet good for
them good good for one day Andy
