[Music]
call from a 907 area code who's this
where he conquered me yes it is you
hello yeah
oh hey so I was wondering yeah you know
you guys just talking about this topic
um I caught the last part of the Supreme
Court discussion but did you discuss the
committee Halford piece on Sydney embers
and the New York Times no we should at
some point it's a really good piece yeah
so um it they just reran in Jacobin but
I was in fair or guerilla yeah no I read
the peano it so oh you read it yes so it
yet to me is a very well supported
critique of conflicts of interest with
Sydney embers who's whose father-in-law
is a is the CEO of Bain Capital right
and she was a former reporter for like
the coal industry and somehow just went
to the top of the New York Times you
know campaign reporters and she's
assigned to Bernie and um you know I
first heard about it when Diane Ravich
wrote about right you know her critique
of Bernie's charter school policy um but
it turns out that she's repeatedly
citing sources without disclosing that
they're like paid lobbyists and
think-tank guys and she's you know she's
putting down that they're like
Democratic strategists and whatnot and
you know they were called on this I
wrote a letter to the time saying we
have an ombudsman review but Sidney
amber just came out with another piece
covering Bernie Sanders yeah listen this
is not this is to be expected the New
York Times the last thing in the world
they want is Bernie Sanders to be prized
in the United States and and it's not
just in the New York Times I would say
the vast majority
of of media outlets are owned by very
wealthy people who someone like Bernie
Sanders strikes them as a as a threat
and they wouldn't have to put a Sidney
embers on the beat if they thought there
was actually legitimate critiques to be
made of Sanders I mean look you see this
you know the funny thing is like I will
be I I have seen people writers
academics go get up in arms with who the
New York Times will choose for a book
review okay it's like how can they have
this person choose this book of you when
that person doesn't know anything about
that academic field and or that person
has a bone to pick with this other
person or something like that and and
and people will be incensed by it but in
when it comes to political coverage
they'll take this basically this cub
reporter who has no experience as far as
I can tell in extreme analyst for Black
Rock and we in extensive political
coverage and they will basically say you
have the proper disposition to critique
Bernie Sanders but it is not a valid
critique because it is coming from the
very mindset and pedigree that Bernie
Sanders is the greatest threat to and I
will say that also represents a very
small portion of the electorate it's
also a reflection of just of the of the
cultural corollary of all of those
decades of inequality and accumulated
power because we know like everything
you said is true and we also know that
and this would never happen obviously
because of these same power dynamics but
at the times appointed somebody who was
a previously a labor union organizer and
in a staff writer for Jacobin and then
they got hired as a political reporter
for the New York Times and then they
were assigned to cover Joe Biden or
Kamala Harris that would be a national I
mean not a national but it would be a
regular
meltdown how can you hire this person
they're not credible their left-wing
they have a bias they have this
background there's still this notion
that if somebody has a business
background that's non-ideological right
and bias in fact going back to the
previously previous disingenuous
argument appreciate the cult I think
yeah this is really just a left-wing
smear job on the ember family including
Sydney's father screenwriter Matt ember
who wrote movies such as the Get Smart
remake and get smart Bruce and Lloyd
with a Bruce Lee and Will Ferrell and
home and failure to launch with Matthew
McConaughey because we can't yeah we
can't tolerate seeing the meritocracy
work and in yeah they are the worst
people and there's look 101 reasons not
to be a liberal
oh my realize horse
