[Music]
here is a Donald Trump in his press
conference with Theresa May I guess this
is from yesterday or two days ago
talking about his plan now remember his
plan as far as I know kicks in June 10th
he says that if Mexico does not stop
immigrants from entering its country
presumably so they can basically knock
on our door to get into our country then
he will levy a 5% tariff on Mexican
goods coming into this country which
will undoubtedly start off by hitting
people living in lower incomes
it will then ultimately impact
businesses that are selling to these
people because the product will jump by
5% and then he says every month after
that he's gonna raise it five percent
until it's 25 percent and it I don't
really have a sense frankly of what kind
of deprivation this is gonna cause to be
totally honest with you I do have a
sense that it will severely hurt
Republicans chances of maintaining the
Senate and so I need to do a little more
digging before I publicly advocate for
Donald Trump to do this it'll be
interesting to see as an experiment what
happens when the president has no idea
what he's talking about
but I imagine he will wriggle out of
this in some way but here he is talking
about how I don't know what he expects
Mexico to do basically build their own
wall shouldn't allow millions of people
to try and enter our country and they
could stop it very quickly and I think
they will and if they won't we're gonna
put tariffs on
and every month those tariffs go from 5%
to 10% to 15% to 20 and then to 25% and
what will happen then is all of those
companies that have left our country and
gone to Mexico are going to be coming
back to us
and that's okay that's okay but I think
Mexico will step up and do what they
should have been done and I don't want
to hear that Mexico is run by the
cartels and the drug lords and the
Coyotes I don't want to hear about that
a lot of people are saying that Mexico
has something to prove but I don't want
to hear that they're run by the cartels
you understand you report on it all the
time a lot of people do I would be a
terrible thing
Mexico should step up and stop this
onslaught this invasion into our country
John Wow
I love how he says like I don't want to
hear me say that they're run by cartels
and coyotes and what God's gonna say you
have an excellent opportunity to stop
having that experience it'll be
interesting to see if this works and how
he wriggles out of this if it doesn't
was it we said what was it Lord give me
the the strength to accept what I cannot
change and the courage to change what I
can there you go there you go dude you
apps also coyotes are not high in the
hierarchy yes that's just just a little
nitpicky of me here but I'm from the
derry-o Tea Party yeah I'm funny we're
part of the border smuggling group of
the top echelon hierarchy hi Mexican
cartel oligarchy how could wild dogs be
running a country
her campaign calls for hovercrafts for
everyone at the trying to get across the
border and for the digging of a huge
tunnel in an unnamed place that's our
campaign but remember when he thought
the Coyotes were literally like the
animal yes you should also help out I'm
low on lows trying to take on some of
these structures in Mexico which were
facilitated by the Merida Initiative
where we militarized the drug war there
in an unprecedented way he doesn't
that's not what I know Sam
I do know that Donald Trump is not
sincere I'm using that as a bridging
point to mention some other worthwhile
things apparently go about Mexico
meanwhile Mitch McConnell is also aware
of the dynamic I just expressed that
tariffs 5% on Mexican goods coming to
this country will hurt low-income people
first then will hurt businesses second
and third will hurt Republican senators
Mitch McConnell does not care about the
first set of people whatsoever only to
the extent that it might have
implications on some businesses and to
the extent that he cares about those
businesses I also genuinely believe
that's really just because it will
impact his ability to continue to jam a
pack the poor the courts with
right-wingers so here is Mitch McConnell
bravely standing up to Donald Trump and
saying please don't not much support in
my conference for tariffs that's for
sure but we appreciate the offer we had
an opportunity to lunch to talk to a
number of representatives from the White
House about this particular strategy I
think I can safely say most of us hope
that this Mexican delegation that's come
up here and discussed the challenges at
the border and what the Mexicans might
be able to do to help us more than they
have will be fruitful and that these
tariffs will not kick out now hold in a
lot to me it is Mitch is saying why
don't you guys hold some type of
conference at a Trump Tower property or
Trump property that might do it I mean
that's apparently the way that payday
lenders succeeded they just had their 1
million dollar conference at a trump
Trump Doral golf course
I mean Mitch McConnell is trying to
figure out a way that they can convince
the mad king to to not do this without
being seen as being against the Mad King
in any material way so which is why he's
talking about the Mexican delegation
Mitch McConnell is afraid of going a
head-to-head with Donald Trump because
he knows the Republican Party is Donald
Trump's party and it is helped Mitch
McConnell for decades control our court
system in this country but Mitch
McConnell fears that he may lose the
Senate if something like this happens
and they're stuck between a rock and a
hard place they cannot control Donald
Trump because their voters love Donald
Trump and this is the one area that
they're worried about business is
suffering so we'll see
