all right this is I don't what the the
race in Michigan is pretty tight too
isn't it people company need to get out
there and vote for Whitman look there
it's you know Georgia Florida Michigan
Wisconsin Ohio these are huge huge
governor races that Democrats have a
very good chance to pick up these would
all be pick ups and Minnesota seems
pretty safe right now these are hugely
important I mean I just can't I know
everybody listens this program is gonna
vote but make sure that you are aware of
at least a half a dozen other people
that you know are voting I just came up
with that metric I don't know what that
means but the gannets like pay it
forward but for vote exactly and in this
guy in Michigan Whitmore is a pretty
good candidate she's not she wasn't my
choice in the primary I don't vote there
of course but she's a pretty good
candidate and she's been endorsed by I
think Bernie came in and as also it was
heads campaign on her behalf I think but
she is running in in Michigan against
this guy Bill Schuette I don't know what
position he holds now but the idea that
a Republican could win the governorship
in Michigan is a certain disturbing
based upon what we've seen in the
Republican Party in the way that they
have treated some of these cities like a
flint and whatnot but he's the attorney
general the Attorney General and so
shoot on duty is his is his Twitter
handle which is just mmm and apparently
American Bridge which is a democratic
supporting PAC got a hold of video from
1989 it is it's unclear where where the
video is from
but it was some documentary or
industrial or we don't know but he is
being interviewed and the woman behind
the camera asked him could you move a
little bit closer to the what they call
in the business the practical that is a
light that was on in on camera and so he
shifts down and listen how creepy this
guy is not a flattering look for this
guy and I don't know let's make an
assessment of it afterwards I would be
happy to move closer to the land I will
do anything some things I may not let
you run the camera on I was certainly
happily
there's no easy task I admire your
tenacity
appreciate your spirit of Vincent van
Gogh
Rembrandt Toulouse Lautrec oh my god
that's that creepy creepy I can feel the
douche chills going all down my spine
right now it is unbelievable it almost
honestly it honestly like I feel like
you could just show this right into a an
episode of The Office and it would
totally fit in
except karela's character was slightly
less like evil or something like there's
nothing really it wasn't like the
unintended grossest of a doofus I like
how he tries to really impress her with
like first off she's saying I just want
to put you in a you know a good framing
and clearly the guy doesn't know any
film wrestling's not so so he instead he
said throws out like art history 101
then got toulouse-lautrec Oh move closer
to the light some message received
exactly they've been married for about
15 years now it was like a cross between
creepy like gonzo porn and Patrick
Bateman like a gonzo porn starring
Patrick Bateman who's who's Patrick babe
the guy from American Psycho but then
again that guy was actually pretty
smooth yeah you have a great sense of
nice on scene shoot that would have been
shoot looked like he was drunk off of
his own horniness yes exactly like I
can't believe how blood rushes away from
your brain I did what he did seem like
he was like high on a percocet or
something uh you know what I'm remind of
I forgot about this until we played the
clip this guy tried to position himself
though against Schneider in terms of
what happened in Flint of course he gave
well he gave some like press conferences
when that first broke about people going
to jail and stuff and I remember we
played it on the show we were like is
this guy really a Republican
that he would come out swinging this
hard on this so he's definitely I mean
this creepiness aside and apparently I
guess she's up nine points in a poll but
he's been ahead of the curve and trying
to do like I'm not like all the other
racist right criminal austerity
Republican I mean as a general does he
have any liability over what's been
going on in that state he doesn't well
he doesn't have lied I mean I think he's
brought charges against some people with
regards to Flint but he did not take it
to the top he implied in that clip that
he was gonna take it at Schneider back
then right well he does have a history
of coming out hard so god I appreciate
your sense of music really tonight oh so
tonight Brad Scott van guy I think he
that must be like a signal that I think
he was Woody Allen fans somebody it was
somebody should ask him if he's boofed
yet because I think he probably was boof
in right there - all right
