[Music]
this is they're from Baltimore Aaron
what's going on what's on your minds not
too much I just want to say love your
show
thanks miss oh love Jamie show aunty
father and I'm sorry Matt haven't
listened to the literary hangover ever
but I get by you know the house of Seven
Gables I'm gonna read that Wow hello why
don't you start with the show doing work
for huh versus getting so yeah that
sounds a little ambitious dude you start
by supplying over I got too many shows
you know all right
okay listen to all your shows I don't
know about that baby there's other shows
that I'm right in the rotation okay but
anyways go ahead yes sir what's on your
monitor I got got two things one real
quick just wanted to give a shout-out to
my friend Amy who helped start the
sunrise movement in Baltimore so we're
pushing for the green new deal and we
have so anyone in the Baltimore area
check us out on Facebook you know we're
going to be pushing our Congress members
next week to sign on to the green new
deal so awesome it's pretty cool yep
what's the other one - the other thing
I've watched the Empire files which
someone recommended on the chat one time
last week I think that's Adam are like
Abby Martin's show yeah yeah and so I
you know it looks to me like you know
the creation of the Constituent Assembly
there was an attempt to compromise and
all these things and obviously there's
an economic war where awareness in the
glory section you got to be specific
where oh yes sir oh sorry from the
United States I don't know oh you know
in oh well I'm sorry what consent well
okay what can you got a what constituent
assembly in assembly that was created in
like 2017 I think okay okay yep which
was viewed as like at the for the right
wing at you know Lula trying that was
sorry
as well Maduro trying to take over Notts
not the same dude okay so and yes and
there's been economic I don't know no no
problem there's been economic warfare
but what's the what so what's the really
like my point my point is you know and
I've heard you you've had some you say
there's some legitimate criticisms of
Maduro and I've been watching you know
the shows I haven't really heard you go
into that really so I would honestly go
into past archives I mean look I did
right yeah I'm not trying to remember
well last year I did an interview with
Ava Gallinger on this show that was much
more kind of fully fleshed out on
Venezuela and included some some very
robust I mean look the bottom line is is
under Chavez you have a complex historic
figure and what he did that was great
was he took oil that already was public
oil by the way then as well it made its
oil public sector well before Chavez and
he just came in and he did what you need
to do which is like you know what this
money's coming in and it's gonna instead
of going to the wealthy and the cronies
it's going to the poor and we're gonna
you know all the things you need to do
just redistribute wealth give people
health care education they did
incredible work on literacy and he also
had these experiments in direct
democracy and workers cooperatives now
my understanding of those is there
wasn't any quality control so those
things really depended it's like in
certain areas those things were enormous
successes and showed a path forward for
what democracy really should be and a
huge testament to the success of the
Bolivarian revolution in other areas it
just created different types of
patronage and corruption networks then
there's the bigger picture which is
there's actually features of the
Venezuelan state and it could be any
state in this case its Venezuelan that
uh you know favored incumbent political
parties that had patronage networks
military connections to cartels and
things like that
that weren't structurally changed by
Shabbos so frankly in the same way that
and I certainly I know more about Brazil
it would be impossible essentially to do
this but Lula and Dilma did amazing
things for people in the context of
accepting somebody innate corruption and
disparities of Brazilian oligarchy which
of course ended up striking back in
creating this counter coup against them
but they chose to make the calculation
of working inside the context to as best
they could of Brazilian oligarchy and
Western capital to achieve things for
people
I think shava is in a very different way
actually made some of the same
calculations and then by the time you
get to Maduro and and then Chavez I
think Chavez you know there's if you
read Ava Gallinger there's personnel
problems picking bad people staffing
things and predict all sorts of stuff to
get into the nuances of government and
then by the time you get to Maduro
taking over the intensity of the warfare
from the United States is at such a high
degree oil prices have plummeted and
these programs haven't been um you know
there hasn't been a kind of broader
economic diversification to keep money
and investment flowing in for these
things plus again you can never not
emphasize US economic warfare and coup
mongering and so you guys you have a guy
you know Maduro who it would take a
genius of unparalleled political talent
maybe a Shabbos to pull off that
balancing act and he hasn't been able to
and part of not being able to has been
some monetary schemes that totally don't
work and it ridiculous part of that has
definitely been increasing state
repression which was always I would say
was there to some extent during Chavez
but was lied about and exaggerated in
the United States and the last couple
years under Maduro it's become a lot
more real so yeah I mean and look the
bottom line is I don't you know you're
not coos and threats are not going to
support somebody in governing better but
so that's that's kind of like the top
line but I really I don't I think right
now in a coup context
it is not the time to emphasize the
failings of that government but they're
there you don't have to lie about them
or try from them yeah yeah I mean I get
a you know bigger better frame but yeah
thanks thinking Michael le Bret Lulla
leave ray there you go
