majority rum or good
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday October 15th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today we're
gonna talk bowling models predictions on
the night of the first debate not so
much for the primaries but for the
general election with the Rachel bid to
coffer assistant director at the of the
Watson Center for Public Policy also on
the program today it is debate night
with Iowa four months away this is the
most consequential of debates I think
that we've had meanwhile turns out john
bolton objected quite strenuously to the
ukraine pressure will he be the one who
gets trump impeached meanwhile feds
investigating rudy giuliani's business
dealings which apparently involve some
stuff in ukraine hot lina appropriate
stuff
Facebook pays a pittance in a private
settlement for destroying a wide swath
of journalism in this country Russians
in between Syrian and Turkish forces as
Syria makes a deal to fight with the
Kurds meanwhile Bernie releases a
massive corporate accountability plan
Mike Bloomberg remember him supposedly
having second thoughts about running for
president
meanwhile the Trump support of violent
video is even more disturbing than you
thought new report child leukemia drug
shortage a great argument to nationalize
some drug production all this and more
on today's program ladies and gentlemen
a lot of stuff going on today obviously
the the debate is happening tonight
gonna be a very consequential debate for
a number of reasons one Bernie Sanders
has to come out and show people and I
think there's some it's reflected in
some polls and other polls not people
concerned about voting for someone who
just had a heart attack but tonight I
think and for the rest of the week as
Sanders begins to go more and more
public I think the this will be very
consequential in showing people exactly
what kind of physical shape he's in also
I think we're gonna see BP Budaj
smells a little blood in the water with
Joe Biden is going to go strong it's
going to be interesting to see what
Warren does at this point as well I have
a feeling Warren and Bernie are just
gonna keep letting Joe Biden sink
there is a poll that is out today I I
don't know how well esteemed this this
poll is so I'm not gonna be too
congratulatory self-congratulatory
but I will just put a marker in there
because you know sometimes we wake up in
the morning Sun tells you over and over
again because you won't let him watch TV
that he hates you something like this
helps when you get into the office in
the most recent George Washington
University poll senator from
Massachusetts that would be Elizabeth
Warren leads the Democratic field is a
national thing uh 28% of the vote
Sanders second at 21% Biden at 18% if
you'll recall I don't know when this was
back early summer late spring I
suggested that by October ish Joe Biden
would be third in the polls this is the
first time that's happened now it could
be an outlier but I will take it and run
with it because that's what I need
ladies and gentlemen so forgive me sorry
sorry if you have a problem with that a
lot of stuff happening on the
impeachment front these were the two
weeks that we anticipated would take the
momentum out of the impeachment push
remember about I guess it was it two
weeks now it's been two weeks that after
Nancy Pelosi had announced that they
were going forward with an impeachment
inquiry she said and now we're gonna
take vacation for two weeks but the
committees have been working they have
been taking testimony all the stories
you're hearing about Bolton came out a
testimony that happened on Friday with
Fiona Hill well yesterday with Fiona
Hill who is the who was an advisor to
Donald Trump on Russia and basically
what she testified to as far as we know
is behind closed doors it's been
released by the committee some of it
John Bolton was basically telling her
that he's got nothing to do with the
rogue thing that Rudy Guiliani
Sunderland who was the EU Ambassador who
apparently had just said I'm in charge
of Ukraine now what and Mick Mulvaney at
one point John Bolton said I'm not
involved in this Giuliani Mulvaney drug
deal that they got going down in Ukraine
I think the the the implication was not
that they have a drug deal but that
they're they're up to something and
there's gonna be more testimony I will
give you a breakdown later in the show
but well I'll give it to you right now
today was the date that Giuliani and
pence were supposed to deliver documents
under subpoena it has already passed for
Mike Pompeo those will be articles of
impeachment I imagine as just prima
facie obstruction
Fiona Hoyle showed up yesterday today
George can't deputy assistant secretary
for Europe and Eurasia is scheduled to
appear for a closed-door deposition he
was a career diplomat at the State
Department who served in Ukraine from
2015 to 2018 tomorrow is it Matt
McKinley the guy who just resigned from
the State Department also a career
diplomat these are people who have no
allegiance to Mike Pompeo Michael
McKinley and then on Thursday Gordon
Sunland the former European Union
ambassador who just took control of
Ukraine for whatever reason will be will
appear for a closed-door deposition
Trump didn't want him to testify now he
is and apparently he's going to say you
remember someone's the one at the end of
the transcript
from the group text that I read I guess
it was about a week ago he was the one
who after Bill Taylor the former
ambassador to Ukraine said as we said on
the phone last night I think it's crazy
to withhold security assistance for help
with a political campaign that is Taylor
basically saying hey I just want to
reiterate what I said last night so that
when this is subpoenaed I'm okay and
then sunland said oh you're wearing a
wire or that's the subtext
he actually said no there's no quid pro
quo in fact Donald Trump told me there
was no quid pro quo here so there's no
quid pro quo as I've said anything else
you want to talk about we should talk
maybe in person in a park bench or
something well sunlen apparently is
gonna go with that line that he had
concerns but then Trump assured him
there was no quid pro quo and so this is
just happening all this week and a lot
of people wondering why they're just
doing private sessions a big reason is
you'd oppose these people and then you
bring them back for more testimony and
you can you can make sure that that
testimony lands so this is good stuff
good stuff we got a clip of Mike Pompeo
he had a run-in with a reporter from
what was it Tennessee I guess yeah he
got he got salami we'll get there and in
just a second but a reminder we spent
one third of your life in your sheets
don't you want them to be insanely
comfortable of course you do and frankly
I'm also in for the durability because I
like to keep my sheets for 10-15 years I
believe that it's true when I find
sheets I like I like to keep him Brooke
Lennon was named the best
of online betting by Good Housekeeping
it offers luxury sheets towels bedding
and more without the luxury markup and
they have over 20-plus colors and
patterns you can mix and match them
these sheets don't just feel great they
look great too and like I say they wear
great I have multiple sets of Brooklyn
and sheets and basically this is my
whole new thing now I used to buy like
crappy stuff every other year every year
and it's hair isn't it rips and it's not
good and it's not comfortable and then
you just sort of regret it now I buy
nice stuff but I don't have to spend the
luxury markup because Brooklyn and is
there's not as expensive is as like as
you'd pay in the the stores
I've got comforters I've got what do you
call those covers the duvet covers sheet
sets I look like a grown-up now in my
bed all grown up yep fully paid up
member race they're the most comfortable
sheets I've ever slept on their towels
are incredibly plush I couldn't
recommend them more for friends family
treating yourself on the upgrade you
deserve and now Brooklyn and dot-com is
giving an exclusive offer just for my
listeners get 10% off and free shipping
when you use the promo code majority at
Brooklyn and dot-com they're so
confident in their product all their
sheets their comforters that towels come
with a lifetime warranty only way to get
10% off and free shipping is to use the
promo code majority at Brooklyn in calm
that's Brooklyn and be our ook line2
code majority Brooklyn and these are the
best sheets ever as you know everybody
in this office gearing up maybe for our
language challenge we still bring in it
well babel will be the motor behind that
challenge they can get you speaking a
new language quickly and with confidence
you can
choose from 14 different languages
Spanish Portuguese French Italian
Russian that six there's eight war
babbles teaching method and speech
recognition technology has been proven
effective across multiple studies and
the lessons are created by over a
hundred language experts we're talking
real human beings not algorithms not
translation machines lessons are
engaging they're convenient they last
only about 10 to 15 minutes you can use
it across all of your platforms your app
your phone your iPad your put your your
tablet computer doesn't matter that it's
interactive terms of the dialogues so
you can perfect your pronunciation and
accent we're gonna go we're gonna go for
it in this office I want to learn
Spanish I know that's probably the
easiest one of the languages to learn I
would offer to help you but it's a
contest exactly I don't need your help
we're gonna go head-to-head on this what
does the Winter Garden is about war not
about collapsing I'll tell you what you
get you get the ability to speak a
second language Brendan I'm not doing
anything I'm not underlying for anything
I'm not even buying anybody a cola
because you listen to this show babel
has a very special offer for you you can
go to babble comm select a language of
your choice once you try for free and
you're ready to sign up you select the
three month option babble
slide you an extra three months for free
it's a two-for-one deal promo code
majority that's six months for the cost
of three with promo code majority go to
babble ba BB e Elcom and two promo code
majority babble speak a new language
with confidence and lastly how you spend
your time what you listen to is totally
within your control but your personal
information that's a totally different
story when you shop when you bank when
you browse online fit would you answer
your email sometimes your personal
information gets out there you can lose
control of it exposing you to
cybercrime you've all heard the stories
of people losing their identity it is a
complete nightmare thankfully there's
Norton 360 with life lock to help you
get back in the sense of control and
protect yourself and your personal
information it's an all-in-one
membership for your cyber safety it
gives you device security identity theft
protection and a VPN for online privacy
and more if there's any identity theft
related problem they have agents who
will work to fix it now of course no one
can prevent all cybercrime and identity
theft
but Norton's 360 with life lock is a
powerful ally to help protect you in
today's connected world
look I've been using the service now I
feel for like a year what I had to
change apartments I get a little notice
somebody's doing a credit check on me
when I got like a credit card at the
coles get a 25% discount I couldn't
avoid it boom I get a text alert telling
me that somebody's signing up for a
credit card
well it's me I don't have to panic I go
in I check my credit scores I'm nervous
about it I'm nervous about having
identity theft and it is incredibly
reassuring to to go to LifeLock and see
like okay everything seems to be fine
and to know that in the event that worst
case scenario happens they have people
who will help me resolve it you can sign
up today for a norton 360 with life lock
membership and as our listeners you're
gonna save 25% or more off your first
year at Norton comm slash majority
that's norton dot-com slash majority for
25% off check it out Norton comm slash
majority all right let's play this let's
play this one clip and this is Mike
Pompeo he goes to Tennessee
now when you're the Secretary of State
you go into Tennessee and you're given
an interview for a local reporter you're
just like oh this is this is a this is a
freebie this is just me getting out
there putting out the president's pin
presidents can be you know president
won't see it but they'll be happy well
you know my people send it in to to the
White House press thing and just know
that okay we're talking to you know
Tennessee's our peeps and we're not
getting getting into this impeachment
stuff this is gonna be easy for me to go
out there and then whoops
Pompeyo meets up with what's the name of
this reporter do we know again Nancy a
man's eye I feel like relative to what
we see with the national media I feel
like she deserves a peel answer for this
in mid-february you were in Warsaw and
so was Rudy Giuliani during your time
there did you meet with Giuliani you
know I don't talk about who I meet with
I went to Warsaw for a particular
purpose it was an important mission we
brought together people all across the
world to take down the world's largest
state sponsor of terror the Islamic
Republic of Iran that's what I work done
on that mission so you're not going to
say whether you met with him so when I
was in Warsaw had a singular focus my
focus was singly on the work that we
have done effective work to recover from
what the Obama administration has done
which was to underwrite the world's
largest state sponsor of terror we've
stopped that and we're making real
progress it sounds like you're not gonna
say when I was in Warsaw we were working
diligently to accomplish the mission to
take down the terror regime that's
inside the Islamic Republic a run that's
what I worked on it was the only thing
that I engaged in why I asked him about
text messages that showed diplomats
under his authority told the Ukrainians
that a good relationship with President
Trump was only possible if they
investigated his political opponent and
were you aware that this was happening
you know again you've got your facts
wrong sounds like you're working at
least in part for the Democratic
National Committee another question I
asked the secretary about the
resignation yesterday of one of his
senior advisors Michael McKinley
the secretary said it was a personnel
matter and he wasn't going to discuss it
Nancy Haman's news 4 she annihilated oh
my god oh wow that was great you men all
he's got is Iran thirst yeah that's all
he's got nope I mean he looked like he
was at that first time it he just looked
at her he looked like he had been just
hit with a two-by-four you're part of
the Democratic National Committee shut
up these people really are so disgusting
all right we're gonna take a yeah I mean
what what what's important about this
clip is that if you're a local reporter
in Tennessee you're thinking this is the
story now this is in Tennessee and
you're thinking this is the story
impeachment and I'm gonna do a deep dive
here that's this is the that's the glue
they put the entire seven minutes online
but that clip was the one that they ran
on TV and when she's asking him about
stuff directly involving impeachment
with Giuliani and that exchange between
Sunland and Bill Taylor uh that means
this is getting this is like seeping
through in now don't get too excited
because of course most of the places
just have fox news and what is it the
sinclair media but for her to do this in
tennessee i think suggests that things
are leaking on the good ship trump and
we're gonna talk to can i just say it's
a really quick this is the type of thing
if it's easy you know if you have a
minute - her a little email or a note
because i have no doubt that the people
who do take the you know Mike Pompeo is
nonsense about her seriously they are
sending the station messages and she she
got feedback from people who appreciate
her journalism and it was probably like
a pro Trump news director there - I
would do that I'd send a nice thank you
for the interview know that just thanks
for the good work yep we're gonna talk
to Rachel bit to Cofer assistant
director Watson Center for Public Policy
in just a moment about that 2020 race
and some Senate races House races all
that and more just a I don't you get you
in the mood back in these sort of like
electoral mood with the debate coming up
tonight which incidentally we will be
doing live coverage of so you can check
us out tonight 8:00 p.m.
probably 7:45 will probably start the
car platform well we're not sure yet
we're gonna be either on Twitch or right
on the majority report page so we're
still working on it so you will check
that out don't forget you can support
the show by becoming a member at join
the majori report.com be right back
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
dad
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
and that was intellectual dark waves
rendition of cold feet song they have
written about steven crowder the only
good IDW folks there you are
the intellectual dark wave next up it's
pleasure to welcome to the program
someone who I think is the only female
elections forecaster as far as I know
you know sort of a professional in in in
our politics today she is the assistant
director of the Wasson Center for Public
Policy
Rachel bida Cofer welcome to the program
yeah well thank you so much for having
me all right so now Rachel you are known
and you came to my attention I think it
was said you know I mean I think I may
have been following you on Twitter but
I'm not I'm not sure but I saw an
interview I think in in salon and we're
with Paul Rosenberg and you were the
first to predict the the blue wave in
the 2018 election and by predict I mean
not sitting in a bar well maybe you were
in a bar but not sitting in a bar and
just sort of like throwing it off but
you actually had a a model that
anticipated it that's correct and you
know not just he anticipated it in a
term of various probabilities I mean
really just specifically said Democrats
are gonna pick up about 40 seats and I
did it about four months before Election
Day in 2018 so I mean let's talk about
this this this you know the paradigm
that you're basing this off that you
were basing this off of and you know and
then I want to go back and look at it at
some misconceptions that people have
about 2016 and I want to talk about the
model how it impacts 2020 but but what
was it that you saw four months out that
led you to be able to predict it down to
almost the number of pickups yeah I'm
really glad that you're framing it that
way because the model the forecasts the
seat share to me you think those things
are PI products really they're they're
not the sexy part of what's going on
what's driving my research and I think
what the meat of the research is about
is it really it's a it's a theory of
electoral behavior updated for the
polarized era that we live in where a
lot of our election commentary just has
not moved on since the 1990s
polarization has affected profoundly our
institutions
I mean look no further than the election
of Donald Trump and the dysfunction I
mean we're basically you know minutes
away from institutional failure right
now so we know that our courts are
polarized our Congress is polarized we
see mass polarization and public opinion
data emerging in the late 2000s and yet
our election consultants want to pretend
that people are voting and behaving at
the polls in the same old same old way
and what I was arguing for what I argue
with my election theory is really a
gigantic paradigm shift and so one of
the reasons it took you a long time to
find out about my research after the
election I predicted was that it is
pushing back on these long-held
conventional wisdoms and status quo and
even after it performed well it a lot of
people especially you know the I guess
the main stream election Twitter people
I have a really hard time letting go
this idea that you know elections are
going to hinge on candidate qualities
and on fundraising and pulling and all
of these things that I'm arguing no no
the only thing that matters is
partisanship partisanship has always
been important aren't regions but now
well I just wanted even more important
okay yeah I'm interrupt interrupt but
but but when you say they're using a
paradigm from the 90s let's just focus
on what that paradigm was I think people
don't
I I think on some level people aren't
even conscious of that as a paradigm as
opposed to just like the way things are
like I don't like you know that there
there is no that there I think it's it's
become such commonplace a wisdom and you
know because of course I talked to I
mean 90% of the time I'm out and about
people just ask me about the election
all the time and this is a foregone
conclusion that about the electorate and
about what what candidates need to do
let's start with what the the
assumptions were about the electorate in
terms of like who was gettable or what
you know who could vote for whom that's
everything ya know that's probably a
good idea I should I should clarify
exactly what this paradigm is arguing
and you know so people can understand
you know what I'm arguing why it's so
radical and so what I'm saying is all
right the assumptions that you're
talking about are about who how you win
elections you win elections because
there's this chunk of people in the
middle who are independents they're
pretty much the same people each elects
election the way that you appeal to them
is by you know out moderating the other
side and and serving up a more moderate
or a more attractive candidate and these
people will swing your way right there
for you know the way to maximize your
probability of winning is giving a
candidate that is going to be
unobtrusive and digestible right and
that really the electorate is rational
they're reasonable they can be persuaded
that the arguments going to matter and
that you know ultimately at the end of
the day if your candidate is better
you're going to be able to go out there
and win over this pool of you know
reasonable persuadable individuals
definitely the those people were people
that I guess the the conventional wisdom
was they sometimes they vote for
Republicans sometimes they vote for a
Democrat they just they vote for the one
that they think I mean just
there they're just open-minded I mean
did we know these people supposedly as
independence I mean how did how did we
talk about these people we talk about
them as independence and there's a
couple of key points here number when we
talk about them as a big group more than
30 percent of the electorate and that is
wrong because most independents are what
we call leaners they lean to the
Republicans or they lean to the
Democrats and leaners behave just like
partisans they vote like partisans they
have issue preferences like partisans so
the kind of person that you're
describing where they might vote for a
Republican in one cycle or vote for a
Democrat and another it's not that those
people don't exist about 10% of the
overall electorate would fall into that
pure independent category but when you
parse those people out in terms of how
much of the vote share in say a state
like Wisconsin they would make up it'd
be about five percent and then you think
about the fact that their vote would
probably break no worse than 60/40 so
that 5% divided into 60/40 you can see
that it's not insignificant but it's not
as cataclysmic or as important as it
might be made out and here's the other
thing that never gets discussed the
swing of Independence in my research I
show is oh is a product of turnout surge
in decline of different independence
showing up and leaving the electorate so
it's not just the same fixed pool of
people who change their mind a lot of
the reason that independents look like
they go with the Democrats one time and
the Republicans the other time is
because different independents are
showing up in different cycles okay so
now that and that last part is is
different from so let's distinguish just
this idea of independence from swing
voters right because you're saying that
there there are nationally speaking 10%
of the voters are swing voters but in
the key states where it really makes a
difference where there's going to be
contested it's 5% more more like 5% and
that generally the the
the swing voters still end up breaking
almost you know you know at best 6040 to
one side or another so the the the
marginal difference the return on
investment in going after these people
is limited by you know five percent of
the electorate and then only you know
twenty percent of that a twenty percent
difference amongst that five percent so
the return on investment is small and
that's deep exactly and I want to and I
want to add one more thing to your
mathematical equation there the other
thing I argue too is that swing that
sixty verses before D ya is also is also
highly predictable because it's going to
be sixty against whatever parties in
power almost every time when you look
back through the data that pure
independent is going to break against
the status quo almost every time because
these people are non-ideological they're
not particularly passionate about either
side that's why their independence and
they almost always hate the status quo
whatever it might be at the time so
really I mean what you're talking about
is in a in a state that is a key state
you're talking about one percent of the
vote is up for grabs in to the extent
that it's up for grabs it really isn't
it's almost predetermined on some level
because it's just a function of what
what party is out of power exactly and
and what and what I'm arguing is that
although you don't want to ignore that
that little group I mean you're gonna
give it some resource and attention you
sure as hell would not want to build
your entire campaign strategy around it
and the turnout might you know we
haven't gotten to this part yet but the
big innovation of my electoral theory is
it's the elections are decided much more
on turnout surge and decline so when we
look at who's been winning and losing
and these giant swings that we've seen
in Congress those are not swings of an
affixed pool of voters who have turned
against the Democrats because of
Obamacare or turned against the
Republicans because of Trump
it's a story of different voters
entering and exiting the electorate
turned on or off by something I you know
that the literature and political
science calls negative partisanship okay
and this is and and and the and and the
key one of the key dynamics between the
two groups that we've just talked about
appears to be that you can invest in one
to the detriment of I mean to sort of
like the negative investment in the
other is that is that basically the the
story there that if I if I invest in
that one percent say in Wisconsin to try
and win them I risk alienating the other
greater percentage of people that I may
have access to who you know who are
motivated by negative partisanship right
and it's going to be conditional on the
electoral context so in 2020 no matter
how poor the Democratic strategy is
there will be a natural surge because
people are terrified and I talk about
this in my forecasting work in 2018 and
the 2020 version you know the elector is
going to show up even if it's given a
lump of coal to inspire @pi okay but in
a it would in a normal cycle it could be
disastrous yes if especially in in a you
know let's say we live in a post Trump
world a Democratic president that 2022
cycle in which Democrats run the same
electoral strategies they ran in those
forty House races where they avoided
talking about national issues and they
focused on this persuasion door-knocking
and they they didn't really do anything
to stimulate turnout the turnout came
because it's naturally stimulated but
without a natural stimulator and no
effort on the Democratic side to
stimulate it they would have a very
rough 2022 cycle okay my theory all
right well let's go back and then look
at the 2018 so you've told us basically
that your model is based upon this No
of negative negative partisanship and
that really for for all intents and
purposes aside from that small
percentage of pure swing voters you're
really dealing with definite definite
Democratic partisans definite Republican
partisans and then lean Democratic
partisans and lean Republican partisans
and those two lean groups as it were it
really is just a question of what's
going to bring them out and any given
cycle is that it it is although there
are many strong like in the voter file
if you don't have state partisan
registration you get a propensity score
for voters there are many strong
Democrats people who would have a strong
Democratic score who do not show up to
vote okay so it's not just these lean
owners that are needing the activation
there are many many players the
Democratic Party leaves on the side of
the field due to their inferior campaign
messaging and strategic efforts in
campaigning but yes we're talking about
on the margins you know these these
independents who lean left who are not
going to come out to vote unless they
either a are naturally terrified as they
are right now or be are given some kind
of inspiration to show up so think about
Obama the to Obama presidencies when you
look at what happened in them in 2020
2008 was a little different because
number one we were coming out of bush
for you know eight years and there was a
recession right a giant economic
collapse to be clear and so Obama
carried the vote of independence in that
cycle but in 2012 he actually lost
independent voters right he didn't carry
a majority of the independent vote but
he won the election and the reason why
is that his personal appeal was and his
his campaign like strategy focused on
turnout enough were turnout overwhelmed
that independent loss right so it's very
very very important to get those voter
that are not committed to voting every
election to show up so the other way
I've heard people describe this and you
tell me if this is accurate that we are
well there's two theories right about
how you run an election one is
persuasion and the other one is
mobilization and it to the extent that
you're that that can be applied to your
your paradigm your theory it is that we
are in living in an era where it's more
about mobilization than it is persuasion
yeah well number one it's never right or
okay because we don't live in a world of
black and white we live in a world of
nuance so it's never either/or and I
always want to make that clear but in in
the Democratic playbook now there is a
massive under investment in mobilizing
and turning out Democratic voters people
who would cast ballots for Democrats if
they could be gotten to the polls
Latinos african-americans Millennials
people like that and if Democrats simply
focused more resources on turning out
those voters they would win elections in
a lot of places they aren't winning now
I mean Texas for example has had the
demographics necessary to flip for a
long time the only thing missing is the
massive investment they would need to
spend and money in terms of Latino
turnout the same story in Florida wise
Florida
falling apart it's because the party is
not spending the money on on
mobilization of Latino especially
millennial more Latino voters okay so
when we look at 2018 who are the type of
candidates you know you you've expressed
that if in a different political climate
where there wasn't such I guess
naturally organically accruing negative
partisanship in other words people hate
Trump or be or like you know those who
are in even lean Democratic hate Trump
enough that they don't need the
Democrats to come and say get out and
vote there
they're motivated highly motivated to
vote to the extent that you there there
was a difference in terms of like
candidacies across the board to the
extent that you're aware of them like
who who did poorly or who didn't take
enough advantage of that not you don't
have to tell me specific names I mean
you can't if there are but I mean what
what how would you characterize the
campaigns that should have done better
than they did let's put it that way and
didn't because they pursued a certain
tact well sure I mean a really great and
Handy example is the North Carolina nine
special election and I tweet about this
election quite a bit I just put out a
thread on it a couple of days ago in
North Carolina nine they ran the
conventional Democratic playbook there
they ran dan McCready's advertisements
and direct mailers you know hid
basically the fact that he was a
Democrat most of them were seemed on his
military service and the the goal or the
idea was they were going to win that
election by compelling some moderate
Republicans to cross over but the
reality is because we have these low
turnout elections even at the highest
turnout we have low turnout elections
even in a place like North Carolina nine
that has about a six or seven point
advantage for Republicans in that
district there was enough suburban and
urban population for a turnout surge for
Democrats to flip that district all they
needed to do was really focus on turning
out the 2018 regular election voters
again right and instead but they were
worried about focusing on those voters
would turn off these potential moderate
Republican recruits that they thought
they could get to flip over and vote for
them so that's you know they avoided
anything that might excite Democrats in
their pursuit of these you know
mysterious Republicans that were going
to defect meanwhile on the other side
Republicans they do nothing but
mobilization strategy basically I think
it's very little consuella
pain technique coming out of the
Republican Party and the night before
the election they sent Donald Trump into
the district to remind voters there hey
there's an election you don't know who
Dan Bishop is you don't care about Dan
bishop
but he's a friend of Trump and by voting
for him you're helping Trump that is
good enough for the average voter right
so instead of bringing in you know
Michelle Obama to stump for the Democrat
or maybe Stacey Abrams or somebody like
that to increase especially enthusiasm
amongst those critical black voters in
that district the Democrats basically
ran what I call the apologetic
Democratic strategy mccr at strategy
where they tried to pretend Dan McReady
was not a Democrat and the natural surge
was almost enough still to overcome that
the turnout surged but it would have
been enough if they had tapped into that
fright element and really you know went
and tried to get Democrats excited to
vote but 80,000 people less voted in the
2019 special than in the 2018 general
and they lost in that in that 80,000
vote drop-off more Democrats dropped off
than Republicans and so and to be clear
in 2018 there was Republicans had a
great turnout
it's just that Democrats had an even
greater turnout yes and in fact I have a
voter file analysis that I have been
talking about for months so my long-term
followers are probably like banging
their head on the desk but I promise
waiting is going to be good I got nerd
famous and I had access to more data so
I've expanded the analysis but what I
show in that number one is yes
Democratic turnout in these in these 40
districts that flipped exploded I mean
it's a huge huge increases and the
turnout changed dramatically the
composition of the districts so that
they became you know younger less white
more female and thus more democratic
okay and so instead of being you know
38% Republican and 32% Democratic like
they were in 2014 they became 38%
Democratic and 36
sent Republican and the independent
turnout surged to going up from like 20%
to you know 25 so it it the turnout
surged flip those districts but here's
the key point in every single district
that I've analyzed thus far Republicans
turnout still exceeded Democratic
turnout there is not one district yet
out of the districts that I've analyzed
in which Democrats outperformed
Republicans in terms of percent
registered turnout and in the districts
where they ran Blue Dog Democrats the
turnout appreciably declined or lagged
compared to regular Democrats so like a
Blue Dog paid basically a 10-point
turnout penalty amongst partisan
Democrats and gained absolutely nothing
in terms of turnout for Republicans the
turnout for Republicans was the same no
wait a second I'm confused in the you
said in the in the districts that they
won you still had more Republicans
turnout than Democrats but that has that
that means that some of those
Republicans voted for Democrats no no no
because the margins that the Democratic
candidates carried those districts by my
data will show this when it drops it
will show like you know take example
California
25 okay that's Katie Hills district in
Orange County all right that district
had like a 30 percent turnout in 2014 it
went to 60 percent in 2018 and it was
you know more Republican and then it
went to more like you know you're
talking about let me just clarify you're
saying that the increase in turnout
Republicans actually had a higher
increase in turnout but because there
were more Democrats the smaller increase
in turnout actually meant more votes no
actually but what I'm trying to say is
proportionally Democrats had much larger
increases because they had much more
room to improve the Republicans did
return when we talked about turnout
declining generally a Republican turnout
is better than Democratic turnout but
because
Democrats and independents turnout for
both of those groups surged and broke
for the Democratic candidates that was
able to overcome the fact that there
that the turnout for Republicans was
high I see so it was actually the
independents but we know that those
independents they say they're
independent in terms of their
registration but they they usually if
they're gonna vote they usually vote one
way or the other is that and this is the
point about them they are different
independents and the ones that were
showing up in the 2014 midterms and
casting ballots for Republicans I see
these are entirely different voters I
see okay okay that makes sense so so you
had in all of these seats you still had
you had a greater turnout for
Republicans than Democrats but the
independents made the difference and
these this this huge this wasn't huge
but this pool of independence different
independents are motivated in different
political contexts --is and and that's
the key there you need to get those
Democratic leaners to come out and vote
in any given sight
okay yes and I don't have a way to show
this quantitatively in the data but the
argument I make is look this turnout
surged among independents and the
turnout surged among Democrats right
this these independents urge these have
to be left-leaning Democrats because and
the definitely left leaning no leaning
independent yeah and there's no way that
in in the the surges are so large
amongst independents and Democrats that
the Republicans could have surged and
had their votes go to these Democrats
because the margins that these Democrats
carry the districts by some of them are
larger than others but none of them are
large large okay they're pretty narrow
margins so they couldn't have been
winning you know with big surges and
democratic and independent turnout and
been taking over chunks of
higher-than-normal chunks of crossover
voting it's just not mathematically
possible so the the story in these
districts were that the Republicans were
able to maximum
they're voters but there just happened
to be more people both Democrat both who
identify as into as democratic and
independent and those independents are
sort of like a fixed group within
themselves that were motivated by
essentially hatred for Trump yes and
they would not tell you that right so if
you ask Nancy Pelosi or Cheri Bustos how
did you guys win these 40 House seats
they will tell you they won by focusing
on health care and cajoling moderate
disaffected Republicans to join hands
with Democrats and flip these seeds and
I am Telling You that I have access to
the voter files in five key key states
and the districts that are you know of
these forty in those states and I have
looked at and I've even looked at all of
them but I've looked at a pretty big
chunk and that is not the story that the
data tells story that the data tells is
completely opposite says those districts
flipped because of turnout surges of
Democrats and left-leaning independence
and furthermore the Blue Dog Democrats
the handful that ran as you know blue
Blue Dog Democrats the turnout for
Democratic persons in those specific
districts lag other Democratic turnout
margins by about ten points so they not
only didn't get Republicans to stay home
because that's the point right is to not
rile up the other side and not get them
to show up and vote against you not only
did they not do that but they also
uninspired their own voters in an
immeasurable quantifiable way and I'm
the best to put this analysis in the
national newspaper okay and that's so
that's the that's the the dilemma when
you start fishing in in in in the in the
Republicans pond essentially or you'd
you're not even fishing for votes as
much as you are saying like hey no
reason for you to come out here because
there's just no stakes for you what
you're also communicating is to your own
people there's no stakes and no reason
for you to come out and you
your own people theoretically your own
more than you need to depress the other
ones because the other ones you can't
control to depress because now it's part
of that also like how much of this and
maybe you can't tell this from your work
maybe this outside yours or your
portfolio but do do Republicans and
Democrats and you know Democratic
leaners who identify as independents and
Republican leaders who identify as
independents did they respond to the
same type of stimulus so here's the
thing
Democrats rely a lot on focus group
material in which they have asked voters
you know are you do you want this
election to campaign to be about Trump
and the voters of course say no so if
you ask voters you know is your vote
about Trump or about bigger things
voters are going to tell you no and you
know it's it's really actually quite
absurd and I'm also a pollster I do
polling so this is gonna sound really
funny coming from a person who does
pulling but the laughs if you want to
know how people behave the last way to
find out is to ask them how they behave
because people have no idea what drives
their behavior and no one's gonna admit
that I'm you know they're driven by
animalistic emotions basically okay so
Republicans understand this so they run
all of their messaging is on negative
emotions everything's really
nationalized so you know the ads that
they ran in North Carolina nine tide Dan
McReady to the squad and it tied Dan
McReady to Bernie Sanders yeah they
brought Trump in to remind people hey
you're voting for this guy is a way to
support Trump Democrats do we don't know
how democratic voters would respond in a
competitive environment to stimulus like
that because no one has tried it yet
the closest thing we have is Stacy
Abrams and to a lesser extent bado one
point
in Texas but really Stacey Abrams and
she did like the back half of what I'm
talking about in terms of because it's
not just issue positions it's about
where you put the resources what kind of
doors are you going to knock so you know
why are ten points
you know Democrat Democratic turnout
lagging ten points in those blue dog
death searches and probably not just
because they're you know taking these
modest issue positions it's also because
they're GOTV focused heavily on these
persuasion bucket doors and didn't spend
as much time knocking on high propensity
Democratic doors right so that's the
difference right there and okay so let's
just I want to go back to 2016 before we
get to 2020 Donald Trump wins the
election by winning Michigan by was
eleven thousand and Wisconsin by twenty
two and Pennsylvania by forty thousand
those you may know more specific numbers
but I think that's pretty I do I wrote a
whole book on it so well there you go
all right
so what's the story there I mean what
what happened in the and and and there's
I mean I contend that there's about
twelve different reasons why Hillary
Clinton lost that election that may have
been but fours but but in terms of the
voters who showed up or didn't show up
or motivate like what the the story that
we're told is that it's the white
working-class and those sort of Rust
Belt II states there that according to
you is not true no and I'm gonna tell
you what happened and I want you to
understand I'm not passing judgment upon
you or anybody who's listening to the
show and I want them to listen to my
whole spiel before they respond okay so
I wrote a book on what happened and I am
looking specifically at the role of
defection voting or you might call it
protest balloting in the 2016 election
and the reason I focus on that is that
the so-called Nader 2000 election in
Florida for you know Ralph Nader took a
ton of heat because though you know
people wrote in Nader and it cost
goroh Florida and therefore we got
George Bush right that election Nader
took about one and a half percent of the
Florida vote in 2016 in Wisconsin for
example six point three two percent of
the vote went to protest balloting
that's an astounding amount of vote for
the polarized era to not go to one of
the two party nominees okay and in the
book and this is true from all three of
the Midwestern states it's true down in
Florida it's true although across the
u.s. the modal or mean defection rate is
in the five five percent range and so
what I argue in my book is is a product
of the strategic choice made by the
Clinton campaign the campaign not the
candidate and that choice was based on
this outdated assumption of the
electorate in which you know hey the
Republican Party has nominated a crazy
baboon who is completely incompetent and
shouldn't be within 400 feet of the
White House and so therefore we're going
to nominate as our vice president this
guy from Virginia who has this jovial
reputation of bipartisan appeal because
it is our belief that we can get these
moderate Republicans to come and vote
for her
if we don't offend them with our running
mate pic and we make an appeal to them
okay and thus we call this the
persuasion pick right and that's the
campaign's entire strategy if you look
at how they ran and if you read my book
I walk you through specifically you know
how the persuasion strategy manifests
people are like why didn't Clinton talk
about the issues Clinton didn't talk
about the issues because they were
running a persuasion strategy from
beginning to end in which they believed
they could get a small chunk of
Republicans a you know slightly bigger
than normal in the polarized era chunk
to come over and vote for her because
the other option was a crazy madman you
know just absolutely unfit guy for
office and so they were trying
not to key people to think about the
issues and they were you know touting
Tim Kaine who was just mr. aw gosh you
know all Shox okay and that ended up
being the critical mistake that they
made because what they should have done
is picked somebody like Elizabeth Warren
or sherrod Brown or somebody with some
populist appeal because the Bernie Kratz
were upset and being in power for eight
years you tend to get a little bit more
picky than when you've been out of power
right and if she had just done that if
she had picked somebody that was
appetizing to the people who had their
hearts broken by the Sanders loss then
probably that defection rate on the Left
would have been cut at least in half and
she'd be sitting in the White House even
with you know the decline in
african-american turnout or what have
you if she had picked a base
mobilization VP pick the entire strategy
would have been different too right they
would have been focused much more on the
turnout and-and-and the realities of the
polarized era so that's what I argue in
the book I put the blame not on the
voter who could cast protest ballots and
I want to make that clear I put the
blame on the campaign who ran what I
argue was the perfect execution of the
wrong electoral strategy and this is not
a time period in which the opposition
party is going to come over and vote for
you in case in point in Alabama 97 90
percent of self-identified Republicans
voted to send a serial pedophile to the
Senate because he had an or next to his
name last year you know we are living in
a time period in which persuasion of the
other party is not going to happen and
and you have to recognize the electoral
realities that you're living in and you
know understand too that if you want
people to show up for you
in an election you have to give them
inspiration
you can't run as if you are embarrassed
about your own
party and ideology and you can say what
you want about Republicans and
conservatism but you will never see a
Republican candidate on the stump who is
embarrassed to be a Republican all right
I mean that you just never see that on
the stump yet the Democratic Party has
adapted or adopted this kind of standard
version of moderation which is
inherently flawed because it picks up
from it's very basic premise this idea
that there's something inherently wrong
with economic liberalism right and if
your argument is boy there's something
wrong with me and your opponent's
argument is the same thing you're doomed
from the moment that you leave the gate
so that's what happened in 2016 and of
course when I wrote the book I didn't
know that the Russian propaganda that
was put out was specifically targeted on
Facebook to people who were Bernie
Sanders supporters trying to get them to
defect from Clinton and I didn't know
that they specifically targeted black
voters to get them to not show up and
vote and of course we also have all of
the rosy polling that we had in those
state-level polls in Wisconsin and
Michigan
so I say in my forecast Donald Trump
2016 victory really is a perfect storm
of things that had to all go a certain
way for it to happen and that's why I'm
extremely doubtful that such a thing
could happen twice and and and I guess
maybe I don't know if it's even a
conversation that you know based upon
the work that you do that you engage in
I have a theory about the the the the
search for that electorate in that
persuasion was was really a function of
trying to fashion a victory of a
specific coalition of people because
they wanted to you know this gets back
to Chuck Schumer saying you know for
every every blue-collar person we lose
in Pittsburgh we're gonna get two in the
Philly suburbs or something to that
effect tonight I think they wanted to do
a whole infrastructure tax repatriation
tax deal that Schumer was bragging about
and they wanted to protect Paul Ryan on
some level and then fashion their
electorate but that's maybe a different
question for a different day so let me
ask you two I have two other sort of
like big things I'm I think your your
opinion about what you know Trump's
chances in 2020 is what it is I want to
ask you know if there's how a how
Democrats could lose that B what's
happening in the Senate 2020 but let's
start with impeachment it seems to me
from based upon what your theory is that
impeachment would be very helpful for
the Democrats because that will
nationalize all of these races which
seems to be key and impeachment and of
itself is inherently negative
partisanship you're such a good student
Sam I knew you would be yeah so I mean
definitely right and I mean of course
Democratic I mean if you follow me on
Twitter you know I am a deeply critical
person about strategy on the Democratic
side and you know they boggled bungled
the first go at a you know the Russia
and Muller report stuff but here in this
second go with the Ukraine scandal it is
so cut and dry the you know the
president's conduct is just so egregious
and the evidence is just so clear that
even Democrats couldn't couldn't mess up
this one so they went with the
impeachment inquiry and the politics
they thought you know at the time gosh
this is unfortunate we have to go and do
our jobs now because we're worried this
is going to be bad for us electoral II
but the politics little do they know are
actually great for them as you just
pointed out is the best thing that could
have happened to them because it will
excite Democratic voters and especially
the part when we get to the airing of
the evidence and then the Senate
Republicans say yeah too bad we're gonna
just give him a free pass because that
is really going to anger
a lot of people and that anger is going
to be you know absolutely you know a
wonderful thing for Democrats electoral
II and it's you know the Senate they do
need a big boost in the Senate you know
I have Colorado and I haven't put on my
rankings yet and I'll put them out after
the first of the year but I've been
pretty vocal that I thought I think
Colorado is definitely going to flip and
that mean is pretty pretty looking
pretty good for Democrats as well but
we'll have a better sense about Iowa and
North Carolina and Arizona based on what
we see in terms of the turnout in these
Democratic primaries Iowa caucus if we
see something similar to 2008 or ideally
above you know if I was Joni Ernst I
would start to get pretty nervous and I
think we're gonna see some behavior or
changes
she's already nervous she's already yeah
yeah right I mean she came out she's
come out and said like I think the call
was inappropriate like she's she's she's
starting to sound like Susan Collins on
some love she is and wait till December
like 24th or something when the filing
deadline for the primary passes and
you're gonna hear a lot more nerves from
Tillis and the crowd there oh so okay
just to be clear so people understand
what you've just said once the
Republicans get out of a get into a safe
harbor where they don't feel they can be
primary or they know they can't be
primary because the filing papers aren't
there then they're gonna attacked hard
to the center but they're gonna have
this but but theoretically I mean if
your your theory holds true and it works
both ways that's not going to help them
that's going to hurt them with their
base yeah I mean it's not gonna help
them but they're gonna do it anyway
because what else can you do
right you know I mean that's what I
would expect them to do but ultimately
at the end of the day do I think that
they're going to vote to convict Donald
Trump despite the glaring obvious you
know excruciating ly bad details that
are going to be laid out by that time I
just I can't get there so I'm assuming
what's going to happen
is that they're going to have to
rubber-stamp this really atrocious
behavior and the reaction from the
regular American voter is going to be
you know it's good people are not going
to be pleased with that
I will bet that Mitch McConnell will not
make them take a vote I know he said
they have to have a vote but I think
that when that when it comes to the
Senate I think he's going to say Oh
Congress didn't do they didn't they're
supposed to do a special dance when they
send the bill over and they didn't and
so therefore no vote I mean he's going
to come up with some reason not that I
know that's a pretty good guess because
I mean I just cannot see a scenario in
which that is a winning moment for the
GOP in the Senate No okay so we still
need to see what turnout is before you
give a cent you have a sense of whether
the Democrats can or will take the
Senate in 2020
what would it take for a Democrat to
lose the presidential election in this
environment belief I think I think it
would take the party apparatus not
believing in their nominee yeah because
we know when we think about like a lot
of this research that oh you know
extremists don't do as well in elections
one number one we don't get a lot of
extremists that win the nomination in
general competitive environments but we
do see terror Eastman last year in the
2018 cycle was one candidate who the DNC
did not get did to get their preferred
to pick in the primary and so she went
on into the general and they did not
support her robustly and once the party
doesn't support somebody so all of the
tertiary organizations take that as a
sign and so your fundraising is really
difficult you know EMILY's List and and
all of the organizations that take their
cues from the from the d-trip so her
fundraising prospects were were cut off
a lot and she still came within one
point of flipping that kansas district
if they had just spent the money
entrusted by demi I didn't know about my
Deanna but
they entrusted my data and seen my data
and spent the money and let the
demographics speak for themselves rather
than the nominee they would have picked
up that 41st seat there in Kansas you
know so it's really important that the
party believe in the nominee I think so
but that said I see in my forecast that
I think that you know it really doesn't
much matter who the nominee is to me
it's about risk mitigation so there are
different combinations and different
tickets that make it like me my model
more confident and less confident but I
think all of them still produce I mean I
would not stick my professional
reputation on it otherwise a Democratic
win I mean Trump is just he's not going
to be able to survive this massive
turnout surge that's coming unless
something happens that is you know
completely unforeseen all right and I
mean I think more or less that is my
sense - but what within the context of
risk mitigation who's the riskiest
candidate from your perspective well you
won't like this I'm sure but certainly
Bernie Sanders would be the riskiest and
the reason is that you know the
perception amongst the party that he is
- you know the socialism thing is too
you know too extreme to be digestible to
a general election audience that said I
mean you have to think that they would
rally behind him the way that you know
Republicans rallied behind Trump in 2016
that said and I'm gonna you're gonna
like me even less I've always been
really sure that Bernie should not run
in the 2020 cycle because I knew that he
was gonna perform you know below his
2016 cycle standards because of the two
reasons number one the in 2016 he was a
big beneficiary from the smallness of
the field you know he basically got all
of the progressive vote but also all of
them not I'm not into Clinton vote and a
lot of that came from Millennials so and
this time around obviously the field is
much larger so there's a lot more
competition
but I I had a feeling that Warren see
like the progressives originally light
warned and wanted her to run in 2016 and
then when she didn't they got into
Sanders because Sanders basically ran as
a almost like a symbolic campaign at
first but then it ended up catching fire
and be very impressive right
but now I think that people are looking
back at Warren and I think she's just
got a little dose of charisma that
Sanders doesn't have so I had said in
the early spring that I expected at some
point that's that Warren would and
Sanders would inverse and that has
happened and it's just you know it's
it's looking like that's going to stay
that way and my expectation is we'll
come in to Iowa and it will be Warren
versus Biden so the establishment
frontrunner versus the progressive
frontrunner and some of it will depend
on how stellar the Bernie base is in
their support for Bernie because he has
just got this really really committed
you know five or six percent that I
don't know would ever give up on I mean
I think they would give up on him but
not in time to help Warren and I think
she might need that in order to overcome
Biden but it will all come down to black
voters I mean black voters stick with
Biden then he'll be the nominee it'll be
the same way that it was decided in 2016
so that's what we're looking at no now
let me just ask you I mean obviously I'm
gonna give you a little bit of pushback
I have to I would expect nothing less
but I know enough about this show to
know it's you know I mean in friendly
Bernie territory here yes well I mean
now I I can off the top my head name at
least two races that just come to me
immediately when you talk about not
having the party apparatus Ned Lamont
against Joe Lieberman in the in his
Senate race I can't remember 10 12 years
ago I know for a fact that the the
National Democratic Party said we're
just not gonna we're not going to do the
work for Lamont against Levi and
Lieberman wins would you know in his
Connecticut for Lieberman
and martha coakley in massachusetts when
she ran against was it scott brown maybe
the first time or i think yeah yeah and
and she did not get the party apparatus
behind her and and and we saw the
results in a race that should have been
easily should have been her so i mean
those are just two off the top of my
head just from my neighborhood
practically right but if the problem
with not having the party apparatus
behind you
is resources in terms of money resources
in terms of organizing and mobilization
and a candidate like Sanders has shown a
an incredible ability to raise money has
a wide base of donor support in the
context of the primary and I think the
theory of their campaign is we're going
to we are creating an organizational
structure that may be somewhat
subterranean now III think like Iowa is
going to be sort of the the test case
for that you know because it does not
appear that you know he's leading in the
polls I mean it depends on which polls
you look at but I think probably the the
you know the aggregate of polls but that
this organization that has been
happening in terms of like outreach to
unions and and labor and whatnot is
going to pay dividends where do you
place those two factors into your
calculus yeah so you know keeping in
mind to like my calculus like I don't
have an emotional dog in the fight
because I really don't you know I don't
care all I care about are the analytics
and being right of course I like you
know cannot be wrong if that's you know
the main driver is being predictably
right so that's what's motivating them
and what I'm looking at this I'm
thinking yes so here's where Sanders had
a massive advantage and where it's gonna
be hard I think for people who are
deeply committed to him to kind of let
this go is that you know for a law we
are we are we are super freaks in the
information like Bell
like we to us like we've been watching
this primary forever and we forget how a
typical we are so I always try to remind
people like you're listening to the
majority report you are not a normal
human being you are not just a little
bit more informed than the average
American you are a thousand percent more
informed right and so for a long time
Bernie's durability in the pool and the
polls was name recognition and the same
story was true for Biden right yeah and
you know for months and months and
months I was telling people look yes
they're both up there I'm telling you
what's going to happen in the polls once
the rest of the world Tunes in starting
you know September October November
December we're going to find out is
Biden actually a front-runner or is that
all name ID but you know Twitter world
I've got bad news for you guys because I
know you love Bernie I know for sure
Bernie support is soft and it's going to
inverse with Warren's and this is why I
know it and I would lay out the reasons
right and I do know intimately how deep
his infrastructure support is but here's
the thing that fundraising number that
he posted this last time yes technically
it was bigger than Warren's and
technically he had more donators right
but keep in mind too this time for
Warren that is not including any
transfers from her Senate campaign this
is the second quarter was that one and
this is the third when we look at the
next quarter this is what's going to
happen Warren is going to out fundraise
him and be you know probably above him
on individual donors because they were
separated by about 60,000 individual
donors he had a million and she was at
like nine nine nine hundred and forty
thousand and they were separated by like
you know I don't know a couple hundred
thousand dollars in terms of total money
raised and my guess is that you know the
poll has inverted already and the next
thing that gonna is going to invert is
that fundraising total now I
could be wrong I'm not often wrong but
sometimes I am but my gas is this is the
lowdown on the hoedown majority report
listeners coming into Iowa which is four
months away from now you are gonna have
to make a choice you're gonna have to
either jump ship and support Elizabeth
Warren and really the progressive wing
has a has the best chance that they've
ever had to control the nomination for
the party or they're gonna dig in their
heels for too long probably through
Super Tuesday with Bernie and that
chance is gonna slip away right because
that's what I was saying I think
Bernie's support is gonna hold on for
just a little too long and it might be
the difference maker between Warren
being able to over cake Biden or not but
then you just never know because it will
come down to black voters if black
voters stick with Biden
and it will be a neck to neck like that
but if Warren is able to attract black
voters then she might just sew it up
right out of right out of South Carolina
well I guess I was asking really more in
terms of the general election I mean I I
mean I was out saying that your theory
in the general election I mean I you
know I guess we will we will see what
happens within the context of the
primary yeah my my understanding is that
I thought that that camp that Warren's
campaign had nine hundred and forty
thousand donations but only five hundred
thousand donors that is my understanding
of that and and and so in fact Bernie
had almost twice the number of donors
and that I don't know yeah I'm looking
at a story right now I'm looking at a
story in the New York Times and it says
explicitly Warren's campaign said on
Friday to receive nine hundred forty
three thousand donations in the third
quarter from five hundred nine thousand
donors right and you know there's a lot
of room obviously because something like
ninety-nine point nine percent of them
have not maxed out but but leaving aside
the primary because like I say I think I
think in the context of the primer
we're looking at a very different that a
very different calculation than what
we're talking about in the general
because negative and partisanship
doesn't necessarily go and play in the
context of the primary but in the
general election what I'm asking is your
theory about the Democratic apparatus
and I think that's quite possible that
there's gonna be people and the
Democratic establishment or like I'm not
helping Bernie I mean I can do it that
that that that seems possible it also
seems possible to me to some level with
Warren but much less so and I've seen
you know I've sat in a room frankly with
some very big donors who were like who
you know I didn't know that Warren's
wealth plan was every year I mean that
that dear that's right but but but
putting that aside assuming that you're
correct that the the the apparatus would
be hesitant to support Bernie my
question is do you think the fact that
Bernie has shown such an ability to
raise money from those non apparatus
players that that that couldn't overcome
that in the in your calculus as to who
presents the biggest risk in the general
yeah so here's what I think and I'm
really glad that you asked that because
also before I answer it too we do have a
very anomalous situation on the other
side right so just like you you have
this worry about about whether the
establishment would rather would rally
around Bonnie the establishment is
worried about the progressives rallying
around Biden all right so well I think I
see the name I mean name yes and and I
think it's even worse frankly for Biden
because yes I have rank on that like
I've met people who are very very you
know excited about Peabody Judge frankly
or better I have not met a single human
being who is excited about Joe Biden
there are people out there I promise you
that but yes Biden's Biden's marketing
is not excitement he's the Comfort
candidate right he's a state he's a
security blanket people see him
as the Safety Pick right so because
they're told that all the time in the
media number one that he's the most
digestible to moderate he's the one that
Republicans would cross over and vote
for in theory right so people see him as
a safe pick right but yes definitely on
both sides of the equation you have if
Bernie's the nominee will the
establishment folks rally around him and
if Biden's the nominee will progressive
folks rally around him and here's my
answer for both questions yes because
ultimately in this environment which is
completely different than 2016 people
are not going to do anything that is
going to risk Donald Trump winning the
White House again and it might take time
and you're gonna see a lot you're gonna
get a lot of phone calls especially on a
show like this and you're gonna hear
individuals who are like I'm not voting
for Joe Biden another right but
ultimately that five and a half number I
told you about for the defection right
that puppy's going right back down and
it may be a little bit higher than it
has been historically because I think
the Arizona Senate race is a great
example of this in 2018 it 2% went to
the Green Party candidate even though
the Green Party candidate tried to pull
back and get out of the race and tell
their voters not to waste you know their
ballot on them and that the Senate seat
was critical and to vote for cements
cinema still 2% went to the Green Party
so I think about it under a Biden
situation about 2% would still go to
Tulsi Gabbard or Jill Stein or whoever
is going to be the Green Party candidate
but it's not going to be five-and-a-half
percent that's for sure Rachele bit
cover the assistant director the Wasson
Center for Public Policy folks can
follow you on twitter what's your
Twitter handle
so my Twitter is just at rachel bit of
copper bi Tec oh-fer
you'll see it says the doc and yeah we
have a good time on my Twitter lots of
intellectual discussion it's a welcoming
place for everybody no matter what your
ideology is so we will love we will put
a link to that it in the podcast
description and at majority I am I
really enjoyed talking to you today it
was it was a lot of fun for me I
appreciate well thanks Sam I've known
about your work for a long time long
when I went back to get my PhD and I was
like one day I'm going to talk to Sam
theater on his podcast there you go
folks I don't know if I want to believe
some of what she said about Bernie well
I mean I think I I mean I think I think
that that in terms of the general
election it's something that we have
talked about for a long time that I you
know I thought in 2016 that if Bernie
had been the nominee there would be more
defections from the Democrats you know
away from him then than it was from from
Clinton but the question is in that
general election like how many people
are motivated to come out vote in that
instance you can't you know the who
knows what the counterfactual is for
2016 and as far as the primary I mean I
think there's there's a theory there but
I think you know one of the things that
we've been saying with the polls is you
know we don't know what this
organization is we don't know what the
the days or weeks ahead of us hold in
terms of Sanders I think like I say this
week is going to be very important for
Bernie Sanders the debate and and
basically how he follows it over the
next couple of days it's going to be big
for Sanders and I I do think there's a
big difference you have double the
amount of donors they have not maxed out
and and the theory of negative
partisanship
I think really has been well tested the
other issues of
of within the primary that's that's a
totally different ballgame and I think
it remains to be seen I happen to think
that Biden is going to slip even more
because I I mean we have some factors
that we just don't know about right at
this point which is what happens with
impeachment what happens how much does
this talk about Ukraine and saying Joe
Biden's name over and over again in the
context of this hurt him what is a
hunter Biden going out and doing an
interview I this does not seem to me to
be a campaign that knows what it's doing
go to Joe 303 300 right dad yeah well
the hunter Biden thing I have to say
sounds a lot like my fictional character
of Joe Lieberman son in 2020 was gonna
be like stink up the party but look
we've gone way long here just a reminder
you can support this program by becoming
a member I joined the majority report
com join the majority report calm your
membership makes this show possible sign
up for the a.m. quickie folks go to am
quickie comm or look for it on your
podcast server sign up gives you five
minutes headlines every day organize
your day as you head out in the morning
very quick and straight to the point
occasionally make a little comment or
Lucy makes a little comment but more
often than not just gives you the
headlines very quickly and don't forget
just coffee co-op fair trade coffee tea
or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off and remember when
you shop on your bank when you browse
online your personal information is
hanging out there thankfully Norton 360
with LifeLock
he's an all-in-one membership for your
cyber safety now no one can prevent all
cybercrime and identity theft
but Norton 360 with life lock is a
powerful ally to help protect you and
your information in today's connected
world sign up today for a Norton 360
with life lock membership and as our
listener you'll save 25% or more off
your first year
at Norton dot-com / majority that's
norton dot-com / majority for 25% off
today is Tuesday but we're going to be
doing debate night coverage live check
out majority dot F M or our Twitter feed
or our Instagram feed for more
information but that means that you're
gonna be doing the show what are you
doing my globe I'm taking the globe it's
like a talking stick Oh tomorrow night
we are gonna be doing TM vs Ryan grim is
gonna be in studio to talk about the
debate reactions and you know the
broader conversation around 2020 I just
want to say real quick I think that if
Bernie performs well and of course
that's important I think some of the
sort of heartfelt this in fact that he's
been speaking with in the last couple of
days actually might end up being
significantly to his benefit so we're
gonna talk about that with Ryan grim
he's actually one of the original
reporters on the hunter Biden story so
we're gonna have some fail son
conversation and maybe even some square
up to Jesse Watters conversation as well
in addition to that updates on what's
happening in Ecuador where there was
just a big victory as well as Haiti a
whole bunch of other global stories
patreon.com slash TM BS oh and at six
we're gonna do a pre stream with
Maclean's journalist and friend of show
andre Damis who just did an interview
with jug meet singh who is the canadian
social party leader so we're gonna have
both of those things tomorrow night the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channel snag
your tickets to the Philly live show and
if you want to watch I did an interview
with crystal ball this morning on what's
happening in rojava both links on the
majority of them home page Jamie so
first of all I want to thank everybody
who came out to the goth socialist
variety hours this past weekend there
was a lot of fun and it was really great
to meet some of you what are we doing
this week this show just like erased my
mind we were gonna put up audio from the
show but that got messed up
we'll probably unlock something
but I think the episode that we put out
last week is really good and I'm really
proud of it and if you haven't listened
to it yet I encourage you to do so of
course we all support Bernie Sanders in
the short term I'm gonna do everything I
can to help him get elected but in the
long term we at the anti Fattah are
communists and we believe that we need
to go beyond social democracy in order
to solve the problems facing us in this
world and this episode we focus on the
issue of immigration and borders in
general so Ross goes over why how
borders arose the origins of the modern
nation-state and the limits of economic
nationalism and social democracy in one
country and makes the case for this
inconvenient truth it sucks to think
about I don't like thinking about it
either but international communist
revolution in my opinion is the only way
to solve that solve that so I've
gone on for far too long but that's what
it's about and if you're interested
check it out patreon.com/scishow to Matt
yeah check out literary hangover gonna
be talking about Arthur Miller's the
crucible coming up soon and also check
out Sam on block party well yeah where
you can hear him talk about playing
Goldeneye and then get really quiet when
they start talking about perfect dark
yeah that things got a little awkward
when they started dropping stuff that
was like within the last I don't know
five to ten years Oh perfect dark was a
few months after Goldeneye I had a lot
of fun a block party and harassed by a
prank caller darn it all right good
break fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
whipping like he's boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negative
I'm sorry I didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous
you're a little bit upset you're riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive idiot we're just going
to get rid of you all right
[Music]
smoke this joint yes five times eight
five seven six five don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb dance
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital see
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars come here not
bad use me you you gonna
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber classic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to ride easy people
Shitler with such
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report I've got a bunch of stuff to get
to folks a bunch of stuff I know they
could they can't they couldn't see us
laughing hysterically could they during
the break compete can people see us
during the break I know they were
watching the a more fun video okay
we were having some Mr fun shoe a really
we got a lot of stuff to talk about here
all right all right well let's just
let's briefly run through this so look
as you know we we accidentally got a
recording of a phone conversation that
happened between me and someone from a
representative of a conference if you
will that was going to was planning to
host a little debate between Crowder and
I and and and of course also I read the
emails that my fake proxy producer had
with gab mcginnises fake proxy producer
and though how now we're just now
caution to the wind officially confirmed
this fake now what's that the fake proxy
producer oh no I said that at the time
okay it took people a long time people
of America time figure it out yeah all
right well that's just the way I roll
I'm always a little bit obtuse and and
of course the big revelation was that
steven crowder just will go to great
lengths even offend some of his friends
to avoid you know allowing me to change
his mind about anything and we just saw
a tweet that was put out by this
organization called politican and and
they said since hashtag cold feet
Crowder missed his chance to debate Sam
cedar at politican last year Shh should
we host a rematch at Politico on 2019
Steven crowd are you ready to step up
and then they photoshopped one of his
change his mind posters that he sets up
for himself let's settle this at
politican changed my mind I now I'm I'm
coming back from Las Vegas because I'll
be there that week but I will walk to
lost from Las Vegas to where is it in
Nashville to Nash in Nashville if they
can arrange this I'm periscoping my
hitchhiking and I'm here too I'm
catching rides I'm here to terrorize
cold and and actually I was just with
the truck driving a fascinating
conversation about reject me I always
did
I had been wondering if politican was
gonna be mad at you for making these
private communications public and I
think now we have our answer I don't
know what you're talking about Jamie but
we also I I just want to say that I know
that I'm a little bit jaded about
conservative talkers and this and that
and I think that they all just are on
one team but really the the support that
we've seen from folks like Jesse Lee
Peterson who who went out and called for
Steven to debate me kinda the Reverend
Peterson in particular I really
appreciated that not only did he support
us in this but that he even connected it
to his mentoring work when he told Steve
and let me know how it goes yeah it was
encouraging Steve to be a better and a
bigger man and if a man uh and then fact
my understanding is he tweeted out
support again for me this weekend which
I thought was was really impressive he
didn't need to do that he did not have
to do that and Peterson came out fully
supporting Steve and crowding debating
and I think if I did if I'm you know
read his tweet correctly he was inviting
me onto his show he said these are the
words and thinking of my PR guy I have
nothing personal I like you both so I
made my Pig our PR guy take his words
down and I never called for a debate
amazing but it but it appears that he is
now and so I I want to appreciate the
support that Jesse Peterson has a you to
be a great interlocutor with going you I
think that would be great I'm happy to
do it with Jesse Lee Peterson I think it
would be terrific and so but like I say
little jaded but this guy Ben Ferguson
who is a conservative commentator
correct I have no clue who yes he's I
believe he's a conservative commentator
I mean the name she has the look of a
what Center on CN n this guy's me and
and I just I really kudos to him I gotta
be honest I have not seen this yet I
have won this one yet but let's let's
see what he says all right I gotta just
tell you Steven
you need to not let your dad make all
your decisions for you I'm literally
doing my radio show right now and I just
want to give you a public service
announcement if you need to fight for
what you believe in Steven don't have
cold feet come on Steven man up in
debate Sam you got to stop relying on
all your friends or your fans to defend
you it is time for you to be a man man
up and don't let your dad do your dirty
work for you debate him okay you got a
you got a debate your friend you got a
debate Sam I don't know if you're really
fans are your friends or not but
to stop relying on all these other
people to defend you
I'm just saying so that's my public
service message be a real man man up
debate do your job do your research and
then see if your argument actually
stands up and I'll leave it right there
have a great day yeah I mean I don't
know why you had to make it so gendered
but I I appreciate I understand on the
right they tend to do that more and and
so but I I do appreciate the sport from
folks like Ben Ferguson scour Moochie
and and Jessica Peterson Tommy Lauren
well Tommy Lauren all these people on
the right who are you know who are
basically telling old cold feet to to
you know what's the exchange of ideas
yeah let's do this
yeah but speaking of representing all
perspectives we also want to note in
fairness that et's mom encouraged cold
feet to not be bullied that's right it's
funny the conservative guys they all
jump in with the Sam side of it just
generically without knowing who the
politics are because they love the idea
of boisterously challenging someone to a
debate so whoever's doing that they're
gonna like be on that team right right
they could have got on the right side of
the Cold War if Castro just harassed
Pinochet with debate invitation all
right so II thought it was an actual
child that she was talking to well yeah
all right let's let's see this is
interesting to me we have seen this now
and on multiple times where Donald Trump
says some stuff and Bill bar comes back
and says the same thing but in a
different way in a different context and
I still go back to when Donald Trump was
you know attacking the squad attacking
Allen Omar and and then you had bill bar
come out and say the same thing like if
people don't like this country they
should they should leave that type of
thing and here we have Donald Trump at
the Family Research Council doing his
version of and remember he can't push it
too hard right because of his
background but this notion that we've
lost religion in this country and say
they're too much into the second
amendment the world of the second
amendment I will tell you if if certain
of these people I would say almost
anyone or your second amendment is in
serious serious trouble serious trouble
your second amendment socialism is
obsessed with the pursuit of power
because it is replaced religion within
government and in their eyes it has
absolutely replaced religion when you
look at some of the things that they're
in favor of it's like it's like anything
nobody's ever seen anything like it
the new Green will green new you could
say it either way by the way it doesn't
match the same thing cuz if somebody
said which comes first it doesn't make
any difference alright so there you know
this is what Trump you know I just
wanted to comment before I go to the the
bill bar sort of echoing the exact same
thing
Trump has created this new way of
delivering written speeches where the
line about socialism replacing religion
was written and then he repeats it and
then he tries to improvise on it and he
just gets to like with a bunch of stuff
that's crazy he got a riffle and then he
doesn't know about the green new deal
and that's the way he goes I'm starting
to see this in other situations where
people it's now okay to comment on the
own text that's been prepared for you as
if you had never read it before oh
that's jarett uh but i think he
pronounced capitalism just now I mean
sighs we took a mega church pastor whose
literal name is creflo dollar there you
I mean but the idea that he's lamenting
this loss of religion bill bar is
supposedly the top law enforcement
officer in the country who is supposed
to have a political independence on some
level on some level from the presidency
we've seen him go around like an errand
boy looking to try
and build a case that the conspiracy
theories on the right about what
happened in 2016 were correct and again
here's another instance a bill bar
delivering a very similar message to
Trump and obviously it's coming out of
the White House right I mean obviously
Trump did not write this up and the
reason why this is important in my mind
is for all the talk about whether Donald
Trump will leave office if he loses the
way he stays in office if he tries will
be on legal points in fact there are
theories out there that what they were
looking for but you know what they were
doing when they were looking for stuff
from Ukraine was a twofer it was looking
back on 2016 but also looking forward on
2020 so that Bill Bar can come out on
November 9th or whatever didn't says the
election is invalidated because it was
unfair because of foreign interference
and we're going to the Supreme Court I
mean it's not a huge stretch of the
imagination
that the Supreme Court could impact the
outcome of the presidential election I
don't know if you remember but it's
happened in the not so distant past with
a far less supposedly a polarized
Supreme Court
we're not far less but less but here's
bill Barr echoing Donald Trump and this
is why I bring that up is just the more
we see this the more disturbing it is in
my mind among the militant secularists
are many so-called progressives but
where is the progress we are told we are
living in a post-christian era
but what has replaced the
judeo-christian moral system what is it
that can fill the spiritual void in the
hearts of the individual person
and what is the system of values that
can sustain human social life the fact
is that no secular Creed has emerged
capable of performing the role of
religion this is not decay this is
organized destruction secularists and
their allies have marshaled all the
forces of mass communication popular
culture the entertainment industry and
academia in an unremitting assault on
religion and traditional values you
start to wonder how did Bill Barr end up
hooking up with Donald Trump and I hear
talk like that and I think Mike Pence so
I don't know there's a lot of very
worrisome signs out there in terms of
where we're headed to the next 12 to 14
months folks and then I read about
Dalton Academy and I think Jeffrey
Epstein was it bill bars dad yep tow
bars dad hired Jeffrey Epstein at Dalton
and then went to write sex slave colony
erotica he literally wrote sex slave
colony arise I think it was a Columbia
Yale English press or one of the I want
to say Columbia SH in English
departments at Ivy's are basically just
kindergarten for CIA Wow right is this
is that one the the oh that's Lynne
Cheney Liz sorry what's the difference
well let's go here that the the
Republicans have a problem on some level
there is regardless of your politics the
idea of making a tactical alliance with
another fighting force to serve as your
proxies in a hot war is an important
tool for people who love to engage in
Wars and and our militaristic
and so the idea that you would betray
that
tactical agreement is highly problematic
for the ability of the United States to
do that in the future so you get folks
like Liz Cheney who are out there saying
they're not they're unhappy with the
situation where Donald Trump essentially
said to Turkey after you go in there and
slaughter the Kurds however they also
have the problem that their base does
not countenance any type of criticism of
Donald Trump in any context and
certainly the base is not they don't
care they don't care about the details
of this so someone like Liz Cheney who
is a craven war monger has a little bit
of a problem and so how do you resolve
that well you acknowledge the thing that
you don't like and then you embarrass
yourself with why it's happening this is
Liz Cheney on with a Brian Kilmeade this
is a special segment I think of Fox and
Friends side and our guys have backed
out how concerned are you about our
profile overseas and for our future
allies I'm very concerned about it Brian
I think that what we're seeing happen is
going to have ramifications not just in
the Middle East but around the world if
our adversaries begin to sense weakness
if our adversaries begin to think that
we won't defend our allies that we won't
defend our interests that that's
provocative but I also want to say that
the the impeachment proceedings that are
going on and what the Democrats are
doing themselves to try to weaken this
president as part of this there's there
it was not an accident that the Turks
chose this moment to roll across the
border and I think the Democrats have
got to pay very careful attention to the
damage that they're doing with the
impeachment proceedings yes it's not an
accident because Donald Trump wanted to
do this a year ago and then he had a
conversation with air21 he said go ahead
do it
they literally I mean yes I mean and it
was by the way the same thing happened a
year ago where they had a conversation
and Trump's that go ahead do it
and then people stop there yeah mattis
was like I'm gonna you know
designing and by the way for what it's
worth and you know there's structural
problems across the board in US foreign
policy but on the specifics of
portraying the Kurds that is a much more
distinctly Republican than democratic
tradition going back to George HW Bush
as an example but you've talked about
before and to be really clear like
Turkey is deploying like definitely
al-qaeda adjacent groups their attack
their shock troops using things like
suicide bombings and slaughtering and
targeting civilians and you know just to
get back to like the human stakes of how
horrifying what's happening here right
now is and Liz Cheney like it's
crocodile tears across the board anybody
who didn't encourage some type of
earlier diplomatic arrangement between
the Kurds and Assad frankly it bears
some responsibility and the idea of
talking about impeachment is just I mean
whatever it's what you'd expect but I
guess I want to note how disgusting and
disingenuous it is there could be a
roundabout case to be made like maybe
Trump is trying to distract everyone
from the impeachment proceedings with
what he's doing in Syria no but that's
not on the Democrats for beating him I
don't I mean he tried to just cuz he
tried to do the same thing precisely
last year I I this is all just
deal-making with air21 I mean someone
pointed out a couple weeks ago when did
erawan made a huge deal about the murder
of khashoggi which a new CIA report just
came out and said that they're pretty
definitive that mb/s ordered it why does
air21 never mention anymore what are the
arms deals like it's all that kind of
stuff it might even be literally as
simple as air21 saying we're gonna take
down Trump Tower Istanbul
I'm tired of waiting let's let's play
this from Chris Hayes the and I have yet
to really dig into this but I can tell
you just from just being on Twitter that
Ronan Pharaoh's new book is out I don't
know if it's quite available yet it's
about to be released in it he details
how
the story that NBC News quashed his
investigation his writing into Harvey
Weinstein and also that there are
allegations against the head of NBC I
think News it is a guy named Andy lack
and others at the top that they were
trying to protect Matt Lauer and all
this stuff was going down actually
around just coincidentally around the
time that I was getting fired and
rehired by NBC I just remember this
because we had done a video about Matt
Lauer I don't know four or five years
ago maybe more on his interview with the
Anne Hathaway and I had said at the time
like this guy's creepy there's a lot
more stuff here and that video obviously
that week just that I was getting fired
also happened to just go viral I think
we had like two and a half million views
but Ronan Farrow is has made some
serious allegations that are rather
damning for a news organization and
there was a lot of people who are
waiting to see if anybody at MSNBC who
in any other circumstance would have
Ronan Farrow on you know as soon as he
could get to the studios if it was to
talk about anybody else and they hadn't
and then last night at the close of his
show Chris Hayes did something that I
think frankly took a lot of guts to do
here it is in fact the insidious
destructive force of the path of least
resistance is everywhere you look
oh wait pause you can't go back a little
bit listen it's only two minutes I mean
it's important to hear the context of
what he's saying because he goes on to
basically contextualize it and I think
in a really important way
[Music]
over the last few weeks as impeachment
has dominated both the news in the show
I've been watching with increasing
horror and bafflement as the NBA has
enforced a kind of silence and speech
code on his players and management for
fear of offending the Chinese government
and Chinese basketball fans after a
single tweet in support of the Hong Kong
protesters by Houston Rockets executive
the NBA has scrambled to lock down any
other signs of criticism of the Chinese
government hoping to preserve access to
an extremely lucrative and growing
market for the sport now of course this
kind of shying away from confrontation
choosing the path of least resistance
quite familiar in the news because it's
what so many Republican members of
Congress do every day when confronted
with a pile bigotry in ranked corruption
abuse of power well the man is a head of
their party but it's important to note
that it is not limited to them in fact
the insidious destructive force of the
path of least resistance is everywhere
you look heck and I feel the tug of it
myself as my own news organization is
embroiled in a very public controversy
over its conduct as you've probably seen
in his new book catch and kill my former
colleague Ronan Farrow contends that NBC
News slow-walked and then ultimately
killed is reporting on Harvey
Weinstein's sexual harassment and
assault because it was intimidated by
Weinstein and didn't want to cross him
most distressingly Ferrell suggests NBC
News was worried about the allegations
of sexual assault and harassment against
Matt Lauer coming out as a result of
reporting on Weinstein and desperately
wanted to avoid that in Farrell's view
he was unable to break through what was
effectively a conspiracy of silence from
NBC News management now NBC News
vigorously denies this account the
president of NBC News Nowell Oppenheim
called Farrell's book a conspiracy
theory in a memo sent out today citing
an internal NBC investigation that
concluded that the extremely upsetting
allegations against Lauer were not known
internally at NBC NBC has called any
suggestion it did no false and offensive
Oppenheim and others have also
maintained since pharaoh's departure two
years ago the Weinstein story was never
broadcast because it lacks sufficient on
the record sourcing even after NBC
supported Pharaoh's assignment for seven
months one thing though is indisputable
Ronan Farrow walked out of MBC news
after working
the Weinstein story and within two
months published an incredible article
The New Yorker that not only won a
Pulitzer but helped trigger a massive
social and cultural reckoning that
continues to this day it is the kind of
journalism that you want to do as a
journalist that everyone who works in
this business should want to facilitate
of course there's a reason it took so
long for the true story about Weinstein
to be told for the many allegations of
him to stay locked in a vault and that's
because time and again the path of least
resistance for those of power was to not
cross Weinstein or his army of friends
and lawyers same goes for the many many
many other powerful predators that we've
come to know about the path of least
resistance is always there beckoning
seductively with an entirely plausible
cover story you've got bigger fish to
fry this isn't the he'll to die on the
story isn't ready but of course it's the
very ease of that path that makes it the
enemy the kind of work that we as
journalists are supposed to do I think
he's gonna be on tonight but that's the
honestly that's the kind of thing that
you know they'd show up at the
commissary the next day and the the
people who hand out you know the main
course are like sorry there's not enough
left for you I mean that it doesn't
that's a scary thing to do I think from
his perspective you know and he is you
know he's obviously his show is very
prominent in the a p.m. slot but he's
not you know it's not the it's not the
head honcho over there and for him to do
that I think takes a lot of guts and so
yeah there's there seems to me to be
some reckoning that needs to happen over
it NBC News well sandy luck threatened
by Russia
very possible raises some very
interesting questions well don't don't
don't mock the the paper thing a lot of
people do that really yeah I think that
Rachel Maddow is taking the paper thing
to love oh you're not even doing you got
it's the rustling that's the thing going
on to show that it's uh you already have
the look you don't need to write it am i
jesus gonna show the tomorrow we're
gonna go over we're gonna we're gonna do
some news and I'll get into Bernie's
corporate accountability plan and but
but before we do and we'll do that
tomorrow here's a CNBC anchor who has a
really smart analysis of this plan
remember Bernie Sanders depending on
which poll you're looking at is in
second or third place nationally he is
been consistently in the top two or
three candidates one two or three in all
the states frankly and so a very serious
contender for the presidency one of the
beautiful things about working at a
business channel is that you don't have
to take anything seriously apparently
tries it with an act like we're almost
talking more about this than Bernie
Sanders putting out this whole you know
plan to do to restrict share buybacks
and raise corporate taxes back up the
wind up so it shows you this working
Kate's point more effectively than
Bernie Sanders putting a whole plan
about how he's gonna tackle corporate
America cause it's just not that
surprising just another Bernie plant
thing coming up for this dive there you
go
that's another save the working class
and not completely destroy I love the
idea like for instance corporate
buybacks are something that's like can
you imagine you know what's really easy
to imagine about not allowing for
corporate buybacks is that prior to 1984
the Reagan administration told the SEC
basically we're gonna now allow that
even though last year that was
criminally liable as stock manipulation
we're gonna do that now it's not hard to
imagine some of these things at least in
a vacuum in the context of the way that
the the elite the plutocracy essentially
have had the opportunity to write the
rules it becomes a little bit more you
know seemingly radical but the idea of
like stock buybacks and controlling
corporate governance this is these are
not radical ideas relative to the world
or frankly even our own history Oh such
a short memory and it's on purpose you
know for a long time I think I said this
the other day
gore Vidal would come into studio back
in the old version maggiore rapport with
Jeanine and he had written a book United
States of amnesia and I couldn't really
grasp what he was talking about in part
because I hadn't had you know 15 20
years of of watching the news and watch
how like just revision takes hold
just on stuff that happens last week on
some level but there it is meanwhile
let's just talk about this tube before
we get into the debate cause it's gonna
be interesting to see if Elizabeth
Warren addresses this Elizabeth Warren
is yet to come out with a medic a
version of her medicare-for-all plan she
has signed up to support Bernie's bill
but also signed up to support other
bills that are not Medicare for all in
the context of how Bernie's bill defines
it nor are they for all
in even like the the colloquial way in
which you define it and there's some
polling out today showing that the 35%
of of Democratic voters who are in favor
of compromise are supporting Elizabeth
Warren a lot of those people people who
want less compromise among those who
perform prefer politicians to stick to
their positions
Sanders top choice 26% and so this maybe
should not come as much of a surprise
but there was an interview with the
odious David Axelrod interviewed Harry
Reid and this is what Harry Reid had to
say about his perspective and I think
the Axelrod is setting this up as look
isn't going to be supporting Medicare
for all a liability isn't that going to
be a liability in the election and I get
some polling that refutes that notion
but but that's the way he sets this up
and Harry Reid has an interesting
perspective on whether he thinks that
that position is immutable by Elizabeth
Warren there was a concern as well
that's expressed by some establishment
Democrats that she is too far left I
think that that's a let's just wait for
example Medicare for all I ask me how do
you feel about that I said I think what
we need to do first is let's make sure
Obamacare is strengthening Republicans
have done everything they can to hurt
him let's strengthen it we've almost got
the public option the first one that's
as good as Medicare for all anyway and
so that's what what she's saying well
but I think you should give her some
time I think that she's not in love with
that I think she you will wait and see
how that all turns out so you think
she's more pragmatic than all I know
she's not pregnant his weight okay so I
mean to be clear Harry Reid is saying a
he has a perspective and that he
believes Elizabeth Warren is sharing
that perspective
I you know and the question maybe he's
just speculating but Harry Reid is the
type of guy who can't quite keep secrets
so you know I think that is something to
keep in mind now like I say 35 percent
of Democrats who want someone to
compromise on these things you know they
are the biggest cohort of those people
to support a specific candidates
Elizabeth Horne so for some it may not
be an issue for other people it may be
more of an issue going into this I mean
I don't know why Harry Reid offered that
that's weird
I'm not well I don't have an answer it's
speculation and I actually have a
slightly different view about the
compromise point but the thing that's
funny about Harry Reid is I think he's
very close to Elizabeth Warren but he
actually has some closeness to some
people in the Sanders campaign so I'm
wondering like in some ways I'm like
who's he trying to make mischief for
here by saying that is interesting to me
but III mean just to the point yeah in
terms of the question of
medicare-for-all as to whether the
premise that Axelrod sets out or at
least as he ATAR articulates with
Democratic establishment as if he
doesn't believe that the question is is
Medicare Medicare for all a liability in
a general election and the polling on
this is really interesting because it is
so much of it is how you present the the
question to people and there's a really
fascinating dynamic so here's this
question do you support and this is from
the YouGov blue poll that I think I'm
sure I think if you gov blue do you
support or oppose a quote Medicare for
all health care system where all
Americans would get their health
insurance from the government strongly
support 33% somewhat support 18% don't
know is 9% so you have 38% somewhat or
strongly opposed
and you have 51% support or somewhat
support and then it says would you
support or oppose a national
medicare-for-all plan if you heard that
it would require a hundred and eighty
million Americans to move from private
insurance to the Medicare for all plan
this is the you know sort of a
Republican frame of this it would
require 180 million Americans to move
from private insurance to the Medicare
for all plan but let's frame it that way
too
and some Democrats from is my Oscar but
maybe is a right but it is also the case
that at least on any given year twenty
five percent of people lose their
private insurance thing and have to move
to a different private insurance or not
so in that instance when you frame it
that way things become a little
different it only has thirty eight
percent support whereas it has 44
percent against so when you present the
question that way the numbers change but
this is what's fascinating when you ask
the question like this will you give the
whole story would you support our
suppose I oppose a national Medicare for
all plan after hearing these two
arguments some say it would require a
hundred and eighty million Americans to
move from private insurance to the
Medicare for all plan others say that
people don't actually love their
insurance companies they love their
doctors and under Medicare for all you
would always have health care even if
you are fired or switch jobs and you
would be able to go to any doctor you
want hearing these two arguments would
you support or oppose Medicare for all
now remember when we just did the do you
support or suppose Medicare for health
the Medicare for all health plan it got
fifty one percent support when you ask
the question the way that they just did
where they present both arguments it
actually gets fifty two percent support
it goes up and they're still burying the
lede which is that it's free a point of
service free a point of service that is
a pretty big lead to be
varied and it's a big lead to be put now
again another right wing talking point
would you support or oppose a national
Medicare for all plan if you heard that
it would require most Americans to pay
more in taxes well 46 percent somewhat
our strongly opposed and 41 percent
would saw a strongly support or somewhat
support so it pulls badly there but then
if you're presented with this question
would you support or oppose a national
Medicare for all plan after hearing
these two arguments some say it would
require most Americans to pay more in
taxes others say while taxes would
technically go up under Medicare for all
Americans would pay no private insurance
premiums co-pays or deductibles instead
you would pay a premium to the
government that is less than what you
pay for health care now and you would
wind up with more money in your pocket
overall hearing these two arguments
would you support our suppose well then
it shoots back up to 50 percent would
support strongly or somewhat and only 35
percent would somewhat or strongly
oppose I mean so the pathway to making
this argument to people and having it be
a net positive for you in the general
election is is there so the idea that
it's a liability to maintain this
position in the general election is a
fraudulent one from people who simply
have some type of motivated reasoning
about this ideology all the way ideology
transactional interests you know they
want you know maybe Medicare for all is
problematic just from a bra I mean
there's a whole host of things but
whatever it is it is not accurate to say
that supporting Medicare for all in a
Jenner
election if you argue the two most basic
premises that you're gonna be able to
have access to health care and your
doctors that you have now and it's going
to be net positive in terms of savings
for you at the end of the day those two
things are very simple product you know
arguments to make and if they're made
then people respond in a positive way so
then the question becomes why did she
leave herself that wiggle room on
Medicare for all
I mean I I think cuz she wants that
wiggle room like if not to win the
general who is she thinking about well I
I don't know that she subscribes to you
know that polling there I think to a
certain extent people leave their you
know a wiggle room in the general
because they feel like maybe they need
to tak to the right that doesn't
necessarily mean that you will but it's
quite clear relative to let's say Bernie
that she's leaving a open wiggle room
where is he saying no wiggle room I
think she just clearly doesn't I mean
objectively I think does not have the
same commitment level to that specific
set of policies and I think it also
reflects in how she's gonna approach I
mean maybe not even the general I think
governance I think what she's gonna come
to the table with and how she views
negotiation and I think that you know
she can definitely excoriate people but
I think she does have a much more inside
bureaucratized view of things than
Sanders does it also seems fair to
mention that her daughter works in the
pub in the private health industry well
I mean I think her daughter will do okay
if she becomes president I know I mean I
mean that's possible but I sure but
she's got those ties she doesn't
necessarily view the private health
industry as the enemy of the people in
the way that Bernie does I mean I think
I think that's fair point yeah maybe she
does I don't know she matters if
Bernie's kids works for the private
health insurance industry to sell in
them
it's possible all right we got to add
one quick call
I think column from a six one zero area
code who's this where he called from I
am Mike from Pennsylvania Pennsylvania a
long time no hear from what's uh what's
on your mind hey Mike's got his own
Empire um yeah yeah I do a little bit
that's going it's going pretty well but
um I just wanted to call and talk about
the interview you had today yeah if I
could uh really helpful it's been
something that we've been talking about
on this show for a long time you know a
lot of those things and it's gratifying
to see someone from you know the
academic point of view starting to
advance those theories that we've
learned on the ground here I do think
that she's gonna have a rude awakening
when she tries to enhance bring the data
to the people in charge because they're
not seeking necessarily the best answer
you know the ideological and
institutional barriers are there for a
reason right it's not just they're not
picking the losing strategy because they
like to lose they're picking the losing
strategy because they want to pursue a
specific set of policies they don't want
to have an electorate that's demanding
that they go further lack I that that I
think I mean I was trying to get a you
know I touched on that with her I mean I
think look there's always and and and I
think you know this is I think a
challenge that that Bernie would have
there's always a difficulty in trying to
fashion your win by by creating a
specific coalition of people who aren't
necessarily right there and it makes it
harder to win in those situations and
some some coalition's you can fashion
together in a in a in a more natural way
than others and you know I go back to
Chuck Schumer bragging like I've got
Schumer I've got Ryan I've got Clinton
we're going to
this bill and I'm quite convinced
frankly that that explains a lot of
their campaign strategy we want to not
just win we want to win with an
electorate that we think it's conducive
to the type of policies that we want to
have four revolves bringing Paul Ryan
and making these type of coalition you
know these type of things and the
problem is again you know it is a
similar Mis estimation of who the
Republican Party is and who the voters
are yeah well so like you know I think
everyone could disregard what she was
saying about the primary to be honest
it's not really based on the same kind
of analysis of what you were saying
about the general election electorate
yes and and and what I would say it
though is if you remember back right
after 2018 election we talked about
these issues and I pointed out that the
Republican primary or the Republican
general election turnout was actually
higher than it wasn't 2014 which had up
until that point been the highest
Republican probably turnout in a general
election in a midterm 2018 yeah in 2018
we saw the highest midterm turnout ever
going back to the World War one so that
was the the elector that we're talking
about so it's sort of like how the
evangelical vote has maintained its vote
share like percentage of the voters that
identifies evangelical Christians as the
their share of the population has
dropped in half what we have here is a
total failure of the Democratic Party to
turnout base voters let alone leaners
and it's because the people that aren't
turning out are people that are
motivated by much more progressive
economic policy I think if you look at
what she was saying as far as like
empirically as far as what strategy we
should pursue to win socialists and
progressives would be very heartened
that there is a huge pool of people that
if we push them to the polls and made
voting part of their habits
which utterly crushed the Republican
conservative movement and that means our
number-one priority needs to be
structurally changing how elections
operate in order to facilitate that
turnout to the highest possible degree
and to to run on policies that will
actually motivate people to show up for
 change as opposed to a tax
credit if you move your smart
businessman for the price so the so the
first first one just to explain to
people the first one what you're saying
when you talk about structurally is like
you know things like make voting a
federal right you know get rid of you
know make it a holiday make I would go
further make it mandatory and give you a
fine make it mandatory I mean that's
that that when you say structural that's
the type of things it is well you know a
take down the barriers and in fact maybe
go even further in in getting people out
to vote and Democrats have religiously
failed to to do things that would
enhance their power and again I think it
might be you know there's a reason why
they didn't you know everybody thought
Africa we were gonna get card check as
soon as the Democrats took the the
Senate in 2008 now they'd you know
they'd still waiting on Franken and we
had 60 votes how many of us doing we
need 67 I guess right I want to
recommend Matt Karp's new piece in the
Jackman called is this the world
liberals want cuz he gets into some of
this stuff and the distinction too on
the difference between supporting a
policy and the social kind of movement
context dependent upon which you're
elected and he goes actually back to
some of this Obama car check stuff but
and and then the second one is you know
mobilizing people and actually like you
know giving them reasons to go out and
vote and I think you know again I think
like sort of the the greater awareness
that when these things don't happen it's
not always incompetence it is a
different strategy that might be a
little bit more risky and but is
informed by
an ideological choice I I would actually
call it outright hostility like she
brought up that Keri Eastman case and it
wasn't just like they said she's not an
optical candidate we're gonna scale back
support 50%
they went from which is going to be one
of our top races to zero support right
and if you're going by any sort of
rational calculus where you're making
just kind of a bean-counter e way of cop
making calculations you say the
candidate quality has decreased by 25%
so our resource allocation should be
creased by whatever percent right it was
pretty clear it was make an example of
her so that we don't have to so we can
make the case in the future that a
progressive candidate in a purple
district is bad and that and he saw the
same thing in PA one with Scott Wallace
a supporter of code pink he was the same
thing was happened and not only that
they actually pushed or allowed
Democratic Party apparatus is to support
the Republicans in those cases there was
all sorts of I mean by that i don't
mean the actual democratic party but
like institutions normally associated
with the left like the afl-cio endorsed
brian fitzpatrick the republican in PA
one how could that ever happen for
someone who is super strong pro-labor
democrats progressive grandson of FDR's
vice president like think about that for
a second so that's the kind of that's
what we're facing here and I I don't say
that to disempower people but just to
let you know that we have to you have to
orient your co self search fighting both
fronts because if you if you don't think
we have to fight to take control the
Democratic Party you are not doing the
project that we need to achieve
progressive change well Mike anything
like she made me pick up on Michael
electril politics completely she'd be
mind if I taught myself an OK Yanam plug
plug yeah yes so I have become
I've begun twitch streaming and I have
achieved partnership an extremely
difficult thing on that platform thanks
to all the support of people from you
know TM BS community a majority report
community and folks we've the Foster on
Twitter you can visit me at twitch.tv
slash central underscore I know
committee thanks guys that's a good show
I appreciate the Tom good work like
doing dude oh my god we just have
Michael on next week so check it out
honestly I'm getting guest Mike for PA
thanks so much
oh so Sam just insulted the great
insurgent candidate running it's Nancy
Pelosi Luna why do you use an underscore
a score
oh that huge mistake alright folks I'm
sorry
we apologize we're gonna be back in a
couple hours
so we got to get our beauty rest
we will see you tonight at 7:45 for a
for our live coverage check our Twitter
feeds and we'll put a sign on YouTube -
even if we we're not we'll do some some
message on YouTube that will tell you
where we're at and see you tonight
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
they play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
