[Music]
meanwhile mayor Pete decides that he is
mayor Pete I think it's feeling some of
his viability and he needs to find a
lane and I think he thinks it's
somewhere between being the young Biden
and being the the not quite Warren and
so here he is trying to worm his way in
there and and really you know the whole
point of Warren's attacked on this and I
do think that there is you know you
could critique it I guess in terms of
framing but I like the idea of taxes
losing their special place in where the
as a cost of being a citizen is somehow
and in living in the country just like
literally living is somehow unique
uniquely bad don't reinforce Grover
Norquist's were uniquely uniquely
expensive like we're a dollar of taxes
is magically worth like $2 of paying for
I don't know food or home heating or
some other requirement like electricity
like look you can say there's no
electricity tax but of course there is
no one lives without electricity you got
to pay for it then you might end up
subsidizing poor people's electricity
right well I guess that's maybe part of
it but the fact is everybody pays for it
everybody pays for tougher electricity
that's a that's a cost that's generally
associated with probably your wealth you
have a bigger house you have more
electricity bill but mayor Pete sees an
opening here and he's
gonna take it regardless you know
senator Warren is known for being
straightforward and was extremely
evasive when asked that question and
we've seen that repeatedly I think that
if you are present I'd be just to be
clear the thing that she's supposedly
being evasive about is will her plan
raise taxes and look of course it's
gonna raise taxes but the point is is
will it lower costs and the question is
asked in a certain way if the question
is always will it raise taxes you're
immediately saying that's the most
impart because it never will it lower
costs when was the last time you heard
Joe Biden or someone who like mayor Pete
asked the quite will it lower costs will
it lower costs that's the that is the
most relevant thing why do they have to
be so roundabout about it exactly why is
it like a bank shot of like well what
cost will like what will be the
distribution of costs right like why
don't you ask that what's the
distribution of cost now like what is
the cost structure now versus later
no it's will it cost more or less I
think that if you are proud of your plan
and it's the right plan you should
defend it and straightforward terms and
I think it's puzzling that when
everybody knows the answer to that
question of whether her plan and senator
Sanders plan will raise middle-class
taxes is yes why you wouldn't just say
though so and then explain why you think
that's the better way forward our plan
posit what do you mean the better way
forward if you're gonna be
straightforward when you answer this
question it should be a courts it raises
taxes but of course out-of-pocket costs
are less so it's a it's a savings like I
mean if you're going to say she should
be straightforward when she discusses
the plan you should be straightforward
instead of an acting puzzle but I'm
completely confused by this
though so and then explain why you think
that's the better way forward our plan
does not require raising middle-class
taxes it does create a way for everybody
to be covered and I think that's what
most Americans want look people are used
to Washington politicians not giving
straight answers to simple quad
but at a time like this on an issue this
important that's exactly what we need
now I'm sure Jake Tapper's next question
is but does your program lower costs
period costs for the consumer for every
single consumer does it lower costs
period we want to get straightforward
that's the straightforward question
that's the C rate forward answer H it is
like I mean is there anything more
obnoxious honestly than saying like
they're not being straightforward and
then being that sort of disingenuous in
your critique this guy's from the this
is like this is the most disingenuous
person running for president I think
hands down
but he's so smart he's a smart guy
he's a smart guy as Cornel West says we
need to overcome the cult of smartness
also I don't really know how smart smart
is I mean I think he's a smart guy I
mean I think Tom cotton smart and
there's also like plenty of people who I
would describe as smart enough so what
smartness is a privilege laundered
through education yeah that's you he's
book smart
