so Janet let's start with the question
what when law enforcement and I'm not
sure that most folks have an
appreciation for this when law
enforcement sees a growing threat right
or phenomena that is taking place
whether its potential for gang violence
whether it's a terrorism related what
goes into the development of being
prepared for that threat I mean I think
it really depends on whether you're
talking about you're talking I'm
assuming you're talking here about local
law enforcement so there's no local one
and then local you're talking about or
are you talking about on the larger in a
larger sense I mean and and I think you
know to a certain extent at least in the
in the context of what you're talking
about the rise of white nationalism I
imagine there is a sort of a federal to
local enforcement dynamic but what is
involved in this like it's not just oh
we got a phone call today we're gonna go
out and get it there there needs to be
some type of undergirding to be prepared
for for a situation like that right so
certainly the Department of Homeland
Security which is you know the just of
the Hemus of an agency that that charged
with protecting the United States from a
whole variety of threats but but has
been very focused since its inception on
terrorism you know produce it hasn't has
a number of analysts and those analysts
are there to kind of both gather
together intelligence from all these
other agencies and also kind of look at
whatever data they have and come up with
these assessments of what the threat
environment may be they produced you
know a whole variety of these over the
years some of them a deal say with the
threat of cyber attacks from from you
know members of the far left that was
one from sort of the being the late
Ott's period and their you know they
also uh
back in 2009 came up with a report about
what they called right-wing extremism
which was a very politically charged
term but what that was and what these
assessments generally are they you know
they kind of look at the overall scene
using say FBI data using other kinds of
government data and and and come up with
like an advisory for their state and
local partners in law enforcement so
they'll send that out and we'll go down
to the sheriff's office and it's going
to go down to local police forces and
those kinds of agencies and just to make
them aware of a phenomenon that they
have noticed that they think that law
enforcement should be aware of now you
open your story in The Times you're
talking about a lieutenant in a police
force in Gainesville Florida or I guess
he was working in a an emergency
operation center down there and while
waiting for the dealing with a hurricane
and he he realized that law
enforcement's handling of white
supremacy was broken what what does that
mean to a guy like that
this is lieutenant on the Gainesville
Florida police force he'd been a
lieutenant and has even danced out he's
been on the police force for almost 25
years and and he had heard right after
charlottesville and 2017 in August 2017
he'd heard that Richard Spencer was
coming two days notice to a speech at
the University of Florida so he had been
researching over the past month
everything he could find about Richard
Spencer about his so-called all right
movement about the opponents to the all
rights movement you know on the left you
know he had been like going through
multitude of YouTube videos looking at
website and and the reason he was doing
all of this was because he actually
could not find any government issues
reports like there were no studies there
were no PowerPoint you know so
there was nothing that he could get from
either the you know VHS or or the
Florida Department of Law Enforcement or
the FBI that that kind of explained to
him who these kinds of who these people
were
what you should be looking for there was
nothing specific and so he was you know
and he he was going through to you know
basically open source report to get
information because he couldn't get
information from the sort of the usual
channels and and that is actually you
know a story that I was told not just by
him but by the sheriff you know by other
people in that community that normally
maybe you know there's plenty of
intelligence that they have available to
them but when it came to this issue the
best intelligence they could get was
from journalists who are covering you
know far-right events or were from some
you know people posting things on
Twitter and on YouTube what was there
what if they all reported that like you
know that this seems to be broken it's
not that you know like how rare was that
for them because I imagine like you know
if I'm on a police force and maybe I
don't know a smaller city and you know
maybe someone dies or ODS on a certain
type of drug that had been laced with
something you know that had been cut
heroin that had been cut with some other
a drug that was was killing people that
I could go online and see oh this was a
problem in another city or the this was
a warning issued by the feds or the DEA
or something so that I mean how how
often do local police from and for a law
enforcement how often do they go and
look for resources about a problem that
seems to be on their doorstep and not
find it I know I think it's a really
good question and I think that certainly
what you had in the 2016 and 2017 were
series of events happening across the
country in a lot of times on college
campus there
but you'd have these kind of trees one
of those free speech events that were
you know spawn through and one way or
another by members of the far right that
would be drawing out you know huge
numbers of people protesting them and
violence would happen at almost everyone
in these events and there wasn't a
tremendous amount of information sharing
it seems like between Department he
wouldn't expected for example that like
you know after a couple of them there
might have been sort of a Federal
Advisory about okay you know we're
seeing these kinds of events happening
in Berkeley and in Huntington Beach
California or in Portland Oregon or in
you know any number of other places
where protests were happening and you
know this is what you should look for
these are some of the you know
individuals with criminal records who
may be showing up because they've been
showing up at a number of these places
you didn't see any there was nothing
like that and so actually what had that
have what happened in the Gainesville
story is about danced out got on the
phone with his counterparts in Berkeley
he realized that you know what I'm not
going to be able to deal with this
unless I've I've you know learned some
other people who have had this
experience and so he took it upon
himself to make a bunch of phone calls
to other cities that have had sort of
Dave all right you know event Berkeley
California being one of the major ones
and he and a couple of colleagues you
know got the resources from their city
government and flew out to Berkeley and
spend a week with them basically getting
a training from their own you know kind
of counterparts but they had to take
that upon themselves that was his idea
he took the initiative that was not some
kind of you know sort of larger you know
official program it was like it was you
know the initiative taken by this one
local cop who was very concerned about
his community and wanted to protect us a
community and to the extent that there
have been or there should be national
programs to facilitate that type of
exchange of information we have seen
actually a pull back on that we're going
to take a break when we come back
I want to ask you specifically like how
dangerous is this threat in a in a how
worried should we really be worried
about this stuff and why is it that this
potential threat has been met with less
than proactive work on behalf of the
federal government we're going to take a
quick break
I'm Sam cedar we'll be right back ring
of fire radio
