let's go to the phones you calling from
a six five-oh area code who's this hey
how's it going Sam this is Garrett
calling from Sacramento hello Garrett
what's on your mind so you know I'm in
the area of the wildfires that were
happened up in Paradise and I'm I'm
actually I'm from San Bruno originally
where we had the gas pipeline explosion
over there back and I think 2010 I had a
couple buddies that passed away in that
one I have some friends that are up in
Paradise right now kind of suffering
from that wildfire and I've been looking
at the whole PG&E issue and sort of
their liability within the causing the
campfire and and explain to people why
why they would have liability uh so they
have started a number of fires
throughout the years I think as people
might know California's better in a
drought over the last five plus years
and we've had a number of wildfires that
have increased in size every year we had
initially one of the most tragic
wildfires up in Santa Rosa back in 2015
and we had the Mendocino fire up in
Mendocino County and a lot of these are
started by down power lines that aren't
maintained the maintenance should know
that people is the Pacific Gas &
Electric Company and III don't know the
background on the PG&E but if it's
anything like let's say what we see in
you know in the East here National Grid
you've got one big company that buys up
a lot of smaller companies
and the first thing they do is they cut
back on the sort of maintenance of lines
and sort of go more towards a a model
that is literally putting fires out like
when we see that something has gone awry
we go fix it as opposed to sort of going
around I mean it used to be that you
know Niagara wood which you know was
bought by National Grid they'd come out
and they'd cut trees that were impinging
upon lines before there was a problem
and yeah and they do that with PG&E but
it's typically when it's a problem right
exactly that's what I'm saying they
slightly change the threshold in which
they will go out and do work they will
wait for it to become a problem and it's
far more efficient from a dollar
standpoint but it's not far more
efficient when it comes to averting
possible disasters and particularly now
when we're in an era and we're going to
be even more in an era where the
potential for disaster and the severity
of those disasters is greater because of
changes in our climate and so that kind
of brings me into one of these
legislations that has been recently
passed SB 901 is a California State
Senate bill that was passed last year
and it had to do with the Sienna Roza
fires California the San Bruno explosion
and I mean they they have dozens of
fires just in 2017 that left 46 people
dead over 9,000 homes destroyed and the
California state legislature is
concerned that PG&E will become
insolvent they'll have to go bankrupt
due to the cost associated with
penalties from causing these fires from
civil lawsuits from penalties that they
incur so they passed this legislation
that allows them to pass up that cost on
to
consumers and I just don't see this I
don't see how that's helpful when you
look at the company and I mean they've
taken regulation less than helpful
because it's subsidizing essentially
they're cutting corners and it's
subsidized it makes it and it makes it
dangerous for everybody and really they
don't follow proper regulation they they
go so my dad teaches a lot of classes
for firefighters on how to respond to
hazardous materials and what a lot of
these companies will do they just had
one down in Imperial County that tried
to do this know try and create their own
board and get state approval to have a
company self-regulate themselves so in
Imperial County it was several oil
refineries that got together and said
hey we want to be able to self regulate
this and PG&E has approval in many areas
of the state to here to do their own
thing
last week I I had just in front of my
own house gas leak which you know being
from San Bruno is kind of kind of scary
to me you know I'd understand what can
happen with that and the way that they
handled it just seemed so irresponsible
they let cars die by while they were
literally opening up the asphalt to open
up this busted gas lines and they ended
up having to run up and evacuate
everybody in the area because of it
because well hey now we have this gas
leaving and it's a combustion issue and
they just don't seem to follow the
regulation and they're more concerned
with how it's going to affect their
investors rather than the people that
consume it Garrett I appreciate the call
of course of course left is best thank
you guys for doing your work
time listener and I appreciate what you
do Sam thanks Garrett thanks for calling
it people just to remind people if they
don't know what carrots talking about
the San Bruno gas leak explosion
happened I think it was in 2011 2010
somewhere 22,000 not somewhere about
seven eight years ago I think it was
just before we started this show maybe
and III can't I mean there were a number
of deaths and it just blew up like a
like a neighborhood essentially I don't
remember other details of it but I think
it was right before we started the show
you know this is why you know if you're
going to allow the consolidation of
these enterprises you really start to
lose any type of semblance of argument
as to why the US government should not
be owning this why they should not be
government-owned entities are you know
infrastructure seems to me to be one of
those things where it's just we have
proof time and time again proof that we
can do this just as well if not better
or I should say for the same amount of
money we can do it better without a
doubt you just take the profit out of it
I mean just those resources you're just
gonna go back into providing it and you
cannot say that there's competition cuz
there is no competition PG&E does not
have any competition and you can hire
the same experts
just don't need to provide shareholder
returns
