Amazon announced we talked about this
yesterday the effective work of Bernie
Sanders and bringing this about
it's a tiny step and what needs to be a
nationalized company immediately taken
over by the government and run and
operated by its workers but at the same
time we don't allow the perfect to be
the enemy of the good and we actually
recognize that the momentum of the good
is what will allow for the possibility
of the quote unquote perfect and this is
a real example of it this is workers
responding to the Amazon wage increase
of $15 an hour facilitated by robust
activism and Bernie Sanders leadership
[Applause]
I also gotta give a shout out to all of
the union activists mainly in Europe who
were engaging in strikes in a few
different countries as well as
organizing boycotts
of like Amazon Prime day that was a
little while ago when we were encouraged
not to buy anything during that stupid
week the Amazon had so like obviously
Bernie played an important role here but
it's also all of the people all of the
workers we've been organizing together
oh it's definitely Bernie wouldn't have
the opportunity to have the role he
played without all of that yeah and I
want to make up cuz i retweeted a few
things that maybe some people felt we're
taking shots at Bernie like like Matt
Stoller saying hey you know I feel a
little bit on him Henry Ford yeah we
played that yesterday yeah and and I'm
not actually upset that much with Bernie
saying those things but I do feel
compelled to like speak against them
because I think what Bernie is doing is
playing the game right and that's our
job exactly right our job is this is
nothing you nationalize Amazon
right his job is yet one of negotiation
yes everybody's got to play their role
yeah Jeremy Corbyn had a good tweet
though he said Amazon didn't gift this
workers organize for it the fight goes
on to improve working conditions and get
this company to pay its fair share of
taxes join a union today hundred Bernie
has a link that's great going to union
well Jeremy Corbyn totally on point
