202 area code who are you where you
coming from what's going on Michael I
feel from Boston how you guys doing hey
Nabil good to hear from you how's it
going it's going excellent well I have a
question about Christopher Hitchens
actually doing a really good job of
breaking down the kind of odious and a
historical analysis that Sam Harris has
of Islam and it's kind of flirtation
with neoconservatism you know I was
wondering if you could do the same for
Hitchens though because he obviously was
much more historically minded and much
more intelligent about this stuff but he
still made the same sort of mistake so
we kind of break that down
well Hitchens is a little bit more
complicated because I remember even a
one interview he did close to before he
died on some some it might have even
been like you you at some bizarre
right-wing show and and they were
talking about Israel Palestine and all
and Hitchens was you know he was rolling
on you know defending the invasion of
Iraq and all of this you know monstrous
foreign policy and then at one point
when they were talking about Israel
Palestine Hitchens wasn't as aggressive
but it remember he literally said he's
like look I can't unlearn history to
paraphrase him and his point was was
like I still oppose the occupation like
I can't you can't completely divorce me
from any political or historical
awareness I think though that he was
also I mean he was a guy that really
seemed to be the world was like a proxy
for his social circles and personal
arguments inman thinness so if like you
read his initial exchanges after
September 11th with people like Noam
Chomsky some of the things he says are
you know I get their appeal they made
sense like you know obviously a
phenomenon like al-qaeda is not simply
reducible to US foreign policy there's
other factors there's also nothing I
mean this is the opposite of the 80s
there's nothing these are not the
Sandinistas these are you know far
right-wing religious fanatics that are
cruel to everyone
that is an insight an incredibly small
group right but uh but to me it seemed
like a career opportunity it seemed like
it was about scoring like if you read
his book his forget his autobiography
it's like here's 22 yeah I don't think
hitch 22 is like there's almost no
mention of like Paul Bremer or the Iraq
provisional Authority he it's almost
like he's historical but he turned the
world like if if you know Harris does
his thought experiments and Hitchens
turned the world like into a dinner
party and it was all about scoring
arguments in a dinner party I also well
I also wonder from reading if I remember
I haven't read him in a while but I also
think there was some misplaced
Trotskyism there as he kind of deluded
himself into the idea that like I'm
still a guy who's about global
revolution and uprisings across the
globe it's just that now the US Marine
Corps is like the armed wing of his
insertion cease which is that factors
into the Kurds it.well right and that's
why he could always find and I agree I
mean of course I also have utmost
sympathy and support for the Kurds but
he was very into and and he usually
would be very eloquent because who else
knew cuz he because he could find you
know idiot leftist who still sometimes
do it where they minimize or justify
oppression and killing of the Kurds or
you know all the idiot centrists were
dazzled because they don't even know
occurred czar and people on the right
are always willing to especially during
the Bush era they cynically used the
human rights of Afghan women Kurds and
the idea of Iraqi democracy and
unfortunately you know he was obviously
the most effective I mean just like Tony
Blair was the most effective global
propagandist and liar as a politician
hitch at the end the day was I have no
doubt there are plenty of impressionable
young people who wouldn't have gone the
wrong way on things like invading Iraq
if they weren't reading him so forget
work yeah yeah yeah it's it's
fascinating to watch some of his clips
when he was in his socialist phase I
mean how scathing and really just on
target he was almost all the time I
still don't think there was a lot of
that social climbing aspect
him and you know he still was playing
that game but there was something
different he really cried to frame
himself is like a George Orwell
character he said you know I've always
fought against totalitarianism even when
I was a leftist so he tried to bridge
that gap it was always just was very
forced very contrived didn't make sense
but just the juxtaposition between his
earlier self to like that kind of sweaty
sausage look he always had just
compelling about Islam later on it's
just yeah that's depressing for a sec I
remember one the last thing I think of I
remember one of the last profiles I read
of him you know the the journalist spent
the day with him drinking because that
was I mean the dude was also just like a
drunk you hear a lot of those stories
yeah and the guy spent the day with him
complete shock yeah they spent the day
with him drinking and and you know he
said of course like there's a lot of
flashes of like wit and charisma and
everything but I forget I don't remember
how he set it up but it was sort of just
like you know perhaps hitch has turned
into like the worst case scenario
possible he's just become a bore and I
think like you know yeah like yeah if
you if you look at Hitchens in the 80s
and like c-span oh that's amazing but he
also has a huge appetite for engaging
with like Buckley and other like
right-wingers right definitely he loved
that sort of thing yes yes yes he did
but he also recognized what a savage
them yeah all right thanks for the call
