we were talking in the last hour about
the Democrats plans now that they have
taken over the house how Republicans in
the Senate will push back I mean there's
two sets of things obviously I think
that that we anticipate the Democrats
need to do or hope that when they will
do and that they will do one is you know
- well maybe three one is to offer and
vote on legislation that the Senate will
ignore but becomes the foundation of a
platform for 2020 things like maybe
Medicare for all or things like raising
the minimum wage or or whatnot but then
other things that I think are a that
that point to more structural reform
like why not reauthorize the Voting
Rights Act come up with another version
of section 5 and pass that on to the
Senate and make them refuse to take it
up they will but we I hope to see that
type of thing and then of course the
other major thing that the house can do
unilaterally is provide investigations
and oversight as well as being
obstructionist I guess simultaneously
the the Senate is going to work overtime
to have to create their narratives for
their people essentially I don't know if
they're going to dig into Benghazi again
or or what but the it's going to be
interesting to see what the Democrats do
in the house and before we start talking
about the the governor ships in the
state houses what's your take on on uh
Nancy Pelosi at this time I mean I know
at least generically you and I have both
been talking about wanting a a and I
don't know if it's even necessarily a
younger Democratic leadership as much as
a leadership that is more in touch with
the changes that are taking
place in the context of the party and
Nancy Pelosi gave a a speech I guess it
was Tuesday night you know I understand
that all politicians after they win an
election have to pretend like they're
gonna be bipartisan there's no cost
associated with it and whatnot but in
the past she's talked about things like
Pago and even when she was talking about
the democrats having protected
pre-existing conditions she had a very
awkward way of like cheering for
pre-existing conditions which i think
was maybe you know half in jest but it
seems like a squandered moment to remind
people that the by electing Democrats
had just protected Medicare and Social
Security I mean what is your sense of of
what's happening because Nancy below
sort of putting herself out there is
both not a lame duck and also a
transitional leader well I think she's a
transitional leader right that's my take
on it I had to talk with a congressman
high up in the hierarchy not too long
ago about this and his view was that
Pelosi was was probably safe and the
reason for that is according to him
isn't because everybody loves Pelosi
it's just simply that this particular
Congress these two years going into the
presidential in 2020 are anticipated to
be that transition period where they're
going to be bringing up people you know
getting them up to speed getting them
into the leadership and then she will
depend I suppose no matter what win or
lose in 2020 I think she's out and the
idea being that they need somebody to
heard this situation through during this
tumultuous time of these two years and
that Pelosi is the one with the
experience to do it now I don't know if
that's true that's just one person's
opinion I had sort of thought that that
was maybe the way it was going to go
because I don't know that they have
anybody
set to go into that job usually you have
somebody who sort of brought up and in
yet but the leadership of under Pelosi
is all just as ancient as she is and and
you know they did have some others I
mean Donna Edwards this was first lated
chris van hollen there were others but
they left for to attempt tie or win
higher office and you know that we're
younger and and had a more diverse you
know sort of backgrounds and but they
left so today we're left with this you
know sort of old guard that's been in
there forever
but I do think it's at an end I mean I
think that that her you know this is her
her last Congress that she will be
Speaker and I have little doubt that she
said she's done at the end of it because
I just don't think they feel confident
that the caucuses as a you know as as a
full caucus that there's somebody that
they can turn to specifically to just
jump in and run this thing in this
particular period which is you know very
volatile and extremely important and so
I think that's why they're gonna stick
with her for two years
but I do that you know I get the sense
that they all know that this is you know
this is it what I mean has to be I you
know I mean well I guess and I'm not
being a just here because I'm old too so
you know I I just there comes a point at
which you know you have to let go
I mean Dianne Feinstein should have let
go right time I mean yes well I
shouldn't digress but I'll just say this
Kevin de Leon won a lot more votes than
I would have expected probably some of
them from Republicans who were just
trying to you know stick it to Feinstein
but nonetheless you know it should be a
big sign to her that she made a mistake
maybe she'll resign or something I don't
know but anyway well you know it'll be
interesting to see what if what you're
saying is the case then it'll be
interesting to see who gets appointed to
some of these leadership positions right
because presumably these are the people
who are being groomed you possibly take
over from Nancy Pelosi so it's going to
be very interesting
you know to keep an eye on that because
obviously I think there are people like
you and I who want someone from the
leftist most part of the Democratic
caucus to take this job and it'll be
interesting to see what what Pelosi you
know what she does who she puts into a
position to get this job right I mean it
I guess it'd be interesting to sit down
with somebody who has been through and I
don't know that there's many but this
type of process but I would imagine
we're looking for people who have like
liaison positions people who get certain
committee appointments we're looking for
people who function as a whip maybe so
this is something that we should keep an
eye on over the next couple of weeks as
knits you know one thing to remember I'm
sorry to interrupt but wanted to
remember about these jobs in the
Congress is it you know the the media
part of it sort of you know speaker part
of it which Nancy Pelosi is let's face
it terrible out she is not a good face
for the Democratic caucus because she
doesn't speak well she just isn't that
kind of a politician but they have a
different set of skills I mean this is
about organizing it's about fundraising
this is a very important part of it they
have to be able to help their caucus get
enough money to win and that's a big
part of what they do they also have to
be good at counting votes and that's not
enough that's a weird skill that's you
know very few people seem to be really
good at but it is and they have to be
good at you know as managing a really
diverse and difficult sort of coalition
filled with lots of different people
that's not the same skill as being a
good retail politician so you know
everybody needs to keep that in mind as
we watch this thing unfold and let me
just add one more thing and then we got
to take a quick break here the
fundraising aspect of it right there's a
new there's sort of a new wrinkle to
this it seems to me because in the past
the fundraising was obviously dominated
by people like Steny Hoyer or Nancy
Pelosi you had access to big money
donors but now we have
I don't know if we have fully ripened
this but Democratic politicians who
simply have networks of small donors and
can sort of bequeath some of that money
to people so it's going to be
interesting to see if that in some way
helps get us to more progressive
leadership in the house but we're gonna
take a quick break we'll talk more about
that on the other end
I'm Sam cedar this is bringing a fire
radio talking to the great Digby we'll
be right back
