[Music]
- oh this was interesting as you know it
was being floated Joe Biden has not
jumped into the race yet I would
anticipate that he is going to come into
the race sometime at the beginning of
next week maybe even perhaps this
weekend depending on on campaign finance
disclosure laws I don't know the
specifics but you are obligated to
report every quarter I think Joe Biden
did not want to have to report this
close to the date I have seen some
suggestion that he's having trouble with
some donors but who knows he it's hard
for me to imagine that he has the small
donor base of a Bernie Sanders or even a
Beto Rourke or even Kamala Harris for
that matter and if he's not getting the
big donors he may have a problem but one
of the things that his campaign did do
which was the exact same thing they did
back in 2016 when they were toying with
the running for election or I should say
2015 was to float the name of a person
who very clearly addressed some of the
biggest critiques that people will have
about Joe Biden as a candidate that big
critique back in 2015 was that Joe Biden
represented the interests of the credit
card industry and against basically
people who were just citizens who may go
into bankruptcy say or Joe Biden also
had some liabilities in terms of being
the one who who insisted on going in and
offering up Social Security cuts in a
grand bargain and so he floated the idea
that he would run with Elizabeth Warren
worked so well that time he his folks
were floating the idea that
you would run with Stacey Abrams because
one of the things that has developed
over the past really four years has been
a higher consciousness of how women
should be treated in the workplace and
how their accusations of sexual assault
and inappropriate sexualized I guess
behavior in the workplace should be
treated and Joe Biden has a big
liability on that front particularly in
the context of the Clarence Thomas
hearings and so it was floated that Joe
Biden would would run pick Stacey Abrams
and run with her as a VP I don't think
that was ever the intent I think it was
to have people think like Oh Biden's
look at who Biden would pick he would
pick Stacey Abrams and that you know sir
just immediately widens your perspective
on Wow Joe is really leaning into this
now think when you have the the savvy as
we should as professional pontificate
errs about politics and readers about
politics you realize like Stacey Abrams
probably never signed on for this and
they probably never even had a
conversation about it might want to spit
ball this with her and you might want to
spit ball this with her but also before
you go public with it because this is
the way look this happens all the time
people Jam other people in this way and
[Music]
when you when you are aware of that you
realize like huh it's a little bit
offensive because Stacey Abrams can't
come out and say hey excuse me but guess
what she can come out and say excuse me
now they're talking about you being on
the ticket with Joe Biden he hasn't even
declared yet and he would take you as a
the idea is to take you as a vice
president to bolster his numbers in the
in the primary what do you think about
that I think you don't run for a second
place I think my responsibility
I'm going to enter a primary then I'm
going to enter a primary and if I don't
under the primary my job is to make
certain that the best Democrat becomes
the nominee and whoever wins the primary
that we make certain that person gets
elected in 2020 so you put okay
so for those of you at home who who let
me allow me to translate Joe Biden go F
himself and I don't appreciate him using
me as a mechanism to to burnish his own
lack of bona fides in certain areas I
mean you know because another way you
could respond if you weren't genuinely a
little bit offended that you were being
leveraged in this way would be Joe I am
completely honored to even be considered
to run with a Joe Biden yeah who
wouldn't be honored to be used as a prop
by Joe Biden I mean and so good for her
because she she handled it in such a way
that she's she's a very smart politician
because nobody who has any sympathies
with Joe Biden would walk away from that
thinking anything other than she's her
own person but people who are a little
bit you know more in touch with this
stuff realized she was saying hey Joe go
F yourself right you know you don't get
to trade in on my brand and the work
I've done for your benefit that's not
what this is about I mean to a certain
extent just that just that Joe Biden did
that well he's into the criticism that
people have of Joe Biden well this is
actually right exactly this is the first
I mean he said actually any number of
things like I don't sympathize for
Millennials or whatever but I I'm
someone who's willing to cut slack on
gaffes for a variety of reasons but this
is the first thing of this cycle
obviously his whole entire career but
this is the first thing he's done in
this cycle that isn't just like a gaffe
or a missplay it reveals everything that
you just outlined in terms of
the disrespect to her but it also is
like shows why I don't think he's ready
for a modern campaign because may like
maybe there was a time where you could
built like before she even handled it
like this there was already a huge
pushback on the presumptuousness of it
and I don't think he's ready for a kind
of genuine sort of like bottom-up
conversation on these things well I
think part of it is he is living in a
different era clearly where he thinks
that young people perhaps women in
particular perhaps women of color would
appreciate the validation in some
fashion or would need the validation and
that other people wouldn't see that
dynamic and things like changes in our
culture things like me too regardless of
whether you think there were excesses or
whatnot I mean these are important
movements that have pushed our society
forward but it's just so on auntie check
well it son strategic because he's not
aware of the terrain right no if he knew
the terrain he gets I mean as example I
mean and this would be terrifying this
is actually the case but if he actually
met with her I think did a joint
appearance together and they said we're
actually doing this and voting rights is
at the center of my campaign and no one
better to lead on this and Stacey Abrams
that would be both terrifying from my
perspective as a Sanders supporter and
extremely effective politics but
floating it like this is your rights
just of a different error well it's of a
different error and it's also revealing
of one of his biggest flaws is that he
is completely out of touch with what is
going on in today's society and and I
would say that's not just indicative I
mean both in in regards to women and
people of color but you can even see it
in something as banal is like forgive me
father I've sinned I supported a
republic
can over a Democrat you know there was a
well let's listen to this clip here
where he complained where where he
laments the fact that he wish he could
have done more for Anita Hill like and
he doesn't bring up he doesn't say
specifically like like maybe made it
possible for the three women who would
testify if not directly corroborating
her story corroborating at least that
there was a pattern there with Clarence
Thomas but here she is she's at weight
now where is a humble Joe now where is
this where is he testing this he's in
New York and what but what is the
function that he's at humble Joe where
is he always at the Biden courage Awards
humble Joe at the Biden courage Awards
huh that some courage I love the way
that he's I love the way that he's given
back that is actually Trump competition
worthy but I a really notable woman
Anita Hill professor showed the courage
of a lifetime talking about her
experience being harassed by Clarence
Thomas we knew a lot less about the
extent of harassment back then over
thirty years ago but she paid a terrible
price she was abused for the hearing
she's taken advantage of her reputation
was attacked I wish I could have done
something I opposed Clarence Thomas
nomination I voted against him didn't he
also go on to say like he condemned a
white man's culture yeah I want to hear
more but I also realized there was a
real and perceived problem the committee
faced there are a bunch of white guys no
I mean he's sincerely a bunch of white
guys here II hearing this testimony and
the Senate Judiciary Committee so when
Anita Hill when they needed help came to
testify she faced a committee that
didn't fully understand what the hell is
all about to this day I regret I
couldn't come up with a way to get her
to kind of
she deserved given the courage she
showed by reaching out to us hearing she
deserved was hearing where she was
respected where the tone of the
questioning was not hostile on a sullen
or the fact that she stepped forward was
recognized as an act of courage in and
of itself because let's face it back in
1991 it took a lot of courage to take on
a man and was so much a part of the
establishment in the power structure
all right posit now this is really hard
black power so let's just a review for a
moment Joe Biden who feels that Anita
Hill was a victim in many respects of a
of a white man's culture where she was
not protected not valued enough has
already launched his campaign by putting
a rumor out there that stacey abrams
would be his running mate without
clearly without even bothering to call
her on the phone and saying is this
something you're open to now he will
always deny it was never me I would
never do that but that you these things
are not like you know there's not people
on the sidelines it's going oh hey I am
I'm floating an idea no this is coming
from people around him they're floating
this idea for a specific reason so Joe
Biden in the course of apologizing for
essentially in some way abusing in the
softest sense of the word the courage
that Anita Hill showed goes and exploits
Stacey Abrams as a way of launching his
campaign and incidentally Anita Hill in
Elle magazine quote it's become sort of
a running joke in the household when
someone rings the doorbell and we're not
expecting company
all we say is that Joe Biden coming to
apologize well it's only been 27 28
years but guess what I would say to
Anita Hill expect to call very soon and
that was enough yeah that was 2000 that
was 2018 that well look again let's just
keep on
unraveling this he made the jump from a
ridiculous miscalculation with Stacey
Abrams to the best launch would have
been you know what I did last night I
finally had the guts to call I need a
hill right that would have been a very
good speech that again that would be
scary well we all know the best apology
is a Courage Award you named after
yourself so I think he's done his due
diligence you know just like when he
gave Obama a Joe Biden clean and
articulate award it's just like a really
generous guy he's got he's got a lot
more problems to deal with that and he
clearly look he clearly understands that
by addressing it but it is it rings a
little hollow it seems to me but others
will decide if that's the case let's go
