[Music]
folks it's on Beto Beto is going after
Pete yang is going after bad out here is
Beto and this is good I mean I'm glad to
see him doing something here
this is Beto going after you know Mayor
Pete's been going around saying like he
criticized Warren by saying I only care
about outcomes I don't I don't get
caught up in the idea that you'd have to
fight for those outcomes
I just want outcomes I don't wanna have
to think about how you get him I just
you get him and then he goes around and
he's criticizing bad oh this is this is
I mean this is his he is the the critic
his plans though very slippery very
slippery and here's Beto basically
saying peep can stuff it what pete has
been saying is that a mandatory buyback
is the shiny object is distracting us
how in the world can you say that to
March for our lives how can you say that
survivors of mass shootings across this
country how can you say that to the
majority of Hispanics in America
certainly in Texas who fear that there
will be the victims of a mass shooting
inspired by racism and hatred that's
been welcomed into the open by this
president and has been armed with
weapons of war so I was really offended
by by those comments and I think he
represents a kind of politics that is
focused on poll testing and focus group
driving and triangulating and listening
to consultants before you arrive at a
position I think our politics has to be
about doing the right thing saying the
right good for him
I appreciate the fact that he expanded
his critique on everything that Bhutto
judge is is promoting because he's a guy
who speaks to the Budaj edge the people
who like Budaj exact
and that's why that is extremely healthy
for our body politic however it does
pain me on a day when bateau has proven
his mettle as it were criticizing people
to judge it pains me to inform Beto that
he is the second best skateboarder in
the presidential race here is Andrew
yang just like right people in danger
yeah this is pretty good he's in his uh
this is what happens when you uh you
raised ten million dollars it's got a
thousand dollars to spend on a
skateboard knee pads I mean he's he's
not like Beto it just sort of coasted
across at stage he's like he's DS
banking around and building up speed so
good for Andrew yang like to see it and
you know I'll tell you something the
reason why they do this the reason why
they do this is because they are trying
to push the youth the youth issue so
when Amy Klobuchar dances around and
does that and it looks a little silly a
lot silly their consultants have told
them do stuff that's going to remind
people that you're young because that's
going to remind people that the other
candidates are old it'll be interesting
to see if there's any salience to that
but look at that is that move that's so
great then very straight I feel like I
could have done that yeah all right
