[Music]
let's do the rush limbaugh this thing is
nuts it's so weird to see him now in
some ways
right I mean aside from like the work
that it appears that he's had done and
the there is something that is like
anachronistic about Donald I mean about
Rush Limbaugh it's also weird to see his
gold-plated microphone in like 1080p
yeah it's usually on a webcam these
 live forever yeah I guess
that's true let's let here is rush
limbaugh on the sean hannity program oh
why from E I be Southern Command
headquarters the most listened to talk
radio host in the history of the medium
radio talk show legend rush to the fire
hey Rush how are you I am fabulous it's
great to be with you tonight you know
for those that never caught you with
half my brain tied behind my back in a
lot of ways you're like Trump you see
these things and people bubble and fizz
like alka-seltzer they have no sense of
you were I'm not sure if I got that got
through we get stuck on the thing so you
see constantly go back down look now
Rush Limbaugh has has a hearing problem
this is well documented and the there
was a lot of speculation that it was a
function of his oxycontin abuse from the
early aughts so he does have a device
that some type of hearing aid that that
helps him so that's probably what's
going on here but it really does capture
the essence of it like you are like
bubbling alka-seltzer and then he just
sort of stands he has a brain
malfunction as Trump uses and all that
Botox can't be helping either
there's a lot of work being done there a
lot of work into his brain let's let's
just that play back in with half my
brain time I forgot you with half my
brain tied behind my back in a lot of
ways you're like Trump you say these
things and people bubble and fizz like
alka-seltzer they have no sense of you
worth no question that's what's going on
there right go back go back and so it
was I mean look this happens sometimes
you know I on this program like I'll do
a declarative statement and want the
other person to to to pick up on it but
but this is why it's and understand that
Limbaugh can't see Hannity Hannity can
see Limbaugh but I don't I doubt that
they're the the feed goes two ways and
so you know I've been in these
situations to where you're in a remote
camera but it's still really funny let's
watch it one more time I'm sorry folks
the history of the medium radio talk
show legend Rush Limbaugh hey rush how
are you I am fabulous it's great to be
with you tonight you know for those that
never caught you with half my brain tied
behind my back in a lot of ways you're
like Trump you see these things in
people here is right he smiles like
alka-seltzer they have no sense of you
were I got through we get stuck on
another thing so you say controversial
things also and you're joking when you
say half my brain tied behind my back
well no actually I do I split my skull
open and I take funny this professor
Matt one a diagram Hannity sentences no
look like Good Will Hunting
[Laughter]
but they're they're all very very
excited about the the mullah report
showing that and
I think maybe there's also a tremendous
amount of relief because I wonder if
they didn't think that it was quite
possible that the the president was so
excited about getting his his his tower
in Trump Tower in Russia that he would
be offering things now I still think
that we probably have that dynamic and
in various areas right I mean we've seen
stuff like Ivanka Trump and some very
dubious moves by the US government in
terms of like China after Ivanka gets
certain copyrights and trademarks in
China so who knows if that dynamic is
going on it's a very tough dynamic to
prove that quid pro quo even in the
context of we've had multiple instances
I think Tom DeLay was one others who
have had who was the the governor of
Virginia Bob McDermott McDonald was it
Bob I can't the he was he and his wife
were tried for bribery no and and they
ultimately got off the Bob McDonnell I
think it was Bob McDonald and maybe and
he ultimately got off because we don't
really it's not really a crime to get
stuff for doing stuff and he walked so
you know the the quid pro quo is a very
tough is is not with our politicians
it's highly problematic I think flaw in
our law but that is the that is the
reality of it I don't know that there is
you know even a the bribery needs to be
very very very explicit all right we got
to take quick break when we come back
we'll be talking to Judy gold
