last the color of the day you come from
a 787 area code who's this where you
come from hello hello yes my name is
Daniel I'm calling from Puerto Rico
Daniel from Puerto Rico what's on your
mind
um thank you for picking me I was
crossing my fingers first time calling
I'm very thankful for what the show does
I'm listening from Puerto Rico I don't
know if you have many third Rican
viewers i don't know if they ever sound
off not not too many if I recall
correctly at least in terms of folks who
have called in tell us what what's going
on there well right now a really
important thing that's happening on
Wednesday you're gonna have to forgive
me I'm kind of going through that
adrenaline rush of talking on the phone
to someone on Wednesday the the court
over here is going to be signing a law
that is being heavily promoted heavily
tied to the Hamilton wave of tourism
there's there's a lot of conflict on the
side people who are genuinely leftist
can see very dirty neo-colonial
happenings through Hamilton through all
out of the pro tourism industry that has
been uh feels like it's an overdrive
right now oh just explain to people what
you mean by Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton
the Broadway musicals Liman Hamidah and
uh he's very much a sort of a poster boy
for the liberal fighting against Trump
yeah but his his dealings in perder
Rico have left a lot of the people who
would maybe have solidarity with him
very sour he was one of the main
proponents main lobbyist for the promesa
bill that's PR om ESA if you're aware of
any pretty good news it's what what
established the fiscal Control Board
right over here that's so one and that's
like well it's supposedly hosing it's
supposedly imposing you know financial
responsibility and there's there's a lot
of information about his father being a
top of democratic counsellor aid so
there's this conflict in the fact that
in the United States he would be a
Democrat and very uh liberal but he's
very much in the corporate sorry the
Democratic Party and very much in the
pockets of the people who are most
interested in cashing in the the most
amount of money of the debt as possible
at the expense of the Puerto Rican
people which is what is happening on
Wednesday on Wednesday the 16th the
Supreme in Spanish it's pretty whoo
night supremo I guess
our version of the Supreme Court is
going to be signing into law a sort of a
40 year a 40-year law that is going to
be hitting the few working perd Ricans
we have left the hardest it's going from
a 7% a retainment of their money to 10%
and it starts off at $500 instead of the
previous thousand five hundred dollars
so they're literally going in
to 10% of our paychecks now so it's it's
in yes so the idea is that there's a
there's a there's a tax hike on on
basically low-income folks in Puerto
Rico freelancers small business owners
coffee shop owners the the few people
that could even in comparison like in
comparison to United States a average
income per household we're already in
the poverty line so those people who
would already count as in poverty in the
United States I feel like they they kind
of changed the rules a little bit so
that poverty doesn't count that way over
here because we would all fall in that
line
it sounded like messing with the
statistics but yes the few contributing
per Ricans that we have less because
that's the other problem there's simply
no jobs left a lot of the Puerto Rican
diaspora has been our university
graduated professionals looking for any
kind of opportunity they're simply these
austerity measures are closing down all
the stores closing down businesses left
and right and a lot of people are
leaving a lot of people are leaving I
know of very many people who I who I
love and admire but they've had to leave
in search of a better life right in
meantime people come swooping in who
have cash and they're basically just
looking to ya a term midterm future
where the island just becomes a resort
actually are gentrification going on
yeah there is a blowout sale of of a lot
of our land going on in legislature
there's a lot of national reserves that
are just being sold pies bitter are
actually not even high as bitter there's
been some who've gone to the lowest
bidder because the person who eventually
ended up buying it would be a part of
the committee who made the legislation
who knew that grounds would be up for
sale right they'd get them at pennies
for the dollar so so basically when when
Puerto Rico comes into the spotlight
it's usually just a lightning rod of
anti-trump liberalism yeah and a lot of
a lot of the very nasty things that are
happening for example
right now the there's a democratic
Latino committee meetings going on on
the islands where they are planning sort
of the Latino agenda all of the
Democratic Party where they're pushing
what's his name Julian Castro yeah as a
2020 candidate and lin-manuel miranda is
actually um giving talks doing doing
lobbying directly directly to these
these government these senators Wow and
I'm sure it makes me so mad
I'm sorry like I'm sure lin-manuel
Miranda would be the first person to
turn around and do performative woke
Ness as an excessive beat down left when
his own people that he claims to care
about are our homes
he sucks almost as much as his play can
I just say no Mickey Const another good
reason to support it for Public Advocate
and we've talked about it on multiple
shows is she's very strong on these
issues and she's also some forums
reporting corruption in the DNC actually
align the intercept you end its articles
the only honest articles I can see on
the Internet are coming out
be intercept but anyways I would why
would I would no no Mickey Const I think
is he was talking about Naomi Klein Oh
Naomi Klein also certainly her reporting
is great on it but specifically there's
some things that she might be able to do
in the public advocate's position I
think as an example she's the only
candidate for public I think we should
not go into that Nelson Dennison who is
quite good on this stuff who is written
or it's more of a first-person
perspective but I really like the
reporting and the illustrations that
Molly crabapple did when she went there
recently as well we had her on our show
well well Daniel listen I appreciate the
call
and you know well III I ran into to
Nelson I don't know a couple of weeks
ago and talked about having it back on
soon anyways and so maybe we need to do
that but let me just ask you before how
did you come across the show did you see
it on YouTube or something
yeah the algorithms finally I clicked on
enough decent people where your video
started to pop up like it can all slip
at any moment I can click on a Joe Rogan
linking all of a sudden they'll have
Pham Harris suggestions coming up again
slide yeah I guess I was persistent
enough and started finding your content
thank you thank you for all that you're
doing all right Daniel hang in there
appreciate the call
