[Music]
one of the biggest pieces of
fear-mongering to block single-payer
healthcare the block and actual plan to
cover every human being in this country
is this disingenuous talking point
pioneered by Joe Biden and Tim Ryan that
somehow it's unfair to labor unions
because and in some cases some folks and
labor unions do have very good health
care which can of course be taken away
from them in a minute they don't a
strike which is another great argument
for single-payer health care but also
even other folks who are employed or are
in unions actually still deal with a lot
of the same over pricing and gouging
that most consumers of these parasite
companies deal with and this gentleman
is one of those people and he is going
broke paying for his health care he had
an opportunity he at the United Food and
Commercial Workers forum to ask one of
the candidates about this now
unfortunately the candidate he asked is
maybe the candidate that there's
something charming about her just
basically like you don't deserve
check this out personal five-year
survivor of leukemia and like many
families I am overwhelmed by the rising
costs in the health care industry my
question to you candidates is what is in
your agenda the lower these cells cut
health costs for our families and myself
all right well that's a great question
in theme so first of all making sure
that you can organize is key to this
that has got to be important because
you're able to negotiate and work hard
to get the best benefits for workers in
your union and other unions do the same
thing so I would make sure under my plan
we protect those policies that you
negotiate it hard for cuz some of the
other plans don't do that there's some
disagreement on this
on the debate stage and I am one that
always has stood by allowing people to
keep their plans because there's a
hundred and forty nine million Americans
that have their own plans right now
they're not perfect plans we want to do
everything to bring the premiums down
but we got to remember that and not kick
people off those insurance plans in four
years which is what one of the proposals
does so that's pretty low that is some
top line I was just about to say that
I'm almost charmed by Amy Klobuchar but
that she really escalated the lie the
disingenuous in this there yes in four
years under the Sanders plan you will
get kicked off of your almost certainly
overpriced let me tell you something and
I will of course I want Medicare for all
I can't wait to get kicked off of my
plan no anything but that
oh no the free one yes no the campers
everything no I mean honestly I'm
looking at bills and I don't I don't you
know luckily enough knock on wood like
I'm in good health I don't use my
insurance barely ever right I didn't
like it's an overpriced defective
product that is there in case you get
hit by a bus and my god the way these
people have been with even some of the
most basic stuff imaginable I'm doubly
petrified of getting hit by a bus
because I mean that's exactly when they
can mess with you boast yeah when you
don't have the energy to argue on the
phone with them so even if you have
great even if you are one of the
miniscule amount of Americans that has
really good health insurance it will be
better when you are covered under a
government plan so this language is just
it's so toxically misleading and
dishonest and of course jeopardizes tens
of millions of people's lives so I was
gonna say there's something that I find
I don't know what the right word is but
my annoint annoyance level with Amy
Klobuchar is actually low relative to
other candidates it's not like I look at
like when I look at people to judge it's
like oh my god please Jesus Christ just
get this guy off the TV
with amy klobuchar I'm just looking yeah
yeah go for it I'm an alcoholic trying
to be a perfectionist out there in the
world I get it yeah I didn't even know
that but like what you know like I don't
I don't like her by any I mean she's
awful but I don't have like a visceral
reaction to being annoyed by her but
that is just such a toxic talking point
well speaking of talking points from
nominally nominally progressive
candidates here tulsi gabbard recently
said that she's on the if you like your
plan you can keep it I'm not I look at
it as a soldier and here's a soldier
about that little talking point anytime
someone says you know I'm not you know
if you like one more than the other look
if the public option was being sold as
you're definitely gonna like the public
option better because it's gonna be so
much cheaper compared to whatever but
like they always say like it might not
be better they give the option that it
might not be better because they're not
gonna give you one that's any that's
that's gonna knock out private insurance
they're not and the public option is not
Medicare for all I mean people need to
be incredibly clear about this I look I
understand that you can very narrowly
litigate whether or not you're gonna ban
private insurance or not and I said
yesterday what my opinion on that is
which is like yes you know what if you
want to allow for private insurance to
continue to exist it needs to be either
mutually owned or nonprofit and it needs
to be dwarfed by governmental health
care to such a degree that it makes up a
fraction of the market and it is
regulated more aggressively than a
public utility sure I guess
but anybody anybody in an American there
is no candidate that is saying I want to
do it the French way they are using the
language a Buddha judge specifically on
laberd's specifically are using the
language of medicare-for-all I guess
maybe even Gabbard might not even be
using medicare-for-all anymore yeah it's
like Medicare for all who want it is
fundamentally dishonest it's not a
public option medicare for all means you
have a governmental program that covers
everybody period and it's free at the
point of purchase and you have it and
that's it and there's no nonsense and
Biden and Klobuchar and Ryan are open
that they don't
horde it and they lie about fear monger
about it Budaj edge is fundamentally
dishonest because he's basically talking
about a public option but calling it
Medicare for all who wants it
Gabbard is either being dishonest or
it's just fully flip-flopped I don't
know which and Warren there's obviously
a huge amount of ambiguity in her
position and what isn't ambiguous so far
is that she's not talking about a plan
that would cover mental health and
dental which is also essential to an
actual robust universal plan so you know
these lives are only gonna increase and
I would ask you know people who get
touchy about a primary fight even though
it's literally a primary we all got to
make sure that you know particularly
holding this talking point accountable
because when an Amy Klobuchar is lying
and fear-mongering about a good health
care plan what happens when a candidate
like Sanders is the nominee obviously I
think it should be Sanders I think
that's a no-brainer but even Warren if
Warren continues on the path of talking
about minute if Warren decides she lands
somewhere there or even if she doesn't
Trump will run against her on it we need
to make sure that these lies and these
disingenuous talking points those stick
yeah we knew they were gonna do this
from the beginning trans Medicare for
all is an incredibly popular phrase and
we knew they were gonna muddy the waters
and try to piggyback off of it while
actually blocking it in its tracks it
also makes me really mad when people
support something that leaves out dental
or vision or mental health like oh did
you want to insure your legs to like Oh
that'll be extra like no like every part
of you that that includes your teeth it
includes your brain it includes your
eyes like there shouldn't be any
loopholes there they're all a part of
the human dental should have been done
in the 60s yeah outrageous
um and I mean the only valid criticisms
I've really heard of the Canadian system
or that it doesn't include those things
and that's where the argument is all
right
