[Music]
again I Thea Slee if you're following me
you know that this story means a
tremendous amount to me and i think that
it needs to mean a tremendous amount to
everybody because it is a symbol of all
of the sort of main trends of our world
generic anti-corruption politics is the
handmaiden to fascism if you don't have
a discussion of corruption politics that
is structural that deals with markets
that deals with sequestered wealth that
deals with oligarchy that deals with
capital then it's gonna be just a sort
of moralistic tool that will play in the
hands of demagogues Trump Paulson ro
Modi and so on also lula again as an
individual was an extraordinary leader
he helped bleed brazil out of a military
dictatorship in the 80s at this event on
saturday one of the speaker's was a
director of global strategy I believe
for I think the Food and Commercial
Workers Union and he first met Lula in
1981 when he was doing solidarity work
while Lula was in prison then by then
Brazilian military Hunta and he said
ever since then he and Lula stayed in
touch and that anytime Lula visited the
United States including as president he
always met with labor unions right after
he had met with his counterpart so when
he met George W Bush in 2003 within the
next hour he was at afl-cio headquarters
and one conversation Lula told him one
of the main AG conglomerates in the
United States is actually a Brazilian
multinational and he's like Lula would
tell me like tell me what's going on
like all as in like I'll talk to them if
you're giving your people problems he
was a trade unionist leader in a way
that there were definitely been other
heads of state that were trade unionist
but not necessarily all of them
demonstrated the same level of
continuity of commitment the same
achievement of bringing 30 million to 40
million people out of poverty massively
expanding healthcare and education labor
protections and resetting brazilian
foreign policy this is a tremendously
leader in a strategically vital country
this is one of the biggest countries in
the world in the biggest country in
Latin America and if you don't think
that the governance of Brazil affects
you or any place that you might be
interested in you're frankly not
assessing it properly so there were mass
demonstrations again he's in jail with
absolutely no material evidence they
have put into solitary confinement only
allow him to meet with his lawyers now
for 30 minutes at a time have blocked
his communications to set him a captain
out of the presidential race which he
comfortably led over bolsa narrow
without a shred of material evidence I
am would be the first one to tell you
that if they found Lula and some like
petty corruption charge I would still
say what he has accomplished for people
far outweighs it I'm honestly shocked
than an effort that has cost this amount
of money and had this many resources put
into it with the backing of the DOJ that
they have not found anything is actually
mind-blowing like it's shocking and if
you talk to people around the Workers
Party they'll say no Lula actually was
quite careful because he knew that he
couldn't make a single mistake if he was
gonna be the first bottom to the top
president of Brazil this is a report
from Michael Fox in the world news
network and then I'll read briefly Lula
published an op-ed in Brazil's largest
daily the first op-ed they let him
publish in a year but these are from
some of the protests in Curitiba on
Sunday resilient congresswoman benedita
de Silva
read a letter from former President
Dilma Rousseff even in prison you are
the greatest enemy of the neo-fascism
that is threatening us over these 365
days of unjust imprisonment you have
shown the Brazilian people that it is
possible to resist even in the worst
conditions Lula was arrested last year
after he was convicted of accepting a
beachside apartment from a company
seeking government contracts but his
conviction was based on plea bargain
testimony and scant evidence he and his
supporters have always maintained his
innocence
Leela left office in 2009 then suddenly
in 2017 after his name was floated as a
potential presidential candidate
supposed evidence began to surface
although none of it was concrete so you
start to think all right something is
not right here so smart kid
there Brian Mayer at the Brazil wire
which I always shout out you need to
read that site has translated this piece
from folow de sal Paulo which and the
title is why is there so much fear of a
free Lula and Lula rights among other
things today it's clear that my
conviction was part of the political
movement which started after the
re-election of President Dilma Rousseff
in 2014 beaten at the ballot box for the
fourth consecutive time the opposition
chose the road to coup to return to
power restarting the authoritarian
addiction of the dominant Brazilian
classes the coup of impeachment without
a crime of responsibility was enacted
against the model of development with
social inclusion which the country had
been building since 2003 in 12 years we
created 20 million new jobs lifted 30
million people out of extreme poverty
increased the GDP fivefold we opened
universities of millions excluded and
overcame hanke hunger this model is
unacceptable to privilege and Prejudice
layers of society they were a powerful
there were powerful economic interest
from outside Brazil while the pre-salt
petroleum reserves drew the glories of
foreign petroleum corporations and
Brazilian companies began to compete for
markets with traditional exporters from
other countries mark Blythe talked about
this several years ago and how the
workers government actually leveraged
mid-sized Brazilian corporations to
become multinationals and then funneled
the money back into social programs at
home
Lula concludes why is there so much fear
of a free Lu
if they achieved the goal of blocking my
election is there nothing to sustain
this imprisonment the truth is that they
are afraid what they are afraid of is
the organization of the people who
identify with our national project
they're afraid that they'll be that they
will have to recognize arbitrary actions
that they committed to an elected
incapable president who fills us with
shame they know that my freedom is an
important part of the return of
democracy to Brazil but they are
incapable of coexisting with a
democratic process that's a hundred
percent true we need to stay on this I
would ask any single Democratic
presidential candidate that you have an
opportunity to ask a question what are
you gonna do about this both as a
political prisoner and also broadly the
reassertion of a u.s. permanent coup and
interference stance in Latin America
which again the coup against Manuel
Zelaya in Honduras in 2009 which was
backed by Hillary Clinton at the State
Department is incredibly important for
understanding this reversal it starts
under Obama and accelerates under Trump
Bush Bush tried but apparently was just
and part of the kind of sick ironies of
history was that they were so consumed
with waging global war in the Middle
East and South Asia that they had less
time to interfere in Latin America
