[Music]
ben shapiro you're just good zoom in on
ben shapiro this thing here first here's
Ben Shapiro this is I'm not sure Tom if
you're aware of who he is but he is the
aware pillar of the conservative
intellect in the country yeah I got a
whole sidebar on ben shapiro if you want
it i I do let's do this video let's
let's talk about this this first and
then I want to hear the sidebar but Ben
Shapiro went on to say oh my god
oMG he's really down with the kids he's
younger yes your kids so he that loseth
or was it I forget what the tacit and
OMG the guy who owns equinox favors I'm
surprised didn't say fades but whatever
equinox favors a candidate half the
country doesn't like the only solution
is politically segregated gyms surely
that will be good for the country and
the idea is that somehow like you've
politicized everything is the equinox
all around the country or just in New
York that's a good question I don't know
we're all such coastal elites we don't
even know the answer to that also not to
be pedantic to the cool kids philosopher
but it's more than half the country that
doesn't like Trump right indeed yeah
that's a little knows a little bit of
finesse he had there and Cody Johnston
of some more news have some more news
fame on YouTube just wrote back bend if
you're hit and retweeted ben shapiro
tweeting I cancelled my Sports
Illustrated subscription after 16 years
last year because of the leftist
politics and so bench Pierrot this guy
is too sharp you can't get away with
this sorry Cody you back I'm sorry
you're too stupid to recognize the basic
difference between cancelling a magazine
because of the content of the magazine
that would be the leftist politics in
the magazine presumably and canceling a
membership to a gym where I like
everything but the owner happens to
donate to a politician I don't like so
the idea being West
d platforming Sports Illustrated from
his mailbox well these d platforming
Sports Illustrated but the reason is
because he doesn't like the content he
would never for instance say I'm going
to stop my doing business with you in
whatever capacity I'm doing business
because of a political opinion or action
that you have that has nothing to do
with my business that's what he's saying
Cody yeah your so some basic difference
yeah it's very basic stuff it's a clear
distinction and then Cody tries to shoot
back with hi my good friend Ben Shapiro
who has not muted me and thus everyone
knows that you're reading this just
thought I'd pop in to remind you of the
times you organized boycotts against
Mozilla and Ritz crackers despite having
no issue with the quality or content of
their products and here's a story Ben
Shapiro's website protests Mozilla after
co-founders resignation over prop 8
that's weird
it seems somewhat inconsistent with the
point that Ben just made that was
Mozilla's content get into a prop 80 or
something yeah yeah do anti prop 80 oh
right right right yeah because you know
that some of the HTML I heard at that
point like if you if you tried to bold
to anything on your wet on your website
it would just immediately redirect you
to an anti a prop 8 site and then of
course there was this who could forget
this I think just about everybody
because it was insane almost 20 years
ago Al Sharpton referred to Caucasians
as crackers while speaking at Kean
College and this is from Time magazine
so of course nearly two decades later
conservative activists have called for a
boycott of Ritz crackers which
advertises on Sharpton's MSNBC show
Sharpton doesn't dislike all crackers
boycott leader and Breitbart news editor
Ben Shapiro writes of the truth revolt
website this is almost like an ad for
Ritz crackers it's so when was this was
this boycott well if he was with that
dance right parties would have been
probably like four or five years ago
okay
I'm just trying to like subtract 12 20
years plus however many other years from
venture bears age like how long he's
been carrying this grudge sitting there
with with this is from 2013 the Ritz
crackers yeah so would have been 90 93
is when Sharpton referred to almost 20
years so been so 994 me how old is
Shapiro well that's I mean he's not as
young as he as he is marketed does right
do we do we know how old he is but I'm
just I really am curious at what age he
would have us believe that he tucked his
grievance about 35 is 35 oh my God he's
older than me Lowell that's Sonny so 35
that would have placed him how old would
he have been in 93 about 10 9 10 now
it's very possible his mom said here Ben
here's a cracker just like what Al
Sharpton called us could be I mean you
know it's it's old enough to be
politically aware and he could have been
like dammit
someday he was streaming on YouTube I
think like about three years after that
yeah that's right that's what that's
what's inspired him what what is the
sidebar the sidebar is just like I don't
know this there he's managed to keep
himself in the discourse I just feel
like if you like we're honest run like a
Twitter search on is sort of basic like
positions on race i it's disgusting to
me that this guy's even at the table
like I've I've I've given up on like you
know I resist the urge to even dunk on
him on Twitter when he says stupid stuff
because I don't want to engage on him
with him on that level I just feel like
this guy was like you know called
Ferguson a hoax not you know not the
congested details of Michael Browns
shooting borah hoax but like Ferguson
was a race hoax skip gates was a race
hoax you know go to hell I don't need to
hear from you kid I do like it though
when somebody owns him and shows that
his you know cool kids philosopher I'm
talking really fast therefore I'm smart
intellectual framework is completely
yeah he's a dope well in the the I mean
in speaking of someone who does engage
him on that level
on occasion the the important thing is
is that you make it difficult for people
like the New York Times to write
something like that about him
like that's the where I mean I don't
care about Ben Shapiro at all as a human
being or is any entity I you know if he
was I'd be perfectly happy to have him
sitting in his apartment saying this
stuff or at the wherever wherever he
wants but but as public discourse the
idea is to sort of make sure that he is
not promoted by by what is considered
mainstream right no it's just my when
the times does it in addition to their
recognizing that he's an idiot that I
wish they would just like recognized
that he has you know history being the
straight-out racist and in a way that's
like not sort of no it's not even like
sort of Tucker Carlson level cuteness
it's just like yeah : Paul I saw in an
old tweet called : pond in front of
action you know hire basically wolf yeah
it's like pretty rancid
