uh pee Buddha Jed's remains my least
favorite Democrat running for Congress
uh the running for president he should
be running for Congress why the hell are
we even talking about this guy this guy
is the mayor of the third largest city
in Indiana fourth largest city in
Indiana college town where he's engulfed
in a furious policing scandal I can't
name that many towns in Indiana I mean
either can't talk him from North Dakota
but could still talk Indiana cares he
can't name any city he's he's involved
he's embroiled in serious allegations of
systemic racism policing he promoted
gentrification he is a lab creation of
warmed-over 80s politics for 2019 and
he's fluent in being misleading and
completely mucking up the most important
domestic issue he faces and here is his
tremendous diss engine new et on
Medicare for all so I'm proposing
Medicare for all who want it it's just
it's just a little bit different from
the idea of Medicare for all whether you
want it or not the way I see it if we
take a version of Medicare we make it
available to the American people and
that public alternative which I expect
to be better will out-compete the
private one expectations are one thing
frankly if this like whole public option
nonsense was promising basically a
Cadillac plan of all Cadillac plants
everyone and they were specific about
that sort of thing I'd be much less
concerned about this public option thing
but the way that these types of vampires
are staking it out it's clear that it's
just going to be something they can
nickel and dime people with and keep the
private insurance industry competitive
with there was an old proposal like this
I think was Matthew Miller did it in the
Innoko that was like the two percent
solution it was a quintessential like
Bush era ultra right-wing neoliberal
democrat book and it was like a thing
that like you know it was like it was
hilarious it was like it was the type of
thing that rahm emanuel on the left and
genghis khaan on the right can agree
with and it was but basically if i
recall that
it was some type of universal health
care that was government mandated was
essentially emergency insurance it's
basically like if you are any yeah if
you're an you have a catastrophic
government plan and then if you want
actual health care you still need to go
out and in the market and so this leaves
all of the problems that Natalie sure
identify to which is right out of the
gate which is a single-payer doesn't
just mean the government provides it it
means you go to the hospital and you
don't pay means you get coverage it
means it isn't a bureaucratic red tape
it means there isn't all of these
systems of economic and racial
discrimination so Lou de jedge of course
as is his want has not been specific
about anything but if you look at how
he's selling this and what his spin is
as well as his various donor bases and
where he comes from
I would not believe a word that Alfred E
Newman is saying all whether you want it
or not the way I see it if we take a
version of Medicare we make it available
to the American people and that public
alternative which I expect to be better
will out-compete the private ones but
instead of just assuming that I'm right
and ordering you to switch over whether
you want to or not we're gonna see if
we're right we're gonna put it out there
and let Americans choose because I trust
you to make the right decision for your
family when it comes to your health why
are we wasting time so he's put out a
literature on this and Watson posted
part of it and to illustrate the
difference of his Medicare for all who
wanted existing with the private system
to illustrate the difference the Buddha
Gate campaign document cited a
hypothetical example a six-year-old in
Iowa with an annual income of fifty
thousand dollars today that Iowan Iowans
have the option to buy silver plan for
$12,000 in premiums over the course of
the year according to the campaign under
the plan that six-year-old could now get
a gold plan while paying just 42 hundred
dollars in premiums over the year
Wow sounds great how generous
yeah we're really solving the health
care crisis we're really gonna not keep
letting the hundreds of thousands of
people die and suffer premature that's
why this is all because when
they say we're gonna see which one is
better
that means that they're gonna set the
public option one to be like as bad as
they can make it but still having it be
a plausible public option it's a no way
to threaten the marketplace right and
then all me to exist within it by the
way now exactly and also you've already
created these predator companies that
play that pay up scene and got ungodly
CEO salaries by denying you care by
causing people to die they are pure
parasite industry and even to do
anything about healthcare now including
by the way even the nonsense he's
talking about is gonna require a
revolutionary political effort because
of all of the capital that these
companies have accrued so what he is
saying is let's have a
public plan will keep people
particularly you know if you're in like
lower middle class you're gonna probably
be cut out of it you know and vulnerable
most people will still be cash-strapped
and then let's keep letting literal
capital accrue in these companies that
already own the political process it's a
scam it's a disgusting scam and Pete
Buddha judge is an absolutely disgusting
candidate and I just want to know for
people were whining earlier about
Elizabeth Warren here is a here is a
candidate that yes I have nothing but
contempt Buddha judge I think he's
disgusting
I think he's dishonest I think that his
record is actually profoundly disturbing
I think it's very weirdly disturbing
that frankly someone with a marginal
political office could have this many
serious civil rights police murder
stories around them and his actions and
behavior relative to racial
discrimination are unclear his
gentrifying policies are disgusting and
what he's selling on the trail is uh is
in my opinion a scam and disgusting so
there's there's someone that I have a
hate for and I would just like a point
of contrast there's a difference between
a good strong rigorous critique which
adults should be able to deal with and a
good strong rigorous critique that just
concludes in wow what a disgusting
person yeah
yeah get off the Buddha gig train if you
manage to find yourself here I think
it's disgusting - I think that's just
such a oh it's so funny like
there's there is so much genuine
complexity in life but like my god every
single human being has health care you
can't get with that one and it makes it
suspect it'd be one thing if he was
saying this from the beginning and that
he would he would have just been
dismissed like a Dulaney type but he was
trying to mimic the language of Bernie
and this whole movement because he's
basically like a economic hitman yes
thank you yes absolutely I agree with
that completely
