[Music]
I said give me one more
[Music]
alright folks we are back Sam cedar on
the majority report we got our video
fixed listen folks we had a problem
earlier
apparently the video feed that we had
for the interview with Brie joy gray and
Winnie Wang did not go through we put up
a graphic and apparently we put up a
picture of the wrong when he walked we
put up a picture of a woman named Winnie
Wong who's a lawyer in California and
not the political adviser to Bernie
Sanders so we're going to repost that
video the first half of the video we've
taken it down we're gonna repost it we
have the actual video because we
recorded it locally it just didn't make
it through our system I guess
and I've already texted Winnie
apologized to her we've apologized on
Twitter it was a mistake was a super
sloppy mistake not hard to confirm you
know who the picture belongs to even if
it has the same name and we will not
make that mistake again but I want to
apologize to people because I want to do
that for for any guest for that matter
and although I don't know if folks want
to find a random Adam Green picture and
I can request Adam you're on camera is a
a drummer for a band called the Moldy
Peaches named Adam Green who takes 30
pages of Google if you type and green he
looks way cooler than me so if you could
actually post a picture of the drummer
it would not be a mistake no apology
needed we will do that for for Adam
green is anything but yeah no we
apologize
it's just sloppy sloppy work and we will
not do that again Ryan grim supposed to
be here we were gonna do the three-way
interview apparently he's got better
things to do do you text him tell him
texting yeah actually kind of say his
phone number everybody at home connects
them no that's probably not good Adam is
the co-founder of the p triple c the
progressive campaign progressive I can
never remember it it's cool it's
progressive change campaign committee
progressive change campaign committee
the progressive campaign change
committee is actually a lawyer in
California so dad please don't get us
confused also bold progressives or loyal
progressives that already see I remember
you URL but not I remember the
importance yeah we did the masterstroke
of having a three brands where the p
triple c where the progressive change
campaign can we were bold progresses are
adjusted just as confuses people we've
spoken many times we have spent many
times at the at this conference over the
years that's right we are apparently
we're moderating I'm moderating a panel
that you've put together to be great
what is the title of the panel it's
called why Joe Biden is the least
electable major Democrat in 2020 I
thought it was gonna is Joe Biden the
least electable or I'm pretty sure we
have a point of view on that right well
I mean I just actually know it's why Joe
Biden is electable oh okay well I'm just
moderating the panel yeah
Amy Allison from she the people will be
joining us and Alejandro Rojas from
justice Democrats we just played an
interview with her from justice
Democrats
I have yet to meet Amy I think but it
should be interesting conversational
good and we'll test that promise all
right but let's no need for you to give
you preview because I think I'm gonna
record it and so we'll be able to play
it in the coming going it will maybe we
could stream it live that's conceivable
but we will record it and video put it
up it'll look good sounds great so Adam
yes give me your thoughts of of where we
are in terms of of what's happening in
Congress are you just are you focused
now on the presidential campaign we're
focused on on both this week our group
is pretty vocal in defending Alexandra
Castillo Cortez from the attacks from
Nancy Pelosi
it's interesting how everybody talks
about unity and no circling firing squad
and then progressives can get attacked
by the establishment progressives can be
attacked by the Conservatives and that's
fine but if you fight back stop stop the
fighting right right we even put out a
sticker that said I stand with AOC and
super like why are you putting out that
sticker it merely says I stand with AOC
people like stop it I was like what are
you talking about now the next day
there's actually a street artist in DC
who at one o'clock in the morning a
couple nights ago started putting up
signs with Pelosi space and the words
visited the camps yet and they started
you know go I put it on Twitter we
started going viral and we decided to
actually make a campaign out of it so
actually now if people are on the bold
progressives or Gmail list we have a
petition to Pelosi being like visit the
camps and bring Josh got homer and
Elaine Lauria and Abigail spam Berger
and the other conservative Democrats
with you because if you guys are gonna
be undermining AOC and others who are
trying to help the kids at the border at
least see it for yourselves
it is pretty stunning that you hear a
lot about things like purity tests are
problematic etc etc they may be but I
mean this is this is just you you've got
to toe the line
and not fight not get out in front of
the sort of the capitulation that is
going on here I mean it feels like Nancy
Pelosi has decided in like the second
quarter of a basketball game we're going
to a four quarter of four corners you
know we're just gonna run out the clock
and nobody's told her like well they
just can't do that like like like what
is supposed to fill the time between now
and if the if the Democrats aren't gonna
do any oversight yeah they're not gonna
impeach what's supposed to fill the time
between knows how many more mess yeah
exactly right I mean there's this is a
thing we just run up against all the
time which is a conventional wisdom in
DC is so out of touch with the actual
conversation in the country right this
idea of like oh if AFC wasn't talking
about X Y or Z we would just get so much
more attention for this random bill that
no one's ever heard on the House floor
right it's like no that is not true
right are they telling themselves that
there's actually what they think a lot
of this is yeah and then no III had no
idea that they actually think the reason
why people aren't paying attention
because three weeks ago Mary Bustos or
Cheri Bustos was complaining that no one
was paying attention to bills well three
weeks ago that we weren't having this
fight between AOC and Pelosi either
right right yeah it's it's again broken
in every way so the other better part of
the broken there we go part of the
broken
should we stop right here no just the
slide over the other part of the broken
broken conventionalism is slide down
just a little bit guys so that I could
get on we can get Ryan on camera there
go Ryan just a little bit further down a
little bit towards I know it's
uncomfortable but it uh Adam moved down
a little bit there we go all right here
we go
it's up y'all there we go Ryan grim
the intercept and of course TYT what do
you put on your badge Ryan you just put
the intercept yeah I mean I I didn't
actually tell to put anything so they
just that's what they went with yeah
fair enough
I got ring of fire on my badge and so
bring a fire nice up I'm gonna add TYT
right now actually and I'm gonna add
strong press oh that's right everybody
we spoke to you about your book and you
have your your whole press alright well
Adam and I were just talking about how
apparently there's a feeling on the hill
amongst the Democrats that the reason
why America is not paying attention to
the messaging bills and I think the
messaging bills are great I think it's
important I think we should be but the
reason why America is not paying
attention to them it's because AOC has
been testy with Nancy Pelosi's that is
that what the theory is
well I think that Pelosi and her
leadership crew will look for like any
answer to explain why the public isn't
paying attention to their messaging
bills other than the obvious one that
the public has sense and a knows that
these messaging bills aren't going to
become law through Mitch McConnell and
be knows that they're you know mostly
just fortifying the you know the the
status quo there's some of them that
actually would make significant change
in the country like the HR 1 which is
the anti-corruption bill right but I
think the public probably also has a lot
of suspicions that you know if they knew
that HR 1 had passed and what was in it
whether they would actually pass it if
they knew that a Democratic president
would sign it because they've seen this
before with the Republicans repealing
Obamacare how many times yeah 52 times
yes
and I think like the value of these
bills really have more value to the
progressive base as a marker and holding
them to that in the future right like so
the general public I mean at what point
do they give up that ghost or is this
sort of like a sunk cost type of thing
like they can never admit
that their strategy did not work can't
write yeah how do you admit that if you
admit that you have to go so I mean it
depends on what you mean by strategy
well any strategy ads they'd like that
hypothetical thing that should take
place when you run a major political
party like that like because I will say
this the reason why nobody noticed HR 1
was because Nancy Pelosi was on
a lil on Omar mm-hmm I mean if you go
back and you look at the the week and
the run up she decided to engage in that
fight yeah and then three days later
with a whimper they introduced HR 1 or
they you know a champion I mean right
shot themselves in the foot and it
suggests to me that they the lack of
strategy they lack a plan to execute the
strategy and that at the end of the day
the the most they also lack an
understanding of the current politics
and Iowa I was actually talking to a
Democratic leadership about eight about
that moment just recently and they
thought it was a fairly straightforward
play Yellin Omar talked about Benjamins
and AIPAC Congress is going to condemn
her next like that's the kind of thing
they would have done in ten minutes in
1994 and then moved on to the next thing
and he said that they were just floored
at the reaction they did they just did
not see it coming they were stunned to
see so many people supporting her and
condemning Democratic leadership and so
they had to then recalculate say oh okay
this politics of Israel have changed huh
right interesting
notice that when like you can't notice
everything
when Tim Kaine of all people wouldn't go
see Bibi Netanyahu and he was speaking
on the floor like are they not like
understand I just I can't help you
understand that it wasn't that the
politics of Israel have changed its that
given the current internet world people
like AOC and Ilhan have massive
grassroots following that they
94 right public has more of a voice
through these people and it can't just
you know things that used to be just an
inside play are now both yeah right so
we're talking about poor is that there's
so much broken conventional wisdom and I
feel like it's broken conventional
wisdom compounded and compounded upon
more broken conventional wisdom so let's
use Medicare for all and this recent
child attention thing as two examples
right Medicare for all the broken
conventionalism in DC is oh that's not
popular or it's not popular in swing
districts right when if you make the
case correctly it's overwhelmingly
popular you just need to take on the big
insurance companies and make clear that
you can keep your doctors and nobody
loves their insurance companies but
because of that it's a nuisance when
progressives bring up things like
Medicare for all right so part of the
messaging thing and messaging bill is
usually equal lowest common denominator
like what are the lowest principles that
we can all agree on
don't rock that folks that's hurting the
front liners these red to blue people
who are scared right stand with the
child detention stuff like what could be
more American or human than children
should not be in cages don't separate
children from their parents honestly
like that should if we're gonna engage
the immigration fight that is the
equivalent of the first trimester
abortion in the abortion fight like we
want to be arguing on that turf right we
don't want to be arguing about late term
abortion necessarily right there's other
places that they can move the debate but
we should be willing to say no we're
gonna stand up for these children this
is the only one of low-hanging fruit to
me the only other thing that could be
more low-hanging fruit is that you
should actively investigate and
criticize the former prosecutor who gave
a sweetheart deal to a child trafficker
right right like right that that's also
all this stuff is seen as controversial
in DC when it's not in the real country
and that means if aggressives are doing
the will of the people on the outside
and trying to insert it on the inside
they are then hit back right so we're
talking before about how it's fine for
Pelosi to hit AOC but if he pushes back
that's not unity and it's fine for Josh
Scott heimer to attack ast that's fine
if she hits him oh my gosh you're
hurting the frontliner Scott has really
broken him in at many levels it's it
I mean I feel like there should be some
type of law that they should pass or a
rule in the caucus that you need to hire
you know some there has to be some at
least one like token hire of somebody
who has not been in democratic politics
for like 25 years
right like every office has got to have
at least one person they go to like hey
just to check this bounce check I do
they have their kids I do respect to
Christine Pelosi I still haven't
forgiven her for humanizing George Bush
in her documentary frankly I haven't
seen that well that was 20 years ago 15
years ago but I might have been Alex
Pelosi was it oh yeah that was Alex
Pelosi goes out blows yeah okay Steen
does the environment stuff all right
well my apologies then but nevertheless
my apologies to both of them I think
it's gonna be outside your family I
don't think that's very fair so where's
Christine Pelosi might literally be a
lawyer from California all right well
there you go her picture that's called a
callback so where what happens like do
we just keep going in this like sort of
Nancy Pelosi think she can there's some
type of clock she can run out and then
everybody's gonna be yeah yeah forget it
yeah she thinks there's a clock running
out she thinks that the August recess
bleeds into September and then you've
got Labor Day then you've got you know a
couple weeks and then you've got
Thanksgiving
and then you've got a Christmas break
and then Iowa's voting like that's her
that's how she's seeing the country
thinks once the voting starts today
nobody's gonna pay attention now you're
voting on who's gonna be President
why why do you impeach the the one who's
currently sitting there there is a
serious serious I think like cultural
problem with the Democratic Party in
kids I think like that's been the
problem with Democrats is that they're
too reliant on the presidency and are
too focused exclusively on like let's
elect a president
let's walk away although I'm not even
sure Pelosi is thinking about that I
think to her it's those front liners
like to her to her so we're facing a
fascist in the White House children
dying on the border now 11 years to make
you know fundamental structural changes
to save the planet from catastrophe and
her top concern really is these front
liners and she would justify it by
saying well if the front liners don't
win then you're never gonna you know
hold power in order to address all the
things you say you want to address but
in order for those front liners to win
in her mind
you can't ever try to exercise that
power so it's a self-defeating thing but
so I don't even know if she's worried
about I mean of course you'd like to see
Trump beaten but the House Majority is
her number one goal period what does she
think
but-but-but-but are those two things
mutually exclusive like is there a
scenario where Donald Trump wins and the
Democrats can maintain their majority
yeah because the this it's the fastened
fascinating phenomenon of the sub of the
suburbs which are you know which is a
lot which is where Democrats picked up a
lot of their gains in 2018 they were
pissed off it at Donald Trump but and
they'll still be pissed off at Donald
Trump in 2020 so could return Democrats
to to the House Majority but that
doesn't mean that he can't run up enough
numbers in Wisconsin Michigan and
Pennsylvania to also at the same time
get reelected so I think there's a
conceivable mu
in the country that that could that
could do both he would lose he would
absolutely lose the popular vote again
right but there's a there's a there is
certainly up half that he could do that
and then hold on to those three key
states but if the if the suburbs are
gonna vote against Donald Trump then
they're not paying attention to wow
they're they're having too many
oversight hearings like I don't like how
many oversight hearings that show me how
corrupt the guy I hate is I think I just
don't understand the I think there's a
real risk of all of those people who did
all of that organizing and door-knocking
and foam banking and donating that that
gave Democrats their huge wins in 2018
are now asking themselves why did we do
this well that's what I'm saying like
like I understand how it can work that
way where she loses because they're not
doing anything but I don't understand
what the argument is that people are
gonna see that we're investigating a guy
who let a pedophile off easy or people
are seeing that we are investigating how
he didn't pay his taxes or we're
investigating how Noah DeVos owned
stocks and it absolutely makes no sense
because like you said they won the
majority on anger at Donald Trump in
these particular districts so of course
they want you to go after Trump that's
why they voted for you they're not gonna
get mad if you go after Trump of course
are you guys noticing much more energy
around challenges to incumbents at this
more than before I know you you I mean
you've been engaged in primaries before
people cared about them are you seeing
more this time yeah I think for a couple
reasons one last time people were so
paranoid about we must take back the
house that some people were like even if
I technically agree with this
progressive challenge like I just want
to focus on taking back the house right
and now it's like all right other things
are happening I can I can divide my
attention but also a oh she proved the
concept right she proved that Oh
not only can we win these races which
would be nice by itself but oh and
they're a game-changer once again there
so the idea of less liked more a OCS
there's a phraseology that we were
applying to other candidates now I also
just this Democrats has been I think
very thorough about the types of
candidates that they're vetting people
who are truly viable you know I think
last time they had a wide game like
let's endorsed 300 or more I think this
time we might not have endorsed Ocasio
Cortez well in this new model well well
I know about that but basically they
have a president probably the
demographics work for the district and
she she pretty like she clearly was
articulate and good on you know good
you're saying they would have I'm not
sure I mean statistically speaking the
odds of them doing it would have been
less right I mean right but it's hard
right it's hard to go back and look at
that but the idea is there being more
focused this time who are truly
committed to earning strong races people
who fit their district and come into our
extra out-of-touch places where in the
past there was there's low turnout which
is in a weird way and had advantage for
us in a primary if that maintains right
we got we got messed up with Tom Carper
in Delaware who is the most corporate
senator out there he does not represent
a very blue state but because of very
high turnout compared to other places
you know and a somewhat weak campaign
against him we what we lost so I think
they look for a combination of things
and we're just being phenomenal right
because on some level that has been the
conservative the conservative path to
victory has been a maybe not as many
votes but votes that you can count on in
off-year elections and it's about the
depth of their commitment not
necessarily the breadth and it it feels
like we're in an era where these
primaries can be won not necessarily
with the number of people but the depth
of commitment of those people because
they're going to show up no matter what
in that having that force and it's
almost like the podcast model versus the
radio model Wow say more
are you being facetious not realizing oh
well I mean this show I mean when I
launched this show for instance I knew
and was talking to Maren
I knew that Maron was going to make more
money on advertising but I might have an
opportunity to make more on membership
because this talking about politics has
a deeper connection to people then you
know well due respect to Marc Maron
although he doesn't care you know him
trying to hook up with some actress by
you know talking about himself and but
you know people love that show lot more
a lot more accessibility but they
wouldn't necessarily pay to be a member
mm depth right as opposed to Brett you
know that's like okay yeah freemium
that's another word that has to do with
that yeah Internet no way it's put a
couple specific races on the radar right
so one I think that I think he just
announced it Alex Morse just announced
against Ritchie Neil I heard that is
true so Richie news is a powerful Ways
and Means Committee Chairman who dragged
his feet for months in requesting
Trump's tax returns and dragged his feet
for months Michael Brooks is uh old
congressman I believe out in Springfield
that was worth the interruption yeah
yeah so drag is he four months holding
Medicare for all hearings and when he
actually requested Trump's tax returns
people some people to media treated me
like a hero like wow look at this bold
action it's like wait he was dragged
kicking and screaming by progressives we
were out there saying we're gonna
primary him right well still he's an
old-school you know calmed it down from
New York State we're gonna give him
trumps right state taxes and he said no
thank you now thank you we're good right
here we're good here we get here so Alex
Young I believe he's gay mayor of
Holyoke West in Massachusetts is gonna
be running a very vibrant campaign
against him and that could be that that
could be similar to AOC a shell shocker
for the establishment the Ways and Means
Committee Chairman who's you know
putting the kibosh on things like
Medicare for all I think also green new
deal goes down
it sends a signal of Oh our prison for
decision-making was a little bit wrong
right we need we need a big victory like
that against someone who's a crusty old
insider you know it's interesting
because I thought the what you would see
in terms of AOC to Crowley would be like
what we saw with david bratt to cantor
now brats gone in a year and he did
nothing
AOC has been ascended she is probably
the most exciting political figure
particularly Congress person I don't
know Gingrich yeah honestly right and
yet totally dismissed in so far is it
having any type of like greater
repercussions like Cantor was like this
is shot across the bow for every single
Republican you know Lindsey Graham has
got to start talking like Donald Trump
you know as soon as they all adjusted
and they all adjusted they were told to
by Fox News as well which the left
doesn't have that's right with all due
back to the institution that we're
speaking with right now I understand no
I understand I'm doing my due respect to
the intercept TYT right they they don't
listen they don't listen and it's gonna
be interesting to see if someone like
Neil goes down if they're gonna
recognize like that that district is
largely rural one small mid-sized city
Springfield but there's a lot of it's a
fairly rural area and if they're just
gonna say oh it's Massachusetts yeah and
it's Western Massachusetts or if they're
gonna say like okay this puts just about
everybody in play it's gonna be
interesting to see if these threats will
have the desired effect it'll change any
behaviors but don't hit the Quayle our
race and the Elliott angle right Serena
I mean those are those were a couple
I wasn't persuaded maybe I'll come
around to it that Cuellar was it was a
great target Cuellar is probably the
most right-wing Democrat and so there's
there's two sides to this so
he's not that much of a internal player
like he's not a you know he's not a
Richie Neal it doesn't run a runways and
means he's not in leadership and so for
that reason I thought that he's also
extremely powerful and popular back home
and he comes from like a dynasty doesn't
mean he can't be beaten but so the
question is is it worth the resources to
go after and be given given those things
the other argument is that he makes he's
a he's a powerful voice on immigration
and on a lot of fiscal issues in very
destructive ways and inside the inside
the caucus and so by taking that voice
out you're taking away one of the more
destructive voices that a lot of the
centrists who don't who could go either
way hear him say oh well this is a this
is a Hispanic member from Texas and he's
saying this so right you cover for I'll
go with go with him so that'sthat's
taking him out with a strong progressive
like a Jessica Cisneros you know could
be could be significant Elliot angle you
know as I'm not convinced he's not gonna
retire would be interesting but he's you
know chairman of Foreign Relations
Committee would be a huge shot at the
kind of hawkish wing of the party if he
if he manages to get toppled who else do
you think we're gonna see go Lipinski
has a very good chance of losing but I
don't I don't think him going down would
be seen as anything other than like
really an unpopular guy who's out of
step with his district going down in the
kind of way that you could lose a
primary in 2012 and it would just be
seen as losing a primary so first am
Lipinski you know the Democratic
co-chair of the pro-life committee voted
against Obamacare essentially votes with
Wall Street against everything Democrats
are for and it's like a 15-point Hillary
District so there's no reason for him to
be represent you know his dad gave him
two seat basically right so up against
Murray Newman progressive challenger
Medicare for all everything one
significance I do see here is it's a
very early primary I think it's like the
first week of March right
which means and rehearse it was like
July end of June end of June so early
means it can have ripple effects to the
cycle right there could be a fundraising
boost in the step of every other
progressive Challenger if he goes down
so I see that is like help helpful in
the calendar so there's a couple other
primary challengers also have the
opposite effect though of like putting a
bunch of people on notice who have been
sleeping or those people know their way
keeping a wide awake and there's so wide
awake that so there are two other people
running for the Lipinski seat that
haven't done a lot in the in in terms of
campaigning and fit the mold of the all
these old miss old machine tactic of
putting people on the ballot just to
draw votes away like people who are
upset with Lipinski are going to vote
against him so if you put three people
on the ballot that's that that dilutes
top the opposition you see you see that
a lot and in these kind of machine
elections they may be genuine candidates
like and think that they have some path
to victory but they haven't been haven't
been showing it and they know that
Neuman you know came within a couple
points of winning previously and has the
has the edge we just it's just watching
Virgil oh not exactly clear no we just
we have other guests in the green room
and they're waiting in the green room
and there
we'll be over in a second but let's give
it to him well yeah do that but alright
so I mean there this is gonna be an
exciting primary season it sounds and if
anybody wants to understand where all of
us came from they need to read the book
yeah I mean I'm doing because I feel
like your book has gotten a lot of
attention and it really does capture
this moment I mean or at least it
explains how we got to this moment
yeah it's well timed now this is a
country that doesn't read so I'm not
gonna retire on this book is your book
on tape yet it's coming who's gonna read
it a reader of my newsletter read it
actually like a subscriber to my
newsletter he said he emailed me is like
hey I do this for a living I'm gonna do
your book I said great that's good yes I
mean it and the book was copy edited or
unedited in interesting ways by like
readers the newsletter I allowed people
to see an early draft of it and they
made very useful comments like this is
confusing I'd love to hear more about
this so the the spirit of the book is it
was actually brought to bear on the
production of it too that's pretty cool
that's an interesting way of anybody
publishing books like that no just us
what do you mean by us strong-arm press
all right yeah are there any other books
coming out in the near future
yes what do we got we we have a very
cool book coming on Lane Evans Lane
Evans who was a populist this first
guide ever endorsed Barack Obama okay a
populist Illinois congressman who
represented a Republican leaning or
centrist district for decades but did it
in a way where he just took the fight to
the Republicans and took the fight to
business the seat is now held by Cheri
Bustos who claims that there's just no
other way to do it
except Lane Evans cup just a couple
cycles ago was doing it I think he
retired in 2004 because he got ALS
fascinating any children's books coming
out there is a fascinating children's
book coming in September I believe by
Stephanie Taylor it is one of the best
children's books I found her yes but
it's one of the best children's books
I've read at the moment I moment I saw
it I was like oh this this we have to we
have to do this it's like a good I think
it's anything from 2 to 8 9 title woody
what is the title actually it's it's
it's something like it so you can do
anything or some like that you can do it
yeah you can do anything it's it's a
cool book about use the power of
imagination and translating into like
real world accomplishments it's it's
cool and your book is called we've got
even you've got reveal all all right
majority Adam green yes thank you so
much guys appreciate it
all right folks now coming to well I
guess is going to be back well yeah he's
not supposed to go to the back no he's
not and he desert he needs to be
punished
so let's do this Wow so this is a look I
am surprised to see you guys here yeah
Chris men will man occur no I'm Brendan
James where did Jesus of crisis I get
that a lot
people say well and I think you were
looking a little bit like disheveled I
was gonna say I don't know how to go
from here I've already been ambushed in
this interview by being mistaken with
will sorry about that so calm what are
you guys doing here
I like I did not I mean am I am I wrong
to to be a little bit surprised that
you're here no I think that's
appropriate we I did it honestly just
because we went to CPAC earlier this
year it was a lot of fun tit for tat
exactly and I thought like it would make
sense to just because like if I remember
correctly this came out of an explicit
desire to create like a liberal version
of CPAC right was that the idea that
wasn't the idea I don't think so I I
just I remember from those those days of
like the early daily coast where they
were like the the Conservatives have so
many institutions they've got all
think-tanks they've got these
conferences we don't have any of those
we need to get them so I always thought
it was like an answer to CPAC maybe
that's not correct I don't know
organizing way oh sorry I
I didn't even what are you talking into
the mic I am do you think do that again
oh there you go okay hello everyone out
there in radioland okay good I mean it's
I don't know if it comes out of a direct
competition or inspiration from CPAC
itself but I mean it's clearly supposed
to be a organizing a book a festival for
an activists we got press credentials
very easily to go to CPAC so I just
thought let's try it there and they got
them very easily so like well let's just
do it did you get even closer did you
get credentials here oh yeah baby now
are you guys like are you doing a show
no now it's honestly for me it's because
I kind of want to write an issue a piece
about the two events and the two
experiences of CPAC at Netroots nation
so that's my agenda CPAC I think didn't
start until 2011 I'm looking at this I
don't think he started tilt what Wow
Matt Chrisman owned that fact checked
and dabangg kept on back is like a
venerable institution on the right are
we sure we're thinking of the same thing
no matter I'm not trying to gang up on
you but I don't really think it did come
out of like a well I see Conference was
founded in 74 yeah yeah yeah yeah it
goes back yeah okay I'm taking crazy
pills here big a slit yeah sam cedars
gaslighting people folks that it's not
okay we're making a lot of factual
errors left and right today
so it's Virgil's fault it is it's all
Virgil's fault I got completely thrown
off Virgil was supposed to be here but
apparently he had he had a toilet right
now that's not a joke it's not a joke
he's in the bathroom
so all right so so give me a give me a
little taste how long you been here
you've been here for two days we just
got here yesterday we yeah but we didn't
really do anything on one oh yeah yeah
today no no no we're not no we don't do
a lot when we done to these things you
just kind of walk around
okay so what's the what's the early
verdict I don't know I mean it is it has
a lot of industry it has very much the
same model as CPAC you've got the cop
you've got the breakout sessions and
you've got the things you've got the big
panels you've got the radio row you've
got the swag area all I could say is
that this one is it's more diverse out
honestly obviously everyone is more
casually dressed
everyone at CPAC is wearing a suit right
and the at least what I seen it seems
more I mean they're human beings they're
not they're not reptiles you know like
they are CPAC I have to say though that
the that the Town Hall area is much less
lit than CPAC was I mean it sounds like
from I was in with you at CPAC but that
the CPAC was high octane oh yeah and
that makes sense of course you know
they're guys in power they're very
energized by that however one would then
expect the opposition to be as energized
from a different place and I don't know
I wasn't at CPAC but it feels a little a
little thinner and a little lamb'
Arielle yeah it's a little feels a
little moribund to be honest I mean like
like not to say that the perp that the
left or whatever center left or
progressive side is is itself more
abundant but that this isn't maybe the
place where all that stuff happens
anymore I don't know I mean we're we're
we're we're mouthing off you middle that
saying anyway oh well I'm mouthing off
but I mean it does feel that way and
it's it's probably a good thing to at
least acknowledge what that it's that
it's that it's more low-key or that
there seems to be well there's different
strains that are that are fresh on the
left right now than there were say back
when this was founded I mean now you
have an actual sense of the beginning of
a working class
you know engagement from certain
candidates I mean most of all Sanders
probably in my opinion really only
Sanders in the purest sense that is
probably more of a vehicle for the kinds
of ideas and agendas that people used to
think only could only happen by
organizing things like this you know you
have a candidacy that is sort of doing
that on its own and it and and a lot of
people here I think are good with
Sanders but I don't know I get the sense
a lot of morale so kind of more
professional middle-class Warren type
people and that's a it's a different
energy it's a different you know section
of the base or whatever and I think that
that that's reflected walking around so
yeah I mean I think in 2015 actually it
was there was a big movement here to
draft Warren
yeah before I think Sanders had gone
Dre's maybe it was even 2014 yeah I know
I remember yeah and the and obviously it
didn't happen I mean I think that's
probably accurate in terms of like you
know there's a lot of people here who
work in in institutions and there's a
lot of institutional on the left I just
saw a saw Paul today that said the story
I guess it was in maybe it was in
Politico about the morning console poll
showed or maybe wasn't from that but it
showed there there really their
strengths are two different strengths
right yeah we were just looking at that
yeah it's like really it's not anybody
Virgil you just show up when you want
did you show up when you I'm happy to
see my seat now that you're here but
you know I haven't been on the show in a
while and I'm here he thought I was well
that was a whole bit yeah now it makes
sense it's not them we've mistaken no
that's true today no seriously did you
want to get in on this Sam tell I don't
know progressive why don't you sit down
start talking about polling and that's
really more your thing go ahead tell
Virgil to wait for will to be done we
were just talking about the exact poll
we were talking about well right before
you went to the bathroom the one that
showed that Warren and Sanders have
different different slices of the
demographic pie yeah for the primary
election
Sanders better with African Americans
better with royal folk Warren better
with folks with graduate degrees it's a
different what are the implications of
that because the the left is split
between two different paces I mean it
depends what you mean by the left
because you know there's a lot of people
in the anti-capitalist side of things
who say you know we need to be going
after you know more blue-collar workers
people are more distinctly working-class
distinctly doing worse than someone in a
comparable position forty years ago and
that's people who have lower educational
attainment
they don't more rarely live in urban
areas if they're white obviously African
Americans are a substantial chunk of
that recent immigrants Latinos and so on
and to say we don't want we should not
be going after the PMC's the the
professional managerial class types who
might still be you know under some sub
Marxist analysis you would arguably
still call them working-class but if you
were say a graphic designer who makes
eighty-five thousand dollars a year
you're a single person you don't raise a
family you know your needs are very very
different from someone say who comes
from a cool family in West Virginia
where there's really just isn't that
sort of industry in that
those sorts of opportunities but but can
you but can you can you go after one of
those groups and not the other and win I
think you go after I mean are you
talking about going after I honestly
think you only really have to go after
one and that's the more working-class
voters who is less engaged because
they're the ones who you risk losing
during a general not necessarily to
trump but to indifference and that's the
real issue that's what defeated Hillary
it was not people flipping the trumpet
was people just not bothering and those
are the people who they're least engaged
in politics most likely to sit an
election out if they don't think that
there's someone to vote for whereas
these PMC people were talking about they
vote every time they're gonna vote and
they're mostly liberals they're
convinced liberals so even if they don't
like Sanders is a first choice they're
gonna vote for him whereas the people
who you might alienate by going with a
PMC strategy might stay home the other
and then you lose you lose Pennsylvania
or you lose Michigan like you did last
time the other argument is that some of
these PMC's that we're talking about
they might have a class interests that
are hostile to that first group right
and so arguably you know it would become
a theoretical impossibility to create a
functional permanent coalition there
maybe right now because of the exigency
of Donald Trump you could get these two
groups to unite but in terms of actually
creating a governing coalition that's
another story who was it that stayed
home though like relative to let's say
the Obama coalition because my
understanding is that a lot of the the
the people that stayed home were African
Americans in
and maybe a lot of them were also
disenfranchised you know when you're
talking about Wisconsin talking about
Michigan Pennsylvania I imagine it was
more of a cross-section but where did
they where did they I mean who's and and
Bernie does better with
african-americans then then Warren does
but Biden does better than Bernie right
I mean so is there a is there a sort of
a a set of material a benefits that you
can offer that will motivate people in
that way well but I I want to address
that point that Biden does better than
Bernie with african-american voters
because first of all they have
essentially the same favorability
ratings among african-americans in this
country which is astronomically high I'm
sorry say again Bernie and Biden have
comparable favorability ratings among
african-american voters which is
extremely high they are the to far and
away the two most popular candidates in
this field among black Democrats so I I
don't really but it does I don't really
think it's a case that one will do
better than the other what do you think
that what way but they're offering it
seems to me very different very
different prescriptions they are but I
mean here's the real thing everyone
talking about how you know all of these
voters are on some ideological spectrum
right and that you know Kamala Harris is
a cop it's gonna be Thiel breaker and
you know all this all this little stuff
or or that Warren is taking voters from
Sanders the vast vast majority of the
people who are gonna be voting in these
primaries do not really have coherent
political agendas they have a general
idea what should be done
they have strong views on certain issues
you know pretty clear litmus tests but
beyond that you know for a lot of them
you see you know Joe Biden yeah right he
was Obama's vice president he sees oh
he's a liberal he's a lefty guy I know
Bernie Sanders he's a liberal you know
they don't they don't they're not
focused on this this granular this
in between democratic socialism and
liberalism and things like that yeah
that's my sense - I mean so then the the
question becomes like how much of this
is just you know turn off the sound and
people are you get a notion of who
they're gonna vote I think that
ultimately policies have never decided a
Democratic primary and it's really come
down to to think there's two types of
Democratic nominees you got one is
someone who seems like a president who's
gonna win and there's no particular
affection for this person John Kerry's a
good example right and the other is
someone who represents I really liked
John Kerry you like him well you yeah
you uh Sam was the only guy who was like
you know I identity politics for John I
did have lunch with him my mom one lunch
with him with the JCC auction like
thirty years ago and I had lunch with
him good uh and the other is someone who
doesn't represent necessarily a platform
but represents a general concept a
general a strong idea or ideological
bent and Obama is a great example of
that right which was just sort of some
vague notion I'm a change agent I've
changed this is the reaction to Bush I'm
not Bush it's we're gonna turn back roll
back the clock on all of the bush and
also represents like a breakthrough you
know like a demographic that has been
underrepresented in presidential - yeah
I mean that was the the sort of subtext
of the word change at that point I was
like we're gonna we're gonna this is a
big change
yeah right by virtue of being a black
presidential candidate you know he
himself by his skin color represented
his message
I'm vice versa so matt has this
conversation change your perspective on
what's going on here know I've been
hearing this from all year long now I I
mean I know I have to change your
perspective on the conference I oh I
mean I don't really have one like I said
I've only been here really a day I
haven't really I went I dropped in on
one of the panels for a few minutes I'm
really looking forward to the tomorrow
when they have the the
table or whatever it is the the Canada
presidential candidate the show it's
kind of interesting though it seems like
a thin herd right yeah I mean I'm I'm
very surprised that I'm not surprised
that you know it's like Joe Biden didn't
come that doesn't surprise me
I'm not I'm not shocked that Bernie
Sanders didn't come but I'm super
surprised that like Cory Booker's not
here right and Kamala Harris who have
been here in fact Kamala Harris honestly
is the one that baffles me the most cuz
she's like she's gaining steam she's
becoming people's like people's give her
her second look and it's time for her to
like get some sort of identity outside
of them want a snap moment on Biden in
the debate and coming to a place like
this seems like it would be ideal and so
yeah you want to charm right now yeah
have them say oh I'm with you right or
or you want people here to be like she's
now my second right exactly at least
beyond someone's like score card you
have someone who's gonna go back and
it's a well-known local organizer you
know you want them on your side even if
they're not in one of the first four
primaries which I kind of think a lot of
people just aren't really looking
forward to Super Tuesday at this point
but there's no reason Kamala Irish
should not be doing that yeah it's it's
a little bit surprising in that regard
it's gonna be interesting to see if
we're gonna see the same activism that
we've seen in the years past it is
simple if I could go back one second to
a question you post a Matt if anything
that he's been hearing from our
conversation has changed his mind and I
believe the answer was no on that one I
he's in you know he says he's been
hearing this sort of thing for me for
months I I want to say that I've been
saying a lot of things for months that
are currently being manifested in
reality absolutely true and one was the
emergence of the org gang 100% true well
yeah that was all you and I give you
credit for that the other was and I said
I said it on our show I sent it to you
months I said to you before 2019 began
and I believe and you can you you can
you can you can go back to the table on
this I believe I said it on your show -
and that's Joe Biden will not be the
nominee I don't think it's too early for
you to say that you've been for
than that I've known obviously have not
been confirmed in that but the process
that I described of why he won't be the
nominee has been happening and Kamala
Harris hastened I on the debate and
that's the exact thing I'm talking about
it is I think you can go back three
months on our show and hear me say that
by end of September beginning October is
third in the polls and I would only
amend that now by saying I think he's
gonna be fourth in the polls by that
these people don't like Joe Biden people
think they know Joe Biden but they don't
know Joe Biden they just remember him
standing behind Obama for eight years
exactly yeah and I mean yeah I will I
was I will agree that the the process
that he put out of just as soon as the
first real attention gets made the
numbers just starts going down yeah the
trend line that is what people I mean I
that was my original thought to us yeah
it's gonna fade it was I play the tape
back I said it okay it's just that then
he had that huge lead and of course
because you know if you're on the Left
you give it towards panic and horror at
all times you just assume oh it's over
you second-guess yourself and third
guess yourself do you guys have a lot of
like instances where you you think that
you said something and the other guy did
or vice-versa
like I mean that happen we have we have
had moments like that but thankfully we
can go to the tape and we can make sure
these guys you know we're hoping someone
else goes ideally and the thing is our
fans are I guess I'd say focused enough
to do that for us yes we have enough
people who are very very assiduously
attend to the program who can remind us
who said what and we don't have to
actually do it we have a couple of fans
who do that as well yes keep a very
specific record of almost everything
I've ever seen I do want to put another
chip down right now and I forget if I
did say this on our our last election
round up for our show but I'll say you
know I'll iterate it on your program
that I will bet on the trifecta and say
that this race will come down to Bernie
Warren
and one other candidate which I believe
will be Kamala Harris I think I think it
substantially likely especially after
her debate performance and the thing is
I guess my I kind of agree with that and
I see the contours even shaking shape
now I think the difference in I will
stress that I am trying to be largely
agnostic about all this stuff because
what I Connecticut Amy again I lost
enough bets that I know that I cannot
see into the hearts of my fellow
citizens nearly well enough to become
Batman you know I bet I'm not
I'm not a very good gambler I mean shoes
why don't we just you know why Hey look
I don't really want to bet you but if
you I mean if you want I mean you're
practically taking money out of my
wallet yeah all right keep going but now
I think that if that does come if that
does come to pass if it's that if that
shapes up to be the race certainly early
by the Super Tuesday then I don't see
Harris losing honestly is the thing
that's the that's where we differ well I
think I mean for whatever Harris has
strengthened she has many strengths and
then you know under this theory that
this this theory says that the the sort
of establishment forces of the party the
the the anybody but Warren Sanders crew
really anybody but Bernie though right
right right would coalesce around Harris
but I also think that Warren is broadly
acceptable to most of the party and I
kind of think it would more look like
anybody but Sanders will divide between
Harris and Warren in that position I
mean I think Warren is is best position
but you just can't count out Sanders
organizational capacity and write a
national organization okay that's the
thing I think we have yet to see really
I would see yeah he didn't have that
last time and I think we won't really
know until we start to get into the
primaries like if that is actually what
we think it might be right and but will
man occur
Virgil taxes thank you thank you thanks
for coming thanks for having us so I'm
usually the one thanking yes use there
thank you so much all right folks let's
go through a couple of sounds as we wrap
this up I'm gonna be doing the panel
here you guys might be interested in
this
there's gonna be a panel where an
impromptu panel that we're putting
together and asking the question why is
Joe Biden the least electable in the
they can't I've became this is going to
be a 4 p.m. right here yes four people
okay folks so we will have part one of
our coverage up later in the day and
we'll go through some of our did you see
this bernie gifts I did not
yeah oh if you're looking at the sound
sheet I included a link to it I'm gonna
put it up on screen here I mean I think
it's all the argument he needs to be as
FAR's who's the candidate should be for
2020 yeah this is the ultimate
endorsement right here I will take a
look at this this is him basically for
people who are listening he's on Wall
Street and yes basically reporting I'd
say I think you see yeah I mean he's
recording one of his videos
you know presumably something to do with
bank regulation or maybe the transaction
tax to fund the student debt relief its
student debt cancellation and a UPS guy
just walks by him yeah and gives him a
pat on the shoulder and it was actually
a little pump of the fist and I mean and
and I you know I believe her when she
says it
you know Bree said to me like this is
this is quite very much the normal
response that Bernie gets from you know
basically people with jobs across the
country people in you know waiters yeah
and so on I've talked to a bunch of
people who have gone to the deep south
with him go into you know I don't know
like not an Outback Steakhouse but some
restaurant like that and literally like
half the kitchen staff comes
to just say hi they want to meet the guy
yeah and he doesn't flinch it a bit
either it's awesome yeah no he just kind
of yeah it's very natural
you know people hitting me all the time
I'm always getting a pat on the shoulder
from the UPS guys so all right let's
talk about Labor Secretary Alex Acosta
who know you could not be a the guy who
gave a sweetheart deal to a pedophile
and not make it in the the Trump
administration now of course all the
reports are that conservatives have been
unhappy with him because he hasn't been
aggressive enough in attacking labor and
so they were willing to jettison him
here is Donald Trump talking about Alex
Acosta Vanek which I which I so admire
but maybe it was a little tougher for
him and maybe not but he did an
unbelievable job as the Secretary of
Labor that's what I know about him I
know one thing he did a great job and
until this came up
there was never an ounce of problem with
this very good man
honey let me let me just add you know I
hear a lot about how individuals got
jobs and whatnot before our interview we
had never met we had never talked the
president selected me as it should be
done it wasn't that we knew each other
it's not that we had a long-standing
relationship and I think that's a
testament to his selection process the
best selection process had the best
selection process what is what a
powerful communicator quite a lot of
protesting I only he was perfectly great
except for letting the billionaire child
sex trafficker off aside from that
totally clean but a baby in another
sense that was also good oh so maybe
that also held I loved that he was
Hispanic which might have made things
tougher for him or maybe that's all eyes
but either way good job a good job being
Hispanic ASA did you see I there was a
really weird quote in a Daily Beast
article that came out though yesterday
where supposedly and it kinda surprised
me that he was actually asked about this
in his Wow now I'm really starting to
get the chair thing because I'm
literally finding these guys distracting
from here on screen but at any rate he
was asked supposedly during the Trump
transition they asked him oh we have the
quote why did he cut this he was
actually asked why cut Epstein a
sweetheart deal an Acosta told the Trump
people that quote I was told to back off
that Epstein was above his prey grade
and I was told that quote Epstein
belonged to intelligence and to leave it
alone and you know I don't usually go in
that direction but I would like to know
what that meant or who told him or who
told him that I mean maybe he made it up
at a whole cloth but on the other hand
it seems to me that clearly this is a
guy who I mean
this the whole epstein thing even
implicates people and institutions that
there's zero evidence that they were
involved in the worst of it but it's
worth asking you know why were so many
prominent scientists flying on this
plane why were you know institutions
like Harvard still taking money from him
even after he was convicted I without a
doubt you know would be a great a we had
some type of mechanism where we had like
I don't know like representatives of us
that had resources and mechanism in and
abilities to investigate things and make
you know so the public would know about
them that dealt with our government that
would be great though you know it you
know what's funny is you were talking
about Richie Neil earlier and I don't
know that much about him but I he was
not my congressman growing up because
there was a guy named John Oliver who
was the congressman and then they they
cut a new district so now he actually
does cover where my mother lives and but
you knew about him and I think like in
some ways Richie Neil he's always been
such a pure machine politician I he's as
disinterested in what Donald Trump is
doing as in like the Mafia's role in
Springfield as a city like he just been
doing a job where he liked delivers for
a narrow set of interests and looks the
other way on everything for decades and
I guess Trump is no different yeah I
it's I don't know it's pretty it's
pretty nuts and I we we clearly need
more investigation into this and I don't
know if we're gonna get it I mean I
don't know what the mandate is of the
Southern District of New York
how wide-ranging this will be and I have
no sense of what the timetable is but
this is what you would anticipate from
Congress if we didn't have you know
Speaker of the House and you seem to be
mad that people are demanding Congress
do some
oversight it's very nice you all
investigations don't ever tweet about it
let's uh let's check in on Tucker
Carlson who apparently I don't know if
he felt like he had too many advertisers
or what but has decided to go to go back
to his roots as it were play the hits
play the hits
maybe he got some I don't know some
Consumer Reports that say that Alon Omar
if he continues on and other Rises her
more that little ratings will pop up but
here he is with Brooke Goldstein
executive director of the law fair
project basically this is pretty
stunning I mean do people not have any
idea of like what her background is or
like where where she came from and it's
but go ahead the play this Goldstein is
a lawyer who has followed the eel
Hanuman saw Omar saga from the very
beginning and she joins us tonight
Brooke thanks a lot for coming on
thanks show me remarks about Israel
reveal something perhaps about what she
believes about the world what do you
think those remarks tell us well first
of all this is a woman who by the way
called you a white supremacist and the
irony there is that if she wasn't a
member of Congress should be a member of
the KKK
yes she's commented on Israel but she
has built a career on attacking American
Jews Wow that's a misunderstanding of
not just Alon Omar but also the KKK it
seems to me yeah the KKK was known for
an active outreach to Somali refugee
communities because Bert specifically
the Somali refugee community of people
who supported a two-state solution based
on 67 borders now is a sweet spot Wow
have I really misunderstood because yeah
I mean the Clint there was a reason Jeff
Sessions was so skeptical of them they
were a working class organization that
wanted to work with Somali migrants to
preserve Palestinian human rights and
most will ensure a Jewish state and they
expanded their consciousness through
active marijuana usage yeah I had no
idea I mean that is the big lie stuff I
mean I I have to say just mean that's
like when I go on i-24 sometimes some of
those opening packages are just so I
mean not that bad but that the in the
right wing of Israeli propaganda there
that is actually not that out of the
norm to hear stuff like that I I would
you know we're gonna see a poll that's
going to come out at one point where you
know seventy five percent of Republicans
have name recognition for Allen Omar and
Democrats have like in a 45 percent name
recognition they did the same thing with
AOC they're just going literally just
like walking through and creating new
boogie women to replace Nancy Pelosi
rookie persons absolutely although I'm a
person I think it's buggy persons but
really like they've never successfully I
think maybe they did it with Bill
Clinton but they've never successfully
really made a boogey man out of anybody
in Congress they tried it with Harry
Reid
you know rush limbaugh the best he could
come up with his column dingy Harry
that was his dingy Harry yeah work Mark
Levin calls Chuck Schumer schmucky
Chucky or whatever I like that one
you say it sounds right to me but I
don't think it I don't think it sticks
with with with people on the right but
when they go after women particularly
younger women particularly young women
of color it's a it's a ratings boon for
them it's a ratings boom and we really
always have to say especially in Ellen's
case and obviously now everything's
blowing up with you know Pelosi going at
AOC but I mean you had speaking of
schmucky Chucky's you know you had him
and to a slightly lesser degree but with
the same substance and Steny Hoyer all
three of them were at AIPAC endorsing
essentially the most obscene attacks on
Olano more so I agree with you that it's
you know it's certainly of a kind but
she is of the most extreme degree yeah I
mean we have this clip where that she
apparently in a closed-door meeting said
don't tweet your complaints but if you
can't take him to AIPAC apparently it's
fine yeah don't don't tweet anything but
I will gladly endorse the most grotesque
you know incitement against you at a you
know right-wing ethno state political
gathering that you can do well let's
hear about that that clip this is Joe
Scarborough and Casey hunt talking about
Nancy Pelosi telling progressive members
not to tweet their complaints he has
said some demeaning things to these four
members and the four members have said
some demeaning things to Pelosi the
question is when do they sit down in a
realm and say this is a big place we can
all help each other let's start working
together so Joe Alexandria coaster cars
has made a really interesting comment to
The New Yorker in an interview last week
she said a lot of this is premise on the
idea that I have a relationship with
Nancy Pelosi at all she said she hadn't
talked to her at any length basically
since the winter time and I think that
tells you a lot about how this
relationship has played out and I think
that there are some risks here for
Pelosi so far it has been this uneasy
day tante where you know the squad
quote/unquote has watched Nancy Pelosi
went a couple messaging victories
they've seen
take on Donald Trump they've seen her
you know stride out of the White House
put on those sunglasses and have her be
a hero for the same you know liberal
base that sent them to Washington but
these comments are getting very
dismissive and you know Pelosi simply
looks at the world in a completely
different way and I think my question
about this going forward is the same one
that you had just then about Newt
Gingrich which is you know we're living
in a different type of media environment
and world and you know Pelosi told
Maureen Dowd oh you know they've got
their their public whatever the question
is can you really dismiss that public
whatever in the age of Trump in a way
that you used to be able to I mean Nancy
Pelosi is a hard power person inside the
house she's counting votes she's not
wrong these are only four votes that is
not enough to change the calculus and
she knows what it takes to actually get
things done in the house but the reality
is you know politics has changed around
us Justin you know the few short years
that this president has been in office
and the confidence that these people
frankly don't have in the basic
functioning of the House of
Representatives means that you know
she's taking some real risks in pushing
them away so aggressively hmm well yeah
I mean the the people coming out jogging
to me no I think with me now Adam greens
interrupts yes so now Adam grant greens
it dried up I don't stop sabotaging the
the the point is is that it's not even a
question of it being the age of Trump
and this notion of like the tweeting and
the you know it's it's shocking and
first of all you mentioned when a law
you know Nancy Pelosi went off to Al on
Omar we were talking about this earlier
that's when they stepped on HR ones they
stepped on HR ones roll out in some way
right to crap on al on Omar's right it's
completely a mess wait
wait Jesus we have another interloper
yeah we get another I get yes I tell why
doesn't Dan go to the chair we got some
breaking news hold on one sec should go
to the other chair if that's open door
to the other chair to give us a break
yes go break it over there it's not yeah
we get breaking news are you all right
we have breaking news this is day-to-day
and stepping in with breaking news we
just reported at the prospect that the
United States is as early as Monday will
be signing an agreement with Guatemala
that will force asylum seekers from the
northern triangle countries to process
their asylum claims in Guatemala oh
Jesus
this is called a safe third country
agreement and it is done on the grounds
that Guatemala is a safe country for
asylum claims processing even though it
is wracked with violence and has many of
the same qualities as Honduras and El
Salvador and is one of the main
countries where asylum seekers are
fleeing from but now we are going to
push asylum seekers from Honduras and El
Salvador into Guatemala for the purposes
of asylums claims processing it's
basically outsourcing the camps that are
in El Paso and whatever into essentially
black sites in Guatemala and and I would
imagine also there's a massive
opportunity for not just corruption but
real violence like you've got to pay
before you get into the door to apply
for asylum
I will pay because there's no there's no
there's no oversight essentially I will
read you the quote I got from senator
Merkley on this subject the the whole
idea is that we can take people from
Honduras and El Salvador and fly them to
Guatemala where they're absolutely in
worse shape they don't have friends they
don't have family they don't have funds
so they're going from desperation
to desperation and that is the plan to
effectively outsourced our asylum
responsibilities too and and and put
these people are already in trouble in
even even more of a hazardous situation
just really let me ask this though does
that in any way I mean just because
people could get asylum theoretically
from Guatemala does that mean that they
can't apply to the United States in
other words like why wouldn't people
just say okay but I'm still going to the
States
it is a geographical impossibility if
you are from Honduras or El Salvador and
you're poor and you're not gonna be able
to fly right if you're going over land
you have to go through Guatemala so they
wonder this Agreement the first country
you set foot in is the country you have
to apply for asylum in that that is the
notion of a safe third country agreement
so the US can effectively say well you
came in through Guatemalan we have an
agreement with wata model that they
process claims of whoever sets foot in
their country first and so you're gonna
have to do it but but but does that
implicate us legislation I mean don't
you have to change u.s. legislation to
Mabel a Turrell agreement between two
countries it does not know but their
mind require any kind of legislative
agreement or from Guatemala but why
would the the law that says that if I
stand
if I get one foot in the United States I
have the right to apply to apply for
asylum just because I have it doesn't
let me go through Guatemala I will tell
you this the ACLU and other
organizations are looking to challenge
this agreement on the grounds that it
violates international law violates of
1954 Refugee Convention it is it is
clear that first of all Guatemala is not
a safe country right for asylum and
second that you know that may implicate
some of the things you're talking about
we have an agreement of a safe third
country with Canada right now that's
obviously a little more along the lines
of reality because Canada is indeed a
safe country for asylum seekers and in
fact that helps usually what that means
is more people are having to get asylum
in the US than Canada since they're
coming up from the south but the way
this would operate is it would take all
of those migrants from the north and
triangle seeking asylum at the border
and ship them down the guatemala it's
it's really a harrowing situation
experts have have said that this is this
is a serious problem I can read you some
more we're gonna end up hearing about I
suspect we're also going to end up
hearing about a lot of people dying
going by boat right but that's true
that's probably trying to emote
migration and and what you're also going
to see is essentially an invisibility
cloak placed over this entire cruelty
and in the camps because instead of
having the done in El Paso that's
subject to US law it'll be done you know
somewhere in Guatemala that isn't so
yeah I mean here's some quotes Eric
Schwartz the president of the refugees
International said that this is a
violation of US law says the law
requires that the u.s. signed this
agreement only with companies countries
who have a full and functioning Asylum
system which Guatemalan actually does
not and it also says the US can't return
people to place where their lives are at
risk where they patently are within
Guatemala he says a distortion of a
concept of a safe third country this
Agreement uses an arrangement designed
to provide protection for people in the
most cynical and grotesque way and so
that's that's what experts are saying
about this you can expect a legal battle
to come out of this but it's happening
the president of Guatemala is flying to
the US on Monday and the rules check
likely be a signing ceremony this is a
guy Jimmy Morales who ran on an
anti-corruption platform but as soon as
the UN agency looking into corruption in
Guatemala implicated his family he
suddenly turned into an
Antti anti-corruption president and yeah
there's probably something going on
Guatemala interestingly was one of the
few countries that agreed with Trump in
moving the US Embassy in Israel to
Jerusalem they were trying to get on on
the US as good side maybe to help the UN
back off get the UN to back off on this
anti-corruption stuff and now here's the
quid pro quo
Trump's calling in the chit he's trying
to get them to take all these asylum
seekers Michael you got something on
that yeah just really quick I mean yeah
that specifically in 2017 Morales
expelled this Colombian Yvonne Vasquez
who was the head of the International
Commission Against impunity in Guatemala
which was what David mentioned that's
sort of like how relentless the
corruption was there that there was a
specific autonomous UN unit he threw him
out after they began investigating
connections between his party and
cartels he also has had brother brother
arrested he's been accused of all sorts
of personal misconduct and you know the
Israeli stuff I would say going back to
the 80s actually you know the Israelis
were involved in training death squads
and some of these hunted countries as
well so he's a very right-wing leader
with terrible human rights and also a
navin Jellicle for what it's worth so I
mean totally aligned with Trump alright
well David and folks can head over to a
prospect org to read the whole piece and
find direct breaking news over there
breaking news over there we're doing it
we're getting it done
all right well David thank you all right
they're coming and let us know alright
folks look we are out of time I've got
to wrap this up as I get some other
interviews to do here and Christmas
getting overrun by people we've got the
big panel coming up where we're going to
ask the question is Joe Biden the least
electable Democrat or
I think she'd frame it is he too risky
as a candidate for the general election
risky Jeb risky Joe that's what I call
it a risky Joe risky Joe maybe we get
time for one more sound here where are
we
forgive me should maybe do this
far-right brawl in front of Parliament
oh yeah yeah this is a pretty impressive
Tommy Robinson you know the guy who Sam
Harris listen to one he was on nice
mangoes or no yeah he heard him on Sam
Harris was talking on nice mangoes
podcast about how he was big into Tommy
Robinson a few with Dave Rieff yeah it
was on Dave Rubin show and he seemed
like a really good guy new center on of
the right signals this new free speech
center here's the new free speech center
let's watch these guys free speech in it
up out in front of Parliament
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
geez literally some of that happened
last night he was on here he's bashing
the cameraman with his lighting tripod
which I mean when fascists used
journalists own equipment to attack them
it's a bit metaphorical I think right
the metaphor is folding in on itself I
don't know why I would do that he seemed
like a really nice guy maybe they were
going after his free speech all right oh
yeah I want to just talk about this
because this is one of the few times I
think I am going to be able to I'll be
often just to say this is gonna be one
of the few times I am going to be able
to say something positive about Donald
Trump there was an executive order that
changed three things about kidneys in
this country kidney deaths
I think top are one of the top things
that people die from in this country and
dialysis is a very rough thing and the
executive order and I forgive me I'm
doing this from memory the executive
order dealt with three different things
one was I think was making organ doning
donor ring more transparent for folks
after their death also having more parts
of the cost of live donors covered and a
third element I think had to do with
with dialysis this is going to you know
affect several thousand people's lives a
year and with that said I don't think
Donald Trump understands the thing he's
talking about and I'm not even sure he
knows where the kidney is but here he is
announcing that that new initiative
you've been working worked so hard on
these things you've worked so hard on
the kidney various
so the kidney has a very special place
in the heart it's an incredible thing
people that have to go this people that
have loved ones that are working so hard
to stay alive they have to work so hard
there's a there's an esprit de corps
there's a spirit like you see rarely did
I mean I have to defend Trump here yeah
I think his use of the heart is
metaphorical and poetic there I don't
think he actually thinks the kidneys are
in the heart I think he has leave sure I
think so because his brother died of
alcoholism but let me ask you a question
that would be the liver but let me ask
you a question
delivery does a lot with the kidneys but
let me tell you okay but what does that
metaphor mean like wait when if people
said like you know the kidney you know
lungs not so much but he has a special
place metaphorically speaking dude does
the kidney have a special place in the
heart do go wrong like I love my kidneys
I said my heart cuz I care about people
with kidneys maybe I care about people
with kidney disease we've added more
ethics than you I'm seeing more concern
because I like to sit in the chair maybe
rest his kidneys welcome sir you have
the best kidney here
all right folks we will be back live
Monday and I think we will probably have
some extras that we may release from
here I have interviews with a lot of
folks some of which will make it onto
Ring of Fire others which we may release
as a as a special bonus to members and
we'll figure out a way of how we're
going to release this if I can figure
out how to do it record this impromptu
panel that we're going to be doing here
and
see you on Monday in that state goes to
get
but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made oh
the option when you don't get paid
pull the rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
