[Music]
laura ingraham getting back into the mix
she's been mad of news for a while and
she sees an opportunity this is uh maybe
she's gonna get her own Kapernick story
she has been watching on
it's from the Patriots and Watson
basically is arguing it's based on this
piece that was written by Jamel Hill
it's time for black athletes to leave
white colleges because we do have a
system where you know and you college
students college athletes don't get paid
pay them they generate so much money for
these institutions that it is stunning
if you look at who the highest state
employee paid state employee in a lot of
states it's the football coach it's the
football coach but the players don't get
played dude don't don't get anything
they you know they get like I saw
something that Lowe's was giving out a
lawn mower to a guy to a kid that was
the - yeah oh you're the Carolina
Panthers game oh yeah they gave out a
lawn mower from Lowe's to a kid who's
trying to raise money for college and
somebody did the math like wow the kid
would need to like mow 3,000 3,500 lawns
to you know pay for state school and you
know the bottom line is is like this is
out and out incredible exploitation and
it's very hard to look at these teams
and say hey this is there's there's a
sort of tinge of racial exploitation
here - maybe we're gonna go to areas
where maybe there's a decent amount of
poverty and this is their one ticket out
this is in one take it out and so the
idea that yeah of course
student athletes should be paid and they
should be unionized just like
professional athletes because they're
professional in every way except the
fact you know capade they are creating
value without a doubt extraordinary
value
and they pay them and then they can pay
their tuition how's that and they should
have a lot more left over based upon
what they generate but here is the
debate like how dared these people
action to the story we covered last week
or former ESPN anchor Jamil Hill created
a kind of stir with a piece in the
Atlantic where she argued that black
athletes should stop attending white
majority colleges what's your reaction
to this well I read the article and and
when I saw the the uproar over it I read
the article and I agree with her she had
some great points in that article when
you look at the history of HBCUs and you
look at the the hundreds of thousands of
black professionals that have come from
these schools over the course of the
last several years since they've been
created and you look at what's been lost
since since integration has happened
what she was saying was somebody that
athletics is a multi-billion dollar
business I went to two historically
white universities Duke University
University of Georgia that have a lot of
money based on athletics what she was
saying that look we're to live in a time
where there's a big racial wealth gap
the average white family has a net
income a net worth that's ten times that
of a black family and so if we're able
to have some of these athletes that
create so much income go to some of
these schools not that white students
don't go and students of other
ethnicities don't go we live in time
where everybody can go wherever they
want to but what she was saying simply
we're trying to pump money and revenue
into some of these communities that
there's still this big disparity this
may be a way to do it obviously that's
in a vacuum or other other factors to
figure it into that but when you read
her argument look she she lays it out
very cleanly and it's actually something
that I agree with positive things to
note right here one Benjamin Watson by a
new favorite Patriot a B you can look at
the look on Laura Ingram's face going
like why the hell did we book a football
player who's gonna sit here and
completely make this so obvious as to
why there should happen I thought we
were getting a football player here so
that I could look like the smart one
yeah some extra context on that is they
thought Ben Watson would be more of a
conservative because he defended drew
breezes relationship with focus on the
okay so let's hear what that laura
ingraham has to say and it's actually
something that did I agree with all
right bench memo I think that Duke would
have not been thrilled about your not
being there but let's so we'll leave it
at that that's what college sports would
certainly be a lot different today if
that if that's we went down a
color-coded way during admissions that's
resegregate in the country why don't we
want that well no because segregation as
you know is government man I guess is
not segregation this is if you read the
article and see what I get yeah there
you go so I want to make it clear
incidentally the when you're talking
about a university like Duke or Georgia
the hundred guys who may be on a
football team I don't think you're gonna
be a deseg you're gonna be segregating
the schools if those hundred athletes or
50 or whatever are our african-american
on that team go to a historically black
university I mean in many respects it
makes a ton of sense I mean one these
these athletes should be paid as
professionals but if they're not at
least put it into a school that is going
to serve you know underserved
communities and provide more scholarship
and scholarship money and become more
competitive I mean the it's yeah it's a
great idea this really illustrates why
despite what Candis Owen says there's
really no home for black people in the
Republican Party right like he's a black
conservative but they just cannot like
there's just too much stuff where
they're just talking completely people
there's no home that's I mean stunners
no home for Artesia and I were talking
about like for a person of color who
might just be like a normal conservative
you have to be like you know actually
the KKK is either well
tenuous total crackpot you can't just be
like hey you know I'm a little bit you
know how many guy Laura Ingram was with
her producers after that segment we've
heard how mad she can get with her do
you know how mad she is wouldn't
remember that loves oh yeah we're she
free oh yeah she's freaked out it to
people how did you not do a
pre-interview with him how did you not
do a pre-interview with him and if he
lied he's never coming back on this show
cuz she had nothing
she had no response zero
I got hoodwinked she's thinking we've
got to find a new black athlete to come
on and criticize this idea it's
segregation all over again
though he just so no actually you know
because of the weeks-long specials she's
done on segregation in education in this
country and how much she's she is really
really fighting against it Laura really
 cares about that Laura Ingraham
is she because she hates it because or
Reese educating and she just wants to be
in a rainbow and she hates and she hates
that she hates that tremendously that's
why she wrote about the Obamas so much
