[Music]
okay we will you pull up my tweet you
have a recent one or the original yeah
the one about no the one about the horse
whisperer did you guys talk about this
yes I need to talk about it now we
briefly wept it for I think we might
have a right yeah let me let me talk
about this briefly okay because so we
did a video yesterday
or I guess Wednesday where Brian
Williams and I think most of the stuff I
said on the thing but Brian Williams
[Music]
Brian Williams quoted a tweet from this
guy on Twitter who goes under the name
horse whisperer and I was vaguely
familiar with that guy not not
particularly but vaguely familiar with
that guy and see if I can pull up the
tweet here too this was what just yeah
here it is okay so I was very familiar
with that guy and he gets quoted as
being representative of some Democrats
which frankly I had no idea I mean
apparently the guys anonymous he has
named horse whisperer but I mean there's
a lot of people who use monikers on
twitter and they're not anonymous like
the coffee guide that I mean all the
names are out there I just don't know
them but he went on to write okay since
this is trending here's my Bernie story
the year was 2016 and Bernie was already
long eliminated from contention an
actual Democrat would have stopped
torpedoing the nominee and worked to
defeat Trump but Bernie had books to
sell the end now so I think it was the
case that Bernie was not going to win
there but he clearly wanted to go in to
the convention we
support in order to do some horse
trading with Clinton and he was able to
do that there was some Reformation about
the way that delegates were picked
there was other stuff I imagine that
we're not even aware of in terms of
negotiations to get him to go out and
campaign like he did and he was one of
the most energetic campaigners and
obviously particularly now he clearly
was not doing this to sell his books he
was clearly doing this to build a
movement and to create political power
for himself which gets channeled into
things like the War Powers Act vote on
Yemen which was a major achievement
Congress had not stood up to a
president's war-making for ages
introduction and I mean look at the
debate that's happening in the
Democratic Party about Medicare for all
now right I mean like the intention was
there is to say you can say that you
don't think you should have stayed in
the race that's an opinion fine but to
say that he stayed in to sell his book
is absurd I mean it really is genuinely
an absurd statement and to have this
guy's tweet used as a pivot on a
national cable news station is a weird
thing to do I mean that's a purely
journalistic Enterprise and one would
imagine that there would be some
sourcing of this like why are you
offloading this sentiment to someone who
is supposedly anonymous now I guess he
was anonymous I don't know frankly I
don't know who this guy is now because
there's this other Twitter guy who is I
guess the co-host of some show I don't
know jack Allison and he goes okay
central is a trendy oh is he from
struggle session
oh okay oh there it is yeah right okay
sorry so okay since this is trending
Horse Whisperer is a marketing guy who's
worked with Exxon Aetna Citibank and he
says that Brian Williams probably
shouldn't show this tweet on TV like
he's a disinterested party and
apparently I don't know who found this
but and at the time like I didn't know
that it wasn't even a public or not or
people knew but there's a whole list of
it's completely without his name it's
completely you couldn't identify this in
a million years I wouldn't even know how
you would go about looking this up on
LinkedIn but it gave a screenshot of his
LinkedIn profile
which shows him to be literally a paid
spokesperson and PR representative for a
whole host of big corporate interests
including fossil fuel industry and
pharmaceuticals which of course Bernie
Sanders maybe you disagree with him
maybe you don't has been a massive
critic of he has called the
pharmaceutical industry folks basically
criminal and so I retweeted this and
added I'm sure getting paid by Exxon
Aetna AT&T at all wouldn't taint your
perspective on Democrats who want to
take power from corporations which was
of course my facetious way of saying one
should take with a grain of salt
this assessment that Bernie Sanders
stayed in the race because he wanted a
book deal or want to sell books from a
guy who is literally paid to represent
the interests of people that Bernie
Sanders where do you agree with him or
not regularly takes on as a fundamental
pillar of his campaign which none of
which I thought was terribly
controversial and then
looks like near a Tandon like Tom Watson
not the golfer apparently there's
another one out there I don't even know
home basically I didn't know who he was
either but I Brendan helpfully explained
that he's essentially a Hillary Twitter
person which really is like the best way
to understand some okay well and they
just immediately accused me of daxing
this guy what I got I they accused me of
daxing him now there is no definition of
the word daxing that includes putting a
completely generic clip saying that this
guy is a consultant to leading agencies
and clients including American Express
and Gillette and this and that I suppose
there's a way to track it down who it is
certainly there was another way to track
it down because obviously this somebody
else found it but there's not a single
this thread doesn't lead anywhere
there's nothing clickable there's no way
to determine from what I did who this
guy is in any reasonable way now of
course his LinkedIn profile is public
but the idea that I was daxing it was
fascinating to watch people attempt to
silence my critique of this critique
which I do every day on Twitter and
people claiming this was an odd hominem
attack look if you to completely one of
the greatest tenets of journalism is
that you only use anonymous quotes okay
if there is absolutely no other way to
source this information and it would be
a danger to people to have these quote
you can find plenty of people who can
get up and say Bernie Sanders stayed in
the race longer than he should have or
whatever and you don't need to find an
anonymous quote it
a dangerous to this account anonymous
account quasi anonymous accounts lying
about Burnie to disclose that he works
as a corporate consultant to all of the
industries that Burnie actually wants to
rant rainin on behalf of the American
people but I know who this individual is
know that he has certain interests in
the game or that he's dispositional II
coming from this perspective I mean what
isn't in yet out there and I'm a and the
idea that there's no journalistic value
in saying hey this opinion which is was
the pivot point of a national news story
on a national news station has actually
a point of view one that is enhanced by
his professional perspective I mean it's
absurd it's just an absurd accusation
and yes I should also tell pieces they
want you they want us completely
disingenuous it's what I will say that
nonsense
it's also an incredible waste of their
time because there is absolutely no way
that anyone on Twitter can intimidate me
in this way I do not care I have been
through the greatest testing I'm ever
going to have on Twitter and it was
literally one of the funnest times I've
had in annex in years
and so I will tell you there's no one in
the office I went down to human
resources at majority report HQ i sat
down with the head of a human resources
and hears about this who's laughing now
Sam it's also just it's funny cuz I
don't but I don't it's that's hilarious
and I just want to add like I don't
spend that much time in a lot of
different especially you know pre the
election cycle I was actually hoping
that maybe people would like develop a
modicum of maturity like before this
primary now all engage in it more
because it matters and people are lying
about my candidate at all the time but
this guy this horse whisperer thing
was somebody who I mean certainly he
didn't want it to be known these direct
you know biases he would obviously have
because of his professional work but I
remember people telling me when he first
came on the scene like oh that's
somebody who I think it was I don't I
won't remember but I'm saying it was
known that there was client interests
and I believe that it was because he as
sort of trying to build up this
anonymous account like to sort of drop
chestnuts in about you know professional
credibility so there's just endless just
ingenuity and hypocrisy I have no idea
who this individual I don't know their
name I don't know his name I don't know
where he lives as far as I know he
doesn't even live the United States or
he could I don't know no one should know
his name or where he lived combed
through once you know the I have come
through even the replies on my thread
and there is no indication there's no
way to link to him there's nothing right
and I suppose you could google who's a
consultant to Exxon Aetna all these
different things and find it perhaps but
there's ways of finding people obviously
in the first place cuz somebody found it
right so and it's a good that the this
information is known so anytime horse
whisperer comes up refer to it and I
want to invite if anybody if near tanda
wants to call me or contact me about
this and have a debate about this on air
I'm willing to give them a platform Tom
Watson wants to come on I'll have a
debate give him a platform anybody who
wants to Tom wise I'm perfectly willing
to talk about this more so all right
we're gonna read for more Iams and get
out of here
