a jar Adira more with sass
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat the
majority report with sam Sita
it is Friday September 27th 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Mehdi
Hasan senior contributor and calmness at
the intercept host of the deconstructed
podcast they're also a presenter and
interviewer on al Jazeera English also
on the program today impeachment heats
up so of course Democrats go home on
break however a majority in Congress now
signed on for impeachment not a majority
of Democrats a majority of members of
the US House of Representatives
meanwhile public support for impeachment
grows can you imagine exactly it's
almost like if you build it they will
come
Trump jokes about killing the
whistleblower and no joke Donald Trump
slashes refugees cap from a hundred and
ten thousand and 2016 down to eighteen
thousand refugees we will be allowing in
the country
maximum maximum also on the program
today Eugene Scalia confirmed as labor
secretary
yeah that's Scalia
and the insider-trading
charter flight taking corrupt Tom price
drops into the Georgia Senate race
meanwhile the bipartisan cannabis
banking act held up by Mitch McConnell
can you imagine no legislation was
supposed to pass it's Mitch McConnell at
stopping it
meanwhile in New York State Governor
Nixon Cuomo extends the New York
registration deadline to February 14th
Thank You governor Nixon got to change
that Chiron employer a provided health
care coverage passes $20,000 a year yes
ladies and gentlemen everybody in here
is getting a new car except for you're
not and mortgage lenders are now pricing
in climate change all this and more just
saw your house program just sell it sell
it super easy
oh and I've also I forgot this one too I
didn't make it into my stack by mistake
but I'd read it
Oh total bedlam at Fox News right now as
you can imagine but we will get to that
we will get to that later in the program
let's just start with what happened
yesterday there was a hearing House
Intelligence Committee there was one in
the Senate as well in the Intelligence
Committee however it was only four it
was closed door and Josefa McGuire the
Acting Director of National Intelligence
brought to the committee to explain and
this was they ultimately before he came
in they released the mock-up of the
transcript of the phone call we know we
know it's not the actual phone call
because we know what happened to the
actual transcript of the phone call it
was locked away in one of the highest
security computer vaults essentially
that the American government has even
though this of course had very little to
do with national security
but they did so because they knew what
the president was doing was highly
illicit Joseph Maguire received this
whistleblower complaint which we now
know was from a someone working within
the CIA who had heard in the context of
multi-agency discussions all of these
things which pointed to the president
United States leveraging his power to
receive from a foreign government a
contribution in kind as we call it this
would be a free gift as to manufactured
dirt on someone he anticipated might be
his political opponent Maguire is being
asked by Adam Schiff why didn't you
bring us the complaint and McGuire had
two answers one is well I didn't think
it was urgent and that's a statutory
obligation to bring it to Congress if it
was urgent within seven days and he
didn't think it was urgent fair enough
but then he decided unilaterally well
there may be executive privilege issues
so even though this is a complaint
against the White House I'm gonna see if
the White House thinks it's appropriate
for me to give it to you we went to the
White House first to determine to ask
okay that's all I wanted to as per
knowledge so you went to the White House
first so you went to the subject of the
complaint for advice first about whether
you should provide the complaint to
Congress there were issues within this a
couple of things one it did appear that
it has executive privilege if it does
have executive privilege it is the White
House that determines that posit now I
should say throughout this entire a
situation McGuire says like I'm not a
lawyer he apparently the only thing that
this guy knows about the law is that it
appeared to have executive privilege it
is the White House that
means that I cannot determine that as
the Director of National Intelligence
but in this case the the White House the
president is the subject of the
complaint he's the subject of the
wrongdoing were you aware when you went
to the White House for advice about
whether evidence of wrongdoing by the
White House should be provided to the
Congress were you aware that the White
House Counsel has taken the
unprecedented position that the
privilege applies to communications
involving the president when he was
present involving the president when he
wasn't president involving people who
never served in the administration
involving people who never served in the
ministration even when they're not even
talking to the president were you aware
that that is the what happened something
froze well he goes on to basically he's
making the argument here just pop it
back up and continue to play here he's
making the argument to McGuire like when
you brought this over there were you
aware the fact that they have deemed
that just about everything exact
executive privilege even when he was not
the chief executive even when he was
just a private citizen president oving
the president when he was present
involving the president when he wasn't
president involving people who never
served in the administration involving
people who never served in the
administration even when they're not
even talking to the president were you
aware that that is the the unprecedented
position of the White House the White
House you went to for advice about
whether you should turn over a complaint
involving the White House mr. chairman
as I said in my opening statement I
believe that everything here in this
matter is totally unprecedented and that
is why my former directors of national
intelligence forwarded them to you
whether or not admit urgent concern or
whether it was serious this was
different and to me it just seemed
prudent to be able to check and ensure
as a member of the executive branch
before I sent it forward all right my
sense after watching all of this is that
Joseph McGuire is a guy deeply deeply in
over his head and he didn't know what to
do
now this is a guy who has a has had
if you're into that type of thing a
stellar career in the military and
special ops over many many years who I
think has a sincere belief in public
service in the way that he has gone
about it I think he has integrity in
that respect but here's a guy who was a
deer in the headlights when he got hold
of this and if anything what this speaks
to is a problem in our culture because
if your first thinks think when you're
panicking when you get the whistleblower
complaint about the president adage is
to think I've got to give the president
the United States an opportunity to
protect himself and involved with
executive privilege here as opposed to I
should give this to Congress because
this is the Inspector General who I
respect and think has done their job in
a fair and competent way says this is
red alert then you go with the process I
mean he spent a lot of time saying I
took 11 oaths to the office under the
Constitution well in this instance then
you go with the process you don't
freelance and say hey I'm not qualified
to make any decision other than the
White House might want to call this
executive privilege
now maybe had they done that he would
have leaked it in some other way or what
I don't know but working through this on
those hearings is exactly what we should
see day-in day-out over the coming
months I don't know that we will and I
have a feeling that Mehdi might have
something to say about that in a moment
before we we take a break I want to tell
you support today from today's show
comes from mova Globes or did we talk
about these I have it right here maybe
sometimes you've noticed lately
I'm over there playing with the globe a
little bit these things turn all on
their own they with or without a base in
my instance I have a little plexiglass
space
you can put them in any setting they
they do great in any type of lighting
situation no batteries and needed
there's no cords or anything like that
hidden magnets provide the movement they
have 40 different designs which includes
like world maps historical world maps
outer space they have some famous
artwork globes something for everyone
here the outer space collection even has
a graphic that's provided by NASA and
then they also have a globe - that looks
like the Earth from space that's
extremely cool but they also have like
Pluto I
they got Uranus I get a six year old kid
so whenever I bring up your ridiculous
that's still funny it's still funny yeah
you've matured out of that no I haven't
but I just I'm I generally do pretend
they got one that traces the voyages of
Captain James Cook three different
voyages all around the world they got
other vintage maps and when you go back
you see like it's fascinating to see
like oh there was no Antarctica
when James Cook went around the thing
the thing the planet you know that thing
they a van Gogh that Monet art works
there's one of Mars which is pretty cool
I can plan out my communist space colony
there so you could like I say these are
awesome as gifts awesome to have around
the house awesome to have on your
podcast desk and even if your son is
telling you it's time to bring it home
you can visit w-w-w me to use the code
majority for 10% off your purchase
that's MOV a Globes dot-com slash
majority use the code majority for 10%
off your purchases quick break when we
come back Mehdi Hasan
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program senior
contributor and columnist at the
intercept host of their deconstructed
podcast also a presenter and interviewer
on al Jazeera English in fact you just
had Julian Castro on and I guess you
didn't necessarily plan to talk about
impeachment probably when you booked him
but Mady welcome to the program thanks
for having me Sam
so let's uh I mean let's just and and
you wrote a piece in the intercept which
I think captures my frustration at this
moment but before we get there because
the it appears that after the first
hearing yesterday which I think one
could argue would be what should be a
series event of testimony I should say
regarding impeachment and regarding the
whole Ukrainian question it sounds like
Nancy Pelosi is still going to have
Congress take a vacation for two weeks
you know how important vacations are for
a politician Sam it's very important
even in the middle of the biggest
political crisis of 2019 I mean I mean
Mike sorry no no please go hey no I was
gonna say I mean I'm torn on this on the
one hand obviously you know I'm not
gonna come here and defend people taking
vacations in the middle of like as you
know as fascists and races take over the
country on the other hand I am slightly
worried about the reports coming out
this week this is why I wrote the
intercept column about the idea that
they want to get this all done and
dusted quickly so they can get back to I
don't know what infrastructure week they
want to get this impeachment vote done
they want to narrow it down to Trump's
dealings on Ukraine and Biden they want
to get it on the floor vote it and send
it over to the Senate and that's a
problem for me because I think you only
get one shot at impeachment and that one
shot needs to cover everything Trump's
done that's impeachable which is a lot
of stuff Sam well what I am I am so
baffled by this I mean I understand it
and so far as like you know Pelosi did
not want to do this I think it was you
know and in
Grimm over at the intercept wrote a
piece that showed sort of that the the
long journey to this impeachment and
largely it seems that allow those
frontline Democrats when they went home
in August uh heard from their
constituents like you got to impeach
this guy and this of course was before
the Ukraine stuff saying nobody what
nobody wants impeachment the public
doesn't want impeachment well number one
your base wants impeachment and why is
it only the Republican Party cares about
what they base once why did the
Democratic Party never care what it's
base once and now you're looking at the
polls that are out this week in the
first 48 hours after you know the
transcript has come out of the phone
call the whistleblower complaint you'll
see the polling already shifting already
so you know those of us who said public
opinion will move as leadership is shown
I think we've already been vindicated in
the space of 48 hours I think over the
space of next three to six months we'll
be vindicated further and and I would
say this that not only is the polling
move by seven points but there was a
Business Insider had a poll that shows
that not only do people you know we have
43 percent now saying that he should be
impeached but when you look at at this
polling 38 percent think an inquiry is
the right thing to do and will help
Democrats electoral II 19 percent think
an inquiry is the right thing to do but
will hurt Democrats electoral II so even
though those numbers only 43 percent
this a group should be done a lot of
that hesitation is a sort of like a you
know the American voters you know pundit
saying like I don't think there's a
heavy good politically which is one of
the biggest problems we have in politics
right now especially on the left and the
center left is every voter thinks that
they are some sort of pundit or pollster
or you know player in the game so for
example if you look at the presidential
primaries right now you ask people who
do you think should be the candidate Joe
Biden is it cuz you love Joe Biden nope
it's because I think Joe Biden is the
person who's gonna beat Donald Trump
well you don't know that you're just
going with the crowd and you know you're
going with conventional wisdom which is
very much wrong in this case I would
argue
similarly on impeachment do you want to
impeach drop of course easy he's you
know if he's not worthy of a patron who
is but why aren't you backing it oh well
I think it will hurt
rats come next year because the Senate
will never vote for it so there's all
this conventional wisdom doing the
rounds which a lot of Democratic voters
have wrongly imbibed in my view I think
they're wrong about Biden I think he's
the candidate who is most likely to
deliver a trump second term and I think
they're wrong about impeachment we
forget so quickly that Bill Clinton was
impeached he was not removed from office
and yet the Republicans won the White
House in 2000 less than two years later
right and and and I mean I want to
interrogate just a little bit more
because I think what it is and look I
saw this after eight years of Reagan
Bush the the sort of the fear and
exhaustion that Democrats had and they
were you know the the huge sigh of
relief when Clinton got in I saw this
after George W Bush at least in 2004
where there was a sort of like notion we
got to go with some type of safe choice
there is a fear I mean and you know I
think it's a legitimate fear that Donald
Trump will win re-election that the
Democratic leadership fails it seems to
me too to project any type of strength
or confidence in any situation and the
that sends a cue to the voters as well
exactly I think you're right about the
cues and you know as I wrote in my
intercept column yesterday I quoted the
famous Israeli Foreign Minister on you
know his put-down of the Palestinians at
the UN that the Democrats never miss an
opportunity to miss an opportunity this
is a huge opportunity now the chance to
impeach a president with legitimate
cause not the kind of spurious
impeachment that the Republicans did
against Bill Clinton but a very
legitimate impeachment which even
Rapinoe some Republicans a tiny handful
of Republicans like Justin Amash who is
a Republican even though he's left the
party has said there's a very clear case
for impeaching him over mullah a
thousand former federal prosecutors
including many who served under Bush and
Reagan have come out and said yes
impeach him over obstruction of justice
and I think you'll see more you know
starting to peel away not many but
you'll see some and that's that's a
problem when the Democrats themselves
don't want to show that leadership I
didn't know that somebody made a gag
earlier this week you know William weld
former Republican governor of masters
running against Trump in the primaries
if the Republicans even allow primaries
he's trying to challenge from he said
Trump should be executed for treason
which is I think ridiculously over the
top but isn't ironic that a Republican
guys calling for the execution of Trump
while Nancy Pelosi up until Tuesday four
o'clock didn't even want to impeach the
guy and now so okay so no she doesn't
want to impeach him but then she makes
the decision all right we have to go
through it what is the rationale that if
we do this really quickly like what I
mean like I don't understand what the
theory is here like I can understand
like III don't agree with it but I can
understand why she was afraid of it but
it's like what now what's the argument
well we impeached we did it really quick
like I don't understand the theory there
because I was having a conversation with
a colleague who was reading my piece and
who said you know what do you want you
know what's what's wrong with just
getting him it's a slam dunk do you
crane be done with it you win the vote
the public are on board and I said well
you have to take a step back and ask
what is the point of impeachment so for
me there's only two purposes to
impeachment number one to morally draw a
line in the sand and say this is wrong
for the sake of history with one eye on
history you say that we did not sit
silently while this neo-fascist you know
abused children at the border and
obstructed justice on a daily basis and
enriched himself at the US taxpayers
expense and involved himself in campaign
finance crimes in front of our eyes all
of the many impeachable offenses that
he's done we didn't sit quietly we draw
a line in the sand we impeach them in
the House of Representatives that's one
argument the other argument is the
political argument which is actually
will hurt Trump the idea that it won't
hurt Trump the idea that Trump wants to
go into the next election having been
one of only three men in human history
to be impeached by the House of
Representatives is absurd there's no
scenario in which the most thin-skinned
narcissistic egomaniacal megalomaniacal
individual in the United States of
America right now who's obsessed with
comparing himself to Abraham Lincoln and
Ronald Reagan and others it's gonna be
okay about being in pitch impeach or
that that won't harm him and the idea
that Nancy Pelosi is we'd get this done
in a rush a that doesn't deal with the
moral question of why you're leaving out
all these other crimes high crimes and
misdemeanors he's committed and it
doesn't deal with the political question
which is if you get this done by
November then what what you've got a
party to go to
you've got hair to wash what is the
ruch you're gonna get back to
legislating Nancy Pelosi knows better
than you and I do Sam that her bills are
stuck in the Senate the same Senate
that's gonna vote down impeachment is
also not passing any of her bills yeah i
and i would add actually a - - a - the
political calculation you're making
because once you force a vote on
impeachment
it's basically everybody is declared I'm
either detecting Donald Trump or I'm out
to hold him to account and that is
something that the Democrats have always
had trouble doing is nationalizing
congressional races and senatorial races
and this seems to me to be a perfect way
to nationalize all these races you go in
it's very quite simple this guy voted to
protect Donald Trump and you choose now
it's simple for you and I Sam it's
simple for a lot of voters it's not
simple for a lot of the democratic
political elites that's the reality the
reality is that you have senators like
Dianne Feinstein's saying well do I want
to lose Susan Collins from the Senate
she's literally said that openly on the
record an absurd statement to me for
senator Susan Collins who thanks to her
Brett Kavanaugh is on the Supreme Court
you have Joe Biden recent reporting has
revealed that Joe Biden said to Mitch
McConnell we hope to see you back Mitch
we want to see you get you know he said
that Biden so when you have leading
members of the Democratic Party saying
you know we're kind of okay with our
Republican colleagues we dined together
we go to the gym together with pals when
you have Carla Harris even standing on
the debate stage the other day referring
to quote the late great John McCain
which I think is absurd statement to
make about a former Republican
presidential candidate who for his
entire life until that health care vote
voted against Democratic Party interests
again and again and again when you have
that kind of mindset at the top of the
party yeah it sounds easy in theory for
you and I'd say it's obvious this is the
political move to make but Democrat
don't like wielding power and they don't
like as you say nationalizing races and
really kind of putting their opponents
under pressure that's why we're not
seeing it across the broad impeachment
that's why up until Tuesday 4:00 p.m.
Nancy Pelosi the most she had ever done
you know to take on Trump and censure
him for his ridiculous conduct was you
know some strongly worded tweets and
some threats from a podium but not
actually any kind of censure on the
floor of a body
she controls have you I mean have you
run into anybody you yourself or anybody
who's done any reporting that can that
has at least articulated a strategy of
impeaching quickly like I I mean I I
mean I the it just seems to me that like
once you've impeached you're gonna pay
the price you might as well if you think
that's the idea like you're gonna pay a
price you might as well get something
out of it but do they think that it will
like if they impeach and it's not like
it doesn't go to April or something that
somehow it's gonna demotivate Republican
voters I don't I don't quite get it I
think we just I think we just lost them
meta you there well bear with us folks
no well just hi many we're we're on the
air are you there hello
Maddie alright folks give us a second
we'll be right back
you
we lost him for a moment I was saying I
was asking if you had heard anybody
firsthand or if you'd heard anybody who
reported you know has been reporting on
this as to like the strata like the what
is the theory though that like if we get
impeachment over quickly the the pain
that we will feel from impeachment will
go away even if we vote to impeach him
like I don't understand what they even
the theory is I don't think they've
thought that far I heard I think just
thought about internal party unity there
but what I my understanding is that
there are these kind of frontline
Democrats aerozine Democrats in swings
through one republican seats in 2018
who've always been nervous about
impeachment and this is the only issue
that will get them on board because a
national security issue it's an
international issue you know the
Democrats love to get buying national
security consensus and this is seen as
prompt you know undermining American
national security and foreign policy and
therefore this is the issue that they'll
come on board with it won't come on
board but they could corruption or
campaign finance violations or plated
obstruction of justice and cases laid
out at the Muller report
but for this they will and it's the sake
of party unity that Nancy Pelosi will
get behind and do this vote it's clean
it's easy it's a unique issue they think
it's easily understandable by the way
anyway I said on the record this is easy
to understand Debbie Dingell from
Michigan Pelosi Ally and the leadership
have said this is easy to understand
which I find a kind of patronizing the
idea that voters only understand this
and they don't understand you know hush
money paid to stormy Daniels they don't
understand
Trump enriching himself at the taxpayers
expense I think that's far easier to
understand and also this idea that you
know their story itself is that easy to
understand I would argue you know in the
big picture yes but once you start the
Republicans start you know throwing crap
against the wall in terms of hunter
Biden you know it's kind of muddy the
water people at home we don't follow
this stuff closely you know I worry that
they will hear you know Democrats saying
this about Trump and the president know
here Republicans talking about hunter by
the prosecutor and they might both sides
it which is a slight worry I mean it's a
small worry anything is that big a worry
but it's weird to say we can't impeach
him on other issues because they're more
complicated how is it complicated to say
the Trump obstructed justice how does it
complicated that the vice president I
just spent 600 grand
of taxpayers money on limos driving from
Trump's Golf Course in Ireland where he
decided to stay instead of the capital
of the country well and we also now have
reports that Richard Neil the chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee
has been sitting on another
whistleblower report from we don't know
exactly whom but someone probably in the
IRS that donald trump has been
interfering with the IRS audit of his
taxes or something to that effect and we
don't know exactly
neil is also the guy all remind people
that refused essentially to get Donald
Trump's taxes from New York State who
had voted a lot basically provided for
him and why wouldn't you say like wait a
second before before we exhaust impeach
because we can't impeach him twice
that's never gonna happen
shouldn't we also like hear from this
whistleblower and I I am just I mean for
the life of me I don't even understand
what these frontline Democrats why they
think they can impeach in November and
people are gonna forget eight months
later or something and and you know I
understand the idea for party unity and
that maybe the entire party 230 people
have to move somewhere because of the
seven that they're talking about but if
Donald Trump realizes that like hey I
got impeached and nothing happened what
does he do then
yeah dusty was in the members for a pure
political point of view give him a year
to rewrite the narrative and talk his
nonsense as he has done post mullah and
the idea that you wouldn't keep him on
the defensive you wouldn't be demanding
documents you would be subpoena there's
been witnesses you wouldn't be holding
televised hearings it's absurd I mean
the damage that was done to Nixon was
over the course of a year in the early
seventies between the Senate Watergate
committee setting up and between the
House Judiciary Committee drafting
articles of impeachment by the way just
on a historical point a lot of people
aren't aware of this there were three
articles of impeachment against Richard
Nixon which were passed there were two
others that didn't pass one of them was
late for the bombing of Cambodia
so yes the House Democrats at the time
did decide to bring in other things
other than
okay into that impeachment hearings and
their articles of impeachment themselves
were pretty detailed and lengthy in
terms of Andrew Johnson the first
president to ever be impeached eleven
answered or seven people were brought
against him by the House of
Representatives clean and narrow is a
historical we haven't done this very
often the United States has not done
impeachment very often and when they
have it hasn't been in this way so
there's not exactly precedent for what
Pelosi and Co we're doing and I just
think it's bad mister kind of the
Congress has these powers why laterally
disarming and remember Nancy Pelosi Pham
was the one telling us until very
recently he wants to be impeach which i
think is the most ridiculous conspiracy
theory of our time don't lean to impeach
him she said in a public event a few
months ago yeah I think that Donald trum
wants to be impeach was absurd there
it's definitely absurd now when you look
at his twitter feed and see how he's
eating well you can also see that they
have basically sent out an army of about
30 lawyers to challenge everything in
the courts and tie it all up and she
also said at one point on national
television that if we impeach him then
he can't be indicted when he leaves
office which is categorically not only
categorically untrue I think like
literally in the impeachment I can't
remember what article it is in the
Constitution but it says literally that
you can be you crane court robert
maillet said on the 24th of July in
Congress that he could be indicted after
he left office yeah that night that
evening the Democrats took no steps to
turn all those testimony into any kind
of sensor or impeachment articles the
very next day the 25th of July Donald
Trump you think hey what happened to me
even after Muller testifies makes the
call to the Ukrainians
right and you know III I've also find it
hard to believe that if he's leveraging
if he's willing to do this with Ukraine
why would anyone assume like this is
this is his one little weakness he likes
to leverage the government to get to
benefit himself but only with Ukraine
with everybody else
he's absolutely by the book that's the
one thing about as we know as we now
know about this their latest stuff is
the power of just calling through
impeachment we've seen documents handed
over
we've seen evidence now not just of the
abuse of power but the cover-up this
idea that they've taken this transcript
and put it in a place where you're not
supposed to put it without sensitive
intelligence material which a lot of
legal experts are saying is evidence of
a cover-up of the concealment of
breaking the law so yeah if you've done
it for this one course you telling me
there's not dozens of other transcripts
and dozens of other calls knocking about
how you gonna get them if you brush
through impeachment by November these
things take time
go get the document do the digging the
Republicans had no story in Benghazi and
yet they went on three heels holding
hearings costing the taxpayers billions
of dollars investigating again and again
after eight investigations they still
fill up the house Benghazi committee to
go after Hillary Clinton and they never
found early donor but they did some
serious damage to her reputation out of
a presidential campaign well I think
this case you could actually damage
trumpet and the find actual dirt
it was the sixth I think investigation
of Benghazi where they came up with the
email server frankly all right well let
me ask you just know we don't have too
much time left here but let me just ask
you a couple of specifics here bill Barr
the this complaint went to the
Department of Justice the OLC they
decided no note there's nothing there's
no they're there and dismissed it out of
hand
he it seems to me the bill bar in
addition to everybody who basically
conspired to to take this call and
immediately bury it in the most
sensitive essentially safe that the u.s.
government has are involved in a
cover-up I mean to what extent do you
think that the Democrats should be
bringing in bill bar or at least you
know this is a problem and this is this
is the bill Barr who when he was
appointed a lot of sensible people did
point out that he was going to be Donald
Trump Roy Cohen this personal corrupt
lawyer that Donald Trump employed in the
80s he's always wanted his old Roy Cohn
and he wasn't he didn't think Jeff
Sessions was that person he finally got
that person in bill bar and yeah we've
seen up in the hollow report in terms of
the way mislead people around the Mulla
report in terms of his testimony in
Congress where he dodged the question
about whether he
investigation edge one anyone comes
request we now know from the from the
phone call track the phone call salaries
for the transcript that he was asked to
do so by the president have you know
what times Michelle Goldberg did an
op-ed today headlines just how corrupt
is bill bar and the answer is very very
very corrupt Democrats shouting this
from the rooftops that the DOJ is Olaf
ever was and lieutenant general is
corrupt and he should be impeached as
well at the very minimum you should be
demanded to reduce himself commit the
idea that the whistleblower
those two goes to the inspector general
intelligence community and says hey I've
got a complaint about Donald Trump had
an improper conversations with the
foreign government involved in attorney
general and the DOJ led by the Attorney
General just yeah we're not we're not
allowing you to send this complaint to
Congress I mean how is that not a
massive conflict
how can anyone even was loyal right-wing
Republican with a straight face justify
that and and people should understand I
mean the moment the bill bar came out
and basically did his version of ill on
Omar
and the squad should go back to where
they came from and he followed that up
in a in a much more sort of I guess
dignified manner in which he articulated
people need to understand that leaving
bill Barr unscathed is highly
problematic because if you're one of
those people who thinks that Donald
Trump may not be so easily
quick to leave office even if he loses
it's all gonna be a function of whether
bill Barr ties it up and and if bill bar
is is left his reputation is continued
to be unsullied and there is uh there's
no attempt to sort of you know dig into
what this guy's been doing adds a a roy
cohn for Trump I think it's gonna be
highly probable
but just very quickly on Bob people
aren't aware of this this is not his
first rodeo right served under George HW
Bush and helped him cover up iran-contra
and hand out a bunch of pardons to
people who were going to basically
implicate George HW Bush in the
iran-contra affair so he's done this
before he's been covering up stuff in
Washington DC for decades where is
what is going on with Volker what do you
know about kurt volker
I mean cult Volkers is the guy that well
that is was the ambassador to Ukraine he
is the guy who Giuliani seems to be
trying to argue somehow exculpatory for
him that he was invited to go by the
State Department to deal with Ukraine it
doesn't it sort of begs the questions
like why is the State Department doing
this but Volker apparently is unpaid
were you aware that he is like a just a
liaison there who is apparently unpaid
who has he's just a guy who apparently
is doing the US State Department a favor
I didn't know that but it doesn't
surprise me Sam because all of these
figures in all of these circles I mean
what I was doing that Volker Giuliani I
mean the Rudy Giuliani most amazing
stories of this presidency in terms of
is his big mouth and tragic yeah reason
lying regularly on live TV is that what
is that what's going to screw over Trump
in the long run every time he opened his
mouth it seems like he does some kind of
damage but I know there's a theory so to
noting that some circles they want him
out there distracting and pitting expose
right by that he's so unpredictable and
so unhinged yeah this guy was once mayor
of New York and seen as a serious
Republican presidential candidate and I
think all of these people in Trump's all
but all of these people floating around
Ukraine they all need to be investigated
they all need to be put on the rest
whatever Chris Haley's twin about last
night get all these people subpoena them
put them under oath ask them these
questions takes time I hope they have
the time to do that and yeah as you said
just now the sixth Benghazi hearing
found the email server who knows what
you're gonna find when you start you
know that most of us didn't know Kurt
Volker even existed until 24 36 hours
ago so how many other people out there
we don't own exist but we know that you
know Trump employs all sorts of people
Trump's fixers employ all sorts of
people now we know the State Department
Mike Hale is involved in all this I mean
I can't even follow it could be honest I
probably miss Gayley I can't even follow
all the links here it's so ridiculous I
mean I saw Giuliani waving posting a
text from the state park they
a part of his ongoing round with the
State Department what his role was this
all has to be investigated a task taken
seriously but my worry is that you know
there's a rush we even miss things on
Ukraine the best-case scenario you get
impeachment on Ukraine and you said okay
we impeach the president worst case
scenario you eff up the entire Ukraine
think of the Democrats tend to ask
things up I would like to see something
more than most that best case and worst
case now as I say I go back to the
beginning of our combination I would
like to help to account and impeached or
torturing children at the border for
being involved in Michael Cohen and
paying illegal hush money to stormy
Daniels on the eve of the election get
elected for obstructing justice on ten
different occasions and the Muller
report pointed out for illegally trying
to divert aid from Puerto Rico where
3,000 Americans died and diverting it to
Texas and Louisiana
that's impeachable for threatening to
use the US government to go after Amazon
The Washington Post
that's impeachable I would like to see
those things held up there's no reason
the Democrats can't do all of this I
don't buy that they can't do all of this
course I can I agree with you
Mehdi Hassan thank you so much for your
time today really appreciate it thank
them all right folks there you go
contact your Congress people I mean this
is this is actually you know we've
talked to I've cited Ryan Grimm's
reporting quite a bit over the past week
but the fact of the matter is the reason
why impeachment happened it's it's hard
to make a counterfactual but even in the
absence of this Ukraine stuff we were
moving towards impeachment because these
frontline Democrats had heard when they
went back from their constituents you've
got to do this and they made the
calculation that if we don't do it we're
gonna I'm gonna lose these people
they're gonna be depressed essentially
and their morale is gonna be low and
they're not gonna come out they're not
gonna campaign for me you know because
the people who show up at the town halls
those are the people you need the the
Democrats who show up at your Town Hall
if you're a Democrat you need those
people not
to say like I'm gonna vote for you you
need those people to phone Bank for you
to get their friends to vote for you to
get their friends to come out and vote
to get their friends to come out and
vote you need those people and when they
show up at a town hall and say not only
am I not like I'm mad at you it has an
impact and so you need to get out there
this is why primaries are effective even
if you like your congressperson
this is why being active is helpful this
is one of those moments where you
contact your congressperson and you tell
them to demand that Nancy Pelosi has a
full and thorough investigation hold
Donald Trump to account not only on
Ukraine but on everything else and not
only hold Donald Trump to account
bill Barr Mike Pompeo Rudy Giuliani and
that's you know four asks a thorough and
complete investigation one that it goes
beyond Ukraine and includes Giuliani
Pompeo and bill bard because again you
know like it's gonna be bill Barr who
the newscasters on November 9th after
Donald Trump loses the election
god-willing who comes out and says well
there's been discrepancies and we are
filing a motion to the Supreme Court to
enjoin the announcement of the I mean
this is how it's gonna go down
definitely gonna happen and this is also
somebody who is just you know I guess I
shouldn't put words in his mouth but I
mean this is the the famous Nixon line
that everybody grew up with is like this
is not how it's supposed to be where
it's like if the president does it it's
not illegal the frost/nixon interviews
that's what Bill Barr thinks clearly
even beyond Trump is is pure Dick Cheney
unitary executive combined with being a
you know a constantly airy for a lunatic
criminal and if bill bars involvement in
things like this is not
described to the public the public does
not have any education on who bill bar
is and they just think oh he's the
Attorney General not he's the attorney
general who quashed this whistleblower
complaint not he's the attorney general
who mischaracterized the the Muller
report if they don't see him as the
partisan hack that he is it's gonna be
that much harder to disregard what bill
bar is saying on the day that he decides
like well Donald Trump needs a league
that won the election right exactly and
I and I mean I you know I part of that I
want it to be broader in scope for both
normative and strategic reasons but it's
just for all the reasons you're
outlining like you need to deal Ajith
Amaya them because they're all
legitimate yeah it's not like an extra
job you have to do you just literally
need to expose the guy who is clearly
willing to do anything it really is
inexplicable to me what the this is what
it I think it's problematic about the
the Democratic leadership in my
estimation that it's not that there is
it's not a disagreement in strategy it's
that they don't seem to have one
there's no articulation of a strategy
like there's this vague sort of attempt
to have a tactic well if you're gonna
force us to do impeachment then we've
got to we've got to make it as quick as
possible and I guess and I I do I do
you know for a fact that's I mean
honestly like let's game this out it's
gonna fail in the Senate so the first
argument which is just true is it's not
it may not even get it may not even get
to the Senate so why not you take the
whole months if you're gonna do it you
made the decisions you took the decision
dine out on it for months every day a
new embarrassment
every day a new request every day new
humiliation every day a new fine every
day a new threat yep
I mean I don't I don't understand it's
like I'm gonna I'm gonna hit of four
hands and approach the net stop at
midcourt right exactly
that is yeah people who play tennis
you're in no-man's land
in other words folks that's the that's
the I mean that is like once you dissin
once you decide to cross the street
you better have a little pep to your
step because you don't want to get hit
by a truck no half measures and mastani
and so they're gonna go on vacation if
you have the opportunity drop by and
make the make this a you know one of
those like learning education what are
the they're going vacation making one of
those like Learning Annex learning
learning vacations but we call those
educational trips I don't know I don't
know maybe I'm thinking you bring up all
the globe you tell them to learn
honestly it's just I it's like there's
some type of competition between Pelosi
and Schumer we're like well let me see
if I can't do something that makes less
sense how about this you're doing it
beach but hearings I'm demanding it
investigation of the coupon industry
expect Lee the irony is of course that
Mitch McConnell has been holding up this
this cannabis bill yeah I'll talk about
it in the context of this because the
the other argument is that like well we
need to show the American public that
we're getting their work done which of
course they passed all these bills in
the first six months of a democratic
house and nobody knows it I can tell you
right now I do this professionally and I
can't tell you more than four or five of
the bills I'm a question about that
why can't the DNC put out an expenditure
and lay out some consulting contracts
which they love to do to just do like
PSAs like
this is what your Democratic Congress
has done last year we passed this bill
on voting rights we passed this bill on
this we passed this bill on that and do
some national or targeted ads yeah buy
some ads on wine on lefty YouTube shows
I mean like but yeah actually did that -
right that - why not they don't do it
because I think on some level they
realize like nobody really cares and it
I mean I imagine what it is is it's an
opportunity for all of the incumbents to
go to the into the election saying I
voted for blankety-blank I voted for
blankety-blank my opponent is it
disagrees against it I mean they're so
afraid of nationalizing the election
that I think that's why they don't even
bring that up because they want their
members to be able to pick and choose
which ones they emphasize as some guys
they just look excuse me there's some
members of the caucus who voted for more
pathogens in the food so on Wednesday
yesterday and no excuse me two days ago
the House passed and I think there was
something like I don't know 90 Democrats
and the Republicans even join the
Democrats to pass a bill that would
allow legalized marijuana businesses to
have access to banking services and
people may not be aware of this but I
don't know how many states we now have
with legal marijuana a dozen half a
dozen it's become rather uncontroversial
except for in New York for some ungodly
reason it was 91 Republicans 229
Democrats up including now if you go to
a marijuana dispensary in a state where
it is totally legal to buy marijuana
they take your money and they only could
do it in one of two ways one they can
take it as cash and they have massive
stores of cash
in these facilities or what I understand
they do in a place like Las Vegas is
they actually sell gift cards and so
when you go up with your credit card you
buy a gift card and then they use the
gift card to redeem to get your to get
your pot and they do this because the
banking system will not take and allow
for credit or do any credit card
transactions if you are involved in
selling marijuana because of federal law
and so they have not had access to
banking so what it does it creates a
little bit of a problem right there's a
lot of cash there rather inefficient and
you have 229 Democrats 91 Republicans on
Wednesday voted for this cannabis
banking bill and it took months to get
Republican support months and I think
there's two things you can learn from
this one is that obviously this stuff
you know pot is no longer like it's lost
all of its salience as a cultural issue
for conservatives in this country and to
that if impeachment is having any impact
on the ability of lawmakers to make law
it is helping because everybody
everybody I think it's scrambling to be
like I want to be doing something if I'm
a Republican now I don't know Mitch
McConnell may be holding it up but the
idea that and somehow you cannot they
mean you've got more laws passed you got
your first bipartisan bill and it came
after impeachment was announced it just
makes no sense whatsoever to me it makes
no sense the the thinking here you know
articulate an idea but they they're not
doing him all right oh shoot
folks the a.m. quickie is live it's live
on its own feed we were supposed to do
this at the beginning of the show so
there's two things that we're to talk
about first is if you go to am quicky
calm can we put this up on the a.m.
quickie dot-com we put it up as a Chiron
AM quickie calm will redirect it will
redirect it will read it to our fans FM
AM quickie there it is you can subscribe
with you're on iTunes your Mac your PC
you can subscribe with your your podcast
app on your iPhone or you can copy and
paste that feed into your podcast app
let's say it's I don't know overcast or
Puckett puckett kick ass or Puckett pods
or pod pockets whatever you whatever you
do in a pod pockets is good
I'm strong with that it will be on
stitcher within a couple of days but go
sign up for this right now we will keep
it on the feed for another couple of
days on both the members and the
non-members feed but then it will live
on its own they am quickie and for you
know what impeachment starts going up
but we even if it lasts for like a week
you're gonna want to we're gonna try and
do our best to give you just like you
know the the quick top-line story so you
have a vague notion of what is going
down and by vague I mean probably more
of a notion of what's going down than
the vast majority of people you walk
around with but from my perspective it's
vague we do a three-hour show every day
to an F our show but it is just a and
we're getting it out earlier and earlier
every day AM quickie we get the first
one is up there right there and we you
know we try and put links in there - for
all the stories that we do and so check
it out the a.m. quickie tell your
friends about it and boom alright yeah
looks good right that's a nice little
logo there I like it
hey I'm quickie ladies and gentlemen
also I had promised today we would be
doing a little bit of our rundown on
steven crowder
i've been teasing this for some time
that steven crowder in two separate
occasions has literally ended his
participation in a forum to avoid
debating with me but it's easy for me to
get here and come here and say this but
on Wednesday of next week because I will
be gone for the rush Jenna on Wednesday
of next week I will show you I won't
just say it I will show you so Steven
enjoy your weekend enjoy Rosh Hashanah
it's a new year as they say on Rosh
Hashanah it is written on Yom Kippur
it is sealed and so during this period
of time I will forgive you that is what
I will do I will forgive you
but during that period you give them the
chance to atone exactly exactly and so
we will do that next week all right
we're gonna take a quick break when we
come back we're gonna be talking quite a
bit about the the hearing yesterday
we'll talk a little bit more about
impeachment
we've got some other stuff here too as
well of course see you oh wait a moving
what am I talking about don't forget you
can support the show by becoming a
member at majority dot F M I'm
completely
sleep-deprived I think the impeachment
stuff has got me going quite a bit you
can you can support this program by
going to join the majority report com
join the majority report dot-com check
it out just pennies a day also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
and get 10% off don't forget to sign up
for the a.m. quickie and also today is
Friday which means that Tuesday must
have happened already it but take your
foot off oh sorry guys I'm really tired
michaela milk will be coming you
Michaela Wilkes is running for Congress
against Steny Hoyer she's really great
we talked to her then we had an
incredibly fun time Micra scene
including reminding everybody about the
Jeffrey Epstein story
and yeah so patreon.com slash team vs
Michael Brooks show on YouTube get your
tickets to the Philly live show and
really quick October 6th I'm gonna MC an
event called comedy for all a socialist
social with Lauren Ashcroft who is
running for Congress and is a DSA person
and a stand-up comedian so she's
actually going to give her stump and
tell some jokes and that is at ketch
Astoria
so check out the event and let's try it
out
where is it catch Astoria it's in
Astoria catch Astoria ka TCH Astoria
oh okay and you just have a club called
catch a rising star yes I would refer to
its catch okay
I suppose we catch Manhattan but catch a
story it does that sound like that catch
Astoria primaries are good and primaries
by legit leftist who are also funny are
even better so see you there and see you
in Philly
keep that in mind Chuck Schumer there
you go Jamie this week on the anti
Fattah we speak with Navarro media's
Aaron Bustani about his great new book
fully automated luxury communism
interrogate exactly what he means by
that and go through some of the
critiques that have been leveled
as well also out today we have a bonus
for our patrons edited together from
Andy's appearance on our friend Cory
Pines podcast news from nowhere they
talk about Tom DeLonge jizz to the stars
Academy and what's up with that
the Navy's admission that the videos of
UFOs are in fact real
and then they discuss posad ISM Cory
interviews Andy a little bit about this
wacky ideology that Andy's writing a
book about and they finish it out with
an essay on blink 182 song aliens exist
so check it out Funko
oh also our live show is still October
12th at Littlefield NYC get your tickets
we got a link majority dot F M indeed
October 12 my whole social calendar is
getting filled up now look at that Matt
is off somewhere I don't know where he
is just sabotaging the the sound and the
phones from afar yeah I think he went to
a voodoo doctor down in New Orleans and
was like I want to sabotage a podcast
well there you go now I brought up my
him I'm even more obvious now but still
waters run deep
check out literary hangover at
patreon.com slash literary hangover
alright quick break fun half Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't yeah maybe you should rethink
your defensive that we're just going to
get rid of you all right yes
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first coastal seafood
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars to here you
should come here not they accuse me
you you all right take quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber classic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to aizen's Shitler with such No
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back just on Twitter looking at
David Dan's tweets feel like I could
probably just oh shoot they just went
away that stupid Twitter oh there it is
they an retweets a piece in The
Washington Post Democrats I quick
impeachment of probe of Trump its
freshman push to keep the probe narrow
and he writes this is one of the only
weeks of the Trump presidency where the
news cycle isn't playing out on his
terms
sounds like a good idea to wrap that up
quickly and in secret he says then he's
also got a piece at the prospect
exulting that the important necessary
breach between Wall Street and the
Democrats may finally happen and I would
imagine he is that that the piece is
premise Don the idea that Bernie or
Warren will win as opposed to Joe Biden
who apparently is out today with his
advisers trying to figure out do they
need a dark money super PAC in the
primary oh yeah I saw an article saying
that the Wall Street people are
threatening to support Trump if Warren
or Sanders is the nominee yes yeah I
think that that's not in a logical step
for them but here's the thing the press
doesn't seem to understand this
and neither do of these people on Wall
Street or I should say a linear to
rephrase this it's not a question of
them voting for Trump nobody cares who
they vote for there's not that many of
them it's the question of like I mean
it's sort of it's sort well it's it's a
brilliant piece of almost like
performance art when they do this
because the form basically provides the
function they're basically saying hey we
have outsized influence on politics
because of our money and we will back
those people who are attempting to who
are running on the idea that we
shouldn't have outsized influence on
politics because of our money because
that's just wrong and that way it's
rather poetic and so very excited about
that prospect I want to talk about this
for a moment because this is sort of
interesting the the right wing talking
points of the day are centered around
this opening by Adam Schiff and I have
mixed feelings about this is in the this
is in the hearings yesterday I want
everybody listen to this because in some
respects what Adam Schiff is doing is
exactly what we know the President does
and the right does it is an
acknowledgment that we live in different
media universes and that the critique of
what what we say as politicians is
almost irrelevant certainly in the
context of like Trump or on the right
the critique is worn like a badge of
honor the center and the left I think is
a little bit more concerned about these
things but here's Adam Schiff he's
opening
the hearing and what he does is
characterize the conversation between
Donald Trump and the president of
Ukraine the essence of what the
president communicates we've been very
good to your country very good no other
country has done as much as we have but
you know what I don't see much
reciprocity here I hear what you want I
have a favor I want from you though and
I'm going to say this only seven times
so you better listen good I want you to
make up dirt on my political opponent
understand lots of it on this and on
that I'm gonna put you in touch with
people not just any people I'm gonna put
you in touch with Attorney General the
United States my Attorney General Bill
bar he's got the whole weight of the
American Law Enforcement behind him and
I'm gonna put you in touch with Rudy
you're gonna love him trust me you know
what I'm asking and so I'm only gonna
say this a few more times in a few more
ways and by the way don't call me again
I'll call you when you've done what I
asked this is in some and character what
the president was trying to communicate
with the president of Ukraine it would
be funny if it wasn't such a graphic
betrayal of the president's oath of
office all right and they'll funny but
very effective right okay I want you to
keep that in mind with the funny because
I heard two right-wing talkers today
saying like well like the it was one of
those it's the two guys on WABC there
nope like they're ancient
talk about boomers but the way that they
were going back just hold that thought
for a moment we'll get to it but that is
exactly what the essence of that call
was and the behavior that is outlined in
this whistleblower report that there are
reports so one reporters say we
he had information that we never printed
that the reason why Mike Pence called
off his trip to go to the inauguration
of is it zalenski and we sent instead
[Music]
the Secretary of of energy I can't
remember his name now what's it Rick
Perry is because Trump didn't want them
to have the vice president there until
he got the stuff he wanted about Joe
Biden's corruption and so that that
whole like you know don't call me I'll
call you when you've done what I've
asked you to do is exactly what Trump
was communicating now the critique is is
like he's making this up it's an
impeachment hearing
it's an impeachment hearing how can he
make that up and characterize it well of
course he can he wasn't gonna read
through the entire transcript which
again is not a verbatim transcript but
that is their talking point at the
moment and I just don't think it's going
to work it will work with their people
but we are living in a different era
where we cannot expend energy in trying
to get to their people
we need to expend energy in getting to
our people the rest of the people the
majority of the people and tell them and
educate them exactly too as to what the
president is doing and I would say this
is also the case more broadly in terms
of politics as it exists whether it's in
the presidential campaign and just about
questions of like of health care or you
know college debt or Wall Street or
whatever it is that trying to chase
after their people who are in a
hermetically sealed bubble comes at the
expense of motivating
the rest of the people so shift could
have gotten up there and not been so
pithy and characterized it with a
certain amount of satire like he said it
would have been funny if it wasn't so
tragically accurate but if he had done
so to placate some notion of like he
should be more of a straight shooter
from the right he would fail to be able
to communicate to people who might be
marginal in terms of thinking this is
important and this that dynamic is
really important I think to understand
not just in the context of impeachment
but more broadly in American politics
today that it is it is not about
persuasion
it is about motivation how do you
communicate to those people who who are
already predisposed to believing what
you believe that this is important and
digestible okay so on to the second
point so I'm listening to this radio
show and there's two boomers and one is
like on the right and the other is like
on the mostly you know extent or right
but he's like the Alan Combs type of
figure and then there of course is a
woman who's on the show who basically
steps in and like you guys are PC and
it's that type of dynamic it's really
just tragic but I will occasionally dip
into right-wing radio on days like this
to find out what just what they're
saying and these are low this is local
show but Newt local New York and so the
guy the right winger plays shifts news
can you believe this guy he's lying he's
making it all up that's not the
transcript and the other guy goes just
telling a joke and as a reference to
this statement that Donald Trump said at
the UN I think it is right so you
sideline and threatening real
journalists with general Sisi right this
is a this was apparently billed as a
family event where people brought in
their kids now I don't know why you
bring your kids into listen to Donald
Trump unless you really like want to
spend the next 10 or 15 years trying to
to make them less cynical but here is
referring to the whistle blower right
this is like here we go yeah now people
start in the in the fuller clip people
start laughing after that a little bit
and and and the the right-wing deejay
was like well you know people laughed at
that one well there you can hear people
giggling actually at the shifts a couple
of turns of phrases there it's certainly
you hear that you know also like please
before people you know I'm not making
this comparison because I always feel
the need to say this but like you know
Idi Amin was a wit sometimes like just
like humor and irony does not mean that
you're not doing something right right
like sometimes it doesn't but sometimes
like he's saying in a funny way will
someone please rid me of this meddlesome
priest he's saying it
Jacob wall Benjamin Dickson flagged the
Jacob wall think Jacob wall is a is it a
relentless joke but he's still talking
about like you know putting some type of
price on finding out who this is or
something or you know at least he was
yesterday
I mean and it's all a joke but it's also
a joke that's being how about this read
by the president it's for a joke
hey Russia if you're listening I'd take
those other 30,000 emails and then the
next day Russian agents hack into an
email server oh yeah and different
things are
funny to people based on their societal
context and the power dynamics is just
like what they're into like I'm be I'm
reminded of the show dangerous comedy
with Larry Charles have you guys watched
that no no he interviews people all over
the world in like really intense
war-torn parts of the world even about
the things that they find funny like
general butt naked in I'm gonna mess up
which country this is but like like a
lot of a lot of these um these warlords
and soldiers are like oh you know it's
funny
killing someone who's weaker than you
hahaha oh I'm just saying like even
that's interesting but I'm just saying
very specifically with these types of
things like you you know you can read if
you read about you know other examples
of leaders in this mode sometimes it is
like hey you know who is a real pain in
the ass and it's a chuckle but it's also
like a signal yes you know it isn't just
like it isn't just a chuckle yep
let's go to the phone's gone from a 308
area code who's this where you come from
hey Sam it's Kowalski from Nebraska
Kowalski from Nebraska what's on your
mind
well it's the same my facebook feed is
to plate cancer right now well but do
tell a lot of mixed feelings on
impeachment who they coming from
pretty much everybody a lot of people
drawing lines in the sand other people
who are saying we need to investigate
because it's holding your leaders to
account those people getting their asses
chewed by Trump supporters it's it's a
nightmare
well welcome to just about every day of
my life
what I mean so we characterize it though
I mean I mean like what what is there
are there any you know 15,000 feet
observations or is it just really that
just so all of the chaotic at this
moment right now it seems to be pretty
much just chaotic one thing that is
starting to make the rounds is people
curious why Clinton's not being in peace
which I find absolutely hilarious like
it's something Turning Point USA is
putting out but how could that happen
though complete and utter stupidity we
like how Clinton's not being impeached
yeah the whole email thing coming up and
now some reason Joe Biden niece is
getting brought up for some sort of
credit card scandal I don't know they're
they're growing I think everything they
can at the law and hoping something
sticks I will say this I would be very
not surprised if a credit card company
personally hooked up Joe Biden's niece
I just want to put that on the record
here I don't think that's impeachable
but that would not surprise me in fact
Chris Dodd who weirdly enough in the
context of Latin America was at times
actually like a very good senator but at
the end of the day pretty corporatist
guy he finally had to he basically had
to not run for re-election because at
the height of the financial crisis
he was put on like prefered VIP
treatment loans for a house he got a
sweet sweet Ike sub self-hate mortgage
he got the nicest and it was you got
like a jumbo at the rate of a I don't
know and what was funny was I actually
believed him and this is that like the
culture of corruption stuff like in
these interviews he was like I look I
thought it was a courtesy like I
actually I can see how in his mind he
reconciled that I mean look just like he
didn't he didn't even perceive it as a
problem well I said I don't think he was
lying but it revealed the whole problem
kawalsky appreciate the call the here's
the thing every day in private in
private life there are situations like
that where there are situations where
it's like oh ya know my cousin works for
this mortgage broker and so I get like a
quarter percent off you know it's just
it's courtesy or you know like I mean
the the this happens all the time this
is times a million so no I
I assure through deregulation through my
committee and they look out for me a
little bit but that's not even how he
would he would literally would just look
at it out it's occurred to his
perspective it could be like even if he
was not bad on that committee what it
does is it gets them access so that
because he sat on a Banking Committee he
was mixed on that committee I have no
doubt in his head sometimes I go with
them the way they want sometimes I go
with them the way they like but they
know me think it's that like they don't
even think he sees it that way I'm just
so you know she's like look they come in
and they get to tell me their tight side
of the story and look the bottom line is
like I'll tell you right now if you give
me someone who is sitting on the fence
about anything or doesn't know much
about a specific issue and you give me
an hour with them and give my opponent
ten minutes with them guess what they're
I mean nine times out of ten they're
gonna side with me
and of course they're giving me an hour
because dude hook them up I gave him a
free free subscription the majority for
hey that's what size what size maggiore
report what size shirt do you wear
that's it is that getting you a large
you know what you want wait how about
white and black you got it
well Sam come on in have a seat you know
that's that's basically what happens and
I don't think now I think there's also
other more nefarious things where it's
like you scratch my back I scratch your
back but I think for these people it's
just sort of a question of like you're
swimming in a certain was what I was
that was actually what yeah those what I
was yes what I was trying to convey I
think you're totally right I think
that's that's why I just remember
listening in this interview where he
literally just like I thought it was a
courtesy and I realized I was like oh
that's not he's not lying because you
know if he was lying his press office
would come up with something a little
bit better than that at the height of
like people millions of people are
losing their houses there's like nothing
but rage at this industry in the country
and this like white maned genteel
senators he's like wow he's delusional
and it's not I mean it's you know part
of it is just this is the way that
things operate you know and part of it
is also I think like once you become
like a senator in particular but even a
congress person you just all of a sudden
like I mean I when I did that cop show
and I was dressed as a cop in New York
City walked into a Benjamin and I walked
into a diner and we literally ordered a
couple of doughnuts just because we
wanted to do it and they're like you got
it thank you what all right thank you
thank you
heywood free doughnuts someone's gonna
clip this and say say I'm stealing valor
yep sorry I'm totally behind that also
like people who are rich and famous are
just used to getting free stuff all the
time it's just that the other thing
maybe that's why they gave you the
doughnuts that well that's what that's
what I took it as like oh you must have
seen my work on all American girl
but the damn dresses up as a whole tell
you something veteran during there is a
concept that more controversial have a
choir narcissism there's a concept of
acquired narcissism and I've known some
people who are who are pretty well known
and after a while it begins to impact
you you you just you just assume this is
the way the world operates for everybody
because you know as I go through life I
just assumed it's more or less the way
the world operates for everybody on some
level and although at times I get
pushback from that a lot of those folks
they don't get pushback well you hear
this though even in much smaller like
I've noticed this sometimes talking to
just you know I would say uh permit like
comfortable people about like income
crisis and like and we all know the
famous that we keep repeating the most
you know a lot of Americans can't get
500 bucks in case of emergency and I've
heard at least two or three people say
and I mean this like completely
innocently
and it's like they can kind of slot like
they understand okay maybe there's a
handful of people and just like pure
deprivation and they need help they can
kind of conceptualize that but then
you'll be explaining like you know the
people really struggling but who are
like lower middle class or something and
I've heard people say like yeah I mean I
know but that's terrible and we should
do something but like there's got to be
some of they could borrow like a
thousand bucks from right that's like no
right that's kind of the point man like
they can there was a debate in 2008 I
think it was I think it was a primary
debate I think it was the Democrats and
I cannot remember who the journalist was
but it was sort of like a mainstream
journalist who who had a question I
think it was in st. Anselm's college
about the professors and assumed that
like professors at this college made a
hundred and twenty thousand dollars in
that that they were middle class
you know like middle-class or that I
can't heard that was the median of I
mean just like there's a lot of people
who if you're not if you're living that
lifestyle and you're not vigilant about
it you can easily lose touch or remain
out of touch as to what is reality but
we're far afield now or you just decide
that being famous is awesome and you
deserve everything that you get as a
result that's basically the way I walk
through life that's why you dress up as
a homeless veteran on the weekends clip
this just like I wish in Grenada and I
have carpal tunnel it was Gibson right
there it is
what is it okay if you take a family of
if you take a family of two professors
here at st. Anselm they're going to be
in the $200,000 category that you're
talking about live lifting the taxes on
and then there was laughter like the
whole the whole it was like a big it was
in a in a college like you know
auditorium and everyone started laughing
and then like all the candidates it was
Edwards Obama and Clinton they all
basically said Charlie I think you and
then an adjunct ride to play it off by
saying to public schools in New York a
teachers in New York making $200,000 ten
years ago and more laughter well look at
the look at the three dunks here that
John it or don't agree with you rob I'm
not sure that's huh and then Hillary got
like Hillary has the best one that maybe
my you Charlie right exactly but I mean
can you imagine being a like a such a
well-known Charlie Gibson was it was a
well-known a news anchor reporter and
being so oblivious like you're the one
who's questioning these candidates and
you're so oblivious as to like you
actually you asked this question and
frame it this way on public like this is
your job
dude like it could be upsetting if this
guy did this at a cocktail party right
like he just like threw it off like yeah
you know but this is your job and a
little like wow that was just amazing
unfortunately I can't imagine that I
know I know an adjunct in the back was
like Charlie that was hilarious but
please I might crack my ribs and I don't
have health care right exactly
my eight thousand dollars a semester I'm
raking in imagine being more out of
touch than Hillary yeah exactly
oh he would have been the first one this
is I he would be the first one of that
if Hillary then had like some type of
not knowing like the price of orange
juice you would have done like fifty
segments on it all right let's go to
some of these stuff from the McGuire
house Intel hearing Joseph McGuire the
Acting Director of National Intelligence
he said during the hearing I believe at
one point had I known this whistleblower
account was out there I would not have
taken this job clearly a guy in over his
head but what's important is that the
committee make it clear that this guy
messed up the bottom line is if you've
got a whistleblower complaint about the
president United States you don't go to
the White House and ask him is this
appropriate for me to give to Congress
here is let's go to Mike Quigley first
asked why is Rudy Giuliani being
deputized by the State Department I mean
first of all let's just assume Rudy
Giuliani wasn't even working for the
president the United States the question
would be why would the State Department
deputize Rudy Giuliani but a there's an
added I think like mystery is why they
would do this if he's the president's
personal personal defense attorney as
Rudy Giuliani refers to himself
Giuliani a highly respected man
he was the mayor of New Yorker Graber I
would like him to call you I will ask
him to call you along with the Attorney
General
your reaction of civilian dealing with
these in the complaint it talks about
our national security that the command
specter generals talks about this as the
highest responsibilities among those
that the DNI has and obviously mr.
Giuliani is playing this role to your
knowledge does he have security
clearance
I don't know congressman Quigley I
neither aware or unaware whether or not
mr. Giuliani has a security clearance
before this all happened were you aware
of his role or understanding what his
role was doing what you do
congressman Quigley my only knowledge of
what mr. Giuliani does I have to be
honest with you I get from TV and from
the news media I am not aware of what he
does in fact for the president are you
aware of his any communication by mr.
Giuliani and your office about how he
should proceed with this role given the
classified nature the national security
implications that are in the complaint
that they're in the transcript and the
role that he is playing well I have read
the transcripts just as you have so my
knowledge of his activity in there is
just limited to the conversation that
the President had with the president of
Ukraine it's a it's a question that Rudy
Giuliani doesn't seem that I think is
any problem whatsoever
here's Rudy Giuliani on this on Laura
Ingraham show right and Giuliani is now
explained he thinks this is all expel
pottery he thinks like oh I got asked by
the State Department as if the State
Department just sort of out of there by
out of the blue just said like oh I know
Rudy Giuliani of course yeah they're
just sitting around the State Department
going like wow we got a we got it we
gotta get in touch with the folks in
Ukraine it's too bad we don't have an
apparatus for that well Rudy Giuliani
the mayor of New York yeah you be
right for this Rudy Guiliani the country
attorney yeah he's a country attorney
you'd love to do it my great honor is a
humble country attorney from Karachi to
go to Ukraine to help you commit a
global crime Laura Ingram keeps having
Rudy Giuliani on her show and seems to
be functioning like you would like like
a like a like a daughter would if their
dad was starting to lose it and like I'm
gonna try and help you here dad like
okay dad calm down just tell us why you
did it
you came on you have a lie please
deliver it
who told where did the State Department
get its marching orders from here
because people I think are extremely
confused all these wild allegations
about you you have a series of texts
that refute pretty much every single one
of them and so the State Department was
then what you was then told to connect
you with began there's a reason I'm in
the middle of this and the reason it's
very emerges from the corruption of how
they've tried to hide this for years
including trying to cover-up Biden
pausing it for one second now what
Giuliani is talking about is and he's
trying to hide the fact that he was sent
to Ukraine in on a mission to get
information that would be exculpatory or
at least mitigating for Paul Manafort to
justify a pardon by Donald Trump of Paul
Manafort which is how he met everybody
there apparently and while he was there
he started fishing around about these
stories about Joe Biden remember he was
meeting with the folks in the
administration prior to Zaleski so he
was meeting with the old prosecutors
guys this prosecutor was corrupt by all
accounts this prosecutor was in the
sights of Joe Biden who wanted to get
rid of that
prosecutor remember now like in many
respects Ukraine is maybe client state
is too strong of a word
but maybe client state and everyone
perceived the last administration to be
highly corrupt they wanted the
prosecutor out this prosecutor knew that
good Biden was gunning for him and so
there we go
including trying to cover up Biden two
years I got this because the FBI
wouldn't take it for the Ukrainians who
came to me back in November of 2018 and
then subsequently have told this to five
other people who could testify to it
told me that we've been trying to get to
you for over a year year and a half we
have solid evidence of collusion not
russian-ukrainian not with trump with
Hillary and the DNC we believe George
Soros is behind it because his company
was was involved in it by the way when
Biden's son's case was dismissed the
other case the crooked new prosecutor
had a dismiss with Soros this case which
is why the Biden thing is relevant to me
because Biden's corruption Biden is
compromising the president of the
Ukraine led to the dismissal of the case
against analysis organization and that
case gone on look at Lawrence Feud the
Muller investigate this is like
literally it's as if you had like if
Laura Ingraham had said hey bring me an
AP go find me someone off the street and
make sure they're talking to themselves
and bring them in here and sit him down
put him in a suit and have him talk I
mean try Port Authority there's a lot of
people there you could find Giuliani has
basically said the reason why he was
involved in this is because the FBI
wouldn't do their job and the Ukrainians
came to him because they were the only
person they could reach because they
needed to get to the president
you understand what's going on here and
then Rudy was going to Ukraine to find
the hidden George Soros server which was
pulling the strings on Biden and Clinton
and that's when Laura Ingraham goes yeah
then he continues on and then I was the
only one see I work out quite a bit
you know I wear I wear this like a look
of like I'm out of shape but like I had
to go into Ukraine this is where the ad
for the late nineties movie comes out
wishes what happens when a country
lawyer for rural Brooklyn gets asked but
going to the Ukraine might be above his
pay grade or is it starring Joe Pesci
starring Joe Pesci I didn't know
you George Soros was involved I'll
forget cliff he's a jewel
collaborated with Nazis I'm telling you
I'm telling you the impeachment goes on
and within like three or four months
like every like you Hewitt's already on
this like every right wing talker
they're all gonna be all in on this and
and and the beauty is gonna be when this
stuff like dovetails in with Q and it
probably already is it probably already
is but this is all well and good because
this is why this is part of the reason
why you have impeachment is to drive
these people deeper and deeper into
these these rabbit holes that they get
right if this just leads them further
into the abyss that's great do you have
the part where he shows text messages on
his iPad I mean we could pull it these
are the these are the text messages from
Volker who is a jaw who's like a member
of the John McKee or the director of the
John McCain Institute Rudy Giuliani in
Ukraine without it I would imagine as
part of like to the extent that there's
any project to to push for a war I'm
sure that's what he has been there
soliciting arms sales privates
scheme absolutely and he's doing it for
free
Rudy Giuliani was a simple country
lawyer who got a call from an intern in
the Ukraine not only its volka unpaid
interns for firm steel wondering how I
got into this situation
you're probably wondering how I wind up
and the that you crate Giuliani
also unpaid I mean it's a citizen
mission I don't get paid you don't
understand how payment works because
you're a normal school guys on the
subway with your dick in your hand
you've never gotten paid through a slush
fund in your life and you talk about sex
in the city like you're some worldly
cosmopolite you ever get paid indirectly
from a slush fund by a gangster or one's
a caviar factory in Kazakhstan I think
not all right we have another issue too
here is um Peter Walsh Democrat from
Vermont and we should say there are two
Republican uh two Republican governors
who have come out in favor of the
impeachment inquiry it is the governor
from Vermont and the governor from
Massachusetts now it's not shocking but
here is this clip number six this is
Democratic Peter Walsh asking about of
Joseph Maguire acting's Welch
- well she's asking Joseph McGuire
Acting Director of National Intelligence
why after the Inspector General now
understand the Inspector General didn't
just take the whistleblowers word for it
the Inspector General took I think like
two weeks and went around and spoke to
the people or at least we don't know who
exactly to the people that the
whistleblower had gotten his information
from and deemed this a credible and
urgent report now that is actually a
specific statutory criteria and in
threshold here
gave this to the head of the DNI the the
the DNI then gave it to the Justice
Department to the White House to see if
it was if they were okay with it being
released and then gave it to the Justice
Department to investigate whether this
was criminal and they interviewed nobody
and within a couple days they said
nothing to see here
quashed it the whole thing and Welch
wants to know what the frick it existed
was waived under your approach as you
saw it it means that no one would be
investigating the underlying conduct
because in this case executive privilege
applies or may apply and number two the
president who had the conversation is
above the law so that's a dilemma for a
democracy is it not the complaint was
sent to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation totally disregarding any
concern for a curative privilege I am
just but the the the Federal Bureau of
Investigation never did a follow-up
investigation right I believe that they
have concluded the investigation I'm not
sure in addition to being involved with
this matter here I also have other
pressing matters indirect I apologize in
the Justice Department led by mr. Barr
who is the subject of the complaint is
the department that provided the opinion
that there's no action to be taken I
believe that the Attorney General was
mentioned in the complaint not perhaps
early subject of the complaint sir yeah
well he was me he was mentioned sure all
right I yield back thank all right yeah
he was mentioned as basically covering
up the phone call and the the thing that
well just saying that like wait a second
dude you basically did two things you
gave it to the Justice Department and
watch them not investigated and quash it
a Justice Department headed by a guy
named in the whistleblower complaint the
whistleblower wasn't talking like hey
maybe bill bar should look into this he
was
bill Barr knew about it and then the
other action you took was to give it to
the White House to see if they were okay
with releasing it and so Welch is asking
this Director of National Intelligence
eleven oaths through the Constitution it
what's the scenario where this plays out
and there's any type of accountability
you just gave two parties named in the
complaint the ability to quash the
complaint how is this supposed to be how
is this supposed to work out here I'll
tell you something there's never been a
day like yesterday that was more excope
Ettore for Edward Snowden than then
yesterday was hundred this is a perfect
example of how the whistleblower
protections are nil not only did the
times at least identify for those in the
White House not publicly identify but
for those in the White House who wanted
to know who they have a much better shot
at figuring out who that is because of
the the clues that The Times provided
and you have Driehaus who want to find
out who the whistleblower is right here
are some clues exactly as The Times
would phrase it yes and finally he gets
treated with a shoot him
joking of course joking and this thing
bear you know was not going to see the
light of the day and this is a situation
where you have at least some competing
interests within the government the
whistleblower protections are supposed
to work even if the entire apparatus of
the government essentially is aligned
against this secret coming out if it's a
whistleblowing the IG is the most
independent figure in this whole process
and they did everything they were
supposed to do and still this may have
not seen the light of day were not for
just a stroke of luck and frankly
somebody breaking protocol because
someone broke protocol someone leaked it
illicitly
if you have a process that is supposed
to ensure the integrity and the ability
of people to whistle blow and it relies
on someone breaking the law then the
process is broken broken free Edward
Snowden drop all charges I mean you can
understand why the guy took off I mean
that's the thing is a you know yes and I
and I I think I said some like I support
him but Syd some dumb things at the time
and like if I recall correctly and I
really and it's like yes he he we
understand that states act in their
rational self-interest this is somebody
who exposed incredible extensive
wrongdoing and then was like you know
what I'm actually not gonna just be a
martyr to the case I think I would still
like to be free yeah I support him and
he's done an incredible public service
for all of us and it's it is incredible
I mean in light of this we have a bunch
of people who demonized him saying you
know go stick up for bustled blowers you
know and then he goes on Good Morning
America and they just hit him with the
same national security state talking
points they've been using forever yep
and incidentally if you want to search
for the report that shows what kind of
national security damage was created how
many people lost their lives because of
Edward Snowden I suggest you go to
Google and find nothing you will find
nothing and the idea that they wouldn't
have said that there was something if
there was something is absurd right are
you kidding me right
are you kidding me I'm locked I'm
actually frankly shocked in just lie
about it
they probably didn't know what he had
Frank
that was the other it it showed they had
no idea what he had so they don't know
if their information is secure anyways
meanwhile impeachment has apparently
caused a major rift not just on
Kowalski's Facebook page
those Kowalski from Nebraska but also at
Fox News Gabe Sherman reports in I think
it's where's him Vanity Fair that this
morning September 26th
excuse me yesterday morning Thursday
morning Sean Hannity told friends that
the whistleblowers allegations are quote
really bad person briefed on Hannity's
conversations told me now Sean Hannity
we may be dealing with a scorned lover
type of situation because Trump has been
listening to Tucker Carlson a little bit
more than Hannity particularly I think
on the whole Bolton thing and so there
could be a little bit of this going on
but according to a Fox staffer I told a
Gabe Sherman the management its
management bedlam this massive thing
happened and no one knows how to cover
it here is a schism that made its way on
to television just the other night here
is Tucker Carlson sitting down with Jodi
Genova who is a former Trump lawyer he
looks like one yep that guy definitely
has the look of a former and or coupler
referring to an appearance that Judge
Napolitano made on Fox earlier the day
before and here I'll let Tucker walk us
through this yesterday Judge Andrew
Napolitano who is a legal analyst at Fox
and a very nice guy I will say I've
always liked him when I'm one of our
daytime shows
declared that the president's phone call
with the head of Ukraine was a crime
here's what he said it is a crime for
the president to solicit aid for his
campaign from a foreign government so
that would be it what the vet to which
the president has admitted is in and of
itself yes now no just I want to remind
you do you all remember the James
O'Keefe sting where they had a video of
someone who purported to be from Canada
in line buying some Hillary Clinton
merchandise at a campaign event and as
soon as the Canadian bought the
merchandise they cut a video showing how
she was taking foreign money and it's
illicit oh yeah is that an oaky thing
yeah okay and they thought like we have
a huge crime here and it was like you
know I know like a sixteen dollar hat or
something it was $30 hat and a could I
get a t-shirt sure there you go whatever
15 bucks technically speaking globally
it was a crime now the campaign actively
soliciting services in kind from a
foreign government is illicit it is a
breach of election laws I would imagine
it's also rather unseemly but it is
illegal good yes
so we definitely go back a little bit
sorry Trail Packers campaign from a
foreign government so that would be it
what that to which the president has
admitted is in and of itself a crime yes
so that definitely got our attention of
course it's crime and so I asked you
because you prosecuted a lot of crimes
and last year I asked you as Trump's
former legal defense attorney is that a
crime
if I didn't see it here's what you said
well I think Judge Napolitano is a fool
and I think what he said today is
foolish no it is not a crime let me
underscore emphatically that nothing
that the president said on that call or
what we think he said on that call
constitutes a crime and even if he had
said you're not gonna get the money it
would not be a crime well apparently our
daytime host who stood Judge Napolitano
was watching last night and was outraged
by what you said and quite ironically
called you partisan here's what he said
a partisan guest who supports President
Trump was asked about Judge Napolitano
'he's legal assessment and when he was
asked he said unchallenged Judge
Napolitano is a fool attacking our
colleague who's here to offer legal
assessments on our air in our work home
is repugnant repugnant
not clear if that was you or me but
someone's repugnant and here's what
finally last soundbite here's how Judge
Napolitano responded a lot of legal
authority and I join it on the other
side and the other side basically says
anything that helps the campaign whether
it's cash or emails or or smearing your
opponent is a thing of value and
therefore requesting it is a crime yes
now unlike maybe some day side hoes I'm
not very partisan and it was this
sincere question is it a crime or not
so given everything that's happened in
the last 24 hours I just want to throw
it to you again was it a crime or not
absolutely not now let me sort of
educate Judge Napolitano the President
of the United States is the executive
branch under Article two
he is the chief law enforcement officer
of the United States he can ask anyone a
citizen a foreign leader a question he
can make a suggestion about an
investigation because he runs them and
by the way in the latest set to with the
whistleblower the office of legal
counsel has said that requesting
information from a foreign government is
not a thing of value it is not a foreign
contribution I really I must say this
I've been a US attorney and independent
counsel an investigative counsel on
Capitol Hill in the house and the Senate
Judge Napolitano has never been a US
Attorney he's never been a federal
prosecutor
he has never conducted a federal grand
jury I have done all of those things I
if he wants to have an opinion that's
fine I am NOT a paid Fox contributor I
am a guest of Fox Network I come on when
they asked me so and and I am told
please whatever you do tell the truth
don't make things up don't cover it so
what I say I believe of course as a
matter of law I know what I'm talking
about in the law I try to be truthful I
was very truthful last night what is he
so officially about her style for the
polit honor don't call me an idiot
Donald Trump does not run the Ukrainian
investigation Donald Trump is not the
exam is the president the notion that he
can do ask anything in that the Justice
Department that quashed the
investigation that's what he's talking
about he is citing the cover-up as
justification as to why it's not a law
why it's not illegal the idea that they
that he would hold up this money and
just I'm just asking for information
information that is made up and in fact
if I don't get it
what you're not getting any money it's a
nice bit of aid you got here it should
be a shame if something happened to it
that's not illegal Judge Paul Tana is an
absolute idiot hey you shouldn't respond
to me calling him an idiot
that exchange went like Brendon if I
said hey you know no offense Sam but
Brendon he shouldn't do the
packets and brother came in it's like
you know I'm just doing my job but in
the packs ago it's too bad Michael feels
that way I've got a lot of experience
and I come back I'm like how dare you
you are an idiot and you didn't
acknowledge it he put packets together
for years it's so trigger did the second
segment Judge Napolitano like he's not
gonna just take that lying down but he
wasn't escalating it I did that guy
freaks out I really like the idea of
like someone in real America just tuning
in to Fox News the past few days and
it's basically three Italian lawyers
from New York New Jersey just like going
at each other country lawyer country
eternities this is a friggin extended
argument spilling out of sparks
steakhouse we're all country attorneys
it literally are going down steak houses
and pasta joints in town cars to Fox
then out to various suburbs in either
Jersey or Long Island carrying on an
extended argument about just how
permissively criminal the criminal real
estate developer president can be yeah
the other funny part was when Tucker
Carlson said he's not partisan right
he isn't partisan he's trumpeting
trumpets tantrum um Imran Khan was on
Morning Joe this morning he's the what
did the Prime Minister's Prime Minister
Prime Minister Pakistan and as you know
there are there's problems in in kashmir
he we don't have a clip of him
addressing this there was just one
moment of levity I guess for him he's
here hopefully he is trying a lot to
stop the war in Afghanistan that's
because people have to remind themselves
in Pakistan please
double game and everything but there's a
huge cost to the war in Afghanistan in
Pakistan from even just like
environmental pollution from setting up
like landing strips and transports and
stuff like that but here he is with Joe
and mica on Morning Joe Boston 1.5
trillion dollars at least have been
spent in Afghanistan what have we
achieved in this here's some people
saying that you know actually no we
should keep this going
[Music]
u.s. is going to keep pouring in money
in there while the US was pouring money
in Afghanistan infrastructure and you
just have to see there you go it's
obviously here at the UN this week and
he's making a very good point why are we
wasting so much money on relentless wars
mica and Joe know what he's talking
about - with the bumpy road oh it's so
bumpy for them I like that though that
is that is somebody I forget who made
this point to me first but they were
saying like even when someone like
Thomas Friedman would like you know
scratch out a third of like some type of
decent infrastructure column it would
always be like oh he just took the
Amtrak from Dee's right exactly New York
okay exactly at swai all of a sudden so
they're just like yeah we don't really
broadband in rural America oh you know
what that's true
the Midtown commute is getting super
bumpy really tough Thank You Prime
Minister come from a 408 area code who's
this where you come from 408 408 well hi
hello hello hello hi hi who's this
hi um other than Sarah from Oscar or not
from another line that I'm in North
Carolina right now okay and what son
Connor all right so on your show and
obviously a lot of political shows
climate changes getting a lot of
attention that's not like the whole
ecological issue going on I mean like
we're stripping the entire ecology from
like that vast swath of the US and the
world and replacing it with like sterile
invasive monocultures that barely
sequester and more carbon in the parking
lot and if we don't like develop a
sustainable food culture we're going to
have another decibel by 2030 yeah so
what I was wondering is like maybe you
would have an expert on the show to talk
about that sometime just like find an
expert that you can get on the show to
talk about that I feel like I
interviewed someone about the about a
new Dust Bowl I can't remember exactly
who it was but we did have somebody on I
feel like it might have been a vacation
show give us a minute we'll find it but
yes share your concern Derek just a lot
more attention yeah in general and like
preferably that expert would be
indigenous because indigenous people are
at the forefront of pretty much every
movement again settler colonial land
management well I'll tell you what if
you have a if you have a any ideas send
us an email at majority reporter
majority reporters at gmail.com Geordi
reporters at gmail.com it was Hannah
Holman and I guess she was talking about
the legacy of the Dust Bowl on the
program but it also is a she was talking
about the potential for a new
dustbowl but I appreciate the call thank
you it was Hannah Holman and I I agree I
want to just underline I've been
learning a lot from Joshua Kahn and
others and I think them the Mauna Kea
protests in Hawaii are really important
there's a huge even just practical
significance frankly like if you look at
the Amazon the Eco side there is an
ethnic cleansing also of indigenous
people and keeping that system from
being utterly destroyed which literally
threatens everybody on the planet is is
inseparable from indigenous sovereignty
it's true and all of the oil stuff and
pipelines that Trudeau is muscled
through on Canada's big part of those
well I remember going to Canada one time
I was in Vancouver British Columbia
years ago just speaking to what she was
talking about in terms of getting rid of
diverse ecosystems and and you could see
a field sometimes that had been totally
clear-cut and then they had replanted
trees and they were all these I mean
just weak depressing you know all the
same type all you know the idea that
that is any type of replacement for
eliminating diverse ecology is is a
ridiculous we had her on April 22nd in
2019 April 22nd of this year and you go
back handle them in the dust bowls of
empire check that out calling from a
seven six zero area code look folks you
get a listen to the show every single
day yeah
even if you think it's not gonna enter
you gotta listen to it every day save
the good interviews for the break to
come from seven six zero very good who's
this where you come from
hey fam this is Amy sorry I'm trying to
get the speakerphone off Amy are you
calling from yes
San Diego San Diego what's on your mind
so I actually have a question for Jaime
today I'm I'm in college right now and
I'm taking a class called black feminist
art and activism and I remember a few
weeks ago she was talking about how she
to a protest that with never again
action I believe closed the campaign
something about how like oh close the
camp yeah you're saying something about
how like you asked not to get arrested
and I was intrigued by that because in
this class we have an activism project
and I've never really done and non
direct or direct nonviolent action
protest so what's your question how how
did you ask to not be arrested that was
interesting to me I have never heard of
that
cuz I've seen a lot of protesters get
arrested and I didn't know that like you
could choose that's sort of where you
are in the front lines essentially oh
yeah so when you plan a non-violent
direct action the idea is that nobody is
supposed to get arrested who hasn't
signed up to get arrested so it's very
sort of organized the way we do it so
the people who have fallen teared
themselves to get arrested are the ones
who in this instance the ones who
blocked the West Side Highway and didn't
move when the cops told them to move
everyone who didn't want to get arrested
basically stayed out of the street
cleared the street did what the cop said
to do and my role in addition to just
being at the protest was as a marshal so
I kind of got between the crowd of
people and the cops and made sure that
nobody got arrested who didn't want to
be and and my understanding is a lot of
times in those protests the leaders of
the protest will inform the police
officers we intend to get arrested today
and we intend to do so I mean to intend
to do so compliantly you coming to
arrest us we're just you know this is
and they'll sometimes say like we're
gonna change ourselves to each other or
we're not gonna let go but we're not
going to resume a not resist arrest but
we will you know lock arms yeah the idea
is to make it very clear to the police
that what they're doing is nonviolent
and any violence perpetrated by the
police will be totally unwarranted and
and and that is - that is to protect the
protesters a lot of times people will
also
tape those conversations so that it's on
record that to the extent that while the
the intent of the protesters was to have
a nonviolent protest yeah of course you
know sometimes things get out of hand
not all protests are planned the same
way now all protests are really planned
at all sometimes they're much more
spontaneous like some stuff we saw
around the time of Occupy Wall Street
but I think that this is a good way to
do it
appreciate the call Amy thank you let's
go to 9 1 to area code who's this where
you calling from nine one two hey then
hey who's this beer yeah Erin in
Savannah what's on your mind there you
know I'll call the conversation I had
kind of an idea of what I wanted to talk
about then you guys you know of course
each minute is you know looking at the
day I was calling him to really talk
about how southern state off-year kind
of municipal elections are very
predictive of the next year where I live
in Savannah has you know four years ago
the first african-american woman
incumbent mayor was defeated in a runoff
election by a very standard kind of
Republican first time in 30 years the
city saw something like that happened
you have Hollis play on Atlanta to where
TCAs bottoms won by like a thousand
votes just a year right after Trump got
elected decision your thoughts on how
the south is really critical to the
Democratic nomination and that if you're
still on at each minute talk a little
bit about how I think it might help
Bernie and with the Biden Ukraine
connection things I think the answer
I'll call okay the the first half I'm
not I not sure what if you're saying
that it's a leading indicator I mean
it's I don't know if you're saying that
there's a causal connection or if it's
just sort of like a like an indicator
you know the South I think has probably
relative to the past a slightly
diminished influence in this in this
primary
cuz California has moved up so close on
Super Tuesday
I think certainly you know it's a
firewall for a lot of people and it will
be for Joe Biden Joe Biden doesn't win
in South Carolina he is done now right
now he's ahead by I think like 20
percent I mean 20 20 percentage points
but it is do-or-die for him they're
assuming he doesn't win in New Hampshire
or Iowa but even even if he does frankly
win one of those two states he needs to
win South Carolina because that is the
bedrock of his his argument that he
appeals to African Americans who are
theirs in those states a high
concentration of african-american voters
in the Democratic primary look I my
sense of the whole Biden thing with with
Ukraine is that it is a rather generic
question about people who are close to
politicians getting jobs that they don't
seem to be qualified for but are being
paid because of their proximity to a
politician it's not illegal I think it's
it's untoward and indicative of a
complete lack of just personal integrity
by our elite maybe in the world but
certainly in this country I would say in
the world and and I don't know how you
legislate that like I don't know how you
say your kid if you're a politician your
kid can't take a job I agree with that I
don't know how you do I totally can I
just say though I think it's really inch
I yeah I don't know how I do it either
but I think it's interesting that this
is the quintessential example of the way
that
absolutely valid and correct general
public disgust and cynicism with most
everybody in the entire elite structure
gets grafted on to conspiracy theories
in the Trump universe because the
broader truth is and there's a lot of
other stories if you want to go into the
Biden family there's there's the hedge
fund thing with his brother there's all
sorts of stuff and it's it is it's day
in and day out dirty and some of it
actually I bet if you investigated some
of it some of it might get into legal
gray zones but it's common the Clintons
had all sorts of stuff like this any
number of people have stuff like this
and and it's I think it generally
absolutely disgusts people and then in
the Trump you know Alex Jones world then
it becomes like well he fired this
prosecutor and all of these stories that
again they're just they're there these
are 30 minute debunk able like if you
want to listen if you wanted there's a
19 page piece that Robert Mackie wrote
in the intercept it is just not true
right all the stuff about that but the
broader truth of those kids on the
Energy Board in Ukraine right discuss
thing right now that is a distinct
question as to whether and I've said
this about Hillary Clinton to there was
a lot of things that were about Hillary
Clinton that were handicapped to her as
a candidate that were not her fault and
part of it was that there was a huge you
know a huge cottage industry that
existed for multiple decades that made a
lot of people made a lot of money off of
creating accusations against the
Clintons I think it is fairly or
unfairly a liability for Joe Biden now
people can decide like well I don't care
if it's a liability it shouldn't be and
therefore I will not impact my support
for him but well this is one of the
dangers of having your primary sort of
like a reason for your candidacy be that
I can win that
there's a lot less like you know there's
not a lot of Joe Biden people out there
going like well even if he can't win I'm
gonna support him or even if it's not a
slam dunk I'm gonna support him because
I really really want the nature of
American pulse I want less ambitious
policies and therefore I'm going to
continue to support him I think it's a
liability I do I think it's a huge
liability I don't know because I don't
you know like I I'm not I'm not a Biden
supporter but I would imagine if I'm
thinking I want to vote for Joe Biden
because I think he's a slam dunk to win
that the fact that they were able to
create they were there was enough
building blocks for them to build a this
narrative or to continue it on is is I
think a liability I mean definitely of
course it's a liability and I mean yeah
and it allows you know Trump because
another the other advance um ways Trump
speaks more honestly about capitalism
than any other politician in America
because he will say occasionally you
know he atmospherically and generally
and then mixed with a healthy dose of
lies but some instinctive truths he
knows how to you know it's like you say
all the time
oh really Joe back to new ambassy like
your son working for the Ukrainians
without any qualifications I don't want
that kind of normal right don't like it
I mean this is the problem he's running
you know Biden has is running on this
notion of the I am morally superior to
to Donald Trump and I will return this
country to a morally superior place I
will make America morally great again
and these type of things you know and
part of it is also it's and I think you
know Warren has some susceptibility to
this and you know I guess you know like
this is why they trotted out the you
know Bernie in Russia with his shirt
taken off like there are these are there
are sub textual narratives that get
built and if there are real-world events
that can be understood through the
context it becomes a liability do I
think this is gonna sink his candidacy
no I I think that hopefully other things
will but after watching Rudy we got a I
think admit though that Biden actually
looks an incredible mental and cognitive
form right it's true Rudy Giuliani's a
plant yeah that was Biden's best moment
by button did have these moments if you
have any kind of political theater
enjoyment in you and his burn on Rudy
Giuliani back in the day was actually
really great if you remember that what
was it Rudy Giuliani was running for
president on I mean actually really just
like the most craven exploitation of
9/11 ever and they were talking to Biden
and again and it's actually funny when
you watch these clips you you can I mean
objectively really see the decline here
and Biden's you know he's walking and
he's enjoying enjoying me and Joe Biden
he's sipping a cup of coffee and holding
court whatever and he goes and he's like
I've known Rudy for a long time he's a
nice guy you know the classic thing and
he's like all he ever says is a noun a
verb and 9/11 oh yeah that wasn't his
formulation though it wasn't someone
gave it to him oh god well he delivered
it well yeah it worked
yeah come from a 203 area code who's
this where you come from and people it's
hard for people to appreciate that right
now but literally that's all he did it
was every there was every answer to any
question was always about a 911 call
from a 203 haricots who's this where you
come from hey this is Bob from Branford
Connecticut Rob from Branford
Connecticut yes welcome to the program
Rob exactly hey thank you so much for
answering my call this is really wicked
thank you so the first thing I wanted to
mention in terms of marijuana laws and
banking in Massachusetts where you can
buy it recreationally yeah there are
some places that will let you use debit
cards but it runs as an ATM fee and I
don't know how that works but I think
they can circumvent the system that way
so and then the other thing I wanted to
mention was just kind of
ripping off of how Bernie supporters can
speak to people like yank supporters and
warn supporters in my opinion they're
kind of the most like set in their ways
that I can find them the people on the
Left and I just want to kind of talk to
you guys about ways that I can kind of
navigate those conversations okay oh
wait so you want to know who how you
talk to yang and Bernie and whose
supporters I'm a big bernie guy and I
just find speaking to people who are
like yang supporters and Warren
supporters it's hard to because I try to
convey it's not like I disagree with
those individuals like I really like a
lot of their policies I think Andrew
Yang's cool and I think like he would
make an interesting Secretary of Labor
but like I just want to understand like
ways that I can approach those
individuals that's not off-putting for
them and makes me seem overly
consultation 'el oh my Bernie bro is
steaming right I not Secretary of Labor
may be chief futurist or something maybe
Imagineer that's maybe chief creative
thinking advisor with no power well the
the only thing well yeah the the only I
think the the best approach is in my
mind in terms of selling Bernie is that
Bernie has had an extended commitment to
these issues and it's gonna take someone
who is relentless in their relationship
to those issues to withstand the
onslaught of of what is going to come at
them if they try and implement it yeah
definitely and and the last thing I
wanted to mention too was I was
listening to Michael Braille this
somewhere else on on something else yeah
no I totally agree with that
and you were speaking about how Bernie
is always coming out and favored being
like warns a long friend of mine and
then
kind of riffing off of that as well and
how if it's kind of time for her to step
up and call out the media when in earth
the articles that are written glorifying
her that they also denounce Bernie with
these strange lies it's time for her to
kind of disagree with those and actually
prove that you know she's there for him
especially after kind of hedging her
bets and 2016 I think that if there's
gonna be kind of some people's really
want I guess what I'm trying to say and
and I'm you know clearly I have my and
and it's different cuz I'm not in the
campaign but I think if Sanders and
Warren basically the campaign's should
reflect you know what they're both
saying essentially and I think up until
the last couple of days the Sanders
campaign has now it's becoming like
they're both in the mix but I think
there was a long period of time where
you know there was there's glowing
coverage of Warren and then there would
be a lot of articles taking place in the
context of kind of trashing Sanders and
I think it would have been if you wanted
to keep that kind of commnity up just
even one statement like hey you know
backing me and embracing my agenda is
not predicated on lying about her
trashing senator Sanders he's my friend
and I think that that should be put in
the mix yes appreciate the call yeah
thank you Andrew yang not Secretary of
Labor though I'm a little caught on that
one I still think we should always be
respectful with our left liberal
comrades when we're talking about Warren
yes you got your points yesterday John
reach out yesterday nine seven eight
area code who's this where you come from
nine seven eight nine seven eight nine
seven eight good day
I've got time for one or two more call
from a two one five area code who's this
where you come from hey Sam how you
doing good how you doing who is this I'm
doing great thank you this is drew
calling from Raleigh North Carolina drew
for Mom
yeah I just had two things very very
briefly I'm a pretty new listener I
started listening because of the Michael
Tracy interview so thanks to that guy
being a schmuck you're getting my 10
bucks a month I love it gosh
let me just do this for Michael Rosh
Hashanah I will I will look back on on
how I raised my voice with him and asked
for forgiveness during this period of
atonement but go ahead all right Sam
yeah it's a Friday casual day I just
wanted to kind of take you to task
because of all the songs by the class
you choose pressure down what song about
the weather it's a yeah well I mean yeah
I mean I I know what you're saying I
mean obviously they have a lot more of
political songs sandanista was an entire
album dedicated to the proceeds to the
Sandinistas there's yes they're much
more political band but you know it was
an old what happened is it was a radio
thing and in really in when you're doing
radio it really just comes down to just
I needed something with the driving beat
I gotcha well look I love what y'all do
I listen to all your podcasts and just
have a great weekend all right thank you
very much man thank you that was very
enough that that see there's civility in
2019 super check out our episode with
Spencer apone where we talk about all of
our favorite clash albums called from a
seven-one-seven area code who's this
where he calling from seven-one-seven
hey this is Chris calling from
Sheepshead Bay Chris from Sheepshead Bay
how are you not too bad I called
yesterday and talked to Michael and
Jamie so that was pretty cool
oh no I'm big up with that good how's
the let down from anticlimactic so I'm
calling about the impeachment inquiry
and
kind of like in the middle of I don't
know like I kind of tweeted that no no
me he cost about how like it's like this
unstoppable force of stupidity versus an
unmovable object of stupidity between
Donald Trump and the Democratic Party
yes well Democratic leadership who is
the unknown I mean the who is the who's
the the unstoppable force and who's the
unmovable it doesn't really matter
because but at the end of the day
they're both the stupid ones that are
kind of going at each other really like
the very first day was announced you had
like Donald Trump saying hey you know
maybe you should talk to Mike Pence
about his his phone calls and Rudy
Giuliani's like all the the the State
Department had me make this phone call
like these guys are so slimy and ratty
that like with a little bit of pressure
you could probably have them all turning
on each other within I don't know if you
could get them all to turn on each other
but what you could do is you could you
could you could expose I mean there's no
doubt about it I mean look we did we
dedicated the whole show today to to to
talking about how just utterly
rudderless you have to be to be
approaching impeachment this way like
the idea I almost think it's worse
frankly to do impeachment quickly than
not at all because you you're you're
you're you're not even like you don't
even have the threat of impeachment
hanging out there anymore
it's it's the it's so I it's stunning to
me
it just seems to be so divert now I
guess to a certain extent let me
rephrase that I do think it's important
that he be impeached I think he should
be impeached by a whole host of things
though because the idea is you know it
needs some accountability but I guess
you're providing some accountability and
you're checking that box but from a
political standpoint I think it's
probably worse and obviously like you
know arguments on Twitter are somewhat
pointless you know I'm what
dealing with arguments on Twitter get
like kind of pointless because oh how do
I know I know if I'm denying the masses
the the proletariat's on Twitter
well you denying me as well this I just
want to get into this whole thing about
it like it's it's nothing but
politically yeah that's like just what
it is the impeachment talking about
getting rid of the President of the
United States is just inherently
politically kind of grow up about it you
know a decade or two ago is about
getting rid of a guy for getting an
extramarital like okay now we
have something more credible oh we have
to worry about it being too political
accountable yeah it's absolutely right I
mean I think that's I mean I think
that's the explanation why we would just
impeach him on one thing and get going
and clicked off that box we held him to
account and blah blah blah but there's
also you know it's a it's a political
process and there's the you know they're
a political party and it should be
political but appreciate the phone call
alright folks look at here's what we
gonna do if you've been hanging you on
the phone for more than twenty minutes
which is not most of you I can see I'm
gonna take 30 seconds so we got about
four or five you so if you I mean you
got to be honest with yourself because
you're gonna hang on for longer than you
should
we're gonna do it 30 seconds and that's
it call it from a330 area code who's
this where you come from you got 30
seconds go hello this is Nick from
Canton Ohio how's it going good okay so
I'll be real quick with this it I think
that there can definitely be a huge case
made that there are going to be there
are huge crimes being committed in terms
of the environmental degradation that's
being committed by the Trump
administration in terms of not in not
enforcing existing environmental laws so
could an environmental case be made to
also impeach Trump to add it to all the
other reasons I mean it could but you
know there are legal processes which
would hold the EPA to account if that
was the case but I
you could say that but IIIi I mean I
think you could look you could put
whatever you want in those things and
people vote on it's a political process
I just don't think that we're in a
political space where people would would
do that but I appreciate the call I
think there's more even more of a case
that he's violating international human
rights law with putting hides in cages I
think that's true to call from a two
four zero area code who's this where he
come from thirty seconds go
hey Sam it's Vito from maryland's Vito
go so it occurs to me just like a quick
observation and get your take on it and
that is I think Bernie really needs to
expand the electorate not just in the
event that he's phenomena but I think he
has to expand the Democratic primary
electrical order when I don't think he
panel Peaks I don't think the typical
Democratic primary voter that he can win
just with those people I think he has to
but he's gonna have to find a way to get
to expand that electorate as well what
do you think about that I think that's a
good point appreciate the call I mean I
think like we just saw in New York State
the Bernie people were were essential in
getting New York State to reform when it
was going to have its a final date for
registration moved it from October 10th
or 11th in this year to February I think
12th or 14th next year I mean that's an
extra four or five months and so in
terms of expanding that electorate
that's where you see that and I think I
think you know I think to a certain
extent that's a big part that's a
mechanical part from a rhetorical
standpoint I think just talking about
broad ideas and broad principles and
frankly you know I keep waiting for you
can't train a pigeon to go fly on it but
if people remember in 2016 when that
dove a flew on to Bernie's like shoulder
or something I can't remember podium
yeah like there was a energy there that
I think
would be very helpful right now that's a
 good point thank you release the
birds release the birds called from an
863 area code 863 area code yeah yeah
Jill from Lakeland you got 30 seconds
jail go okay so do you think I called
you before to ask for advice between two
jobs and one was a unquote greeting job
I did wanna let you guys know that I got
it oh good yay that's great
all right second another huge win I was
able to get both of my grandparents and
my aunt to firmly state their support
for Bernie Sanders with you from Biden
crushing it that's huge
appreciate the college and you get one
of these
thanks to the call the voodoo curse is
wearing off Brendan crushing it call
from an eight-six to area code who's
this where you come from eight-six
tailored Walker I think I um you know
I'm gonna call back probably sometime
next week about really what I wanted to
talk about but I have to say after I
just spent so much time binging all of
the not even a show episode and I'm
utterly convinced that Greg with some
three-dimensional Christine's type
figure that that is my take away fashion
Wow fascinating theory appreciate the
call call back call from a 6-1 for area
code who's this where you come from
I guess I'll talk about it I had a
really troubling exchange within just
the other week where I leveled some
clearances and items for a take on his
patreon we went about 20 replies back
and forth then he delivered the whole
thread and banned me from his patreon I
[Music]
if you allow me to i'm just clarified
I've been in the Brooksie TMDs discourse
for a while and I ran it by pretty much
everyone there and everyone was like
shocked at what he did you know I okay
yeah you should you should mention yeah
you should you should message me maybe
we get that I've heard of this and we've
had well on our show I know this is not
for this narrow you're talking about
because there is a broader point and
well I'm sorry now now is not the time
to do it I mean I you know you can send
an email at majority reporters if you
want but I mean I ain't I can't think of
anything that is more off point then
then an argument you have with someone I
don't know that you brought up on
Michaels discord
yeah George Stephanopoulos I got a big
problem with Mickey Mouse he's being
really mean to me come from 1/8 1/3 area
code who's this where he come from
hey Tony from Tamplin Tony from Tampa
you got 30 seconds go
all right so my questions too long for
that so I'm just gonna
I wanted to pepper show that is really
good like I left this show for people to
watch okay it's called the Michael
Brooke show people should subscribe to
the Patriot I just thought it was really
good no thanks I'm sorry
very hard to hear you ah why would you
take any calls after that 773 area code
who's this where he come from
yeah yeah yeah 30 seconds go all right
Malcolm Fong yeah Malcolm from Chicago
so I wanted to bring up something within
this whole impeachment debate that's
ranging that's no one no one's talking
about um it's not just a question of
political capital
um this impeachment has to happen
because Trump was contacting Ukraine for
political reasons right it's like if you
don't impeach him you're throwing the
election in the sense because you're
telling him that he can go further and
further in his efforts to bring in you
know whatever sort of resources that his
presidency allows him to bring in to
thwart whichever candidate we eventually
put up so people talk about oh is it
smart to impeach what is it gonna do for
the base like no this is a almost purely
defensive tactic on a part of the
Democratic Party you have to do
something but you have to challenge him
on this so I want people to I guard that
is mine nobody talking about that all
right well let me just say I think that
is a good point you are sending a mark
and not just for him
and it's because he's gonna get away
with it but you're sending a market for
others that this is illicit and if we
catch you down the road interfering in
this election whether you're Ukraine or
whether you're someone who is helping
solicit then there's going to be
repercussions yeah
I mean it was you know the idea like oh
he's gonna impeach himself when we vote
him out well not if he's working on
rigging the election in some fashion
come from a 5:1 8 area code who's this
you got 30 seconds we have two more
callers five one eight five one eight
five one eight five one eight good day
come from a three four seven area code
three four seven who's this thirty
second from New York you know we're both
fans you know yeah you got 40 seconds
you know this yeah in you me and you
we're close I'm very very disappointed
where are the Crowder files I know I
know you have a Jewish holiday coming up
that's true but there's some talk in the
chat people are saying that you are
thinner than this leader because you did
not bring them up today I've been
waiting all day for these please
we need those Crowder tapes I am cedar
the miss slower and I will drop the
whole into next Wednesday Sam Sam - Sam
I'm giving you a Sam - Sam promise next
Wednesday buddy you have a wonderful day
bro and I'll see you again soon and the
final call of the week called from a
nine one for area code who's this where
you come from
hello Sam it's me grimlock oh okay
what's up yeah thirty sort of all as
well I just wanted to tell everyone to
tune into a bad practice pod hosted by
your one and only moderator Kennedy
Crouch yeah yeah also I'd like to note
that you know among the many things we
could blame Emma Valen for she did not
offend j-20 resistance
okay that's 30 seconds what a waste
that's a waste time wait really quick
really quick shouts to the morning yeah
eighty-three thousand SAE you coalition
workers who achieved the tenement
a tentative agreement for better working
conditions for them in patients with
Kaiser Permanente today and won't affect
80,000 Kaiser Permanente workers were
threatening to strike in about two weeks
from now
all right everybody sorry we couldn't
get two more calls appreciate your
calling in we will see you will have a
couple of oh yeah
we'll have live shows on Monday and
Tuesday I will be back on Wednesday for
those of you who are a Jewish happy new
year happy new year happy Rosh Hashanah
see you in gosh I don't even know what
the year it it's like 50 like I don't
know what it is now I remember when it
was 50 83 I don't know what it would
somebody look it up quick Jews 1 million
its your 1 million oh my god I don't
know what are you doing yeah I know but
I just presumed you guys would be able
to operate a yeah it is I don't know
this 5 7 8 Oh see you then it mats it
goes to get to
No
[Music]
I was
[Music]
the advance
No
[Music]
I'd assume and the choice is made well
the option where you tell kid
Oh
there's bears
we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
