[Music]
I'm a 602 area code who's this where he
come from yeah this is Kyle from Phoenix
Kyle from Phoenix what's on your mind
hey I just had two things I wanna talk
to you about the first one was I'm 100%
behind you and I think that Bernstein is
getting up winning this thing I also
think that the corporate class and the
Democrats in the media I don't think
they fully realize how strong his
socialist populist wave is and I was
listen to some Richard Wolffe and he
said the last time is this big was come
back in 220 and after FDR died the you
know billionaires corporate class they
pushed hard obviously for the last 67
years to try and get rid of all of those
Oh populist movements that were made
what do you think because I don't think
they've realized how big this move is
yet once they do realize that this isn't
going away what do you think their next
move is going to be obviously they
haven't realized it yet when they do
realize how big it is how hard do you
think they're gonna push how do you
think they're gonna push because that's
kind of got me up a little worried to be
honest what are you worried of well I
just think that when when the people who
are in power right now realize how big
this wave is that like I said the last
time it was this big we got you know
Medicare unemployment you know all the
stuff if they are pushed in the New Deal
I don't think they realize it's that big
again and I do
I wanted a percent think it is that big
I don't think one day you realize it I
think it's going to be a huge push to
try and I don't know maybe smear Bernie
Sanders even harder than the RTR which
is kind of hard to do or you know
whatever their tactics are going to be
but I think when they realize how big
this populist movement is that they're
gonna put it into overdrive
I don't think they're going to make that
I don't think that realization is gonna
come for a while and I don't think
frankly IIIi think to the extent that I
mean if I had to just speculate I I
don't I don't I don't think that they're
going to have that realization I mean I
think that they're you know my guess
would be and you know I can think of a
lot worse things happening but my guess
would be that if they thought that
Bernie Sanders was going to win they
would support Elizabeth Warren that
would be the smart thing to do at that
point even after he went to the primary
if you wonder well I don't think there's
gonna be I don't think that there's
gonna be a winner of this primary season
early I don't think that we're gonna
have a sense like in March let's say I
mean I can tell you that professional
you know political people even people
who were very very sympathetic to Bernie
Sanders felt that in February of 2016
that like you're not going to win this
yeah but I don't think that we're gonna
have a similar situation I think it's
going to be I think people are not going
I people may have opinions in February
of 2016 but I think they're going to be
divergent and so I think really it's
going to be a question at the you know
going into the convention I think it's
conceivable I mean you know everybody
every year people say that but I don't I
don't think there's gonna be something
like well I don't know III you know I
think there I think that people are
gonna probably if they're smart they'll
say vote for Elizabeth Warren if they
want like Joe Biden getting elected is
not going to slow the roll of any move
to the left I think this is a
generational thing I just think that
this is this is coming the question is
is like how much can you co I agree I
would just say maybe outside of a
presidential well I will say I think it
does underline how important and
distinct Sanders is
that he really is the ultimate threat to
these people and that's a very strong
argument for him but more broadly I and
I want to be really careful about this
because I don't mean this any kind of
conscious and conspiratorial sense but I
do think that if you look at this sort
of some of the of the patterns globally
and the United States has more circuit
breakers than other countries but if you
even look at state laws against
protesting you look at a lot of moves to
restrict the the things that the state
of Dakota was doing against the water
protectors like rise of private security
firms and things like that I think that
in a broader sense when people realize
that this might be a changing political
dynamic you really gonna have to
everybody should reread democracy in
Chains and look at some of the kind of
trends towards formally inhibiting
democracy even if it's not as you know
overt as some type of authoritarian
takeover I think that's what people
really need to be looking to and it does
and of course there's gonna be a huge
amount of lies and smears about Bernie
that's gonna be ongoing but I think the
bigger structural question is when all
of a sudden more people want to protest
and they look at the laws in the books
or like wait a second I can't really
protest anymore I mean that stuff's been
happening yeah yours and that's what I
would look at appreciate the call so
you're saying more on like the idea of
after okay talking our second point real
quick no that's okay it's just I'm in
Phoenix Arizona and we all know that one
of the Koch brothers just died woohoo
and they're still out there pushing a
prop prop 105 and 106 right now because
we just got a light rail pass and we're
building it's doing really well they're
trying to make it illegal here for us to
build more light rails and I heard
they're doing it all over the country so
I just wanted to put it out there vote
no on Prop 105 vote no on Prop 106
don't believe any of those lies that
they say on the ads they're horrible for
the city I appreciate the call I think I
was just in Austin Texas this weekend
and there's no real like infrastructure
for public transportation out there and
I was talking to people about it
it's very hard to get done and every
time you drive around the city like that
on a Saturday night there's a car wreck
on the highway like it's it's a public
safety issue it's about a health issue
war on cars baby cars are not good here
is Elizabeth Warren and she's playing
this you know very smartly as well she
realizes that she is on one end to the
ledger from Joe Biden and wants to make
sure that if she that that she does not
alienate Bernie Sanders supporters and
here she is making that argument that to
the extent that there's any daylight
between our positions I don't feel we
need to talk about it at some point are
you going to bag the non-aggression pact
and just start drawing more distinctions
Bernie and I have been friends for many
many years long before I ever got in
politics and I don't see any reason if
that should change but don't you do you
want to make it easier for voters who
are wondering how to make a decision but
I get out every day and try to meet as
many voters as I can and talk about why
ami in this race to talk about my vision
to talk about what's broken to talk
about my plans to fix it and to talk
about how I'm building a grassroots
movement to get it done I think that's
what voters want to hear what's your
positive message what is
is President of the United States and
I'm trying to make that clear every
single day people know why I'm in this
fight him what I'll be fighting exactly
you know III think if you were to ask
Bernie Sanders the exact same question I
think you would get almost the verbatim
the same answer did sometime over the
break you have essentially that yeah I
mean that is you know that is basically
how Bernie has you know approached most
of his campaigns and I think you know
Warren I mean I think they are genuinely
friends and I think they I think they
they have a respect for each other on
policy grounds and it does seem like
they're in a sort of formation on this
primary deal well I think they know that
it the the the key is to get Joe Biden
out and then you know well in that look
at if you watch any survivor episode
what's happening here is pretty pretty
pretty clear they should have I mean
yeah I mean and I also think like
there's nothing wrong with people who
support both of them having clear you
know clearly articulating the
disagreements there yeah and I think you
know cuz even even I think the pattern
of now sort of echoing the movement
argument is very noticeable to me and I
will articulate that but it doesn't mean
that you know at the end of the day
obviously hopefully there will be some
type of formalized alliance between them
I'm just clear who I want to be at the
you know on the top of that alliance and
there's nothing wrong with that yeah I
mean I I let you put it this way too I
would say there's nothing that Bernie is
doing in terms of building a movement
that I don't think I mean that movement
let me put it this way the the movement
that he's building under a President
Biden will serve a very different
function than it would under a president
Warren at serving and totally different
function under President Sanders as well
yes but I would imagine the the dynamic
between that movement and Sanders and
the dynamic between Warren and that move
would not not be nearly as different as
it would be under Biden I think there
would be a lot more coordination frankly
because I think there's a lot of people
personnel involved in both those
campaigns who are far more communicative
with each other than they are with the
Biden people and I don't think that
would change in the context of an
administration but as we said
