let's do a nice little contrast here
because it is it is actually time and
I'm and one of the reasons that we maybe
we don't bang on about this as much as I
really do assume that if you're watching
or listening to this show you're
registered to vote you're engaged in the
process you understand the severity of
the midterms you're gonna go out and
vote for Democratic candidates you're
gonna find the leftmost candidates you
can vote for who can win and you're
gonna make it happen
from district attorney's races DA's
races are crucial I want to shout out a
candidate in the fun half as well I'll
get the information if she's running in
Suffolk County in Massachusetts that's a
to Democrat race but one of the
Democrats is a you know Pro drug war and
the other ones as a real reformer so you
know this one of the very important race
is the gubernatorial race in Florida and
not just because in my estimation Andrew
Gilliam is a good candidate who does
provide something different again with
all the obvious caveats which I pretty
soon I'm just gonna stop listing these
it should go without saying that a guys
on the verge of potentially becoming
governor of Florida is not as left-wing
as I am this is not like I don't know
how much these sort of obvious things
bear repeating but he's running really
aggressively on health care
he's running aggressively on the
environment which you're going to hear
in a second and and neatly you should
care profoundly about voting rights
which are under assault nationally by
the GOP and very specifically in Georgia
where there's another huge gubernatorial
race with a great candidate in Stacey
Abrams and Brian Kemp's whole Wars to
suppress the vote of people of color in
and of themselves they matter and
they're gonna play a huge role in 2020
for flipping a state like Florida out of
the Trump column so this race matters a
lot and I gotta tell you this is the
type of thing and this is me being super
superficial watch Andrew Gilliam talk
about climate the climate crisis and a
scientific approach to it and then look
at the Santa PSA's who's the Republican
candidate who is known for putting out
creepy campaign commercial being a
bizarre Trump acolyte being on I believe
white supremists Facebook and internet
forums and and generally being a very
kind of awkward odd out of the
mainstream guy now I want you to take
this on two levels one is that Andrew
Gilliam is absolutely right about
climate and also if you just are
observing this on a body language level
let's put on our jordan Peterson
spectacles I was just having to talk
about this guy for a weekend which is
kind of a nightmare but which of these
two do you think is the head lobster in
charge and the only way that you could
think that it's not Andrew Gilliam I am
gonna have to pull out some some race
 on you because I have no idea how
else you could read this look at this
well first what Florida voters need to
know is that when they elect me governor
they don't have a governor who believes
in science which we haven't had for
quite some time in this state I'm not
sure what is so California about
believing that the state of Florida out
of lead in solar energy we're known as
the Sunshine State at the very least
what we can do is be a global leader
here we got a to see other 49 states of
what to do and what it means to have a
state that quite frankly leans into the
challenges of the green economy in bills
one and at the same time bills and
economy that lasts I'm proud that the
same week that Donald Trump pulled out
of the Paris Accord I broke ground in my
city on a 120 acre solar farm tripling
the amount of solar energy that we
produce we're prepared to lead and we've
done so in my city and will do so for
the state that is one of the most
Awkward body language I've ever seen
yeah it looks like instant like a time
lapse of some guy getting a sick to his
stomach it looks it's like it looks like
one guy is a confident leader speaking
urgently about the future and the other
guy is auditioning for a flown a sad you
have something else to play here no I
guess it's just the same clip but with
the identity governor they don't have I
have another theory about what we have
for quite some time and Republicans
solar energy so I think the theory you
know Gilliam says the thing of oh man it
suddenly he's just staring into the void
right he says we believe in science
right and and that's obviously we've
been over this a few times that's not
really the point the point is that
Republicans are paid to obfuscate
science that's right but the other thing
is maybe there's another reason why
Republicans don't care about climate
change besides you know funding which
that's that they are cold-blooded
reptilians because if you look at his
body language here it looks like
something out of the x-files known as
the Sunshine State at the very least
what we can do is be a global leader
here we got to see other 49 states so
your theory mixed with the curve music I
mean like he's like a really my stress
reptile like a happy things like not cut
for the job of being a shape-shifting
overlord like in the first scene of
Blade Runner when they're giving the guy
the replicant tests and he just like
freaks out that's a good call except I
love Blade Runner but isn't it's because
he's too human well the thing about
reptile brain just Santos is the
opposite really dude you're DeSantis is
yet out of reptile the sentence is right
acting he's in the unenviable position
of being sort of humanoid reptilian but
understanding having some Allegiance of
humans and realizing that the human side
is all going to be cooked so makes you
think he's actually having some guilt I
think he's experiencing sort of
primitive emotions in his lizard brain
it was like friendly plastic what is
he's having like the equivalent of like
an acid trip which is just like
experiencing the shame of and horror of
what he's actually representing here I
did an ad where my son quoted from
Donald Trump's book what hath we wrought
Who am I why do I hate this nice
gentleman across from me
