meanwhile as you know Ivanka Trump has
been the subject of now there is
announced today the Republicans will be
launching four investigations in the
house which they will turn over to
Democratic leadership three
investigations in the Senate the acting
Attorney General Matt Whittaker has
opened an investigation involving the
FBI and of course Donald Trump is
heading to West Virginia tonight to have
a locker up rally to call for the
imprisonment of her his daughter Ivanka
Trump because she has been using emails
from her private server to do government
business and I don't even want to get
into this story just there the whole
thing I find annoying I just let's let
Muller come in and just arrest them all
please but that's not going to happen
but look what it's doing to - Jeffrey -
banned on CNN that's the thing is on CNN
you got to go in and pretend like hey
this is normal to talk about this this
way CNN's like a petri dish for
everybody to look at how like sort of
ideas exactly how this stuff is going to
mutate and develop and but here is
Jeffrey Toobin sort of just I guess
breaking the fourth wall not really
breaking the fourth wall but sort of
he's he's he's playing the subtext folks
Secutor CNN chief legal analyst Jeffrey
Toobin and legal analyst and Milgram
Jeff irony is dead is Ivanka Trump and
legal trouble no I doubt it but I mean
because I think most people realize that
government officials do use their
private email occasionally Hillary
Clinton did
- it is not fundamentally a big deal
the news media made it a big deal Donald
Trump made it a big deal but this is not
a it's it's not it's technically not
within the rules but everybody in
government does it this is the problem I
mean this is why Hillary Clinton got a
very raw deal may not be illegal but in
terms of irony off the chart oh my god I
mean it you know it's just and and you
know and I feel personal responsibility
for this as well I spent a lot of time
here on CNN talking about Hillary
Clinton's emails and I think we talked
about it too much I think we made a
bigger deal of it as that then it should
have but it I mean it fundamentally is
not that big a deal it's not that big a
deal for Ivanka and it shouldn't have
been that big a deal for Hillary so oh
and the other guest has nothing to say
because what do you say at that point
gotta love those moments where at the
very least you know and I think Toob ins
been there for like now I think 30 years
at CNN so he can get away with saying
the premise of this whole segment is
wrong we shouldn't good for him
