[Music]
let's hear Mick Mulvaney go and explain
why the Trump administration has to cut
funding to the three Mexican countries
as Fox would call them the rest of us
would refer to them as Central American
countries do that with let me ask you
because the State Department told CNN
yesterday that the US the Trump
administration is going to cut off aid
to the northern triangle countries the
Central American countries El Salvador
Guatemala Honduras your own border
experts in your own administration say
that investing in those countries is
working for instance in El Salvador
USAID money has gone to El Salvador the
homicide rate has gone down and
migration from El Salvador has gone down
as well isn't this also self-defeating
taking away aid from those countries
ultimately will make the migration
crisis worse
look there's there's there's a lot of
good ways to help solve this problem
Congress could do it but they're not
going to Mexico could help us do it they
need to do a little bit more Honduras
could do more Nicaragua could do more El
Salvador could do more and if we're
going to give these countries hundreds
of millions of dollars we would like
them to do more that Jake I would
respectfully submit you it's not on a
reasonable position we could prevent a
lot of what's happening on the southern
border by preventing people from moving
into Mexico in the first place right but
that's not USAID money does is it it is
it makes those countries more stable
this is not according to me this is a 42
experts in the administration okay
career staffers but let's talk about
let's talk about that for a second if
it's working so well why are the people
still coming why are these historic
numbers again a hundred thousand people
will cross the border this month alone
that is that that is a crisis it's a
humanitarian crisis it's a security
crisis I think at least I don't even
hear anymore this guy is such a ghoul
right like I mean so decrepid in his
soul he's just been told well first off
they know this okay
people the vast majority these people
are not coming to America
it is the you know a paradise
they're coming to America because their
country has been so destabilized over
years there's so much violence there's
so much danger they are afraid for their
in their families lives and when you
invest in these countries you make their
society better and they are not they're
not pushed out of their own country for
fear and he knows it but that I mean
they don't even have like the integrity
of a full-on race supremacist who would
do anything if it cost them just a
little bit of money to keep these people
out it's the they are ghouls
who know that this is a huge political
driver for them and they want these
numbers so that they can then try and
knock them down and they want to do it
in an authoritarian sort of sadistic
manner like we're gonna pay Mexico just
to stop these people who are literally
running from a bird it's like literally
it's like a burning house analogy the
wait there's two ways to do it we can
either pour water on the house and make
it not burning anymore or we can just
lock them in and then they won't come
restaurant also there might be you know
because I just want to agree completely
but I want to clarify the kinds of help
we're talking about here because as I
see it in addition to the xenophobia and
the white the ethnic cleansing of
America there is you know the other more
just sort of like violent trend of like
keep labor pools in cheap labor pool
countries and exploit them when there's
you know all geopolitics against them
and there's no freedom of movement yeah
and so it's like that could be the next
steps like yeah and now we're opening up
some new footlocker factories here and
you can't go anywhere you'll be totally
protected while you were right and we
can in why like that is a source of the
alliance between trumpism and the crazy
white
nationalists right and the more
traditional conservative a probe
unfettered capitalism right because
there are gonna be undocumented workers
here no matter what people are gonna
make it over the border no matter what
and anything that can marginalize those
people further or make them more afraid
is good for the bosses
