folks I saw a report from CNN it blew my
mind
I was I was in South Carolina for a
wedding this weekend and so CNN was the
only thing available at the hotel and I
saw this report and it was the the host
on the show was like we're gonna show
you images from Yemen of children
starving to death and it's heartbreaking
and etc etc and I was like oh good this
is good the American public needs to
know our role in what's going on there
and how devastating it is I mean the UN
has been warning us now for a couple of
months and really I mean this has been
going on for months and months and
months but I think there was another
report just like less than a couple of
weeks ago that said we are right on the
cusp it may be even too late to stop one
of the greatest humanitarian crises
crises that we've seen in generations in
Yemen and it is because of the Saudi war
and blockade basically being waged on
Yemen and they are able to do this for
one reason and that is because we enable
them we enable them with logistic
support logistical support with armament
support look we're not even just we're
not turning a blind eye to this we are
literally making it possible for them to
do this and so I'm watching this report
and the closest they came and horrible
images of individual children completely
starving to death like sitting on a
medical table that can't even roll the
kid over on his back because of the pain
from malnutrition and they're talking
about how heartbreaking this is
and the only thing that they the only
reference in this like five minute
report was at one point they said the
saudi-led us-backed coalition that was
it just those words were the only words
that basically would indicate to the
American public Oh incidentally you have
the ability to end this almost
immediately now the story was also
pegged on mattis saying that they have
30 days to try and wrap this up
it was pretty weak tea particularly when
you see this from a Donald Trump as to
his regret in selling armaments the
Saudis now understand the Obama
administration followed the same course
they didn't enable it as much they did
it supposedly in retrospect and I don't
know how you would assess this as
supposedly they thought like Oh
constructive engagement if we're part of
this we can maybe hold them back and
they did supposedly have some shackles
on the amount of civilian control and
they thought it would put them in a
position to prevent something like this
but it's two years later and the Trump
administration just went just did what
the Obama administration did but with no
restraints whatsoever here is a Donald
Trump sitting down with Jonathan Swain
and Jim VandeHei for that Axios program
let's talk about foreign policy big
issue what do you make of the situation
in Yemen right now I think it's a
terrible situation I hated seeing what
happened with the bus and the children
because that's pure it's a horror show
when you see a thing like that
you saw the bus well I was gonna ask you
because I mean I know you know you're
very proud of the arms deal you did with
the Saudis but that was a us-made bomb
no it wasn't operated by you as people I
know I've been like it's the same reason
that weapons are people are the best
operators in the world so does that
bother you when they use an America
weapon Jonathan bothers not strong
enough that was basically people that
didn't know how to use the weapon which
is horrible would you ever stop selling
them arms if this continues if you keep
saying I don't want to see that that is
a terrible thing what's going on in
Yemen generally is a terrible thing and
we're gonna see and we're looking at
Yemen very carefully right now we are
actually studying Yemen very very
carefully how you do it is just probably
right now the worst place on earth yeah
un says that do us right okay well I I
didn't know the UN said it but I say how
would you handle it differently if you
were the south I I'll be talking about a
lot of things with the Saudis but
certainly I wouldn't be having people
that don't know how to use the weapons
shooting at buses with children the
Defense Department plus it for one
second I mean this is if it wasn't so
tragic it would be sort of funny to
watch a guy who clearly doesn't know
what he's talking about talking about
like manin look they know how to use the
weapon I'm gonna remind everybody of
what they said about that bus bombing
which is our bad we thought somebody was
in there that didn't turn out to be in
there right they've not in other words
not they were saving for the bus right
thank you and we knew kids were there
it's just that the the target that the
kids would have been worth sacrificing
for didn't turn out to be in the bus so
our bad right so so this story of them
not knowing how to use the weapons first
of all it's a lie
second of all if that was the case then
that's exactly why you would use as an
excuse look we're not gonna sell it to
you anymore because you don't know how
to use the minutes killing civilians but
but again understand he's focusing on
this one story cuz he knows about it
he may or may not know apparently he's
not aware that the UN said we're on the
cusp of a massive massive humanitarian
crisis in terms of the deaths of tens of
thousands of children more hundreds of
thousands from starvation but continue
the Defense Department says it does not
make tactical targeted decisions but
does improve their targeting quote from
malice Oh
tell you that we do help them plan what
we call kind of targeting the defense
secretary Chen we teach them how to use
the equipment but that doesn't mean
obviously not good enough
yeah I'm not happy about it I'm not
happy about it but we'll see what
happens with Yemen when Congress in the
last defense bill they included a clause
that required Pompeo the Secretary of
State to certify that Saudi Arabia and
the UAE were doing enough to avoid
harming civilians now remember about a
year or two ago shortly after Trump came
in office he relaxed the rules on
attacking civilians in Yemen that we had
passed on to the Saudis so you
immediately saw more civilian casualties
so
Pompeyo had to provide that
certification shortly after the BA the
bus bombing Pompeyo provided the
certification that said that they were
doing enough to reduce the risk of harm
to civilians and civilian infrastructure
resulting from these military operations
of these governments that is a quote
from Pompeo he also said that ending the
war in Yemen was a national security
priority in the United States would
continue working with the Gulf allies to
pursue peace talks and we could end it
like this by simply saying no more
weapons we're just not gonna sell you
the bombs any we're looking a refuel in
air either that's another major part of
how they're able to do this and there's
not a lot of options for them unless
they want to wreak ompletely retool
their entire military they don't have a
military they have a lot of gadgets from
us but yeah exactly they don't they have
jets and fighters I mean they need us so
we have leverage in other words let's go
to the AIIMS Colin from Nebraska TM BES
approaching corporatist status with a
effing sellout of its live event
doh how can media continue to say the
economy's better and not at the same
time report how Trump and family and
Republicans are gutting the Treasury
what's a good two sentences that aren't
snarky I could use to describe Jordan
Peterson to someone who's been reading
his stuff but not attached to him uh
mystic charlatan he little snarky
preneur not snarky at all I think you
you could say that he is misguided
self-help author selling misogyny in the
guise of of enhancing young men's
self-esteem and has also found a
convenient I think to attach his ship to
soft conservatism in some way that is
now well thought out Jabby Kegel queen
how can I be a jester in that court
Mitch from Houston Pelosi ads are all
over Texas to just tell Trump that Yemen
was Obama's idea John from San Antonio
forgot to mention if people want to
follow my alt Twitter account
it's just John from San Antonio but
first you need to translate it into
Sanskrit is that true
and our GTA we protested Steve Bannon
speaking last night in Toronto on the
police pepper sprayed us and arrested a
bunch of us Jesus Patriot gay are that
sexy very proud boy Joey Gibson and his
 tiny are planning another rally at
City Hall in Portland Oregon with his
wide-eyed Jesus freaks on November 17th
counter protesters are encouraged to
turnout retcon you and Janine were on
Morning Joe in 2005 not morning Joe it
was Scarborough country at that time you
were both badasses and my favorite part
was when Janine called Scarborough a
propagandist I looked it up in
celebration of your show's birthday
happy birthday mr you and Janine rah
thank you very much
congressional baseball fan as we prepare
to enter
the offseason it's important that we
keep the hot stove hot and Americans
engaged with the election tomorrow I
feel a slogan blue wave has lost speed
please feel free to use the much more
engaging bases loaded play ball America
attorney Andrew very happy that Sam
finally took my advice to do a dum-dum
left show as I have been pushing for at
least two years remember I am the an
ideas man
I'm also very humble to Emma's question
about Medicare for all it's a win win
let's say your employer pockets the full
savings from no longer having to pay for
your private insurance directly under
Bernie's bill your insurance will be
better under Medicare for all because
you'll be able to pick your doctor you
will have no deductibles you will have
no co-pays and dental and vision will be
covered though it's unlikely for all
employers to simultaneously sit on the
windfall forever especially smallish
businesses
yes but presumably the argument is that
she's making is that yes my Medicare for
all will be cheaper but what what will
the money that I paid for
for all those deductibles and
co-payments be relative to the to the
taxes that will be increased to pay for
that Medicare for all for that
individual that that's the question and
it's a legitimate question but I think
there are definitely fixes for it none
of this stuff is you know can't know how
that employer will react and it's very
contextualized like I say if there's two
people in that same business or you're
you know they're gonna have to step up
because the other person's gonna offer
that some of that money to their
employees yeah they're still gonna have
to compete in various ways for workers
right and like this is another thing I
just thought of I know not everyone's in
a union but health care is such a big
part of union negotiations right now and
if that were taken off the table they
could focus more on negotiating salaries
and control and stuff like that Commodus
