[Music]
all right and one of the things that you
tackle is the the idea that in fact we
have lowered glower that that that we
have lowered global poverty and you're
you you basically argue that this is
we've lowered the number but not the
actual the actuality of poverty explain
that yeah so it's actually bit different
than that sir but let me start with the
dominant narrative out there that we
hear from people like Bill Gates and
Steve Pinker who are all over the place
saying that you know basically poverty
is being being eradicated just really
quickly and it's all thanks to
neoliberal globalization like yes maybe
it's causing a bit more inequality but
at least we know that it's working
against poverty and so therefore it
justifies the global economy as it is
and you should carry on in the status
quo now the only way that that narrative
works if by relying on an extremely low
poverty line of a dollar ninety four
that okay it's so low that it's actually
impossible to have any kind of
meaningful existence on that amount of
money at all and imagine you know
yourself kind of on an idea that's
literally what it is it's what a dollar
money day find in the u.s. so what we
know from piles of research is that
people need you know at minimum about
7.40 cents a day to sort of achieve
basic nutrition normal human life
expectancy a decent shot at surviving
their fifth birthday etc and now if we
measure poverty at that level around the
world and what we see is that the story
changes completely in fact the number of
people in poverty below that line has
increased dramatically since the 1980s
and now stands at four point four point
two billion people or about sixty
percent of the human population which is
six times higher than what people like
Gates and Pinker would have us believe
and with figures like this on the table
it becomes abundantly clear that the
global economy is in fact not working
for the majority of humanity and is
deeply unfair needs to be changed but
that's imperative that people like
Pinker and Gates cannot abide it sorry
so how is that the case I mean how how
is it that there
we don't hear more of this I mean what
how is it that what constitutes poverty
is really is just simply an absurd
figure to to assess yeah that's a
completely if it's converted that in
fact even the World Bank that produces
that dollar ninety a day line itself
warns over and over that it is not
adequate to inform policy right that we
shouldn't really take it seriously from
most countries in the world maybe only
for the very poorest and yet we do
because you know it's powerful and
journalists keep repeating it because
it's tells us a powerful you know happy
story a rosy narrative about what's
happening to the economy when in fact
the reality is much darker it's sure
that people's incomes have been
increasing but only by you know pennies
and not nearly enough to actually this
is not of poverty according to any
meaningful definition okay now what's
interesting is that during the same
period the the income captured by the
global 1% has absolutely skyrocketed to
the point where the 1% now controls in
the region of 18 and 19 trillion US
dollars themselves now even just one
third of this would be enough and the
global poverty at a high poverty line
forever
alright one third and it would still
leave the global 1% with nearly two
hundred thousand dollars on average in
income per year right so effectively all
of the new income generated by global
growth over the past few decades has
been captured by the richest of the
world and the poorest have received
literally no pennies on the dollar in
terms of trickle out it truly is an
injustice especially when you consider
the fact that it's the global south from
which the world gets the most of its
resources and most of its labor the
people that are contributing to a little
economy most are the ones are being paid
by families and living in poverty so so
basically the story is that we have been
sold if we if we have global growth that
the pie is going to expand it's true
that on a
in a I guess a an uneven amount will be
distributed to the those at the top but
that those at the bottom will get stuff
and what they basically did was lowered
the threshold enough so that every small
penny that came in looked that much of a
larger of a percentage of increase as to
the bottom line I mean it's as if like
basically saying like you know we want
to raise the the age of everybody in the
country and so what we're going to do is
you know we're gonna let time go and
we're just going to measure kids years
in months and so look at they're getting
so much older and we're gonna keep we're
gonna measure adults years and years and
they're just getting they're getting so
much older these kids and they're really
picking it up the speed or and then we
define you know being a teenager as
being you know 36 months and we have all
these teenagers now because they enter
teenage you know in year three or four I
mean that's just the the way for that's
just an analogy for people to sort of
just see the the way that this income is
desert wealth is distributed here so
okay so with this what would be and you
have a significant portion of the book
dedicated towards fixing this but it
seems to me that like one of the first
things you would need to do is actually
present the real numbers for people I
mean to widely disseminate that but but
after that what's next yeah good
question um so in the book I go through
a number of different policy proposals
that are completely feasible and and and
you know easy to implement if we just
have a political world which is
basically you know a real problem but
but but they're one of the main things
that point out here the fact that right
now the institutions that control the
rules of the global economy like the
World Bank in the IMF okay the
International Monetary Fund are deeply
anti-democratic institutions where the
US holds veto-power over all major
decisions and the global South which has
85 percent of the world's population has
less than 50 percent of the vote
so even so and this is kind of a global
apartheid at the very center of you know
macroeconomic institutions
between it never accepts if it was in
any normal country okay so so the first
step is to democratize the institutions
that control the global economy to make
sure that poor countries have a fair
voice and then on top of that I think we
need to stop talking about what a global
minimum wage would look like right I
mean if capitalism is globalized and
it's not the reason that we need to
globalize this you know the rules that
protects people from it and so I
proposed what a global minimum wage
might look like they will be pegged at
each country's at 50 percent of each
country's minimum income sorry median
income 7 fluctuate depending on each
country's level of developments and
therefore not cause too much disruption
and thus it massively increase the share
of the global economy that poor people
in poor countries are able to capture
for the work they put into it ok other
ideas included we need to clamp down on
on tax evasion and a list of financial
flows which you know by which
multinational companies most of them
headquartered in the West extract in the
region of 1 trillion plus US dollars per
year from the global south a massive
outflow of wealth from south to north
that vastly outstrips any me paramount
of a that trickles in the direction so
and then also you know crucially I got
the laughing I would say was the
importance of cancelling you know some
of these old unpayable debt these old
odious debts and thereby releasing poor
countries from policy control by rich
creditors and allowing them to use their
own budgets you know for health care and
education you know improving the quoting
their quality of life of the population
so so you know these solutions are
fundamentally different we normally
think about normally we think oh they
just you know poor countries need a bit
more aid here in there a few
technological fixes maybe what I argue
instead is that what they need is not
charity the rather justice we have to
fundamentally change the rules of the
global economy to make it fair for the
world's majority so lastly let me ask
you this if it is simply ultimately a
question of political will and
presumably the countries like the United
States have
more than their share of the the the
political will that is distributed right
because they want to maintain its like
what is what what is the pitch
Minoo what do we tell the American
public in terms of like in a why to the
extent that and presumably the American
public has a disproportionate share of
the responsibility for that political
will right on how that political will
gets manifested what do we tell the
American public is it simply a case of
like this is justice or is it is there a
material argument to be made as well I
think I think that people on some level
are very deeply uncomfortable with the
fact that that we all know that the
goods that we consume have you know I
have a devastating impact on people's
lives in the sense of our clothes are
made by you know by people and shops our
smartphones you know including minerals
produced by effectively slaves in the
Congo etc I mean this makes us feel
horrible about ourselves I'm some people
ever looking it depresses us and
dehumanizes us I think that we have a
lot to gain you know I guess spiritually
if you will from living in an economy a
global economy that is fundamentally
fair I think that we'd be happier and
have a better sense of like you know
we're in solidarity with our fellow
humans I think there's a lot to gain
from that in the terms of like
recovering our humanity after 500 years
of plunder so and you know I think it's
crucial that we pay close attention to
the foreign policy platforms of the
president's and other representatives
that we elect right I mean we can elect
people that will change these rules we
can let people that will bring about not
just a fair economy in the US and also
but also in the world system itself the
US has an incredible amount of
bargaining power you know on the stage
of the world system and and can change
things and if we manage to elect people
that that have the will to do that then
that would be very powerful and I think
people like you know Bernie Sanders and
AOC are are people who are in that can
Jason Hickel of the book is the divide a
brief guide to global inequality and its
solutions thanks so much for your time
today we'll put a link to the divide at
a majority radio.com thanks again for
your time
