you know Cordray losing in Ohio but
Walker you know losing in Wisconsin or
Whitmore winning in Michigan like like
why why does Trump have salience in one
place and not the other yeah that's a
really so basically the question is it's
very cultural and so exit polls aren't
everything but if there's Appalachia in
your state Trump was very resilient and
if there wasn't he was not so let's look
at you know Ohio is always a more
conservative than Michigan but you know
Ohio on election day especially in
southwest Ohio southeast-asian if I say
the voters who were Democrats until
Trump came around
we're very we're very red you know very
positive with the president Ohio you
know 7% of people who had not voted in a
midterm sorry by a seven-point margin
people who never vote in the midterm
before voted Republican
they were Trump people who were
convinced to come back out and then in
the Upper Midwest you just have kind of
a different political and cultural
tradition and there you see first time
midterm voters broke for Democrats white
voters broke from not broke for
Democrats I mean though the the white
vote in Michigan was like Democrats lost
about five six points but it in West
Virginia and Tennessee in Kentucky you
have a cultural break from the
Democratic Party that I don't think they
have any plan to repair I mean like the
honestly I thought the the best repair
plan was the was the Richard agenda
campaign which did about as good as you
can imagine any any campaign doing in
that state at this time and it that
wasn't enough so I I don't think it's
just the same thing if you were if
you're asking Republicans okay so what's
your plan to go back and win you know
Fairfax County Virginia is I mean they
don't
there's those voters culturally have
broken away and maybe they'll vote for
some future governor who runs as a
moderate but they're not going to vote
they're not going to vote for Trump
ruling party just as the Ashtabula
County Democratic voter is gone and
they're not going to vote for any
Democrat except here at Brown so where
is the where is the sort of I guess
where's the best place for for Democrats
to fish if we're talking about West
Virginia and anything that touches
Appalachia is like don't bother really
right I mean unless you're willing to be
joe Manchin I mean Joe Manchin
outperformed you know other Democrats by
what like 50 points right I mean his
state went for you know we talking about
West Virginia Joe Manchin state went 45
what was it 45 at least points for Trump
and he won his race by five points
that's a 50 point swing and Joe Manchin
from the perspective of most Democrats
other than the fact that he has a D and
65 percent of the time you get him to
vote with Democrats he's a louse but so
where where can Democrats win without
having to be louses most of the country
is the answer I mean I mean that they
haven't uh on this map but I'm saying
most but most of the country when it
comes to I'm probably repeating myself
okay earlier but they're in Michigan in
in basically the states that make up
like a Obama 2012 electoral majority
they can pull that off in and they can't
in places were just they used to have
populist Democrats and they don't
anymore so well step back a few paces
Democrats decided in this cycle not to
have a conversation where they kind of
elevated pro-life democrats and they
probably they could have won some
primary do they wanted to I mean with
Colin Peterson's like the last of these
guys
Minnesota he won his primary won his
election he's you say if he's sticking
around but I say the I don't think that
you didn't see what Republicans thought
they were gonna see which was this
policing of only nominee the most
left-wing candidates but they they did
not nominate the kind of Democrats who
used to win in these states which
involves breaking with the party and I
frankly think the the kind of purity
test folks who were angry at Manchin and
wish he would there are people chanting
at mansion during the Kavanagh post
votes for him to switch parties you just
can't get away with that you could you
know overthrow government write a new
constitution so that we have proportion
representation or a parliament like in a
flexible country but as long as you have
every state getting two senators they
don't have a plan to fix this right
Dave waggle anything that we left unsaid
do you think or are you just so
desperate to take a nap there that I'm
gonna say I'm gonna say I'm gonna say it
it all came down to Waukesha County and
him down to how Scott Walker could not
deliver his usual The Rock shigani that
was that was the election my
understanding is he needed seventy
percent there what did he get yeah look
in the mid 60s and that was one they
knew he was cooked
god-blessed that little County is
different is never done is wrong except
for the many many times when it's done
this wrong we had Josh Orton on the
program yesterday said if the Walker
doesn't break 70 there he loses there
you go yep that's the suburbs that is
the the Trump effect and hey the final
final thing to run on or to leave on
this is an election where the party in
power had could brag about three point
seven percent unemployment what does
this election look like if they can I
don't know that something that right
need to be litigated but and this
president has never had to face an
election they're not going rosy for him
economically not that I'm wishing that
for the country but there's a lot of
scenarios we've never seen yet the one
we did where Democrats are trying to
convince voters hey the economy's great
the vote for us you know what it
actually mostly works for them that's
true
a good point and if the steam runs out
of the Obama economy Donald Trump may
have some explaining to do
Dave waggle a Washington Post thanks so
much for your time today buddy I really
appreciate it I know you're exhausted oh
thank you very much grab mail
time all right bye-bye
all right folks we're gonna head into
the to the fun half wearing we will take
your phone calls
obviously results are still going to
come but let's let's leave on this you
know Scott Walker had a when he found
out that he lost I guess
this morning he posted this on his
Twitter feed this is the day that the
Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad
in it and I guess that's psalm 118 24 if
I remember correctly off the top by a
good memory thank you
and so that's how I cheer myself up to I
look at pictures of sort of like highly
edited sunsets and put some psalms over
it and that's what I did last night
after you I wonder if that's the great
lake or an ocean because he's in
Wisconsin he probably doesn't spend a
lot of time you know in the ocean he can
now so Scott Walker I am sure you will
go off and get a job with Koch
Industries and continue doing horrible
things he's gonna mop up at Foxconn
there you go that exactly or maybe he'll
get a job with Foxconn offers him five
billion dollars worth of state money and
then walks across the street and starts
collecting on it there's a perfectly
viable gulag option for Scott Walker
there you go Foxconn job if all Foxconn
jobs were former politicians I'd be cool
with it what do you think his Foxconn
job would be my guess is it would
lobbyists no or Foxconn I feel like he
would be positioned in the no-show wing
of the warehouse where he just got to
send an assistant down there once a week
to press a punch cart and they just send
him a big check
that's called a kickback and he
certainly earned it in terms of what he
gave them
