[Music]
speaking of immigration attorneys Donald
Trump had this to say about people who
are and there's a story in The Times
today I think it was about it was over
the weekend about women in Honduras who
are subject to enormous amount of
violence and they're trying to get out
of the country I have the piece right in
front of me but on a daily basis we're
starting to see these pieces and
particularly in the context of cutting
aid to these multiple Mexico countries
as we have down there according to a Fox
News the idea like this is that black
mirror show right I remember remember
that one they would wear it where the
where they the essentially the ice
people of that show we're given some
type of either drug or something to
actually see immigrants has literally
alien beings that they could then shoot
and that's of course a metaphor but
those type of tactics are being employed
right now by the president United States
I don't know if he's conscious of what
he's doing or not he's just he may not
be but that's the de facto impact of
talking about people who have run from
their countries because they are fearing
for their lives or their safety or the
lives of their children coming to this
country to seek asylum knowing that
their chances of getting it are slim but
if they can get asylum here it is worth
it because of what they're running from
here's Donald Trump commenting on these
people
coming into the country trying to come
in would stop being on a lot of them but
we're taking people out of the country
you wouldn't believe how bad these
people these are people these are
animals and we're taking them out of the
country at a level and at a rate that's
never happened before and because of the
weak laws they come in fast we get them
we release them we get them again
we bring them out it's crazy the dumbest
laws as I said before the dumbest laws
on immigration in the world so we're
gonna take care everybody we'll get it
done yeah yeah the what he's talking
about is our Asylum process that's what
he's talked abouts fascism I just think
we could just underline like you know
exterminating about that that's what it
is I mean that is a that you could stack
up against any of the highest
dehumanization rhetoric of Germany
Serbia Rwanda that's it here is uh here
is more on that from Donald Trump in
front of the and this is really
reprehensible on some level even more so
because of the audience frankly he's in
front of the Republican Jewish coalition
leadership meeting I'm not one of those
people who believes that because it says
in the Bible you should take in
immigrants but if there is a
constituency in the past hundred years
that might be sensitive to the idea of
refugees of running from from a
situation that creates great peril and
harm and danger to your families you
would expect a Jewish coalition of any
political stripe to have that level of
sensitivity apparently not when it comes
to the Republican Jewish
coalition and obviously not Donald Trump
and the asylum program is a scam some of
the roughest people you've ever seen
people that look like they should be
fighting for the UFC they read a little
page given by lawyers that are all over
the place you know lawyers they tell
them what to say you look at this guy
here say wow that's a tough cookie
I am very fearful for my life I am very
worried that I will be accosted if I am
said back home no no he'll do the
elastic asylum I'll give him asylum he's
afraid he's afraid we don't love the
fact that he's got tattoos on his face
that's not a good sign we don't love the
fact that he's carrying the flag of
Honduras or Guatemala or El Salvador
only to say he's petrified to be in this
country to confront this border crisis I
declared a national emergency I mean
like literally probably Jewish coalition
yeah like it I mean it really does like
I you can imagine this type of thing and
like III could see like making a movie
like act like a dark satire where you
would put in that laugh track during
those things as he's mocking people who
are seeking asylum and the idea frankly
that he's doing this to a roomful of
Jews and they are laughing is so
horrific so horrific I mean I don't know
like what age these Jews are but I know
that Jews in my generation many of our
Hebrew school teachers worse
first of the Holocaust who would talk
about how Jewish refugees were turned
away yeah well do the from country after
country and the idea that he could use
this language about refugees it's just
uh nothing believable
it's stunning and the idea that there
aren't like frankly teams of rabbis or
Jewish leaders who are not speaking out
now
is it's a horror I'm not it's really
it's really a horror I mean to you know
how many times has it been pounded in
like never forget never forget never
forget never forget guess what they
forgot that is the very definition of
forgetting there was nobody who came up
with that slogan who thought this only
applies to Jews unbelievable I mean
really I just it's shocking it is sick
it is disgusting and there have been you
know groups like Jewish voices for peace
are very good on this and very prominent
on this but I think that this is also I
mean this is the politics of modern
Israel migrating home right and that
kind of fundamental shift in perspective
when never again shifts from a global
commitment to protecting all categories
of people to never again means we're
gonna annex the world the West Bank and
you know pound Gaza yeah and that's a
not and obviously the Republican Jewish
coalition is the you know essence of
that position and it's just pure
ethno-nationalism there's no values
you're talking about
don't they convert the tragedy of the
Holocaust from never again for anybody
into a cudgel to beat people with who
don't support the actions of the Israeli
government yeah I mean I don't want to
make this about Israel here because I
want to keep it limited to the fact that
he's up there mocking refugees to a
group of
Jews whose relatives could have easily
and maybe in some cases were not allowed
to come into this country
oh they're afraid they're coming from
Germany they're afraid look at them look
at them they're afraid they're very
wealthy they're lawyer
they're a doctor but they're afraid of
their country I mean Jesus Jesus
the idea that half that room didn't walk
out going like that was really offensive
well that is the natural outcome of that
kind of thinking they're Republicans if
you want to just keep it domestic
they're Republicans it's just
unbelievable I mean really it's
unbelievable that they're just laughing
and rolling on the floor in that room
yeah he was killing it I also just even
want to take a very tangential point
here too and also say that like just you
know people might be fleeing countries
for their lives
and they could be a man who is 6-3 and
ripped like this bizarre like I
understand what I mean that's just like
bizarre physical ization of like well
obviously if you're a dude who's like
trim of course your life isn't in danger
no I don't think everybody does George
Herbert Walker Bush Roger Ailes and Lee
Atwater when they went after Michael
Dukakis they put up pictures Willie
Horton who was a parolee I think in
Massachusetts and ended up killing
someone a black man but this is I mean
the the idea of the dangerous you know
black man is coming to get your family
fairly well established and old in this
country used by Republicans
I'm not Republicans by racist demagogues
probably at one time
back in the day the Democrats also wear
the word cook comes from yes exactly I
mean this is all this is you know this
is as old as American politics and so
this imagery is a big part of it it is
the the whole idea of like the these
guys kids these aren't humans they're
they're people of color who look like
they're tough and mean like you're
watching some you know some 70s version
of like you know your standardized
criminal element you know that that
Donald Trump probably grew up on I mean
it's the same thing as he did with the
central Central Park five so it's all
part of that same you know monstrous
other
