[Music]
meantime I've got some very good news
for everyone
Mike Pence the he is the vice president
for theological propriety in the bush
administration had a fee of the council
on moral virtue and guidance charges
directly giving him Iranian title he
means very principled very principled he
announced yesterday in the Rose Garden I
think it was the Rose Garden that the
president will not will not discriminate
against people based on their religion
from early in this administration
President Trump has taken steps to
ensure that the federal government will
never ever penalize anyone for their
religious beliefs ever again
wait let's no let's let's go back in now
let's play Donald Trump just to get a
reminiscence from the early in the
administration to be fair this was just
before the administration Donald J Trump
is calling for a total and complete
shutdown of Muslims entering the United
States until our country's
representatives can figure out what the
hell is going on
there you go well at least you admitted
that he they did it the first time I
feel like he's in trouble for that right
I guess it on some level he's saying you
know since early in the administration
not at the beginning and not just prior
to it but you know relatively early in
the administration play the full clip of
Donald Trump saying this because just to
remind people of just how wretched like
statesmen like it was yeah Donald J
Trump is calling for now listen to this
is pretty pretty heavy stuff and it's
common sense so we have to do it
remember the poll numbers 25% 51%
remember the poll numbers okay so
remember this so listen what is he
talking about all the poll numbers I
don't remember now I think he was
talking about his eye I thought it was
his I initially I thought he was talking
about how he was polling at the time and
what was gonna happen after he announced
it oh no I don't know or or somebody
gave him some like Sam Harris like right
suppose the data about what Muslims
really think or some nonsense day Trump
is calling for a total and complete
shutdown of Muslims entering the United
States until our country's
representatives can figure out what the
hell is going on now I should say he's
reading this so this is not a this is a
prepared policy and statement by by
Donald Trump I got a story from this was
I think around early December here's a
story from December 14th 2015
Trump hits a new high in national poll
the billionaire businessman surges to 41
percent after releasing proposal to ban
all Muslims from enter in the United
States so he was barely floating it a
little bit before this out of probably
other campaigns well there you go
well that's it was very effective they
love it folks why you got to do it it's
why you gotta do it
