so alright so know me first off speaking
of running I don't know if you're aware
of this you are Michael you alright
what's going on Michael already already
I kill of the counties are looking good
so know me you are a candidate I'm not
sure if you're aware of this but you are
a candidate for a public advocate in New
York City
what is the public advocate so the
public this is perfect timing because
for the rest of the night people are
gonna be paying attention to the polls I
might as well get it and while I'm while
I'm here so the public advocate of New
York is a position that is it came out
of a real estate scandal it there have
only been four public advocate's and
it's essentially a position that's the
watchdog of New York City it oversees
the City Council oversees is a check on
on the mayor's office and other agencies
it's there to push the narrative and the
platform for the people of New York I
don't know if it's necessarily been used
to its fullest capacity in the past but
I think every single public advocate
we've had there's lemon for have used it
in their own way
I am hoping in this day and age with
real estate really creating the income
inequality in the city that's worse than
anywhere else in the country the worst
point in history that I will be a
watchdog for the people the only person
in the race as of now I'm and possibly
into the future who doesn't take real
estate money has never taken real estate
money and is unafraid and untethered to
any political machine so I mean my
understanding is that that is one of
those positions where you can make of it
what it is a function of the person you
know more so maybe than any other
position certainly in municipal
government I mean there was an argument
that Zephyr Teachout was going to do
something with the AG's office the state
AG's office that maybe pushed the
boundaries of where it's been or hasn't
been in about 30 or 40 years but this is
a new position and it's it's going to
involve taking on a lot of powerful
people I've seen you get into fights
with with different people regardless of
party and so I get the sense that you're
well suited for something like that and
if I can shoot
horn I have a pretty good record on this
I took on the DNC they put me on that
Reform Commission and then we reformed
it is it perfect no but it is way more
transparent than it ever was that was my
little pet case we got rid of
super-delegates on the first ballot when
I was in the platform committee we
fought for the most progressive platform
in the Democratic Party and we got it we
really have been pushing and we should
say that platform has been adopted I
mean I don't want to say well I think we
could say wildly wise I mean today we
spoke to Sean McElwee and he said 50% of
congressional candidates depending on
how you define it but 50% are pushing
medicare-for-all across the entire house
candidate candidates and that's pretty
that's pretty amazing yeah it's I think
the polls show that it crosses party
lines I mean that the Bernie Sanders
platform is the platform that is going
to bring back those voters who either
stayed home in 2016 or god forbid voted
for Trump so instead of playing blame
games and pitting people against each
other we should be talking about what
kind of platform is gonna make most
lives better for Americans at this point
when income inequality is soaring and I
think as the New York City Public
Advocate not only do we have to push the
platform we have a we have a fairly
progressive city government but there
are some issues that even our most
progressive members are just afraid of
taking on and real estate is the number
one I mean big real estate they went
after Julia Salazar heart know you know
she could have handled it better of
course but when you start to talk about
real estate you put a target on your
back I've had a target on my back for
the last several years I'm sure they're
gonna go after me but we have to be
honest with ourselves there's too much
at stake here it is absolutely
affordable to live in New York City
people aren't making high enough wages
the the subways don't work the Board of
Elections doesn't work as we saw today
we that you know the infrastructure of
the state and city are crumbling and
meanwhile you have Wall Street that
keeps getting you know bailed out and
and and taking pay raises and the real
estate industry was true driving
everybody out all right can I ask you a
question yeah I agree with you 100% that
real estate and housing is definitely
the number one and it and I like the way
you laid it out because it interconnects
with all the other major transportation
reform but on it on a note that I think
is relevant for New York won't be Center
in the campaign but it's relevant you've
done great coverage on Puerto Rico and
obviously New York has a important
relationship with Puerto Rico and we
still see Puerto Rico's still kind of
ground zero of colonialism and austerity
what can you do
yeah in terms of the Puerto Rico
relationship wow it's like you're in our
office taking notes we are getting ready
to unveil our Puerto Rico platform I'm
leading with that because I did spend a
good chunk of the last year in Puerto
Rico and I do think as New Yorkers we're
a good chunk of our population is from
port research borough six borough
exactly but even further than that Wall
Street the bondholders the people who
are making money off of the colonisation
of Puerto Rico in the disaster
capitalism that is here we sometimes
it's as New Yorkers and politicians go
around and every borough and talk to
different folks we forget that we have a
responsibility of duty to the rest of
this country to really check Wall Street
which is here it's it's like it doesn't
exist it's like it's only a little
island and it is in a sense how many
politicians here go to Puerto Rico
parades and then decimate Puerto Rico in
terms of those well let me ask you this
I mean like from a practical standpoint
like what do you do like when we talk
about real estate and I think anybody
who knows New York particularly New York
City politics knows that the biggest
corrupting force is real estate money I
mean and and everybody regardless of
politicians that I have liked or
disliked they all they're all they all
kowtow in some way to the real estate
money don't even get me started mark
Greene but but with all that said what
what and when you talk about a porto
rico when you talk about wall street
like from a practical standpoint what
what can you do what can you do so this
is the conundrum of the office of the
Public Advocate every year the budget is
set every year the budget is different
it's set by the City Council speaker and
the mayor they you know they work
together on that aside from that that
the powers are semi limited of the
public advocate is there to call out to
be a voice to to you know you use this
platform in the best way possible
- to push back there are litigation
you know they can't litigate within the
office but they can hire litigators but
I think from my perspective as a former
investigative reporter as a former
watchdog a reformer I want to use the
office to investigate in ways that
others have not done but with you know a
staff a very large staff I mean I was an
investigative reporter of one I didn't
have researchers and I did stuff that
you know the office never did so for
instance with Wall Street you know I'll
take it there's an idea what he had
where we thought we could collect all
this public data all this data when the
LLC loophole is a perfect example you
know real estate firms are using this
LLC loophole in the state to give an
extraordinary amount of political
contributions to candidates and they'll
houses LLC's will be hundreds of LLC's
housed in one building or one you know
apartment in like Queens or Brooklyn and
it's very hard to figure out who owns
these LLC's who the people are now if
you track all the data together and you
collect it you create a site that makes
it easier for reporters they don't have
to FOIA they don't have to go down to
City Hall and go through records if you
collect that data and it's it we've
looked into it a bit and it's it's not
as difficult as you think and you create
the patterns new show oh well this
lawmaker this City Councilman is
accepting money from this LLC which is
housed in this place this is this person
and this person has this agenda it
starts to tell the tale of what these
connections are and who these people are
what their agendas are that's a simple
tool that are that would be great for
reporters in New York investigative
reporting is very expensive it could be
good for a lot of media companies but
it's also a great tool for citizens
that's just one simple thing so it's
it's almost a it's a hybrid between an
Ombuds been in an Inspector General in a
way and and in some respects you're
you're you're both able to do
investigations and set up
I guess data sets and data points to
essentially subsidize the investigations
by other entities maybe it's it's trial
lawyers maybe it's uh
reporters maybe it's other public
interest groups they're gonna go after
you hard public interest come on the
common cause is really alarmed by your
proposal we're gonna tune it back into
