Charlie rapport with Sam
Sita the best
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any ELISA
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday February 18th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today folks
a powerhouse we are on vacation but we
have two interviews for you about 1.5
first up will be part one of an
interview I did with professor of
economics at the University of
Massachusetts Lowell William lisanna k--
on one of my belly licks stock buybacks
we're gonna be playing part one today
that'll be about nine minutes long then
in part two an interview with professor
of English and American Studies at
Baruch College City University of New
York michael ii stabbed on the
mismeasure of minds debating race and
intelligence between brown and the bell
curve this is also wheelhouse stuff
around here both of them fascinating
interviews different fields but
really interesting stuff we are on
vacation today's is it is today
officially Presidents Day I'm getting
some nods and sir I'm from the crack
research team yes thank you thank you a
definitive response today is Presidents
Day
Michael's to see Presidents Day so
remember I mean I guess we probably
always just created myths around our
presidents but this one roof not good
it's the it's the saddest thing in the
world when your kid sees the President
as unequivocally evil and doesn't even
know the real bad stuff that they do
right I mean like when you're considered
bad from like a five and a half year
olds perspective you're just bad you're
like cartoonishly bad there's a lot of
that going around
all right folks we've got a great week
of of programming for you some
fascinating interviews on the criminal
justice system on the concept of of
fraud and gets into a little bit of like
a libertarians type of stuff we have
issues on on the implications of of war
and then on at the end of the week we
have I think what I consider to be one
of the more fascinating I mean as soon
as I was done with it I just said to
Brandon we printed it and Brenton came
in I was like just make put that on the
list for the best of and frankly today's
as well but at the end of the week we
talked to
Matthew Blackwell on the intractability
I mean of of of racism on some level and
in certain areas of the country and we
will tie you know the the actual
interview itself is just fascinated my
mind was just really constantly being
blown there's a spoiler turns out the
effects of slavery aren't entirely
behind us mm well way to ruin the
interview Matt I don't think I know I
all right
we're gonna take a quick break just a
reminder this program relies on your
support
when we're on break you know we get less
of a response in terms of membership but
if you have the opportunity join the
majority report comm literally nickels
and dimes a day and you can keep this
content coming first up professor of
economics University of Massachusetts
Lowell it will be Professor William
lisanna k-- and four members stick
around we have a Brendan's pick from the
deep archive the super deep archives the
old majority report on air America we've
let Brendan run through the vault
without any supervision which is
dangerous because there's old like big
real the real stuff in there Indiana
Jones yeah and and so he came out
holding stuff and there you go all right
so first up professor bill lisanna
professor you and I have discussed the
the question of stock buybacks I mean I
think at first we talked about it was
several years ago and this comes out of
research you did about what what the
implications of stock buybacks have
meant to corporate America but before we
get to that just give us a little I mean
I don't think that most people frankly
know that
thirty years ago and I guess maybe it
was closer to 40 years ago stock
buybacks were was what it was criminal
to do that well it could be criminal
yeah so I'll just give you some
background on that and the readers uh
let them know where this thing came from
so basically first of all I think what
everybody has to understand is that any
company if it's going to be produced
competitive products get high
productivity pay its workers well it has
to make profits and reinvest those
profits that's the foundation of
corporate finance and if it starts
paying out too much money out of a
company you're going to pay for it in
terms of the competitive position and
workers are going to pay for it and
actually taxpayers are going to pay for
it too
if the companies say in order to compete
they need lower taxes which they always
do because we we support those companies
through government investment and
infrastructure and knowledge and all
kinds of subsidies okay so when
companies make profits you want them to
be able to keep their workers employed
to pay them the productivity those
workers helped generate and to reinvest
in both keeping those products
competitive and the next round of
competitive products because what
generates products profits today doesn't
necessarily generate profits in the
future and in a corporation that has its
publicly listed traditionally what
happens is that when companies have done
that and have some money left over they
pay dividends to people who hold shares
and people with chairs are really not
active in the company generally there
are people who just buy and sell shares
on the market their households really
just trying to save their money and as a
dividend given them an income that's the
way things were coming into the 1980s
and at that time the debate in business
schools and boardrooms is often are
companies paying too much dividends
given that you need to reinvest in the
company but at that point you had a
change and it really was totally the
result of
on Regan get it getting elected on a
deregulation platform you had a change
in the view of how corporations should
be governed which later is it didn't
really happen right at that point coming
in the 80s but by the mid 80s it was
kind of era and that is the company
should be run for shareholders of Aksum
eyes and shareholder value so that's
something that really became the
creative of corporate governance is
still is in the 80s and beyond and just
to be clear just to be clear this this
notion of shareholder value in judging
the success I guess of a company what
what was it what was the what was the
measure of success prior to that like
how what how would conceptually what was
that well I think the measure of success
was generally not your stock price I
mean people might have looked at the
stock price but people looked at the
company keep employees a good place to
work that they pay higher wages that
they Darkrai helped drive up wages in
the economy did under affirmative action
for example in the late 80s and 90s were
more minorities and women employing
those companies or there was a notion of
a company not necessarily as you know
social philanthropy but at least as an
entity that was central to the economy
where people went and worked hard and
the gains were shared in a way that we
could have a prosperous middle class and
that started to disappear in the 1980s
and shareholder value was really the
ideology and helped make it disappear
and helped to say no we don't need to
worry about the people we employ we
don't need to worry about the government
the fact that government isn't funding
infrastructure and knowledge and giving
this subsidies let's just give what they
called returns and to shareholders now
these words are ideologically loaded
because when you say return something to
someone is that they gave you something
well actually shareholders don't
generally give companies money
they buy outstanding shares and when a
company goes public for example the
venture capitalists call in an exit
strategy they've now can sell their
shares and cash in and but come this is
the ideology that came basically out of
economics not necessarily challenged by
liberal economists but particularly out
of Chicago economics at first and then
became dominant that the only people who
took risk in a company were the
shareholders and therefore they should
get all the the cash that was available
in the company and they had a right to
it and so what happened was that in 1982
the security Exchange Commission under a
Wall Street banker named John shad who
thought that the more money you had
going out into the financial markets the
more capital formation you had you is
actually a big fan of derivatives coming
from Wall Street we know where that
lettuce and he basically pushed through
a rule it was a very obscure frankly
until I started writing about it several
years ago and called rule 10 B 18 which
basically says that companies can do
massive amounts of stock repurchases and
not have any fear of being charged with
manipulating the markets and that's
where the issue of legality of legality
comes in buybacks were never really
illegal but it always was possible
before November of 1982 and this option
rule can be 18 that if you did too much
in the way of buybacks the SEC might say
hey you're manipulating your stock price
and what I'm talking about is open
market repurchases just telling your
broker can go buy stock on the market
and that's actually what it is it is a
manipulation of the market the rule that
came in not only saying that you can do
large-scale stock repurchases the actual
amount that you're allowed to do under a
safe harbor is 25%
any single day of your average daily
trading volume over the previous four
weeks okay now what that means if you
take a company like Apple within the
safe harbor that 25% of the average
daily trading volume over the previous
four weeks they can do about 1.4 billion
a day
Microsoft can do about 750 million a day
many companies can do 250 million 100
million depends on their trading volume
and the price doc okay so bill let me
just so so the long and short of it is
when these companies do these stock
buybacks it pushes up the price of the
stock there they are incentivized to do
this not just for the shareholders who
buy the stock in the open market
but because mmm the c-suite the Board of
Directors they are all paid in in in in
stocks essentially either in options or
in specific stocks that's been issued to
them they do that because of the capital
gains tax structure that we have that
also was implemented in the 80s at least
in a in a in a more I guess extreme way
and so there's a misaligned incentives
by the leadership of the company now so
let me ask you this and we got to take a
break in just a moment but before we do
so assuming that this ideology was
manifested itself this shareholder value
ideology manifested itself in the the
idea of capital gains taxes being
reduced but also in in the relaxing of
circumstances where you could do stock
buybacks and there's been a substantial
reporting that the SEC doesn't even
uphold the minor restrictions on it what
why is it why our stock buybacks
necessarily any worse than let's say
paying dividends yeah so dividends first
of all you have to pay dividends to
everybody all the chairs and dividends
give you a yield for for holding stock
now that haven't been said we know that
stockholding is very highly concentrated
in the United States according to the
research by ed wolf but 84% of the
stocks are held by about 10% of
households but at least all those those
households are getting a dividend and
those dividends can be too high but what
has happened since the mid-1980s when
basically the SEC legalized is what I
call the looting LC business corporation
in the United States a buybacks been on
top of dividends and buybacks the way
you make money from buybacks
is by getting a price boost and timing
buying and selling of shares and in the
case of executives that is through
exercising their stock options and then
selling the shares getting their stock
awards and and selling the shares and
that's how they make their gains but is
actually not related to capital gains
tax because the ordinary tax came down
of course in the 1980s and most of these
gains are taxed at the ordinary tax rate
almost all of them so it's mainly about
just their executive pay but if you take
the pay of top executives in large
companies 60 to 85 percent of it is
stock base so the majorities even either
the gains from stock awards or stock
options and they're incentivized to get
the stock price up and stock buybacks
are a great way of doing it you can also
hurt hit share target yep I built what
we got to take a break but we come back
I want to talk about that and I want to
talk about a potential solution that's
been introduced by Bernie Sanders and
Chuck Schumer together of all people
okay
that was part one we will play part two
of that interview with Bill is on ik
tomorrow first I want to tell you about
joy Bird have you heard about them there
are company behind the Revolution and
online furniture shopping they offer
one-of-a-kind furniture made to your
unique tastes a joy bird you can turn
your ideas into real
with hundreds of styles and options from
mid-century modern to contemporary
classics I got to say I am partial to
the mid-century modern that is my jam
as the kids would say all customizable
in an amazing array of fabric choices
from rich buttery leather to plush
Velvets to every color imaginable in
fact I've got on my desk a 1 a swatch
sample that they sent for free I'm going
through it right now thinking about a
swivel chair or maybe even a couch
there's even a wide range of kid in pet
friendly upholstery available I wish I
knew about that years ago as well as a
free personal design consultant to help
you nail down the perfect design and
with joy Birds 365 day home trial you
can skip the furniture store and bring
the showroom home sit on it sleep on it
break it in and if you don't love you
joy bird you can return it for a full
refund in home delivery is hassle free
they'll even remove all the packing
materials and returns are free within
two weeks of delivery see how joy bird
is revolutionising online furniture
shopping create the furniture that
brings you joy today at joy Bird dot-com
/ majority go to joy bird dot-com /
majority receive an exclusive offer for
25% off your first order 25% off using
the code majority that's joy bird
dot-com / majority using the code
majority also as your company outgrown
QuickBooks a share spreadsheets manual
processes and legacy systems costing you
time and money introducing NetSuite by
Oracle the business management software
that handles every aspect of your
business and an easy to use cloud
platform with NetSuite you can save time
money and unheated headaches by managing
sales HR and Finance & Accounting
instantly right from your desk or even
your phone thousands of best known and
fastest-growing companies use NetSuite
to management their businesses
now it's available to you better yet
it's more affordable than you think
right now NetSuite is offering you
valuable insights to help you overcome
the obstacles that are holding you back
free don't miss out on unleashing your
business's full potential with this free
guide crushing the five barriers to
growth you'll learn how to acquire new
customers increase profits and finally
get real visibility into your cash flow
getnet Suites guide crushing the five
barriers to growth at NetSuite calm /
majority now that's NetSuite dot-com /
majority to download their free crushing
the five barriers to growth guide today
check it out it could help your business
NetSuite dot-com / majority all right
and now we are going to go to our second
interview of the day man we just give it
away going it is Professor Michael
Ystad he's professor of English and
American Studies at Baruch College in a
new and City University of New York his
new book the mismeasure of minds
debating race and intelligence between
brown and the bell curve quick break
then we'll be back with that don't
forget join the majority report comm you
get extra content you get a commercial
free and you support the show back with
Michael stop in a sec we are back Sam
cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program professor of English and
American Studies at Baruch College in
the CUNY College System Michael II stab
he is the author of his latest I should
say is the mismeasure of minds debating
race and intelligence between brown and
the bell curve just published by the unc
press professor thanks so much for
joining us thanks so much for the
invocation so let's just start with the
title the your title is the mismeasure
of minds is of course an homage i guess
of sorts or a hat tip to the I believe
the the work of Stephen Jay Gould the
mismeasure of man why why well it's all
off the reasons it is it is absolutely
and I'm almost to Professor drools whose
work first came out in 81 and then was
reissued after the publication of the
Richard Holmes team in Charles and Mary
Intimus book the bell curves in 1996
1994 and then girls book came out in
1996 with a long epilogue that took on
directly the fallacious arguments the
erroneous evidence we pernicious sort of
strategies that Herrnstein and Murray
had had made in their 1994 book so
really although I you know I I humbly I
say this with in all humility I do see
my book as an effort to sort of expand
into the 21st century and with the
advantage of really 25 years hindsight
because you know the bell curve came out
of 94 it's you know 2019 we are marking
I hesitate to say celebrating but
marking the 25th anniversary of the
publication of the bell curve which was
a major major cultural political social
policy moment in the rise of the of the
right-wing assault on public education
educational reform more generally on all
sorts of funding efforts to equalize
opportunity in educational settings and
if I may I just like to briefly for your
your listeners just run down the four
basic premises of the bell curve and yes
so like some of your listeners aren't
old enough to remember 99 before and if
they give remembered maybe these details
have sort of slid out of their brains in
the century I was I wanted sadly what is
old is new again
charles murray yeah and we've spoken
about that but let's let's remind people
of those four basic principles that he
was pushing basically yeah I mean
basically and this again is a part of my
my debt to to Stephen Jay Gould because
he takes on and dismantle these four
arguments piece by piece
the first is that our cue I mean frankly
that I can exist that it exists of a
single unitary factor that it is a thing
that we can in fact measure with a
number with a single number and the
second thing is that that turns even
Murray argue is that it cannot be
changed if six you're born with an IQ
living like you you die with that same
IQ it's immutable it just doesn't change
and in connection with that is the third
and related corollary premise which is
therefore it is largely if not almost
exclusively genetic or hereditary but
environment if you equalize environment
you cannot really equalize IQ you can't
raise someone's IQ just simply by
improving their educational
opportunities and so therefore the
fourth promise is that and this is
really kind of the I think the ugliest
aspect of it is that therefore since IQ
is innate and since IQ cannot be fixed
we are as a nation looking at what they
called a cognitive elite in other words
the wealthy are wealthier because they
are smarter the poor are poorer because
they are less intelligent and that this
is simply a matter of cognitive ability
the people rise or fall so -
economically based on their IQ now Gould
argued and many many others have
completely dismantled this as just
complete hogwash
from top to bottom IQ is not a number
that signifies life outcomes
it is possible through equalizing
educational opportunity to equalize IQ
this is how this does occur that the
question of nature nurture is at worst
an open question in the best I think
there have been demonstrable -
demonstrated efforts and situations
where it can be equalized and for the
notion of cognitive stratification
that's their term is I mean it what it
does if it naturalizes a social
hierarchy it simply says that the way
things are are the way things should be
according to nature so yes in terms of
my title
I changed man to mind because I take on
the neuroscience revolution neuroscience
really takes off in the mid 90s just
when gold is completing a revised
edition so he doesn't pay attention to
those aspects at all the decade of the
brain as it was known and so he really
hid the bulk of his book is about the
late 19th century the early 20th century
and he only added on a long epilogue
because he was so appropriately
disgusted and outraged with this revival
of these pernicious arguments in the mid
90s so that's that's the that's the sort
of answered to the title question and we
should say that and and and I don't want
to jump ahead too much here but the
durability of those ideas and the the
capacity of those ideas to sort of re
re-emerge as if they are you know
groundbreaking thinking you deal with a
lot in your book and frankly it's a lot
about what we talk about on this program
and we deal with a lot of those
purveyors of the sort of you know I
don't know it's I feel like it's that
theory about if I keep at I long enough
it'll come back into style on some level
but but yeah but before we get there
let's you start tracking these these
ideas that what you call zombie science
that which is a basically a raceless
racialist position may be a biological
determinist position a theory about
about the humanity and and particularly
in terms of the way our brains and our I
guess we function as people but before
you start with the the brown decision
before we get there give us a sense
though so that we can set this up like
what was prior to the in the pre-war
period and when we talk about like the
early you know early 20th century
theoretically we're coming out of
reconstruction which I imagined
impacted the theory's a little bit of
this just give us a if you could a
survey course up into the beginning of
your book well that's that's that's a
large question but very briefly yeah
you're absolutely right this dates back
to the 19th century for sure and what
again for your listeners who are not
necessarily up on their American history
and even the American history books tend
to gloss over some of these details I
mean the brown decision the Brown v
Board of Education decision is 1954 and
what it did was it overturn the Plessy
the Ferguson decision of 1896 which the
Supreme Court rules in eight one
decision upheld the so called separate
but equal doctrine in other words what
we could really call apartheid education
system and apartheid access to
facilities and they did so on the basis
that African Americans were not been
denied anything because they had no
rights to those things in the first
place it was kind of perversely
kind of circular argument because they
were black they did not deserve the
rights of whites but they didn't deserve
the rights of whites because they were
black so it made it you know that was a
legal pretzel logic of the late 19th
century but mixed into this of course I
think their suggestion is a kind of
proto eugenic notion about differential
racial intelligence between white and
non-white and especially between white
and african-american which really seems
a really competent into its own in the
first decades of the 20th century so by
the early decades of 20th century two
things converged first is this seeming
sort of meritocracy effort to bring in
IQ testing which is imported from Europe
where by the way it had regenexx
background whatsoever it was simply a
diagnostic tool but when it gets to the
stage and suddenly meets all these
psychologists the leading psychologists
out and Stanford deciding Lewis Terman
and others they
- immediately racialize that they
immediately take IQ testing and we send
an opportunity to differentiate between
the white superior race and essentially
everyone else so what happens is that
well two things I mean it's a little
hard to sort of say this in terms of
cause and effect but there is World War
two a World War two and the rise of
Nazism the collapse of Nazis and in the
revelation surrounding the effort to
eliminate destroy European Jewry does
cause a bit of a revulsion just to be a
little understanding about it which
leads to a new liberal wave in post-war
America which begins to rethink and
unravel some of those eugenicist notions
about racial intelligence now in terms
of the brown decision if both was and
was not a major milestone in the sense
that it was certainly the major
overturning of really a century that's
not longer of a conviction that blacks
and whites should live separate lives
and should and should not have access to
equal opportunities it did mandate
equality and education but it did so on
psychological evidence and I think this
is the key maybe part of the answer to
your question because really the
differences between white and black have
largely been socio-economic they've
largely been a caste system based on
differential access to opportunities you
know you know economic opportunities
opportunities and duchesses schooling
but in but in employment and so forth
and Brown didn't go anywhere near those
questions there didn't touch the
socio-economic question it didn't touch
the way that whiteness was itself a kind
of property as some theorists have
argued where by simply being white meant
that you could have a doors open for you
since we being black men thinking you
could not so putting black and white
children in the same classroom was a
major that's an important step but it
based its argument on a flawed sort of
partial way to unravel a century of
discrimination economic discrimination
and so forth um and in its wake you have
this and again I'm not blaming brown or
the brown decision
it just it just did happen that there
was an incredible racist backlash
against the ground decision lawsuits and
other efforts to undo it to turn it back
and here you see in the 50s in the 60s
into the 70s and a revival of what of a
kind of racial difference in
intelligence osmond it really begins to
have a rebirth already in the system and
you mentioned at the outset that we of
course are suing right the reception's
of these racist neo-nazi white
supremacist notions and our present but
the beginnings of that really the
beginnings of what we were seeing now
the germs are did I guess you can say
that really is the right word because it
is kind of like an infection they do
date back at least to the 1960s and they
were the action against Brown Brown made
one might say a major stride in the
right direction but it immediately gets
assaulted because well they okay yeah
all right well I want it I want to I
want to I want to slow down a little bit
and get a little bit earlier I mean I
think you know we they're the the
history of the country where you know
there is a significant backlash every
time there is a step forward for
emancipating and black people in
particular and people of color broadly
speaking I mean I think you know we we
certainly have have have talked about
this on this program you know I often
cite Carol Anderson's work in white rage
which sort of would capture that but but
in terms of like the the you know
intellectual history I'm sort of
fascinated I want to go back to the this
the the the traveling of the idea of an
IQ from Europe to the United States
because it seems to me that what we have
at various stages and this happens
following World War two as well is that
these ideas are out there floating
around and the the context of the time
seeks out something that will fulfill so
need that certain ideologies have right
so we are we're in a post construction a
Reconstruction era we're starting to see
the re I don't want to say the
re-emergence because I'm not I'm not
quite clear that it's the gone away but
the reassertion of white supremacy in
the form of court cases
well Plessy v Ferguson we're seeing it
in the context of subjugating black
people's right to vote we're seeing in
in a in a reamer gence of the KKK by
1920 we're gonna have six seven percent
of the population is gonna be a
card-carrying member of the KKK and so
not to mention quota systems on
immigration and quota systems on
immigration so at this time there is a
need as opposed to you know maybe the
pre you know antebellum period where
it's just like well God says we get to
have slates God has done this now there
is a need probably also of as a function
of the Industrial Age to have a
rationale for what we used to consider
to be God's Way and that's and so this
travels over and gets basically caught
up in the machinery of intellectualism
at that time that's right that's right
that's absolutely right I mean it's a
racist science I mean and maybe that's
an oxymoron because science is supposed
to be neutral value neutral but but it
really is a racist - I mean props more
accurately a racist pseudoscience
because it is not based in truth and I
think sort of the question you're asking
in the sense you're partially answering
is why does it persist why does it and I
think you're absolutely right it serves
it serves a need it's fit to Mitch it
reaches its audience because it tells
people what they want to hear but it
also it also fulfilled as you say as
religion perhaps falls away as a
rationale something else needs to come
in to fill that fill that gap and
quote-unquote science is the perfect
weapon as we could you know and this is
part of a larger eugenicist movement in
the 20s and into the 30s of course in
Europe for sure but also in the United
and so these all these things all sort
of converge and then they are as you say
they are rationalizations they are ways
to make arguments that that people can
hear and say oh that makes sense and of
course it would make sense to a certain
kind of white listener or reader because
as I said it tells a person what they
are wanting to hear it has that appeal
and it just kind of quote rings true or
something you know in it but of course
as I also argue in my book it just it's
kind of like a tape loop it also creates
a reality it doesn't just reflect one it
also I mean Gould is really brilliant on
this point in his Mis measure of man
because he points out that it's at times
of economic stress and downturn that
these furnishes ideas tend to grant gain
traction and I I agree with that I think
that's absolutely true but I think in
addition to that and we see this of
course in our how we say in our present
where ideas you know salacious ideas
false science fake news and so forth
simply get put out there because because
it's almost like barnacles on the bottom
of the boat they simply begin to kind of
cut into the whole they just a road they
erode trust they erode a conviction that
things can be ameliorated but if one
looks at it from up from a from a sort
of a broader picture it's really all
also about money it's about funding it's
about policy it's a it's a way to
undercut a belief that public education
is worth funding it's a way to undercut
a belief in compensatory efforts are
worth funding it's it's it's all of that
well it's all of those things and more I
I think it becomes most clear excuse me
I think like you know I just and and and
I want to move on from this and get you
know to some of the sort of those
moments where these belief systems
become expedient for white people in
particular and particularly how it plays
out with with the with attention deficit
disorders open up but before we get
there I just want to stay just for one
moment on this point
of its use in Europe as a as an as an
assessment tool because this the the way
that it was used in Europe it seems to
me is one that recognizes context is
crucial because it's used as a tool to
say as a way of basically and and and
mr. correct me if I'm wrong and and
please elaborate but it's basically a
way of assessing the the the who is not
getting enough in the proper attention
within society as opposed to a way of
saying who is not worthy of the proper
attention in society that is exactly
right
that is exactly right and you know and
you know you correctly mentioned Stephen
Jay Gould at the outset and I'll just
mention him one more time because he
says and I would agree I have nothing
against tools to measure a child's
capacity or learning learning ability it
could be used in all sorts of ways as
you said it could be used to say oh this
child is falling behind saying reading
or math skills so we need to assist that
child a bit more in reading and math
skills rather than as you say and should
have say well let's just relegate that
child to the flow track let's just
relegate that child and pull funding
from him or her because that child is
not going to improve and you know you
have this right-wing assault on the
notion of the plasticity of intelligence
which has been ongoing since the 50s and
really dates back even into the pre-war
period but certainly since the 50s
well more liberal and progressive minded
social scientists and psychologists have
been arguing consistently with a lot of
evidence that the minds do grow and
change and that as you said it's all
based on context I mean poverty itself
as theorists are saying now is a kind of
environmental toxin it obviously I think
common sensibly you would say it impacts
the brain in a negative way so you know
if one takes context into into are just
bring it into our discussion then it
changes everything in terms of how we
understand how to use the tool of
measuring intelligence and so we have a
situation where you
could be you know looking at a field and
saying oh it's dry here and there's two
different reactions one is this is a dry
field we should go find one that that is
wetter or you you water it and you say
and it seems that in in in the way that
Europeans used this test was to
determine where a field has been
insufficiently watered and the way that
it when it traveled over to the States
was like oh this is a way of marking
which fields are no good which ones are
fallow forever and the other ones that
are that are more fertile essentially
it's sort of it sort of comes together
with through this kind of social
darwinism or biological determinism or
both and it is it is a way to to sort of
kind of group people and I'm not really
believe that they're changeable or help
or improvable but that's not the origins
of intelligence testing that's not what
it was it's only what it became when it
came to the states in at the beginning
of the 20th century in a very deliberate
ideological effort fueled no doubt by a
white supremacist conviction whether
stated or unstated it certainly seems in
retrospect that's what undergirded these
efforts to turn IQ into this measure
that somehow differentiated between
races in terms of their their cognitive
ability which were therefore you know
immutable unchangeable cannot be helped
ever under any circumstances by anyone
no matter what we tried or did to help
them it's absurd it's always been absurd
but it's but its impact has been
enormous and it's it's it's the way it's
lingered into the 21st century
is I mean to put it bluntly just
unsettling at least and discussed it
really well at least as you pointed out
we're seeing a resurgence of this small
in our present well I want to get to
there but before we get to there let's
go I'm fascinated by the history that
you did on or recounted on how on the on
the use of Ritalin
and what you know there there are
basically two different aspects to this
one is
how the medical field and we're I guess
we're talking about the 60s now how the
medical field understood the the
incidence and the treatment of
hyperactive activity at the time and how
in retrospect would the ability of
hindsight and looking at sort of like
broader data it was actually this
diagnosis was used in the context of
sort of maintaining some type of of of
white supremacy on some level or at
least if not in you know an actionable
one at least a a diagnoseable one right
we will you explain that dynamic yeah
it's a little complicated so I'll try to
be as clear as I can we basically
pediatricians have known since the 30s
or 40s a given stimulant medication to
young people actually calms them down it
has the counterintuitive effect but it's
only in the late 50s or early 60s that
this begins to be experimented with in
any sort of systematic way on children
who are having difficulty academically
in school and it's only in the mid
sixties that this really becomes a
fairly clear diagnostic category a
diagnostic category that I should add is
invented to fit the the condition that
is being observed there's no medical
evidence there's organic
test that reveals anything different
about this child except the child says
these kind of vaguely general symptoms
can sit still or talks out of turn or
you know sort of Sidious or something
these pretty vague things that could be
applied to virtually any child's at some
point in his or her life and behavioral
and behavioral ones not like there's no
low incidence of white blood cells or
something like that it's really done
through observation which is why
psychologists get involved because
they're the ones who are
to do the observations and then the
prescriptions are giving but as it
happened and I you know I was sort of as
you said it's a kind of a fascinating
story is that it's almost it's quite
overwhelmingly white boys white children
from middle class backgrounds are being
diagnosed with this new disease category
which was named minimal brain
dysfunction or MBD which really is
coined by a psychologist in the mid 60s
but it's applied almost exclusively to
white boys and why would that be because
white parents were appalled at the idea
and appropriately so that their child
might be considered either quote
 or somehow slow and they didn't
want their child to be classed as having
this other do disease category which
involves having a kind of brain just
like a like brain like a bleep
retardation as it was called retardation
in the 60s those classifications were
given out almost exclusively to black
children the black boys african-american
children so you have this way in which a
disease category is invented seemingly
to fit or to sort of soothe the
anxieties of white parents about their
white children so it's not to have them
labeled as learning disabled and in fact
this tendency even though MBD falls away
as a diagnosis which is replaced by high
productivity is replaced by attention
deficit disorder and ultimately by ADHD
which is now the diagnosis in the 21st
century I mean a couple of things happen
ritalin takes off I mean millions of
prescriptions are written and the
courses are the six 70s 80s into the 90s
we the numbers just skyrocket I think in
our present moment I think it's
something like 9% that might be the
number nine percent of all school
children get some kind of diagnosis of
ADHD but even into the present the
majority as an I think 2 out of 3
children who are diagnosed are white it
remains a white diagnosis and that's why
what I do in this book what I do in this
chapter
I try to unravel the racial roots of
hyperactivity and others and at the use
of stimulant medication to alleviate in
invented disease category that as I said
is essentially doing to pulled out of
thin air to to soothe white parents or
white mothers concerns about their about
their about their you know about their
children so it's it's it's a way in
which you have these alternative ways to
understand intelligence and race because
obviously since there are differences in
racial intelligence there are going to
be why children who are going to have
difficulty in school but there has been
this concerted effort not to label them
as learning disabled in the same way as
black kids are being more easily
slaughtered or tracked into slower
classrooms in the 1960's and 1970's as I
said it's a complicated story well so
thank you perhaps a small small piece of
the of the puzzle the idea is to
pathologize to pathologize this
phenomena in white kids because and make
it as if it's curable and distinct from
the there but it's something from the
outside on some level that afflicts them
as opposed to an inherent condition that
they are that's correct that is
absolutely correct yes it's a it's an
even zone and people talk pointed
psychologists pointed this out at the
time they're saying we're seeing the
exact same symptoms in white children
and black children why are we treating
them differently why are we given
compensatory education to black kids but
given marriage to white kids like why we
understand in this condition in a
racially distinct way but again I think
the roots of those differences have a
lot to do with the power of this false
notion that there are racial differences
in intelligence that this carries over
into medicine carries over to diagnose
and it carries over into into treatment
programs what what I find also sort of
fascinating about what you've written
about here is the how closely it and I
you know my my apologies to you a few
are as aware of what is happening on
YouTube with within the context of this
movement in this revival of charles
murray as i am but i suspect that you
hopefully have been able to to avoid
falling too deep into that we spend an
inordinate amount of time here on this
program a dealing with tell me more
well i'm not sure if you're aware of the
intellectual dark web what is there are
a group of supposedly who have starting
with sam harris who is a a self anointed
neuroscientist also a meditation expert
who brought charles murray on to his
program recently a very widely listen to
podcast in youtube show because in the
name of saying stuff that is taboo and
this this notion that the nobody will
will give this guy a hearing anymore and
i'm going to do so in the pursuit of
intellectual curiosity and and whatnot
and there's a whole crew ranging from
this guy jordan Peterson who is a
psychiatrist out of canada who is
espousing it and folks like dave rubin
and then other more conservative figures
who are basically who argued that they
they have to hide out in the dark web
because their ideas are so radical and
so new and so scorned that they that
they they don't have access to you know
the regular web now of
they do they're all on YouTube they they
they get enormous amounts of funding and
whatnot and television interviews and
the intellectual dark web was coined by
a New York Times article about them that
their publicists obviously helped help
generate but this idea of what you know
some a guy like Corey Robin would call
really the definition of the reactionary
mind which is to bring back these ideas
which are extremely old and in fact not
challenging of the way that society has
functioned for decades and centuries and
some to encases millennium and try and
sell it as if it's a new idea that is
breaking taboos I mean talk to that
because that seems to be a big part of
this story it's incredible isn't it I
mean you really have to stop and wonder
how this happens how does it happen that
someone who is speaking about something
which is so embedded in the 19th century
notion of racial distinctions and
intelligence and behavior and so forth
can in the 21st century act like they're
breaking barriers by saying this aloud I
mean it was nonsense and garbage then it
was white supremacists it's fueled
slavery it's fueled Jim Crow it fueled
all kinds of atrocities and and
inequalities it was I mean pardon me but
it was a kind of social engineering at
its most disgusting and worse because it
kept people subjugated and and and
humiliated and the base and now over
21st century you're absolutely right
they act like there's this behavior that
oh we are speaking the truth we are
finally getting the truth out we are we
are getting we are breaking the taboo on
these subjects but the thing is is even
that strategy of acting like they're
breaking a taboo that you know that
can't be spoken there's finally speaking
the truth that is itself just a tired
method
acting like they're saying something new
when they're saying something as you
said that has been out there for
centuries and it's it's it's appalling
but it's it's an interesting strategy
because what it does is it reverses the
terms right it acts as if it's the last
or progressives or somehow squelching
debate there somehow you know we're the
ones who are not permitting them to
speak well as you pointed out they're
all over YouTube I don't really see
Charles Murray's career as not having
had a venue for the last 25 years if not
certainly longer his books are published
his books are widely read his books a
widely reviewed he gets on to media and
gets invited to campuses where there are
sometimes problems but he brings those
problems with him so it seems to me that
this is just a reversing of the terms of
what is real but we see that a lot I
think I mean I think you know you're
you're a canny observer of media perhaps
more than certainly than I am but I
think you would agree that we see these
reversals they accuse their opponents of
doing that they themselves are doing
they act as if they're the ones who are
speaking the truth finally finally
finally we're getting the truth
you know it's they're trying to shut us
down but really that is not the history
of the United States it's been the left
that gets blacklisted again so it's the
left who gets well stand suppress it is
not the right is it is in power and it's
hard to argue in this day and age that
there is embattled a group as I said at
the outset and I'll say again I mean
these convictions about racial
differences in intelligence are enjoying
a resurgence in our presence they are
guiding policy they are not some kind of
something that you have to go on to the
dark web find you just have to you know
turn on the television or turn on the
radio or Google something and there it
is for you in living color let's talk
about about how it does enter into
policy and this concept of the
disappearance of the this concept of the
disappearance that is so
yes yes well you know as I said
psychology enters the conversation
really in a big way in 1954 in the brown
decision which is why I begin with the
brown decision because it's the Kenneth
and maybe Clark so called Donald
experiments where they showed white
children and black children dolls which
were identical except from skin color
and they asked the children to ascribe
characteristics to the white doll on the
black ball and black kids tend to
ascribe more positive values to the
white doll to the point on the black
doll and therefore the Clarks argued
that segregation was hurting the
self-esteem and self-worth of these
black kids he segregated black kids and
therefore school needed to be integrated
that was the argument that one day in
1954 but since then you've seen that now
the door had been open to using
psychological evidence to argue about
race and intelligence and self-worth you
have a whole slew of psychological terms
for example the term learned
helplessness which was coined by Martin
Seligman who would later become a sort
of the father of popular psychic
positive psychology in the 1990s but in
the 1960s and 70s he coined the term
about learned helplessness and of all
people it's Daniel Patrick Moynihan
who's an assistant and speechwriter for
Richard Nixon sort of stumbles on this
term and suddenly Nixon is giving a
major address to Congress in 1969 and
he's talking about why compensatory
education is not working
and suddenly he's saying it's not
working because children are suffering
from learned helplessness and I'm
thinking wow you know that's how the
idea migrated from the rarefied world of
academia into the mouth of the President
of the United States to argue against
compensatory education as early as 1916
in 59 I mentioned I believe earlier
about delay of gratification toward
afford gratification which is a notion
that Walter Mischel
came up with with his marshmallow
experiment and that idea should have
also traveled into a policy debates
David
rooks of the New York Times wrote a
column I believe it's called
marshmallows in public policy or
something like that and he basically
argued that you know you can't you can't
change people by simply throwing money
at the problem because people have these
character flaws so they have these
character flaws such as I can't resist
impulse you're never going to get
anywhere by just sort of improving their
economic or social environment so so you
have ways in which psychology has
should've found its way into all sorts
of policy debates over the last four or
five decades and it should say that
marshmallow that marshmallow experiment
also has been since I think debunked
even the premise of it never mind
the the how it was weaponized exactly I
mean it's been debunked because if you
pointed out earlier context is
everything I mean as researchers found
if a child has not had opportunities to
get food ready presented with food
they're like oh I'm hungry I want to eat
now
or if a child is deceived until they're
going to get something but then it
doesn't actually come to them then there
are see more suspicious and less
trusting of the world in which they live
right now this is a socio-economic
reality it isn't really a quote
character flaw but if you pointed out
this is about the disappearance of the
social it's not my term but I think it's
a very appropriate one the disappearance
of the social and social psychology
because when you begin to psychologize
things you move inside the body inside
the mind with neuroscience a and you
need the world outside you don't pay as
much attention if at all
to the kind of social or economic and
material context that I think you would
agree have a major impact on what people
do or decide not to do in a given
situation so you have psychology making
these inroads into policy and I don't
want to completely dump on psychological
research they've been good psychological
research of course but generally when
policymakers have picked up the threads
of
experiments like a Brooks or like a
Richard Constantine or charles Murray it
has not been to advance a more
progressive minded argument about the
need to equalize opportunities and and
even more almost even more importantly
I'm more to the point that the the
psychology is it has a subjectivity
right and so it cannot be used in the
essentialist way that it's used I mean
that's me seems to be the most
problematic part about it they may not
you know because they'll argue those
folks that like look I may want to have
a more progressive policy but the facts
are just telling me that it that would
that it doesn't work right and and and
it's really that elevation of that
psychological theory to to a an
immutable fact which is the most
problematic in the most abused concept
well I think I think if I'm going to
save your question or your comment
correctly I think but psychology appeals
to is a desire to believe in something
that's trans historical in other words
something that is simply quote true
about human nature and I think that's
the error
I mean psychologists have done from
reflecting on this there are good
psychologists of course who reflect on
the boundedness in other words the
limitations of their own research in
terms of applying it to understanding
policy or politics or social reform and
so forth education and so on but it is
interesting to review this history as I
have done in this book because you see
you see really authors emerging you see
liberals using biological arguments to
make a case and some conservatives
leaning into environment to make their
case you see a real scrambling and sort
of muds muddying or mixing and matching
and so what you realize is that
psychology
in a lorry in a bit in a kind of basic
sense really reflects politics more than
almost anything else if you want to
understand the politics of a certain
historical moment need to fly particle
data from that moment it will reveal a
lot and I think that's a lot of what I
discovered in doing this project is that
I'm not here to judge the past I'm here
simply can map the changes over time and
what I see is that psychology changes
with the times sometimes perhaps for
good but often it just it becomes it's
become I think it's fair to say not
completely but largely disconnected from
social realities in the sense that
neuroscience in particular the social
caucuses affective neuroscience
revolution the scan is that sometimes
called has made attempts to understand
the world we live in certainly you can
read their journals and you see them
talking about politics a lot in some
cases but in terms of what is lasting or
really vital in terms of their their
evidence or their their conclusions I
would hesitate to lean too much on those
conclusions in terms of revealing very
much about the material social economic
realities that we all are grappling with
and in qualities
despite their real enthusiasm that
they're on to something by trying to
figure out which part of the brain
activates in relationship to certain
stimuli using MRI and so forth
well Michael Michael stab the book is
the mismeasure of minds debating race
and intelligence between brown and the
bell curve thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate it thank you
very much rowdy
