leave knowing history and the
consequences of a neoliberal assault on
you know people actually like reading
studying things versus just being
trained for tests so that politicians
can run on stat increases and terrorize
teachers here is and also the fact that
in order for a broader fascist project
to succeed people need to be stupid and
they need to be aggressively stupid
Dinesh D'Souza is one of the most
aggressively stupid people in the world
and he's on one of the most aggressively
stupid and effective propaganda networks
on the planet here's the Nash D'Souza
speaking with the always correctly named
Steve Doocy
about the Constitution well first of all
I think she's confusing the Electoral
College with the three-fifths clause the
three-fifths clause was about slavery
and it had to do with a an argument
between the north and the south over
representation ironically the North
which was the anti-slavery side wanted
blacks to count for zero because they
wanted to reduce the representative
powered the slave states the South
wanted blacks to count for a full person
so the three-fifths clause which is
usually presented to show that the
founders didn't consider blacks to be
fully human doesn't actually show that
at all he needs to be like plants just
from rocks and shot into space like we
want to consider you people we want you
to be full Ubud bugs now in this one
very specific sense of it increases our
share and you were still literally human
chattel they want you to be zero we want
you to be one so we're gonna be 3/5 yeah
that's right and we would represent you
in Congress yeah exactly we want you to
be counted as full so we could represent
your interest as enslaved and bondage
murdered and raped and branded people in
Congress now you just leave that part on
you don't worry about you know long ways
from now there's gonna be some goddamn
brownie fellas gonna understand what was
going on but now here in the Caroline
you started out number us and you look
really nice if we could just use you in
a population
I love how how it went from like the
standard Republican lie is it was the
Democrat did you do booboo go to
Democrats and I was like right because
they were the Dixiecrats and then when
LBJ flipped and they passed the Vil
rights legislation they left the
Democratic Party and then became
Republican so all of so it's like you're
technically right but utterly wrong a
great example actually of why like facts
don't say anything really even of
themselves when you're talking about
issues like this yes thank you feminine
historic right god forbid
so you situate them in the new realize
like right so all of those guys became
Republicans and not only to become
Republicans they run and set the
template for a structurally white
supremacy based party but now I like how
we're going back we're going from like
the technically true but totally
disingenuous to just like thee was
everybody give the southern founding
fathers any credit they wanted awful
full human it was the north man
they were just like hey he thought yeah
that's just unbelievable not just like
yeah it was like but it works to their
advantage right like it's all of these
things are the these sort of arcane
historical debates that nobody can try
to the end of or if everybody can have
their multiple positions on then we
don't know if the world is really
warming or not right and that's all it
is
and I'm sure DC's follow-up question was
like interesting point anyway moving on
oh yeah it's just muddy the why it's
just so that you're like fascist
idiot uncle can like throw that at you
in a conversation to just sort of add to
the general stupidity well yeah if
they're so racist but they want to
blacks to be kind representation I'm a
little bit confused by the fact that the
racist guys were the ones saying that
the black guys were full human but I
guess that's just me
I don't know Dinesh D'Souza's what the
Dartmouth I don't know
Dinesh D'Souza I don't know he doesn't
look like an American so why would he
say that yeah why would he have a wise
yeah he's coming he's just like he's
calling balls and strikes man the Indian
guy went to Harvard any okay speaking of
stupid people you know we might does
does a Taylor Swift deserve an apology
from you Matt yeah I'll do a full
apology on TPMS tomorrow okay because
while we are not huge fans of Taylor
Swift here there has been a lot of
speculation about her soul hi sorry I'm
Stephanie like that go ahead Dinesh was
Dartmouth yeah Dartmouth yes sorry I
know he's a therapist fine
