[Music]
we wanted to because Andy as you know
not only are you one of the Titans of
the comedy industry you're also very
well known for being repeatedly hired
over now multiple decades to assess the
state of comedy as an industry itself
and so who better to assess the quality
of jokes that Steven Moore the now
pulled nominee for the Fed the jokes
that he steers because he went on Tucker
Carlson was just talking about how
everything he said was joke so then some
stuff was sort of stupid then he loves
bubble of a sponge on there but let's
let's hear one of these classic jokes
that you know in the movie version in
the hackey movie version I real but I
I'm familiar enough with Bubba through
Howard Stern that I actually could see
Steven Moore make like an earnings crack
and Bubba just blew hey mister 2008 what
are you talking about alright so here is
uh here is uh Steve Moore we play this
clip earlier in the week but it bears
repeating because it's pretty stunning I
want to remind people Stephen Moore is
not just the guy who's not gonna be on
the Fed he was on The Wall Street
Journal op-ed board he has been hired by
the Heritage Foundation multiple times I
think he's done passes through there CNN
CNN he the president of the Club for
Growth everybody
no please don't that's not he was
working with Grover Norquist who's the
Club for Growth maybe you okay he he was
a top adviser to sam Brownback along
with Arthur Laffer in the Kansas
disaster this guy has had a really
incredibly oversized impact on our
politics over the past couple of decades
he co-founded insert TV since the
eighties he's been on TV since the 8th
you know I've watched him he co-founded
and served as president of the club for
growth from 1999 to
thousand for oh there you go and that
was the days when it was a real
organization it's even more than that
I'd wash that guy Hoss and his council
of economic as an economic scholar I
mean no but here he is ostensibly and
they're making it about like the
Liberals took me down right like that as
opposed to like the the Liberals don't
have the ability he has a master's in
economics from George Mason University
boom all right so there you go and here
he is on the firing line which is of
course that longtime liberal institution
the firing line just after the election
here okay
by the way did you see that there's that
great cartoon going along that the New
York Times headline first thing Donald
Trump does as president his kicks kick a
black family out of public housing and
it has Obama leaving the White House I
mean I just love that one is he such a
like weirdo that he wasn't even properly
enjoying his own horrible like he's a I
just love that no he knew where he could
maybe recognize no I don't think that's
what I mean
what are you right you're right I'm
wrong which I think you're right about
what's amazing where's not Oh telling a
joke he's telling me about a joke he's
not saying like I'm not you know it's
like it's like I'm not acting out Star
Wars for you I'm telling you I love the
movie and that's all he sings like I
love that joke he's not even telling the
joke he's saying I love that joke and
here's the joke I love I mean and so
here's how he explains it though which
is even worse
on some level as he tries to explain it
away
Obama leaving the White House I mean I
just love that one
but uh just a great one so you know that
is a joke I always made about you know
Obama lives and you know the president
lives in public housing but I didn't
mean it like a black person did I just
meant that you know for example when I
was working with a lot of women and
families who were involved in the
education about your program you know
here in DC and people would say well you
know and these were these were blacks
who would say you know why does Barack
Obama get to send his kids study school
that he wants to we can't and they say
he lives in public housing and it was
just kind of a joke and that was it but
let's go back to the original joke where
it says kicks out a black family and why
does Steven Moore say when they were
blacks themselves it was okay to say
this do you think he's too dumb to
understand that the original joke was a
joke at Trump's expense and that's why
he's having so much trouble explaining
it yeah but I don't maybe it was it was
no I think it's a it's not a Republican
joke the first round of that part but no
Jaime's were I told you the first for at
least the first version of this joke was
the roast of Donald Trump and something
like they Snoop Dogg said I should run
for president be the first time you ran
a black family out of their home so it
was to the many times oh yeah I totally
missed that part of I thought he was
hey we got a black guy out of public
housing isn't that bad bad well no but
that's the thing is that it was a joke
that was originally written to embarrass
Trump and then they realized wait a
second we got nothing to be embarrassed
about
he's a black guy in public cozy amazing
this is great that's what sweet that's a
black family out of their home where's
the bad
that's why Stephen Moore is like that's
when I really like it's really good
that's why I like that because it's one
that they think that we would be
embarrassed about but now we're in power
so it's great
I used to laugh maniacally I don't know
see if he still does that he was laughs
maniacally
in between whatever point he was making
so he's always been I don't know there's
something there's something I think it's
a little bit off about that well let's
go this is the second part of this and
what I was trying to say was that there
are other people that there was
something a little bit off it wasn't
really a joke about him yeah it was I
was saying that there are people that
are off and and actually I was trying to
say that maybe he could do his TV hits
better and I can help him I think if we
to be fair if we had more footage of him
at that Republican function where he
repeats that joke he would say and the
reason why I think it's so great is
because I worked with some blacks and
the the Charter voucher program and they
would make a similar joke and my point
is is that we're all the same folks and
those black Pro voucher jokes that
started with hey it's hilarious that
Donald Trump a white supremists took
over Barack Obama after the after Barack
Obama's presidency
you know it really grinds my gear the
fact that I can't get a scam voucher to
send my kids to a religious school not
to mention Asik humor you pick up in the
in the commissary joke if it's just
something that you're doing right let's
hear there's more there's more I don't
think he would have been good on the
federal reserve though right and they
say he lives in public housing and it
was just kind of a joke and that was
really the optics though serving a white
man talking about picking a black man
out of public housing I've have a
particularly residents especially in a
in this moment yep so I shouldn't have
said it again you can think you go back
through the river gonna be able to find
clips over and over and over again about
me I have a long paper trail I mean
there's no question about it
how's it I love the fact that he says
like it look you could go back 30 years
now that clip you just played that was
18 months ago but but 30 years ago you
could see clips of me basically you know
wearing a hood I mean if you really want
to look good over and over and over
again about me I have a long paper trail
I mean there's no question about it and
I say things that are kind of jokes that
people if people want to pick them apart
I probably won't you know get on the
Federal Reserve Board that turns out to
be very very bumpy right now Andy come
on don't give up Stephen come on stay in
there and fight oh maybe I could be on
the board that was the most astute you
know as a guy who's supposed to be an
economics forecaster that was the most
prescient of anything he's ever said I
do want to I would I want to make some
distinction here Andy and this is
actually sort of I don't want to bring
this conversation make it too serious
but there seems to me there should be
society should have a different standard
there should be a qualitative difference
between writing a joke right as a as a
comedian and it being like crossing line
or it being you know an attempt at humor
that goes awry and it is it's
problematic in some way and I'm not
saying that one should get a pass for
that but or repeating a racist joke and
then getting away with saying it was
just a joke I mean if you're not a
comedian or in the act of like trying to
write and deliver comedy I don't think
you should get away with it was a joke
it would it sad racist joke that you're
repeating because it's a racist joke in
fact you not like I made a joke that
what turned out to be a bad joke are you
saying because I actually more way more
room to make a mistake if you're
actually trying to formulate a joke
yourself yes that's right yeah yeah yeah
right that's such a good point who's
like no I just repeated a tired racism I
was a part of the creative process at
all I just heard a terrible thing and
repeated it I just that time to absorb
why it was funny to know the circles in
which I would retell that joke over and
over again and then I repeated it and
someone overheard me say it I shouldn't
be healthy it was just a joke they
appropriated an anti-racist joke and
made it a racist joke to be fair I don't
like a you fooled me either
comics from the I mean it's one
thing if like you make a joke that you
think is gonna be funny and it turns out
like oh I was insensitive it's racist
and this play I have time to reflect on
it and this and that I mean I'm not
saying you should get a free pass for
that I mean every now and then if you do
you know but but these are actual jokes
will I heard when I was back in the 60s
growing up this is an actual joke could
you mention if I went out and I said hey
it's like a joke where they said how
come black people got killed in Vietnam
so much because whenever they said get
down they started dancing huh that was
marvelous well that was like that was
like the joke that they would say when
they were complaining about you know
Obama not giving them vouchers but look
anyways if that's a problem I'm not
going to be like is anybody surprised
like like does anyone think he's like
impugning the good name of the Heritage
Foundation by associating it with racism
like no that's pretty much on the
surface yeah I mean I think that's true
how about those other Democrats had to
explain why they were doing blackface a
business that's never going to come up
in my life
why was I in high school let me explain
why I was in blackface because I did a
good I did a good backwards moonwalk I
mean I thought it really is literally
unbelievable that these people are still
alive this racist III you know what we
played the birth of the nation at family
night film night on a Friday night it
was just a film it was just a film we
were all gone with the wind
when I was watching gone with the wind
oh the kids like is this is this okay do
I like it could you imagine being though
like he's the one dude like everybody
else can just do whatever they want and
he's like they're like no you're too
incompetent well never McCain is also
like that I mean they they I mean the
the fascinating thing is is that the
they use the excuse of things like
sexism and racism to take him down so
that they're not blamed for and you know
Joni Ernst was Jodi Ernst was one of the
big ones who was worried about the sort
of misogyny because she's running for
reelection in Iowa she's a little bit
nervous these are like the purplish
states where you see the senators get a
little bit nervous and they can't afford
to lose those states now the fact is
though they did not want Stephen Moore
because he's an idiot when are you
saying these people don't care about
racism and sexism they don't but they do
like it when they can use it and and get
bonus points they get some bonus points
for seemingly doing the right thing when
in fact they're simply doing it because
they don't have the guts to go after to
to buck Trump on just sort of something
that they know people don't care about
in other words there's not enough
sophistication and and and and the left
has failed at this you know broadly and
the Democrats in particular Stephen
Moore should have already there should
be enough knowledge out there about this
guy's economic policies that would have
immediately excluded him on day one that
you wouldn't need to go to the fact that
he's an racist hack and and misogynist
hack to sink him but they would have
lost that fight because there hasn't
been enough they're just people just
don't pay attention to that enough
they can be all days about Reagan when
we thought it was like we thought it was
a horrible we actually I was horrible
that Reagan was putting in people in
charge of all these departments who
actually wanted to dismantle them right
right like the guy who was the head of
the interior I think it was wat whatever
I mean that's like a joke it's like a
joke but maybe world was right I
guess if the Department of Justice is
headed by a bill bar I mean I guess it's
so astounding
lack and makes you paralyzed yeah I
can't black people sweetie yes because
of the extra bone in their ankle and
that was a joke that the black people
told me I'm angry that the Democrats who
were baby black would it give them muddy
were their own religious schools and
that's about all I have to say about
that today that was charming the welfare
queens driving Cadillacs wasn't that
charming composure Queen slate not to
joke that I heard was from the welfare
queens who were angry that the black
leaders were giving the welfare okay
instead of Catholic schools I was around
with a bunch of black pimps and they all
told me this story and we all laughed
and it was a great time for us all to
come together that's why I repeat that
joke his name was slim shiny and his
joke was that the Democrats they didn't
want them to have more entrepreneurial
schools that's right which upset him and
the woman who worked for him so greatly
and that's why I said they had an extra
ankle bone it was their joke no more
questions they would say they would say
to me if we gave them a tax cut they
would pass it along to their John's and
that's why you've got to have
supply-side and then they can go to the
chicken shop and buy more things and
that's what they said
anyways as for collaboration my job I'm
calling again please refer to Bill Byrne
