[Music]
but alright let's look into Jesse
Watters he of course is part of the
brain trust over at Fox News and head of
policy head of policy at what's going on
with him if he in front of a video
showing the making it appear that he's
out there you know yeah they have a
image there but there's some something
going on with his look right now that's
a little bit weird I don't know what
hair's getting a bit longer yeah maybe
that's what hairs big yeah I don't know
what's going on he's doing like a like
an Elvis thing or something but alright
let's let's hear his advice for the
Democrats I don't know about you guys
but I like my health care I go to the
doctor I check in I got a dollar what
would you say how much do you think he
makes a year oh my god I don't want to
know um do you think he's like I mean do
you think he's getting it he's six
figures or what seven I mean 8687
figures I mean do you think I would be
surprised if he was making anything less
than half a million dollars yeah I
wouldn't be surprised if he was making
750 yeah from his stint as a political
commentator on the Fox News Channel here
earns an annual salary of two million
dollars according to celebrity net worth
but I would be surprised if he's making
anything less than half a million I
wouldn't be surprised if in making 750
and I think he could be making up to
over a million dollars yeah
with probably very good health care from
his but it doesn't matter you got that
kind of money you're not worried about
co-pays he doesn't I don't think he has
a family
is he married yeah he had an affair with
his producer but he has two twin
daughters oh okay Thank You Brendon
Thank You Brandon now if you have an
affair with your producer you don't have
to provide their health insurance you
don't consider them on your program
right how he got similar health care
through Fox okay
okay I go to the doctor I check in I
give a five dollar copay he tells me I'm
fine I leave I do no paperwork it's
great and one hundred eighty million
Americans feel that way only 27 million
Americans who do not have health
insurance right now let's focus on them
instead of tearing the whole system down
in Bernie he thinks making a profit is
evil I don't know what he's talking
about so many great things have been
done through Aetna Blue Cross and Blue
Shield I don't think these are evil
companies I think these are good
companies that need to bring costs down
and there's ways to do that without
destroying a great system Trump can
exploit this divide within the
Democratic Party and it's a gift because
the Republicans I'm not really sure what
their health care plan is but the
Democrats are making it so easy to
exploit it by offering up this socialist
utopia that makes no sense and does
remove health care from a lot of felt
like now it's he running for office like
that was just the strangest thing that
now he's saying like we've got a but
we've got to expand universal health
care and we're gonna bring down costs
yeah and apparently how you do that is
if everyone is employed by Fox what do
we all I
my sense is is that when you have them
arguing about policy yeah it's good for
the Democrats oh yeah right like just
talking about this as opposed to that
they're gonna ruin anything like they're
defending Obamacare now right yeah the
I'm still struck by the many great
things Aetna has done yeah name a couple
just like who's that now right like I
mean people right they're like going
like you know the the five dollar copay
go it like it does sound like he's got
great health and he has almost as good a
health insurance as you would get under
Medicare for all and so I don't blame
him except for the fact that whatever
does it make except for he's gonna be
paying more in taxes yeah right I mean
that's but he's exactly the sort of
person who like would be the loser and
there aren't that many of him because
this is sort of a generational thing too
I don't think people realize people with
employer-sponsored plans who are younger
have terrible plans with really high
cost now right and leave people with the
like who have been at their companies
for years and make seven hundred fifty
thousand dollars a year like they don't
actually realize that like a lot of
these employer-sponsored plans you're
paying a lot more I mean if I was if I
was uh you know Bernie Sanders or
Elizabeth Warren I would be cutting him
into an ad and just basically say like
yes you should be against this plan yeah
you specifically you and about you know
$5,000 of right I just that was pretty
stunning and it's it's interesting I
like you know I'd like to see Donald
Trump get up there and give his solution
for that yeah I mean that's why I
contend the that all of this policy
arguing is actually highly beneficial
mm-hmm to the Democrats because at the
was one of these people is going to be
the nominee and I think the only way
that they will not the only way but the
easiest route to beating Donald Trump is
to just talk about policies yeah because
if you have to prove to people that
Donald Trump is a racist if you have to
say that he's a racist to convince
people that he's a racist right I mean I
can understand why people are doing it
in the Democratic primary because people
want acknowledgement like are you seeing
what we're seeing yeah yes I am see I
think the Democratic primary that took
that people want this is again like
people want to be validated and be like
you're right it's crazy out there
exactly but when it comes to the the
general election I think the idea is
like did your JV I'm not gonna engage
with you yeah we've got real problems
and here are the solutions and if you
want to join the party join the party
and come in and bring what you got yeah
