we were talking about the the the last
40 45 years or so of American history
where we have example after example of
and maybe just a coincidence maybe not
of Republican presidents engaging in
obvious law breaking and managing
through either pardoning their own
underlings or having their underlings
pardon them to avoid any type of
accountability and you know you had
you'd commented on on Ford's pardoning
of Richard Nixon that was very unpopular
at the time but within a certain period
of time the establishment of this
country the media establishment even
though the political establishment
praised him for getting the country past
that but I think the point that you have
made in your piece and and we can go up
and include Barack Obama's response to
the Bush administration in a moment but
the point your piece is that in fact we
haven't gotten past it we we buried it
in some way and in and what happened is
that we rather than actually dealing
with accounting for law breaking by the
elite essentially of our country we
submerged it and it turned into a cancer
but before we get to that in that cancer
of course is this this this disillusion
with our with our institutions in this
country but but just remind us about
Barack Obama's I guess turn the pages
him because you you had a very good
point in your piece about Obama's
perspective on justice that it would see
somehow unique to look back on crimes
that have been committed yeah I mean
Barack Obama basically said that look
we're in a national crisis and if we
were to look back at the illegal
response to 9/11 of the Bush
administration waterboarding Abu Ghraib
memos from the Office of Legal Counsel
to Justice Department that basically
argued that torture is fine
regardless of international and domestic
law I think that if you look at that
kind of perspective that it is
problematic to raise unpleasantness from
the past if we're trying to be united as
a country I think that gets it
absolutely wrong what unites us as a
country is our democracy the rule of law
is the product of our democracy because
laws are generated by our democracy and
the notion that some people are above
the law by virtue of the fact that they
became they're too important to
prosecute is a very dangerous concept
just as too-big-to-fail is a dangerous
concept for banks another entity that
where prosecutions were come down by the
Obama administration so in general if
the Obama approach was that the more
powerful you are the more problematic
would be to try to hold you to account
because you might fight back and it
would be controversial and it would be
unpleasant
you know I'm not a huge fan of Saving
Private Ryan but when you look at the
cavalcade of members of the Trump
administration including Donald Trump
himself on some level who should have
been prosecuted at one point right
during the the decade beforehand and how
they end up there it reminds me of that
scene where they let the the German
soldier go and he came back and shot
somebody essentially right I mean that's
what we have with Steve minuchin Steve
minuchin should be in jail or should
have been maybe coming out of jail
before he becomes the Treasury secretary
and and I would imagine there's there's
a multitude of people like this not the
least of which is our our CIA director
as well you mentioned torture but okay
so you've made the case it seems to me
that from a the perspective of a healthy
democracy that you need to deal with
these problems rather than just getting
past and turning the page but also speak
to the if that's not enough to sell
people on this idea which i think it
should be but there's also at least if
you're a part of the party that does not
commit these type of crimes a political
reason to make sure that people are held
to account yeah I mean
basically there's going to be there's an
entire generation of Republicans which
have aided and abetted Trump's travesty
of an administration the Sharia law
breaking of the Trump administration
would not be possible if the Republican
Congress of the past two years and the
continuing to be Republican Senate right
now we're not eating and abetting the
jump administration this is the system
is not working because the
Constitution's framers thought that
there'd be a separation of powers and
that Congress would guard against
executive branch overreach and that's
just not going on and so if you were to
continue to emphasize in the future even
after Trump is out of office the many
manifold sins of the Trump
administration be they the idiosyncratic
ties to Russia and the emoluments cause
violations and the like or the more
mundane but you know no less awful
corruption and empowerment of the worst
bankers and pharmaceutical companies and
other corporate bad actors if you were
to tie those sins to the rest of the
Republican Party that was okay with them
in office I think you could permanently
tar and brand a generation of
Republicans for that action but if you
stopped talking about Trump if you try
to just focus on the future and don't
look backward to the Trump years you
will emulate what happened in 2009 and
2010 when Obama refused to talk about
george w bush he didn't actually mention
george w bush by name in the first
fourteen or fifteen months of his
presidency and that reflected just a
general aversion to being seen as
partisan by bringing up the legs bush
legacy but the economy was tanking all
around obama and that wasn't obama's
fault that was the legacy of the bush
years and his unwillingness to criticize
bush and tie the events of 2009 and 2010
to its source in the bush years allowed
bush's congressional allies who had made
the george w bush presidency possible
from 2001 to 2008 to read
clean power as quickly as 2011 after the
disastrous for the Democratic Party 2010
midterms so I think what we've seen is
that if you don't brand and tarnish an
entire party based off of a disastrous
president you miss an enormous
opportunity and that's the opposite of
the lesson FDR took I mean Democrats
during FDR's years and actually even
later then after FDR was dead they
brought up Herbert Hoover anytime they
could for a generation you would invoke
her returner to talk about why
Republicans couldn't be trusted to run
an economy that would work for ordinary
working people and I think that the
Democratic Party should learn from the
success of FDR which you know produced a
political party that was capable of
winning control of Congress for fifty or
sixty two years well Jeff it's an
excellent piece and it is advice
hopefully a new generation of Democrats
will take to remind people of the
failures of the Republican Party that
aided and abetted Donald Trump both in
what his criminal activities may or may
not have been in office but just in
terms of from a policy standpoint
Jeff Houser thanks so much for time
today I really appreciate it
