[Music]
Joe Biden has been having a rocky time
the whole point of Joe Biden I've always
said I think Joe Biden was somebody who
is always gonna be formidable I never
doubted it for a minute and some of the
things that people don't like about Joe
Biden frankly are not things that are
going to be translatable to wider
audiences it's extremely important I
think because I don't look on one hand
yes some of the stuff is not ideological
of course it's temperament its style its
people's the way they respond to people
conversely I'm quite confident that if
Bernie Sanders was travelling across the
country with the same presentation and
the same person saying we need to get
serious about writing and entitlements
he would not be the most popular
politician in the country so let's not
be delusional and oversell that argument
it is a fusion of both and actually in
the best cases you have a seamlessness
between your public brand and how you
communicate and what you represent
ideologically that is a very significant
advantage that Bernie Sanders has there
is a seamlessness from his life story
his total commitment even when it was
marginalized and in the Reagan and
Clinton eras the Bush eras and even most
the Obama era and then the fact that you
know he has the plans in the agenda in
Joe Biden's case there was a lot of
people I would say who actually still
think that this guy that the middle
class brand is what properly represents
him and that because he served with
President Obama and because he can point
to certain very not bold areas but
narrow areas of liberal votes and
initiatives that he's someone who is
instinctually and stylistically on on
the side of middle working-class people
Bernie needs to get on stage with Biden
and say to him what is the middle class
what are you talking about who are these
people
did the middle class need you to make
bankruptcy impossible did the middle
class in the places that you constantly
represent benefit from every single
trade agreement you've pushed for your
whole career that's the area where I
actually I will believe and I don't hold
this against voters at all this is our
job in politician's jobs but I think
that just as if you poll a lot of people
on Republican and proposals and it's a
disturbing thing that you get in focus
groups you can do a focus group and some
people will literally not believe that
Republicans are proposing what they're
proposing because they don't think
anybody could be that much of an
so I am in a more mild way I bet that
there's plenty of people who would say I
mean Joe Biden he he rides Amtrak he in
2016 by the way gave some very smart and
it was strategic but he gives him very
smart and even laudatory talks briefly
about Bernie when he went to the Rose
Garden said he wasn't running for
president he said if he was running for
president and it was totally
contradictory because he talked all the
Obama bipartisanship stuff but on the
other hand he actually talked about
stagnating incomes labor and wages
that's actually what he centered so I
think that there's plenty of people who
might not know the full and complete
details of what this man has done for
the credit card industry for trade
agreements and that's when the rubber
meets the road that's when there's a
seamlessness of presentation ideology
and there's a lot of room
and Sanders should be hitting him hard
on that and Warren should be hitting him
hard on them I think that this has
happened to an extent with civil rights
and the fact that the man himself
generated a whole conversation about his
1970s anti-civil rights record by
relentlessly bragging about his tight
friendships with some of the worst
people in American history I have a
sense that if you do the same thing on
credit cards on on trade the response
that he has will be as not compelling as
this this is Joe Biden at the
n-double-a-cp saying I could have been
that bad
this is not a continuation of Barack
Seidman our administration what it is is
there's new problems there's new
problems we face today they were
different than the ones we faced at the
time but the fact of the matter is he's
a close friend I'm very proud to have
served with him and I might add if he
thought it was good enough for me on
they did a significant background check
on me for months with ten people I think
my I doubt what he would have picked me
if there's accusations about my being
wrong on civil rights is correct well
first of all you know of course the
reality is is that even then the
politics of how race was represented in
the Democratic primary was completely
different and there was no doubt that
tactically part of the pic of Joe Biden
was to soothe certain parts of the white
electorate so his pick might actually be
proving a very different point and as he
said himself were in a different time
now you might want to cool it on that
argument Joe I want to clone that
argument all right since we're not we're
not gonna be able to get to
