with that in mind we have the Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo he's at the White
House ostensibly he's flown back from
Saudi Arabia right when he's making this
speech and he's he went to Saudi Arabia
sick I need the hard answers here I need
to know what the heck there's there's
reports that your own personal bodyguard
well I'm it's a been Solomon was was
there you did his Clouseau impression
and Pompeyo got the goods here he is
he's coming back here now it's like I
figured out what was going on I had a
chance to brief the President on the
travel that I returned from my sleeping
right travel both to Riyadh and Ankara
had a chance to talk within in Riyadh
with the king with a crown prince from
the Foreign Minister all of the United
States counterparts there we made clear
to them that we take this matter
with respect to mr. khashoggi very
seriously they made clear to me that
they to understand the serious nature of
the disappearance of mr. khashoggi they
also assured me that they will conduct a
composite posit the disappearance right
he disappeared god I love that passive
voice well it's it's also sort of like
we don't we don't know what happened to
it we don't know if he's dead or alive
he for all we know this could be an
insurance fraud scam the old life
insurance thing or maybe maybe he just
really didn't want to get married
spontaneous combustion spontaneous
combustion is possible maybe didn't want
to get married and so this is the only
way that he didn't have the the guts to
break up with his fiancee so I did the
old go into the embassy and go out the
back door type of thing maybe maybe
maybe he was picked up by a UFO stranger
things have happened you know or maybe
not but that you know at one point it's
possible someone gets teleported up to a
UFO or picked up by a tractor beam
there's multiple different explanations
but he disappeared go back a little bit
understand the serious nature of the
disappearance of mr. Khashoggi
they also assured me that they will
conduct a complete thorough
investigation of all of the facts
surrounding mr. khashoggi and that they
will do so in a timely fashion and that
this report itself will be transparent
for everyone to see
to ask questions about and to acquire
with respect to its thoroughness and I
told President Trump this morning that
we ought to give them a few more days to
complete that so that we to have a
complete understanding of the facts
surrounding that which point we can make
decisions about how or if the United
States should respond you see what
you're doing in real-time
we are watching people make up a story
right and it's and apparently it's not
going to be too easy because there's so
much evidence that would it appears to
be like physical evidence in the form of
like a recording that they're really
having to work on like what's going on
so like they have to do some type of
investigation now incidentally one
person who was reportedly of that 15 my
understanding from last night already
had the misfortune of dying in a car
crash can you believe it can you believe
it so there may need a couple more days
to investigate
in other words like maybe maybe let's
see if you got one in one day it made it
maybe they made two weeks you have
someone they're going to kill all of
those guys well I'd like to call it
tying up loose ends
right and the US government is covering
for them so that's where we are ladies
and gentlemen I mean I I hope we see
more this is why all the Republicans who
are running I think that's you know we
were sitting in here why why are the
Republicans the Conservatives are doing
a whisper campaign smearing khashoggi
which is I just don't even understand
what the outcome of that is they don't
want to alienate I guess their base but
the fact is is that none of these
Republicans I mean I don't know how
going into this election a single one of
them running for reelection could
actually
say like anything other than this were
like every democratic at this point we
have a government where you know and
it's slightly different than when we
just kill people right because everybody
sort of bought into that as a as a
nation but the idea that we are running
basically interference for the just
naked murder of a journalist that's been
crazy the base loves that stuff so well
yeah they're gonna need a little bit
more than the base that's the problem so
they may like it from Trump but if I'm
running against Dave brat in Virginia
let's say I'm gonna be like will you
denounce the president for covering up
on this murder by the Saudis the Saudis
aren't necessarily you know it'd be
interesting we'll talk to cliff about
this because I think there is a pipe a
reason why Donald Trump was praising GM
Forte the other a journalist abuser
