[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program executive editor of above the
law legal editor of w NY sees more
perfect contributor at the Nation
magazine Ellie missed all on his latest
piece Donald Trump and the plot to take
over the courts Ellie welcome to the
program thank you so much for having me
I will say that and what you've done out
here is is basically outline the broad
structures and the the statistics the of
Donald Trump's really I would say just I
want to say court packing but it's not
it's not actually court packing the way
that we know but his ability mister yes
I mean to fill the courts up with his
nominees in a way that is really sort of
I think unprecedented in terms of
numbers and then you go into detail on
seven of the judges that represent this
I will tell you right now because I
think this is the most important thing
for people to understand about this era
if you do more pieces on this and you
end up doing a hundred and sixty or so
of judges we will have you back each
time to talk about each one of them well
I really do think it's that important
and I don't think that people understand
sort of the dimensions of what we're
dealing with in terms of the change here
we can elect a president and a Congress
and a Senate and they can propose a wish
dream a wish list of things for folks
like me but the courts can basically say
and not going to happen and III don't
know if folks on the Left appreciate
that it's not my favorite part of the
American system of governance but it
appears to be we're moving into a new
era before we talk about that new era
and the specific judges give us those
numbers and just put them into context
in terms of what Donald Trump has done
and it's and it's not really Donald
Trump it's it's Mitch McConnell but what
the right has been able to do in terms
of reshaping
our the the the complexion I mean that
both ways I guess of the judiciary yes
so at this point Donald Trump has a
Mitch McConnell have confirmed 123
federal judges and that's as of you know
when I wrote the piece I think actually
today it might be 127 based on like last
week
123 federal judges or so including 41
judges to the Circuit Court of Appeals
which is the level right below the
Supreme Court by comparison by this
point in Barack Obama's presidency he
had only confirmed 19 Circuit Court of
Appeals judges so that means that right
now 14 percent of the entire federal
judiciary is made up of Trump judges 22
percent of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is made up of Trump judges and of course
22 percent of the Supreme Court is made
up of Trump judges as he has two of the
nine slots there he's been able to do
this because Mitch McConnell is the
Darth Vader of our story here okay
everybody remembers everybody was kind
of alerted to the fact that Mitch
McConnell is a problem when he blocked
Barack Obama's nominee to the Supreme
Court Merrick garland but Merrick
garland the blocking of that nomination
was the capstone on a nearly you know
years long effort to stymie Obama
appointees he was stymieing Obama
appointees when he was the minority
leader to say nothing of what he was
able to basically completely stop the
train when he was Majority Leader so
that when Donald Trump took office there
were 106 Federal vacancies open in our
judiciary I don't know if that's a
record because I imagine that George
Washington had quite a few judicial
vacancies to fill when he became
president but you know other than that
it's an unprecedent there were an
unprecedented amount of openings for
Donald Trump which is why he has been
able to feel to report judges at an
unprecedented rate now let there's
couple points I want to make here one
when we compare Obama to Trump in in
terms of where they are with
appointments to the Senate
let me excuse me to the Judiciary people
have to remember that Obama that was
that was the peak of control that
Democrats had over the process right up
to this point because they had two years
of a almost a filibuster proof majority
at that time for they had you know maybe
maybe it was like an eight month period
of a filibuster majority maybe a little
bit longer in between Frank and seating
and Scott Brown getting elected but they
had some period of time that the it's
it's Trump is going to have the majority
for the next year or so so another
twenty five percent of his term and it's
very possible that the Senate remains in
the hands of the Republicans the other
thing is we should also know too that
that Barack Obama my understanding is
did a poor job of getting on the ball
quickly the administration in terms of
lining up those judges it seemed to take
a long time I know they were
obstructionist there's no doubt about
that but I've heard from other other
folks that Obama was a little bit slow
they did not emphasize this when they
came in I agree with that criticism but
I like to to retcon that criticism as
not just a criticism on Barack Obama and
his administration I think that's
actually a criticism on the entire
progressive structure on the entire
liberal movement we as liberals have
dropped the ball on judicial
appointments for far too long so that
when they're like this when Trump comes
into office with 106 openings we're
talking about Donald Trump here to know
the difference between the Supreme Court
and traffic court all right like this
this is not his idea what has happened
is that McConnell and especially these
outside nonprofit groups like the
Federalist Society which is the big one
but also the heritage found
also the judicial crisis Network like
there is an entire kind of federal
Republican judicial kind of think-tank
industry that has been grooming
incubating training promoting and
putting on conservative minded people in
positions to be plucked and put on the
the federal courts at a moment's notice
right they have a raft of these people
and that is what liberals do not have
right we do we have not done the work we
have not done the organization
organizational work to have our own raft
of 200 potential judicial nominees ready
to pounce whenever there is an opening
to put somebody on on a court so yes was
the administration a little bit slow on
the ball did they not particularly
emphasize this part of their duties
enough I totally agree with that
criticism but that criticism goes to all
of us you know that criticism goes to
the entire leftist movement i I agree
with that and and we should also say to
there's other one other I guess sort of
wrinkle on this is that it appears now
that if you want to be placed in the
federal judiciary you need to go and be
a member of the Federalist Society and
in the Federalist Society you will be
indoctrinated to this to the
conservative movement legal doctrine
which runs the gamut to what I think are
more sort of high profile issues on the
left in terms of social social issues
but also stuff like the Chevron doctrine
and the role of agencies in the way that
they relate to the government and a
whole host of sort of of of notions
about closing the courtroom doors to
people and etc etc there is no real
analog on the left to the extent that
there is it's the American Constitution
Society and that appears now it seems to
me because I think I think it was like
ted Lieu there was a couple of people
who were brought up in front of the
senate or had to step down from their
nominations because of their association
with the ACS
and that becomes problematic because if
I'm a young lawyer wanting to get into
that sort of like opera that that
potential feeder for the federal
judiciary I know that maybe that's not a
good sign I get it I get to keep a lower
profile I mean I mean you're talking
about Goodwin Liu that sadly but yeah I
mean the look the Republicans play to
win
the Republicans play to win this game
they play it hard and they play it and
they play it they have so far played it
correctly right so yes if you are a
liberal person and you work for the ACS
the American constitutional Society or
even if you work for the you know
n-double-a-cp
Legal Defense Fund if you if you are if
you work for the ACLU they roll the
Conservatives will slam you as being
some kind of extreme leftist for your
association with those organization but
the Federal Society which is the most
extreme right-wing legal group out there
if you're associated with the federal
Society well that's just being a normal
Republican folks and the Democrats when
they get their chances when they get
their opportunities at confirmation
hearings to have the microphone
they don't slam the federal society they
don't bring to light how truly
reactionary this group of people are and
and it's a huge it's a huge problem the
other problem about with that problem
though is part of how it goes to the
elitism in the legal profession in
general I think a lot of your listeners
can understand that or or were alerted
to that during the Brett Kavanaugh
hearings where they saw you know so many
elite legal scholars rally a left or
right rally around Brett Kavanaugh as a
good guy in a normal jurist and
certainly not a horrible Persia or write
up in full Christine Blasi Ford showed
up and then at least the Liberals were
like oh maybe this guy isn't the right
one right so one of the reasons why the
pharoah Society kind of goes under the
radar is because they get people while
they're young the federal society is all
over
law schools right they say they find
people with with right leanings in law
school and they start indoctrinating
training them
surely having you know I went to Harvard
Law School they have the best food of
any group you know having an event and
so they get them there and they make it
so that it's all part of one kind of
elitist community that even liberals
have a hard time apparently some of them
speaking out against when they get their
opportunity
