CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people
conference rooms of any Elise
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday December 13th 2018
my name is Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Steven a
cook senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations we're talking about
NBS the larger structural problems in
the us-saudi relationship also Turkey as
air Dewan threatens more military action
against the Kurds is it really time to
finally reassess the u.s. Turkish
relationship all that and more with
Steven cook hush-money inquiry adds to
Trump's dangers as the National Enquirer
flips Michael Cohen gets hit with three
and the next phase the Muller probe it's
looking at the Middle East which might
be even more fruitful territory for
essentially what could be a vast
wide-ranging investigation into global
corruption and oh lucky Oleg our key
which would implicate the entire
political order if it was done right
Senate to vote on aid to the Yemen war
as Bernie Sanders pushes forward
meanwhile in the house five despicable
grotesque Democrats joined Paul Ryan in
a vote
to murder and slaughter more Yemenis
blood on hands all around North Carolina
legislature calls for a new primary if a
new election isn't is held in the
disputed district after extreme
Republican funny business they're as
Democrat or should say COO business just
as in Wisconsin and Michigan Republicans
racing forward to limit democracy after
losing elections there Nancy Pelosi
strikes deal on leadership turn limits
and respond in return for new votes to
become Speaker cottoned to demand new
efforts on a criminal justice overhaul
bill but of course the devil is in the
details
Theresa mates survives a no-confidence
vote although Margaret Thatcher resigned
with a even more generous margin than
May got she is symbolically leading the
country and her brexit deal is a
non-starter as jeremy corbyn's halls
jeremy korvin calls for elections on low
begins his fight to restore democracy
and combat neoliberalism in Mexico two
leaders of Brazil's a landless people's
movement were Atlanta landless rural
workers movement were assassinated in a
machine gun attack at one of their camps
over the weekend as Lula says he will
not trade his dignity for freedom and
the same political prosecutor who put
Lula in jail now bowls narrows justice
minister promises to tack labor unions
in his next phase of quote-unquote
anti-corruption politics all that and
much much more on today's majority
report what's up fellows hello howdy
hello so there was a vote basically a
parliamentary maneuver in the house that
Paul Ryan put into play
essentially attach a motion to bring
forward a bill that Rokon is sponsoring
the house it's a parallel to what Bernie
Sanders Chris Murphy and Mike Lee are
working on in the Senate to halt us
funding refueling and really active
participation efforts in the Saudi
Arabian United Arab Emirates war on
Yemen it's killed tens of thousands of
people it's caused a cholera outbreak
food shortages it's targeted schools
hospitals funeral homes it's a it is one
of the most savage sustained and brutal
crimes occurring on a daily basis in the
world today with full active United
States and US and UK participation in
this calamy led by the Saudi regime Paul
Ryan very much has that same blood on
his hands has that same Yemeni blood in
his beard and that maneuver which as I
understand it was a parliamentary
maneuver to attach the motion to proceed
with the vote on defunding the war on
Yemen was attached to an agriculture
bill which meant that basically the the
agriculture bill being voted on and
moving forward would delay a vote on the
khana bill until the new year so 18
Republicans crossed party lines to vote
for it five Democrats cross party lines
to vote against it we'll talk about
those five in a minute
but first this is Roe khanna on the
floor of the house yesterday explaining
the maneuvers that are gonna lead to
even more bloodshed in yemen thank you
to Paul Ryan's disgusting leadership
Americans around this country are
wondering what does a farm bill have to
do with the war in Yemen and
answer is absolutely nothing you wonder
why people are frustrated with Congress
why they think Congress lacks common
sense it's because no one understands
why you would have a vote on a farm bill
and you would tie it to a vote on war
and peace in Yemen the only reason the
leadership is doing this is because they
know that there are dozens of
Republicans who will stand with
Democrats to stop the killing in Yemen
how do they know this because Senate
Republicans are voting to stop the
killing in Yemen I came to Congress
because of my grandfather who inspired
me who spent four years in jail in
Gandhi's independence moment and I came
to Congress to say that America should
always stand for human rights I urge my
Republican colleagues look at the
pictures in The New York Times in
Huffington Post five-year-old kids
seven-year-old kids starving to death
a Yemenis child dying every ten minutes
they tell us to wait till January
that would mean thousands of more
Yemenis kids dead I don't think this is
a partisan issue this is an American
issue let's stop the killing in Yemen
let's end the famine let's have a vote
in this house so we can stop those civil
war in Yemen and save lives in a quote
now briefly from a great piece and
splinter five Democrats joined Paul Ryan
to vote for more yemeni blood on there
to vote for more yemeni blood on their
hands is the correct title of the piece
House Speaker Paul Ryan because he's a
ghoul doesn't support ending the war on
Yemen Ryan also selects the nine
majority members of the House Rules
Committee which gets the set rules under
which a bill will be voted on on Tuesday
night House Rules stuck House Rules
that's the House Rules Committee stuck
stuck in a small part to the rules for
the farm bill which again was expecting
the passed and now has passed and has
nothing to do with Yemen that blocked
the house from voting on a Yemen
resolution sponsored by Democrat RO Cana
that rule change went to vote Wednesday
afternoon reasonably immediately caused
a stir over
over a dozen Republicans flipped to no
votes right away and several more
followed that ultimately fived Democrats
handled handed this one to Ryan who are
these five despicable obscene disgusting
need to be immediately primary Democrats
they are Jim Costa al Lawson Collin
Peterson Dutch Ruppersberger and David
Scott we're gonna talk more about the
bloody five who need to be primary to
need to have their offices called who
need to have letters sent to them who
need to be tweeted out and need to be
ashamed and protested in every forum but
just to give you a flavor of the bloody
five who voted for a Yemen genocide
here's representative Colin Petersen
he's a Democrat I don't know what state
we're gonna get these guys states
Minnesota he's representative Collin
Peterson Democrat Minnesota explaining
why he sided with the Republican
majority and Paul Ryan on continuing to
murder Yemenis he said quote our party
gets off on tangents which is how he's
deeming cholera famine the murder of
tens of thousands of people with us
support and weapons this is Jeff Stein's
full exchange with of Jeff Stein from
you can read that Jeff Stein I'll read
Peterson okay can you explain your vote
on the Yemen resolution yeah it didn't
belong in there why not can you have
just come back and done another vote no
we've worked for two years on this farm
bill and I'll be damned if I let anybody
screw it up
do you have any thoughts about the war
in Yemen I don't know what damn thing
about it
and it should be in there and it didn't
it didn't do anything anyway
what do you mean by that all it did was
say they couldn't have a vote or
something didn't authorize anything it
didn't you know our party gets off on
tangents it's ridiculous so we all we
basically know why Colin Peterson I
voted for Yemen genocide because he is
literally a absolute addition to being
callous and immoral obviously a complete
airhead who is totally no one with this
level of
total moral failing plus complete
intellectual inability should be serving
in Congress and I know that there's
plenty of people with no moral ability
and total intellectual shortcomings to
serve in Congress but we should still
have higher standards in Collin Peterson
is an immoral airhead and that explains
his vote for the enjoining the Yemen
genocide caucus and the leadership of
Paul Ryan and I'm pretty sure all these
five or a good chunk of them are in
pretty safe Democrats these are safe
Democrat seats they all need to be
primary I actually want to give a shout
out I believe it was Tommy Vitor who is
a a pod safe guy I don't have it in the
packet he tweeted out last night are you
interested in primary any of the five
there get in touch with me excellent
well don't tell me well done Tommy great
stuff okay
let's talk briefly about who's bringing
today's show and then we will get
Stephen a cook 2018 has been a very
difficult year for human rights as you
just witnessed there among many other
examples but have you ever wondered how
rights abuses are documented around the
world you probably have with the sheer
number of global crises we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing and Manoir to the
caging of children on the US border it's
critical that we exposed the truth in
order to defend the rights of all and
bring those responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that we are
an independent nonprofit organization
they are an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy often important
with local activists and human rights
groups they accept no money from any
government but rely on the support of
informed dedicated people just like you
so human rights are important to you
visit h r w org slash majority to make a
donation and support it's vital work
around the world when you do not only is
your gift tax deductible will be matched
dollar for dollar until 2019 that means
your donation will go twice as far to
advance justice and defend the basic
dignity of people who need it most again
that's HR w dot org slash
majority Kasper is the sleep brand that
continues to revolutionize its line of
products and create an exceptionally
comfortable sleep experience one night
at a time with three mattress models the
Casper original the wave and the
essential Casper mattresses are
perfectly designed to cradle and soothe
your natural geometry not to mention the
breathable design helps you sleep cool
and regulate your body temperatures
throughout the night and it's delivered
right to your door in a small how do
they do that size box with free shipping
and returns in the US and Canada but the
best part is but the best part is that
you can be sure your purchase with
Casper's 100 night risk-free sleep on a
trial afterall you spend a third of your
life sleeping so you should be
comfortable now I got my first Casper
about three weeks ago I'm definitely not
gonna be sending it back it's an
incredibly comfortable sleeping
experience the box comes to your door it
is incredibly convenient you can just
carry it yourself upstairs then you open
up the box and it literally sort of
unfolds out like that into a full
incredible comfortable mattress I'm
sleeping really really well on it and
I'm thrilled that I got it get fifty
dollars towards the Select mattress by
visiting Casper comm slash majority and
using majority a check out
that's Casper comm slash majority offer
code majority 450 off of your impact of
your mattress purchase terms and
conditions apply we were going to take a
brief break and we'll be back with
Steven a cook from the Council on
Foreign Relations
you
welcome back Michael Brooks on the
majority report joining us now is Steven
a cook he's a senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations Steve
thanks a million for doing this how you
doing my pleasure Michael great to be on
with you as always as always my friends
we're gonna do as we're wants to do a
sort of broader regional tour of Menno
we're gonna touch specifically on City
Arabia enter well that's the reason you
region you picked me all right right I
didn't force your hand as you know you
could have been doing much more fun
things as undergraduate I'm sure I
[Laughter]
studied a lot of you right
was it fun getting a PhD it was actually
there was a lot of fun it was a blast
I mean people struggle through it and I
had my moments but of course you know
getting the opportunity to go and live
abroad for a period of time and delve
into intellectual questions that
fascinate you what could be bad right
well I guess until uh you know Donald
Trump is president and heir to one's
president mm BS runs the Saudi monarchy
el Sisi is in Egypt Netanyahu is in
Israel I don't know I mean the boxes
here in one sense that is interesting in
another sense it's deeply and profoundly
depressing which is why I said we really
active but let's go let's talk about it
all well as people will know from
listening to your I don't know if you
want me to plug this but I listen to all
men quarter podcasts that you do with
our friend Brad and people know that
actually Steve is quite capable of
talking about a lot more than men uh
thanks for thanks for plugging me on
that corner it's a lot of fun to do with
with our buddy Brad Rothschild there we
go a little less on the on the Middle
East politics and more on me just
general politics and pop culture stuff
that's more yeah that's the like hey why
aren't there bands like
the clash or Public Enemy anymore what
happened the filter fish at Zabar's
isn't as good anymore
Big Mike God is Ted Cruz an it's
a great show
oh no for real I want to talk I mean we
did the opening segment and the house is
just you know just this unbelievable
moral failure to pass the RO Cana bill
to stop funding the Saudi UAE war on
Yemen which I mean you know we could
keep spelling out is really one of the
greatest you know humanitarian abuses
and crises in the world today Paul
Ryan's stuck it into a farm bill in this
incredibly cynical parliamentary
maneuver 18 Republicans actually crossed
sides to vote the right way and five
Democrats cross sides to vote the wrong
way and then of course there's the
Sanders Murphy Lee bill in the Senate
right
I mean and in some ways I mean we'll get
to Khashoggi soon but I mean there is
the sort of I mean there's all the
terrifying implications of the Khashoggi
murder but there is I think the very
fair point that you know this has been
going on since 2015 with us support and
it's an undeniable just sort of mass
crime against humanity you know deep in
spite of the setback I mean D is the
politics of it shifting in DC with a
kind of broader frustration even
discussed with Saudi Arabia I'd like to
say that it is but I'm not convinced
that it a little bit I think
look there's a tremendous amount of
moral outrage over to show T murder
which has in turn focused more people's
attention on Yemen but as you let as you
quite rightly point out where were
people in 2015 quite often where were
people in 2006 when this Cataclysm
really began so you know the Saudis have
only been there for three years or so
but it's been going on for quite some
time and we have as you point out been
supporting it I think the Obama
administration took a look at this and
said well
we are negotiating with the Iranians and
this has freaked out our allies in the
Gulf so what can we do to reassure them
that we're on their side in in helping
to in helping to ensure their security
and of course we picked the Yemen Yemen
this is craziness an argument to be made
that you have to have a robust approach
to al-qaeda of the Arabian Peninsula in
Yemen which is you know deeply embedded
in that country and and a threat but to
enable the Saudis in their kind of
ill-fated intervention which and at the
outset of it when they said what they
were fighting for and they basically
said this it would that they were
fighting to prevent the Hizbul ization
of Yemen and to ensure that the Iranians
didn't get a toehold in the Arabian
Peninsula and you look at what they were
doing and said well this is all going to
become a self-fulfilling prophecy that
you're never going to be able to get out
of and of course that's what's come to
pass and in the in the in the crossfire
have been millions of Yemenis who are on
the verge of starvation
there's cholera it's it's terrible and
then of course so that was the Obama
administration one of the Obama
administration's thing on and then the
Trump administration comes into office
and who had this kind of you know
single-minded focus on confronting the
Iranians and that the focal point of
their policy is going to be Saudi Arabia
and in particular they're gonna put
Jared Kushner in charge of handling the
relationship with Saudi Arabia because
he's a thirtysomething and so is the the
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman I just
bizarre in the extreme that only has
made things worse um because of what it
did its signal to the Saudis that they
can get around the the formal foreign
policy process go directly to the
son-in-law go directly to the president
who really doesn't know much about
anything as we all know I mean just but
the the level of the president's
ignorance upon coming to office is
actually greater than many people
suspect so
we got there so do you think and I want
to just do a real you know realist know
know sort of you know moral judgment
about the houthis one way or another but
it does strike me that even just okay
that the Saudi foreign policy of
assuming that the Houthis are just a
sort of replica a Yemeni Hezbollah he
said Hezbollah Hezbollah zation and and
you know Hezbollah is an organic group
to Lebanon but it's definitely it's it's
it's exactly an Iranian proxy but the
power and capacity of Hezbollah is is
dependent and reciprocal to the Iranian
government and so that is may be fair to
to look at Hezbollah and say you can't
understand Hezbollah without
understanding the Islamic Republic and
the Houthis I read are a far more yes
they're Shia but they are an organic
group to Yemen whatever you think of
them one way or another and yes they've
taken some support from Iran sure but
plenty of groups take you know plenty of
support from various state actors it
doesn't mean that they are a creation of
them and it seems right so I guess would
you explain the Houthis on that axis
right organic to the place versus a
proxy so the the Saudis have been in
conflict with this group that we now
refer to as the Houthis for decades
Jackie I mean going back to you know the
1930s the Houthis are actually named
after a guy named Hussein al-houthi
who raised this militia and I had that
was based around the Solidarity of a
sect of Shiism called big they're what's
called they they are Shia but they don't
believe the same things that the
Iranians share they're not Twelver Shia
I'm no not not necessary to get into all
the details of this but so this has been
a conflict that's been ongoing of course
the Saudis supported them during a
Rivas Yemeni civil war in the 1960s but
it has been a conflictual conflictual
relationship we say know who he had you
know a variety of worldviews that we
would find to be you know unpleasant he
was a 9/11 truther he took up the
iranian revolutionary creed death to
America death to the Jews victory for
Islam but this is the world view was
sort of a mishmash of kind of Islamic
state things that are kind of indigenous
to hootie thinking but the conflict in
Yemen began as a conflict between the
Houthis and the central government and
that was also a long running conflict
the Saudis from their perspective the
games that the Houthi militia now with
the army made in forcing the legitimate
government not necessarily popular but
legitimate government out of Sanaa was
to them how could how could the Houthis
possibly do this
there must be an Iranian handed and
that's done it's you know much of what
this a VC around them they proceeded to
be an Iranian hand at work but you're
spot on this is a group that is
indigenous their conflicts within Yemen
are local conflicts and when the Saudis
through their forces into into Yemen in
2015 they had done it actually once
before in 2009 committed ground troops
and kind of got their butts handed to
them and they retreated so now it's just
been primarily an air campaign the
Iranians use the opportunity to to
support the Houthis so if you look at it
really from a geopolitical perspective
here you have the Saudis we're spending
millions and millions and billions and
millions of dollars on this quagmire and
the Iranians need to spend very very
little and the Houthis only really have
to fight the Saudis to a standstill to
win and that's precisely what's happened
and you have been they have driven the
Houthis closer to the Iranians but that
not the way it started and that's not
the way it adds a bit right so we're
gonna get to MBS in a second but you
just want to touch so the other dynamic
here about Yemen and I and so okay so
it's one thing to say yes al Qaeda and
the Arabian Peninsula and the presence
in Yemen was you know absolutely real
and definitely I don't know I mean I'm
pretty skeptical I have to say mostly of
sort of like the capacity of these
groups to steadily and consistently
threaten the United States certainly in
terms of on the US homeland in any type
of systemic way but there's no doubt
that whether it's a but even as an
example the attacks that al Qaeda
started with in the late 90s like
embassy attack and right like the whole
the Cole is are very serious very
harmful terrorist attacks that sort of
initially gave them their legs it's one
thing to recognize that that it's a real
threat and a real operative organization
and also but it does not mean obviously
that we endorse the drone policy there
which was very destructive to you and so
what's the dynamic between on one hand
you have this sort of weird dual
approach where on one hand okay there's
a there's an actual problem there but
let's just outsource it to drone warfare
which kills a lot of civilians and
causes instability I think that's been
very documented including even by
military sources I don't think this is a
controversial opinion at all at this
point and then conversely to say oh the
real issue is the Saudi UAE perception
of Yemen and that's all about Iran and
we certainly know how the Saudis can be
quite willing to support you know rather
right-wing Salafist groups in their
proxy war so how does the u.s. I mean
both approaches are pretty disastrous
but how does that square get circled
here well this is the this is really you
know in Yemen you have a number of
different conflicts that are all going
on at one time and what what really
focused the American attention on Yemen
was
in fact the underwear bomber the
underwear bomber was the guy who came
you know he was sent by AQAP the
intention was to blow up a flight
enroute to Detroit on Christmas Day and
I can't even remember the year we've
been at this was it's another line she
only comes to tout and sometime between
2006 and 2009 I cannot remember
maybe maybe 2006 was was the guy with
the shoe bomber got well yeah regardless
that's it was really that threat and
people sort of woke up to the fact that
although the United States had dealt
this extraordinary blow to al Qaeda
Central and Afghanistan that there were
these kind of affiliate organizations
essentially out there operating on their
own and that al Qaeda al Qaeda in the
Arabian tension was a particularly
potent one and that certainly had the
means to try to put on these spectacular
attacks and I think that's what the the
drone warfare began and then of course
the Obama administration really ramped
it up it was a way of Obama proving that
he was going to be tough when regard to
American security but without having to
deploy American forces all over the
world which was you know the theory of
his 2008 run for office we we're not
going to do stupid stuff but I wouldn't
I think his quote was I won't be afraid
to pull the trigger so you've got that
and it's the Emiratis
are interesting because in fact their
primary focus in Yemen had been hOAT
they saw AQAP al Qaeda the Arabian
Peninsula is a significant threat to
them and they were kind of in these
hit-and-run type military operations
against AQAP sometimes in cooperation
with the United States sometimes on
their own and then the Saudis launched
into into Yemen and the Emiratis
actually got really nervous
believing that the Saudis wouldn't win
and that it would destabilize the
Arabian Peninsula so they decided they
needed to support the the Sun they
needed to support the Saudis there but
they do that primarily through their own
Yemeni proxies uh and of course there
are conflicts between these different
groups and AQAP as well as Isis
one can imagine in some weird way there
there is actually you know who don't
like Isis the United States doesn't like
Isis no one like this but of course the
Iranian issue overrides everything for
the Saudis and it's very very important
for the Emiratis and it's the junior
partner to the Saudis they want to be
supportive of they want to be supportive
in fact and I just always like to
mention I was obviously big critic of
Obama's drone policy and just the sort
of structure of drone policy in general
but for those who would draw false
equivalencies drone strikes have
actually up tempo Tunder trump and
there's clearly you know any any type of
systemic analysis to try to minimize
civilian casualties is totally out the
window in the era you know from the very
beginning from the freaks of the trump
presidency basically said I'm unleashing
the military do whatever it is that they
want to do at least in the Obama
administration there was you know you
wanted to do these things it had to go
all the way up to to the White House for
then to get to go ahead to to undertake
some of these drone strikes right that's
just really important to underline I
think and and in a way that justifies
neither but makes very clear legal right
moral distinctions on so mb/s is I mean
I I found yeah I mean I I always thought
this whole branding of MBS was ludicrous
you know I'm watching him get his
Starbucks with Mike Bloomberg was one of
the more it's like a Venn diagram of
almost everything I don't like in
politics so how did first of all how did
this how easy was it in a way that is
very not compliment let me frame it this
way there's obviously major major human
rights issues in Saudi Arabia and most
people are aware of them everything from
you know the more sort of you know
execute
Shia's civil rights activist people have
no connection to any kind of violence
but have merely spoken out around you
know sort of civil space that he sent
that exists in Saudi Arabia to of course
you know very extreme forms of gender
segregation
it seems gender apartheid hundred
percent thank you gender apartheid it
seemed to me and correct me if I'm being
too cynical here that one of the reasons
that NBS was able to get so much
currency was because he was playing on a
very narcissistic conversation in the
United States which is that we would
swoop in and find these extreme examples
all of which were true but not do any
systemic analysis around them so oh my
god can you believe women can't drive
there well that's obviously appalling
and there's no and that's not because of
Islam or anything that's that's a human
rights abuse you know that's a decision
made in a Saudi context and he did these
things like give women the right to
drive make some you know nice noises
about promoting a different sort of
flavor of Islam and instead of looking
at it and saying well wait a second he's
also actually imprisoning these women
activists at the same time and he's
saying to the kingdom this is a gift
from me and it's not like a reform in
the sense if we're gonna have a little
bit more of a accountable to the polity
it's just that I'm an enlightened young
prince and you're gonna thank me for
this that the Western press and media
was so lost in their own projections of
you know privatizing the oil industry in
Saudi Arabia or even just or even these
things that they're right about like the
need for women to drive but not looking
at more systemic questions about how
power actually works there that this guy
was able to make a splashy good
impression here really very easily even
as who he is was already even reported
in a place like The New Yorker by Dexter
Filkins right like you didn't have to
search that far and wide right right I
think I think that
a fairly close to what has happened but
I will point out it's not just a
function of MBS and him being the young
prince every Saudi ruler who has come to
power the new york times has declared to
be a reformer his yeah King Abdullah was
declared a reformer before him head was
declared a reformer ISIL was cleared a
reformer all these people have been
declared by the newspapers of record in
the West to be reformers with Mohammed
bin Salman I think it was accentuated
because when he came to power of course
he's not the King yet but we know that
he will be but when he came to power he
wasn't he wasn't already half dead
like many of the other shattered leaders
he did he he pressed every button that
there was women allowing women to drive
providing opportunity for women to be in
the workforce more openly theaters
sporting events reining in the religious
police was perhaps the most important
thing for him to do that was deeply
appealing to people looking at Saudi
Arabia from from the west or among
Saudis themselves they deeply hated
religious police these things built were
intended to build a domestic
constituency for Mohammed bin Salman so
that when he did try to take on those
within the royal family who were opposed
to his rides and opposed to his plan he
would have he would have this is this
reservoir of support and I'll tell you I
spent two weeks in Saudi Arabia around
this time last year and I purposely
avoided talking to it reads about
Mohammed bin Salman in fact there were
virtually no beets on my on my itinerary
and kind of the average the powerless
Saudis really did have high hopes for
them now you could say well you know
looks at ease like their leaders and and
in sort of
yeah I'd like to daddy's a little more
credit than that so I think that they
did they did think that there was
something new here I think things that
have happened since that time I one can
imagine people are questioning all the
you know the wisdom of the of the
contents and I will say even at that
time people did question the wisdom of
being at war in Yemen given the real
tight connections between those between
those two countries but you're quite
right when it comes to the the West I
mean he was in the United States and
March April of 2018 and he was received
like a rock star like a rock star and it
was quite frankly it was it was bizarre
yeah given who he is given the fact that
even his you know grand plan for reform
first of all big parts of this were
nothing new I'm old enough that I
remember two previous grand plans for
reform in Saudi Arabia second what he
was trying to do was you know deeply
destabilizing to separate Arabia and I
think people kind of lost sight of it
because oh he's outward looking wow this
is a guy he never really been outside of
saturdayman that's one of the reasons
why he was the anointed one by his
father who was the family enforcer and
we know that apples don't fall that far
from the from the tree even if the son
is deny it so you know here's a big as
much as there's been you know as as
Secretary of State has said there's been
a media pylon now to be critical of
Mohammed bin Salman and cetera that I
think at a time there was this kind of
media kind of exhilaration around around
the sky and what he was likely with a
imputed to him what he might do right
and I think and I and I really
underlined just that the total emission
of the grassroots energy for things like
women's rights activists in Saudi Arabia
that were totally obscured in that
conversation were like oh my god cool
this guy is Minh and of course that it
fits into a much longer pattern as you
said of these relationships and you know
that was another I mean that's another
funding source of Tony Blair's Institute
that's been
recently like some of his stuff is just
yes right um what what though okay so
your piece and foreign policy Mohammed
bin Salman is worse than a criminal he's
a symbol you're focusing in that piece
though about how and and you know set it
up for us in terms of the Kogi murder
and the bigger fault lines that that's
starting to open up and you talk about
that but then we'll pivot to you know
the interference being run by for him by
Kushner Trump and Pompeyo right well you
know I had been I've been writing about
the Saudis quite a bit not just as a
result of the katoki murder but you know
my my real kind of uptick in writing
about Saudis it started actually with
his emergence in his vision 2030 and
then but really over the summer before
she showed to you was was murdered the
the freak out over Canada was something
that really that fascinated me me like
why if this guy is such a reformer and
he's so forward leaning and he is he's
caught he's changing the culture and
Saudi Arabia would he be freaking out
about some mild criticism from Canada I
think it really reveals what he and his
entourage were like that you know
obviously we didn't know at the time
that he freaked out at Canada at the
time he was freaking out of Canada over
a tweet that that he was actually
targeting democracy in and and others
like him and the Saudis it's it's really
interesting they have been when you
listen to them when you listen to Saudis
in the United States they're they have a
completely opposite perspective on the
way in which Mohammed bin Salman was
received initially in the United States
they think he's never gotten any good
press the Saudis never get a break
they're such good allies they're
relentlessly they're criticized
relentlessly and then this only proves
the the the murder of Ashanti and
what Secretary of Pompeo called
caterwauling on the hill and as I said
before a media pylon they think this
just proves that the American elite the
media is
is reflexively opposed to Saturday and
so this piece was really actually
focused on explaining to Saudis why
Americans would be so outraged over over
the murder of Jamal Kazuki especially
since you know how many people knew the
name to mom so G before October 2nd 2018
but if they point out you know the place
they go and pick up my bagel these guys
you know like what's up with the
Khashoggi thing well my mom's bridge
club people like they were coil at this
and so the point of the piece was to say
it's not caterwauling it's not a media
pylon there are some real issues at
stake here and that's the symbol part so
you know right at pointed out first
there is there is an even though there's
bipartisan support for some of this
stuff going on on Capitol Hill there is
a partisan effort given the close
connection between the Trump family and
Mohammed bin Salman second look
this is unfinished business related to
9/11 I think it's undeniable that people
have stored a gun sweeping really bad
savvy behavior under the rug and the
fact that you know the Saudis got really
angry at me for bringing this up but my
answer to them is look if there are
parts of not the 9/11 report that have
not been made public and they had not
been made public in large part because
you don't want it to make it raising
suspicions about what what your actual
role was in those attacks and then I
think the the other things are Mohammed
bin Salman has come to symbolize a world
that is out of control but if you are a
journalist these days and I'm tempted to
say if you're an international
correspondent but of course there's a
connection to domestic politics here you
have to live in abject terror of what
might happen to you if you cross
somebody's red line that you have no
idea that you've crossed their red line
even for someone like myself an analyst
with a academic training to go abroad
these days is to be is a very scary
prospect so it's a world where there are
no norms these are out of
and Mohammed bin Salman has come to
really symbolize that and um again I was
trying to trying to explain the Saudis
and just the onslaught of criticism that
have gotten from Saudis for trying to
explain to them
American outrage over what happened you
know it's it's it sounds really really
holy okay so that that kind of blows my
mind I mean I have some bigger questions
about it but like whatever one thinks of
the Saudis and obviously we're talking
essentially about their their elites
their leadership right not they're not
everyday Saudis but like even if you're
a very fierce critic of the Saudi
monarchy which you know kind of I mean I
am incident and you know I guess what
I'm saying is a blow the fact that it
never I mean these people are still in
general very sophisticated very capable
of operating a lot of different contexts
they didn't think that abducting
Washington Post journalist and hacking
him alive with a bone saw would freak
people out I mean even if they
calculated correctly that the Trump
administration would cover for them
which is the accurate assessment they
didn't think that this I mean I mean
that actually is awe-inspiring that they
didn't think that this would bother
people and free gray and I think it's a
function of a couple of things one and
they're connected and it this may sound
banal but you know the Saudis haven't
had an effective ambassador in
Washington DC in three or four years
since the now foreign minister al-jubeir
departed so there's no there's no flow
real flow of information about the way
in which Washington works in a going to
Riyadh secondly you know Mohammed did
someone not worldly unlike a lot of
other Saudi elites was not educated
abroad the people around him his closest
advisers the same thing
and they had became have become
insulated by their own kind of view of
the world that is impenetrable and so
yeah he's a journalist he has he has
offended the Saudi Arabia I defended its
leader and this is the way they were
gonna go about handling it and I think
for all reports I'm you know I think one
of the few Washington DC Middle East
ounces who's actually never met Mohammed
bin Salman um
but all reports are that he's been
stunned stunned by the reaction which is
absolutely as you point out absolutely
stunning that there is not only in the
stupidity of this operation but just the
idea that oh you know we can murder a
journalist and it would go unnoticed I
think that happens a lot but a number of
things have come together to make it a
focal point word way in which for the
for the world that we that we live in a
focal point for Americans who were tired
as I said before sweeping bad Saudi
behavior under the rug
I think they're totally unaware I just a
minute think of everything that we've
learned about Mohammed than someone in
his his his advisers since the Khashoggi
story broke these guys are isolated they
look at the world they had their this
kinda in this puffed-up way Saudi Arabia
is as important as you know look the
Russians get away with stuff the Turks
get away the stuff the Israelis get away
with stuff they're killing people we're
gonna eliminate our enemies as well
without understanding one they're not
those countries too there are nuances
and complexities of their position in
the world that makes it that runs
against their analysis that they could
get away with it like those other
countries I mean I'm all for the the
project of khashoggi should be a door to
a much wider critique you know why okay
I think it's a totally valid criticism
you know Lindsey Graham has a big melt
about Khashoggi but has been until very
recently other you know very supportive
of any kind of Saudi atrocity if
possible there's a whole larger set of
questions that I are valid and vital and
important and then conversely people
that want to minimize the resetting of
the template of what is acceptable and
the new dangers that it opens that you
know of abducting a journalist like that
I mean I think of I mean the closest I
could think of was when the you know us
back Chilean regime in the seventies
planted a car bomb on a you know former
diplomat in DC and certainly Kissinger
helped cover it up for him that's a
matter of public record but I also no
doubt that there were back channels that
said hey we're gonna run interference
while you guys kill a ton of people in
Chile but you can't bring that here now
obviously I don't want either thing to
happen but it's still a vast escalation
or not a moral vast escalation but a a
escalation in terms of of where and of
extremes you're operating in and
conventions you're overturning to do
something like take a Washington Post
columnist in a istanbul embassy and cut
them alive with a hacksaw I mean it's
just I can't I'm genuinely stunned cuz I
don't think of the Saudis is dumb right
like III have problems but I don't think
of them as stupid yeah so in as soon as
Jack showed she went missing I kind of
reached out to friends in in Saudi and
in the Gulf could what's going on I said
we can't imagine what's going on but we
know the Saudis aren't this stupid to
have done this right and no one could
imagine that and so this was again again
it's a it's a new leadership and you
know defenders people who wanted to go
away went to sleep another I say well
he's young inexperienced come on he's
like the drugs you did that's not right
he's young he's inexperienced he ordered
a journalist to be act alive right
that's like that's like what you know
you know that was like the excuse you
know I was trying to defend myself like
when I took the car out when I was
fifteen experience you know right
this guy's out getting having
journalists eliminating this is the
little adult Sun phenomena large adults
under common right exactly so it's uh
it's it is stunning stunning that they
think that when they did it that they
think they could get away with it in
that there are offended by the outraged
by the outrage associated with it in it
and of course you do have the Trump
administration running heavy
interference well I want to get to that
in a sec can I set that for you because
I've gotta just bring one other thing
into it so I do want to get the Trump
administration and I do think maybe we
should be shopping around a Will Ferrell
vehicle where he plays NB s but that's a
conversation oh my god I could see that
so dear brothers I'm just gonna be sir I
won't be going in any Saudi embassies
anytime soon the the there's a new piece
in The Daily Beast that says get ready
for the molars face to the Middle East
connection oh yeah now I have to be
honest I'm something I'm remain pretty
agnostic about the Russia investigation
I was in the sense I think there's
certainly a there there and we'll see
whether it's this all-encompassing thing
that some people imagined it to be or if
it's just a more sort of like you know
problematic but it but yes there's all
sorts of influence peddling and some of
that might be from you know the Koch
brothers or the Russians or whoever but
it does seem to me that as far as what
is already on the public record we
actually could document a very clear
relationships of compromise and pretty
clear quid pro quo as far as I can make
out in relationships between the Trump
administration and the Saudis and the
Emiratis so how is that I mean maybe put
that in context for the sort of running
interference for MBS yeah I think that
is absolutely I think the great and I
was I my eyebrows raised when I saw that
in The Daily Beast today because it is
the great underreported story
of the 2016 cycle that you know look the
the Gulf countries Saudis Emiratis in
particular Bahrain ease as well
the Israelis this an Israeli angle to
this as well yeah outraged by the Obama
administration's policies in the region
fearful that a Clinton administration
would would would continue those
policies in some in some form
understanding that the Trump people were
going to be very very tough on on the
Iranians and clearly preferred good
preferred what Trump was was offering
over over Secretary Clinton and there's
been you know these document in cases of
RNC are RNC finance chair with Eliot
broidy a guy named George Nader whoa at
what time published this little ditch
magazine in Washington DC and then
became this international kind of broker
of influence peddling in the Middle East
these guys were deeply involved with the
Emiratis and the Saudis and and the
Trump administration effects it was
animus Saudis though st. George Nader
and Eliot Brody packing I don't want
have anything to do with them but the
but the Emiratis were willing to play in
that game in coming in and out of this
story with the Saudis and the Emiratis
are actually a variety of Israeli
businessman
we're also brokering contacts amongst
all of these figures connected to Trump
and and Gulf countries so I think
there's a lot there for the military
investigate and you know look once the
president came to office it was actually
pretty easy for the Gulf countries in
particular to do the kind of business
that they've been doing with the Trump
administration political business or
otherwise because you know the
president's son-in-law signaled very
early on by handing out his cellphone
number to people that there is the
the formal policy process the way in
which these countries dealt with the
United States previously and I'm not
saying that you know people didn't have
you know high-level officials in the
Obama administration cell phone numbers
or their or their private email
addresses but Christner signaled that
you could ignore the policy process and
goes directly to him and this kind of
informal waves and politics it kind of
Olaf aligned quite well with the
political culture in a lot of these
countries and so they took full
advantage of this bullet kind of like
the yeah like hey just go to this
restaurant like we're having tea let's
just talk right you're out a parallel
track right or yeah we don't like what
the president's saying about the
country's Jared you know here's the real
deal here's what you should know well
that's another thing that I wanted to I
mean I will get to Turkey in a second
I'd only only have a few more minutes
but this is important because that's a
whole other underreported but really I
mean you know it's not this it's not
this belligerence towards Iran and
undermining of what was a very success
whatever else you say about Iran the
Iran deal was an incredible success and
a net positive for the world it's not
this you know belligerents from a
right-wing Israeli government which like
a hood Olmert now fresh out of prison is
saying like hey like guys we're not
under threat like you keep saying we're
under threat that's just objectively not
true right and he's absolutely right and
and and so it doesn't make as much news
because they have you know their own
massive wealth and their own sort of you
know they're getting actually maybe this
does bring us to Turkey because they're
getting support from the Turks but you
know the embargo the Qatari blockade is
that's a mind-blowing action that they
would do that even within the context of
the Gulf Cooperation Council and the
fact that they could pick off the
Kushner's and the Trump's from just like
the US central command's who would be
like dude we actually like we were use
that place and this is it's a perfect
example way in which
they took full advantage of it you know
the president's initial response to the
embargo was you know first to tweak that
the you know nasty stuff about about the
countries and then to you know advise
the Emiratis and the status to continue
to squeeze the countries it raised
questions in people's minds whether the
president was actually even aware that
CENTCOM forward alidade airbase was
located in Qatar it seems that he was
completely unaware that this was the
place from which the United States
conducted its military I'm going in me
did a million and go he didn't have
place or if there was going to be a
confrontation from Iran it was going to
be executed from this place it was mine
right I mean I think the the the
reasonable thing to believe is that he
was completely unaware of this instance
then it's not long thereafter you know
until mattis could get to a telephone I
guess then you know the kind of state
their presidential statements about the
blockade changed and there was some
actually some effort over the over the
summer of 2018 to try to bring it to an
end by the president bringing pressure
to bear on the Saudis and the Emiratis
but they just basically ignored him and
I would just also say we're gonna get
final question in Turkey in just a
second but look up Qataris Kushner and
666 Broadway that is a whole other
dimension of oh you're not gonna help
bail me out of this disastrously stupid
real estate investment maybe I'll be
less helpful with my father-in-law when
the Saudis blockade you and that is
literally the level of policy we're
talking about here we just we just
started back to NBS per se as you know
that he and is guys they they want to
build they want to they want to build
them essentially a moat around cut that
you know contr is connected to the to
this to the Arabian Peninsula wanna dig
especially to cut it off I mean this is
kind of quick this is the craziness
that's going on there this is the
craziness we
this blockade of the the country's look
the countries are no angels by insuring
that Jason they've perfected playing it
out of both sides of their map sure but
this is a fantastic failure on the part
of the Saudis and Emiratis so the
blockade the cutlery is and to believe
that they could do it from the get-go
given the enormous investment the United
States has in ensuring that we continue
to use we continue to use that base in
Doha just briefly on Turkey your new
piece I'm sick oh it's uh why I'm sick
of Turkey Washington continues to claim
Ankara as a strategic partner let's stop
pretending it is it strikes me just as V
is setup and you can explain that in in
us in a second but is it fair to say
that if air Dhawan was not Muslim he
would be a perfect fit for this global
far-right Trump balsan arrow Putin or
been Modi in some respects he was kind
of he changed from like george w bush to
all right muslim before these other
people even took office and yeah he was
there really a turkish model and yeah
yeah i i'd say that that is fairly close
to to to what happened is you know air
duan has been a leader of this kind of
new wave of authoritarianism around
around the world
I obviously you know a lot of these guys
discovered it on their own but certainly
he fits in that category which is a
reversal you know in 15 years ago people
believed that everyone was going to you
know bring Turkey into the European
Union you know the ultimate Club of
liberal democracies although we now have
a number of members who are just like
your to one I think the reason why you
know the the why I'm sick of Turkey was
my annual kind of rant on Thanksgiving
Day for
let go in which I use all kinds of you
know puns and and and things that kind
of connect Thanksgiving dinner to the
country Turkey which really annoys the
Turks to no end and I can understand it
but I also can't resist being snarky and
ending the point that I'm trying to make
about Turkey is that we in the foreign
policy establishment for a really long
time has romanticized the relationship
between the United States and Turkey
that we stood shoulder-to-shoulder
during the Cold War and that we fought
and died together the Korean War and
Turkey is just important and therefore
it is the strategic partner in the
United States but if you look at the
evidence aired one has undermined
American efforts over the last eight
years at least now the relationship was
never perfect but the Turks see
themselves as a great power and want to
have a foreign policy independent of the
United States and they want to be
considered to be a great power in its
own right that is their right and I
think that what happened between the
United States and Turkey is think
separate from either rigid pipe aired on
or Donald Trump I think it's really a
structural problem and and the countries
are moving in in in different directions
my call in that piece as well as a more
sober piece that I wrote for the Council
on Foreign Relations called neither
friend nor foe the future of us turkey
relations is for us to recognize that
there's no saving of some mythical
strategic relationship but that Turkey
is a country that has its own interests
oftentimes those interests clash with
American interests that doesn't mean
that we won't be able to cooperate with
them on certain just in certain discrete
areas but for the most part Turkey is
among a number of countries who want to
change the rules of the game in the
region around it that have for the
better part of the last five decades
been written by the United States
well there you have it and that will be
the source of many future conversations
between us but I incredibly appreciate
this tour Stephen ain't cook senior
fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations co-host of Amen Corner Steve
thanks a million as always Michael
always a pleasure thanks man
talk to you soon okay all right folks
look up 666 Broadway
katar Jared Kushner I mean the long and
short of it is is that Jared Kushner
sunk a lot of his family's money into a
prime piece of Manhattan real estate at
exactly the wrong time to do it and
pitched to the Qataris the Qataris have
a massive sovereign wealth fund from oil
and they were in town looking for some
investment properties and uh the Kushner
pitched them helping out on the building
and they made the wise financial
decision but probably the not wise
political decision to not give the kid
some money and then not too much there
long after that the United States and
Trump at first the sending positive
signals for this reckless insane
blockade that the Saudis put and they
still have put on the Emiratis so
another good example of how the world
works
that I would check out we got to get to
the fun half where we are gonna have
plenty of fun plenty of dunking become a
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M slash become a member
of pennies a day makes this show
possible so we are accountable to you
over 90% of this shows funds come from
its members if you haven't yet hit the
subscribe button on YouTube keep
spreading the majority report message
subscribe on iTunes write a review just
coffee cup is just coffee co-op it has a
major deal going on through the holidays
and you could find a link to it on the
majority dot F M homepage where you can
also get one of literally dozens
rapidly decreasing supply of tickets to
our January 13th right 13th yep January
13th live show come see us at the bell
house and then while you're there you
can also click over and get your tickets
to also the rapidly selling Michael
Brooks live show at February first on
the Bell House as well special guests
Ilona Mankowski Bosch Garson Cara Trevor
Beaulieu this Sunday for TMDs patrons
Elizabeth breunig and I did an illicit
history of beta O'Rourke starting a new
series of illicit histories of 2020
presidential contenders a user's guide
on Tuesday Julian Assange Facebook the
future of press and Matt Taibbi plus a
deep dive into McCrone on t MBS if you
haven't yet go over to the T MBS YouTube
channel where there's a lot of clips now
and you can stream the show live and
also of course on iTunes you can
subscribe and patreon.com slash TPMS get
the whole thing Matt what's going on at
literary hangover did my episode on
Nancy McLean's democracy in Chains it
was good yeah yeah so check that out if
you if you weren't in that book and you
got skittish because of the onslaught of
criticism we kind of discussed that if
you didn't hear the onslaught of
criticism still look book to a check out
I totally stand by my support of that
book yeah I think people definitely
ought to read that book it's very
important for understanding the context
of how the right opera it's a hyper
concentrated very well-written book as
some would say too concentrated I
wouldn't of the the sort of alliances
made in capitals fight against democracy
check out Jamie's show the anti Fattah
patreon.com slash the anti Fattah for
all of that content as well we're gonna
go to the fun half see you folks six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
I am a total can we bring back DJ Tanner
yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ dance well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough with a
break
that's
I can go on to have more consist and the
alpha males Oh psych all boss says what
what
[Music]
the back
the back
a lot of back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
[Music]
black males back back
what
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have a
thought expected for you and the alpha
males black males
around here I don't hey welcome to the
fun half I called into the system but
I'm not seeing us for some reason all
right let me try again
the IMS are opened he just take that
down Matt cuz I'm gonna call right back
in oh I see got minimized wait open it
on this one sorry folks okay let's get
to some sound
have you guys followed this is from Jay
cool if you guys followed the story of
China's who way CFO arrested in
Vancouver if so what are your thoughts I
haven't at all not at all that sounds
like something that's worth following
though these Russian spam things are so
bizarre it's quite a thing in today's
world to get spammed
with Russian stuff wu-tang clan I'm with
Matt I want the Dow to drop I believe
that was one of Matt's I mean I was been
buyer takes seen a big glib but I the
broader point is I don't have no buy-in
personally the stock market so like I
don't give a I think it's a perfect
I mean I think I think I want people to
thrive and you know not have well I want
people that aren't haven't been thriving
like you know top 10% to thrive as long
as it doesn't impact the donations to
this show and the Michael Brooke show
and literary hangover I imagine I mean
right I'll take him there are some basic
I mean I yeah if I was told that you
know like max putting a cap on total
wealth at like you know ten million
dollars would hurt literary hangover
like maybe $20 a month I'd be okay with
that
$20 trade $20 a month thoughts on packs
ox nerds album pox Oxnard ohm I haven't
listened to Anderson pox new album but
I'm a big Anderson Park fan so the new
album I've been listening to is meek
Mill's new album which is great I would
say the best album of the year so far
aggressive regressive my right-wing
family members are discounting this
Khashoggi death as a ploy to undermine
Trump and Israel they say that Turkey
could have stopped it and Iran does this
with frequency yet the press covers it
up I can't even anymore so yeah that's
yeah I mean literally every part to the
extent that every part of that's wrong
and to the extent that Iran does stuff
like that is the things is the stuff
that the Saudis do that isn't even
controversial right like we just accept
like oh sure in these countries if you
write something that's wrong you could
get thrown in jail or tortured and by
the way the Iranians have a way more
open culture relative to the Saudis
that's an objective fact there is not
even if you're and I'm not just the Iran
plenty of abuses not least of which the
just obscene treatment of the Baha'i
community but if you're staking your
claim on the region around the defense
of human rights and you have any good
words to say about Saudi Arabia or
Israel for that matter you're you have
zero credibility 0 J tingle here's a
timely link Oh apparently according to a
twel come on dude this is not I don't
know about ok a former apprentice staff
for his claim that Trump was a speed
yeah was a speed freak who invited
beauty contestants up to his suite well
a team beauty contestants up to a suite
let me say I don't know either of those
things
regulation but a lot of people are
saying it
and when people say things well god it
reported and also you have to believe
them because I totally believe both of
those things
I actually think say I think the theory
that Trump is a speed feat freak is
actually the only charitable way like if
Trump isn't on speed then he's maybe the
worst human the planets ever had right
like I I think Trump being a speed freak
is is probably one of the better case
scenarios this is a friend TMDs crew
majority report friend and a great
journalist Corey pine tweets this out
the late Wayne Barrett who was of course
a legendary New York's New York City
journalist interviewed on the show
interviewed on the show like shortly
before his death but the one of the
indispensable resources for
understanding Donald Trump and the whole
disgusting little Trump cabal the late
Wayne Barrett also investigated the
rumor that Trump was hospitalized for an
amphetamine overdose in iIRC if I
remember correctly if I remember
correctly there if I remember in if I
remember correctly to early 90s had key
interviews but didn't publish for lack
of documents and he's quote tweeting
Ashlee Feinberg oh yeah and this was
right ashle 2016 right everyone should
always listen to me always in my opinion
and this is back a Gawker piece just
look at your watch shout out to the
Splinter Gawker
arts department alright this is Ashlee
Feinberg rumor rumor rumor
doctor-prescribed people soon other
people are saying it and by the way
doctors saying it rumor doctor
prescribes Donald Trump could include
cheap speed and this apiece I remember
actually reading this piece in 2016
let's read the top graph of it I'm
quoting now from Ashlee Feinberg back in
December Donald Trump's personal doctor
declared to the world that Trump would
be the healthiest individual to ever
elected to the presidency everyone knows
that it almost wouldn't even have to be
sick well that particular claim is
unfalsifiable though almost certainly
incorrect according to a source with
knowledge of Trump's current
prescriptions that letter isn't telling
the whole story most notably Donald
Trump's allegedly still taking speed
like diet pills
rumors of Trump's predilection for
stimulants first reported I liked this
phrasing first started really popping up
in 1992 when spy magazine wrote quote
have you ever wondered why Donald Trump
has acted so erratically at times full
of manic energy paranoid garel garrulous
and well he was a patient of dr. Joseph
Greenberg from 1982 to 1985 at the time
dr. Greenberg was notorious for
allegedly doling out prescription
stimulants to anyone who could pay I
mean untreated syphilis or speed would
be the most generous explanations of
Donald Trump or like horrifying
childhood abuse yeah it would probably
make any of us sympathetic for anybody
if this was a those are the best
speculate this was an episode of house
m.d. we're like after the first
commercial break still we've got like
two different hypotheses that but it's
really starting to narrow down into
those right it's a clear which means we
don't know could be both but it could be
everything I could just be every type of
 up that is humanly possible and
for all of these like I remember every
time that we've joked or pointed in the
direction of you know we don't know but
at least credible reporting on this I
know a certain segment of idiot on
YouTube who does a lot of like or like
on Twitter who does a lot of concern
trolling these guys I can't believe it
tabloid journalism sometimes tabloids
turn out to be correct
and when you Nixon Nixon got away with
the open secret that he beat his wife
how did he get away I don't know that's
right basically this I hurt well so
Anthony summers sort of well I don't
want to get into that sy Hersh in his
most recent book came out and said like
yeah we all knew about it but we just
that wasn't sort of a news where that
you kind of hush that up right so it was
just a massage in this context yeah
basically okay but so but that pointing
and also like look you don't ever make
stuff up or report things that are wrong
but when you're dealing with a dangerous
erratic corrupt authoritarian
politicians in general you explore every
viable angle of who they are and that
story we have no idea if it's true but
it's viable
that is a definite viable story yeah I
mean in and it's sort of you know you
think about Kennedy you talk about his
sort of health problems that might have
been certainly irrelevant in certain
cases like his was it Addison's disease
whatever he was taken steroids in his
back right um that also might have made
his libido a bit overactive like that's
that's a known side effect to what
Kennedy was on and also he's like Nixon
well my god Nixon was on at law I think
I forget the type of dial up in or
something like that
yeah elephant I actually did yeah but
wasn't he also was he yeah you can hear
in the Nixon tapes because the recording
devices in his desk when he moves his
like drinks on the table tumbler you can
hear the tumbler like scream like
setting down on the table every time
it's actually one of the more audible
things on those tapes and you know like
it sucks but like this these sorts of
personal things can be relevant when we
don't have a lot of these decisions
aren't taken with democratic
transparency right definitely and also I
just think frankly like
there's a democratic like first the
centrist mainstream Democrats did like
oh we're not you know you know
unfortunately the unfortunate phrase
when they go high when they go low we go
high right and that is just it's not
gonna work in political warfare but then
there's this like crazy over
compensation that some people did was
like oh we have to be because we have to
find our own Trump was just as
ridiculous just as over-the-top and
that's not gonna work in the Democratic
Party it's not gonna work to put
together the coalition that you need to
defeat Trump it's gonna need to be
different but if ever there was like the
type of story that a good Democratic
candidate could intimate just to freak
Trump out and make him look ridiculous
in a debate as an example that would be
the type of thing I'd like to see them
doing I would love to see Bernie Sanders
or sherrod Brown or Comley Harris or
beta will work I'm super agnostic for
purposes example if whoever it is right
on a debate stage and I don't know how
you do it but just the type of like like
you know you couldn't be like why
sniffling you all right like whoa you
seem a little amped up like do what he
does in terms of like everybody's saying
it hinting at it I think if the right
person did it in the right way that's
exactly the type of thing that would get
under his skin and make him make an ass
of himself which would be great yeah I
mean I'm out that's politics baby this
isn't politics 100% Trump should have
been trolled with Epstein thing but he
couldn't for reasons we've already went
in on precisely so Laura Ingraham is of
course she's freaked out that Donald
Trump has not been named Time magazine's
Person of the Year Man of the Year I
don't know who pays attention to these
things besides Donald Trump of course
Time magazine basically named it the
year of the journal
clearly and honor and awareness of
things like the murder of Jamal
Khashoggi the newsroom the newsroom that
was shot up the broader climate of
threats and demonization by Trump and
Republican leadership the broader
authoritarian turn that we see across
the world and they quite rightly sent a
signal on behalf of journalists but
Laura Ingraham is part of essentially a
cult Network that is trying to create a
sort of tacky North Korea of Trump
worship and she's also got to personally
appeal to Donald Trump himself so here
she is bitching that Trump wasn't the
person of the year wasn't the man of the
year I'm sure in that parlance and
there's a funny chyron typo for Laura
Ingram's bitching you had Markel let's
give a nod to the Brits with Marco
season you had Putin you had blase Ford
JN and then you had says David Trump on
my sheet but I assume they made Donald
Trump
David Trump he's a great guy everybody's
talking about it
it should have been Jai in of that list
I mean I would say Blasi Ford is
obviously would be very significant I
mean I I can't get on board with any of
these four besides Blasi Ford or JN but
as far as I'm concerned I'm a barkal guy
yeah sure Markel's cool it goes from
like two very good picks but the edge to
moon jaein because he literally could
have suffered in World War three and his
facilitating potentially one of the most
important grand peace bargains the world
today he's a very impressive politician
then of course blase Ford who as of
today is still receiving death threats
well Brett Kavanaugh is busy on the
Supreme Court and coaching basket again
yep everybody should know that back in
the rotation then of course we have
David Trump and Vladimir Putin two thugs
and then I'm Megan Merkel who's you know
she's cool but I just I mean I don't
know if
it's Person of the Year material and
Robert Muller I'm sorry I don't have the
resistance look we thought we'd actually
talked about this this morning
if the Muller investigation turns out to
be a grand investigation a sort of like
weaponized Panama papers that tracks all
of the nexuses of money from the Gulf
states from Israel let's maybe open up
open it up to people like the cokes or
the Mercer's every single piece of
influence peddling and a corruption
probe which would I'm sure of course
starts at the Trump's but could expand
out to include probably almost all
Western political leaders who've been
corrupted by money then I am willing to
forgive him his entrapment cases that
help build his career in the FBI on
it'll be like the scene in Donnie Brasco
where which is horrible it's literally
for me it's unwatchable they have to
think fast because Donnie Brasco is
undercover in a mafia crew I think
Bonanno family and they go to a Japanese
restaurant and the waiter says it's like
a new thing for whatever time period is
is look let's go check out a Japanese
restaurant and they say you know we're
gonna go sit on the waiters showing them
so the tatami mats and they have to take
their shoes off and his tape recorders
in his boot so he cannot and he's like
I'm not taking my shoes off and really
Donnie like what are you being a hard-on
for and he goes my dad I became an
orphan because some killed
my father I'm not taking my shoes off
for a and the waiters like
please could you you know and they end
up taking the waiter and beating the
 out of him in the bathroom and it's
actually it's a really disturbing
painful scene and later in the movie
he's sitting in like his you know he's
in this like bleak apartment that he's
living in while he's undercover and he
just keeps listening to the beating over
and over again and it's like breaking
him ah but it's in service of a larger
cause so if Robert Muller
indite ston 'old Trump Tony Blair we can
forgive him I guess a couple of like you
know disturbed young Chechens that he
put in jail on essential and trap yeah
if his long-term goal was to create a
sort of reverse Red Scare against
capitalism right which is to be honest
that's what I've been that's what's
appealed to me about the Russia story to
begin with like I I I mean I I've before
all this stuff happened in like 2015 I
read some books that are sort of like
the conspiracy theorists sort of thing
about about Putin right so I'm like I I
had some sort of pre fertile ground in
my mind for this to happen but
fundamentally like he's just a
representative of those are like
oligarchy like that that's it's not him
as the genius FSB agent that can play on
all the air or create all this stress in
America right that's not what's
happening it's this is money get taking
what it can what it can and precisely
using whatever means again yeah and the
best way to understand Russian politics
is as a Petro oligarchy which in many
ways the best way to understand United
States politics and certainly the best
way to understand Gulf politics so you
know yeah I mean I think that's actually
what's really interesting to like I
don't agree with the impulse to just
deny that there's anything there cuz
both because I think substantively it's
wrong there's something there and also
because here it's a limit of imagination
because well of course we don't want to
have a new Cold War we don't want to
feed maybe it's time to get to the AEI
story in a second we don't want to feed
this disastrous rush for increased
conflict with Russia but conversely we
also don't want to just you know a come
up with some type of fantasy view of
Russia as anything other than an
incredibly progressive regional
dominating state for sure and also a you
know it Milan the left want to delude
themselves that Russia's some type of
like authentic counterbalance in terms
of
powered the politics to us that's I
disagree with that profoundly and then
conversely all these resistance people
that wanna like relive some type of like
1980s movie about like the Reds are
basically just opening the door to a
global oligarch system which implicates
many of their most beloved heroes like
they have no idea what they're why I
mean it when you start talking about
golf money specifically shoe lookout
like don't don't be so confident about
how that's gonna play in terms of your
political favorites I also felt the same
way you know that thing about Muller I
don't want to entrap these you know
confuse he's just he's just a boy never
have a chance in life and we created a
fake terrorist scream we all worth it
one day I put the cuffs yeah I can use
my meticulous reputation because that's
how you build a meticulous reputation in
this business and I'm gonna use it to
take down the global oligarchy and I
also felt the same way about Putin like
if it was true and you could believe
Putin was sort of like an
anti-imperialist of in some way and he
always said it was like yeah by the way
this end of the Cold War thing we were
joking we're still Marxists this was all
just to heighten the contradictions of
global capitalism that would be pretty
lit oh yeah that would be totally happen
yeah then if that was happening then he
would be my vote four times man of the
year also just needs to be more content
on the Russian system as a system and
enough with these like just personality
profiles of him it's kind of
embarrassing
yeah do we have those tweets up though
about the Center for American Progress
because this is this is important
actually so I'm a little bit stunned by
this and I guess this was initially
reported by Andrew Perez who's a very
good investigative journalist and I I
don't know I mean there's confirmation
on this because literally it was
confirmed in a response tweet yeah we
have the right we have the yeah so
current affairs great magazine edited by
Nathan Robinson everybody should be
reading current affairs regularly
tweets out I wonder how at Neera tanden
will defend giving charles maurice
think-tank a giant pile of money and you
think to yourself wait what the hell
does that mean
you know charles murray works for the
american enterprise institute far-right
think-tank it's housed him and his work
to socially and even genetically codify
class and racial hierarchies they work
diligently on behalf of the u.s.
corporate sector to stop any ability for
even the most modest environmental or
public health regulations it's a
extremist far-right you know any type of
pernicious corporate oligarch interest
so you know it's just a republican
think-tank it's precisely what you'd
expect and Center for American Progress
obviously also takes a huge amount of
corporate funding as well and is very
much in the corporate mainstream of the
Democratic Party but I don't believe in
drawing false ideological equivalencies
they certainly represent something
different on the ideological spectrum
they have actually some sometimes some
very good content the rank-and-file
person now it's not even it's night and
day night and day and they've done
definitely done some very good work on
climate on civil rights on even on
foreign policy at times so it's a
whatever one thinks of Center for
American Progress and certainly I'm well
to the left of them and I see the
inherent contradictions of a progressive
think tank funded by corporate money
they absolutely push a you know a
legitimately center-left ish agenda
versus a far-right extremist agenda so
why the hell would they be chipping off
$200,000 to one of the most extreme
think tanks in DC and of course one of
the most could just mean any Republican
aligned think-tank well near and you saw
up there we had the we had the info and
now let's go to the next tweet this is
near a tendons response we have a joint
program on defending democracy from the
rise of authoritarianism here's the
press release from cap website I welcome
at current affairs to cover the many
papers we have jointly authored this is
a critical top
more media should focus on okay sure I
would tend to agree because there
actually is a global far-right
authoritarianism that's rising there's
also a certain very real authoritarian
tendency in fact of the third way
politics Emmanuel macron very quickly
going to riot police very quickly going
to violently repressing anti-austerity
protests and also in general rushing
through a whole new slew of legislation
targeting immigrant populations and
opposed to civil liberties also we have
this research that came out last year
that was reported in The New York Times
that say that centrist are actually the
most skeptical of democracy across the
eurozone as well as Australia news and
New Zealand so yes authoritarianism is a
very important and dangerous issue from
the United States to Hungary to Russia
to India to the Philippines to Brazil to
Israel but what exactly do you think
you're doing when you team up with a
think tank like AEI oh of course would
be filled with literal with people who
descendants of Pinochet defenders and
advisors charles murray and a guy like
charles Murray who's a literally a best
known for making a form of highly
distorted scientific quote/unquote
scientific racism to be socially
acceptable whose entire work both of
social of natural and social science is
an attempt to justify class dominance
and racial hierarchies current affairs
responds when Neera and AEI and charles
murray say democracy they mean quote
unquote they mean lays a fair capitalism
and then we say and when they say
authoritarianism they mean minimum wage
laws the europe report in your link and
here's the TEL classifies jeremy corbyn
among the authoritarian populist
there have been certain criticisms of
some of jeremy corbyn's rhetoric which
i've engaged him because I think that
they represent not any type of actual
problem but legitimate stylistic
concerns and questions which are a part
of politics if you could name a single
policy that Jeremy Corbyn is advocating
that could even be remotely construed as
authoritarian you should be paid
millions of dollars because it does not
exist in fact the proposals of the
Corbin and McDonnell would not only a
firm UK democracy they broaden it to
include worker democracy and worker
power in the forms of worker
cooperatives actually probably the
greatest enhancement of democracy being
proposed by a party in modern era so
that shows the cards there Jeremy Corbyn
is an authoritarian is a relentless is a
ridiculous smear now what we have here
and these criticisms aren't just some
sort of like post chapo Bernie bro thing
right like this is a greg sargent post
from january 2015 we're talking about a
Center for American Progress as donors
and there's this Alliance perhaps most
notably given CIPS advocacy for an
economically progressive agenda is that
see AP's top donors include Walmart and
Citigroup Eva which has have given
between a higher thousand and four
hundred ninety nine thousand that's
about a partnership with AEI worth that
they're two of them um other donors of
to see aap the leading advocate of
health care reform include the
pharmaceutical research and
manufacturers of America which
represents leading biotech and biopharma
firms and Blue Cross Blue Shield
Association both of which gave up to
forty nine thousand and nearest said
we're proud of our donors she said an
interview we're very diversified we have
a very low percentage of corporate
donors we have a wide panoply of
individuals and foundation supporters
given that transparency as a progressive
value we wanted to get our list out
there good for them
I appreciate the transparency but there
is
a huge internal contradiction between
advocating again even a modest
center-left agenda and accepting money
from corporate cartels that are
fundamentally opposed them can someone
print me the story because we should
transition to it about the the astroturf
campaign getting staffed up with Clinton
and Obama people to destroy Medicare for
all will go to that in a second but
first I just want to take this
opportunity to point people to the
people's policy project which is Matt
Bruininks project it's a basically a
grassroots bottom-up think tank for the
people there that place yeah replace
c.a.p
with PPP the people's policy project
actual policies for Medicare for all
carbon tax which would work in a
progressive way it's a tax and dividend
scheme tackling inequality through
social ownership of capital this is the
serious stuff these are the real
policies that will address serious
issues then of course there's data for
progress which is I think Shawn McHale
weighs group and they're working on the
core issues of Medicare for all
abolishing ice and I think also the
green new deal and they're providing the
sort of polling and political strategy
so that people running on state local
municipal and and and national levels
can have a fully flushed out and for
real no progressive agenda so
when you're looking forward for building
the future and that's the context by the
way on which the entire party turns is
the funding and intellectual and
strategic infrastructure of actual
progressive groups with real policy
coherence because they aren't undermined
by either just sort of incestuous
networks and and sort of cognitive
capture or just straight-up raw
corporate influence from I mean guide I
mean Walmart and Citicorp are some of
the most damaging and dangerous
corporations on the globe yeah and I
mean it's
basically sort of like the left needs
think-tanks did a lot of work for
conservatives in the past 40 years right
like this is how this has this
is how the Overton Window has been
stretched it's by like look at us we're
just following this methodology and
actually um you know maybe we should
rethink child labor laws exactly well
we're just we're just taking the science
where it finds us I mean that that built
that built that gremlin Charles Murray's
entire career remaning lacy is his great
piece on him as a successful policy
entrepreneur it's can someone print me
that piece okay someone maybe could look
for it it I forget where it came out but
it's a new piece on Obama and Clinton
alums getting staffing up against okay
was it in political I don't recall
alright yeah let me I'll take a call
you're calling from an 8 9 to 8 area
code who are you where you're calling
from hello hello Michael hey Jamie this
is Tim from from Nebraska I'm a centrist
and I do like to get both sides of the
situation and I'm this my first time
calling and um I just I'm calling
because um there's been a lot of you
know frustration of my and as a
libertarian and you know that's just
expected but you guys do have some good
points but I I'm really upset about your
the way you talk about David Axelrod
mm-hmm you know and I just feel like
there's a distinction you need to make
in the way that he orchestrated things
and the man who brought you to the next
episode shouldn't be discussed like that
you know David Axelrod one of the
greatest producers ever don't separate
the fact that David Axelrod was a dope
producer and that fuck-boy from the
Obama administration shouldn't even
share the same name you know I you know
I have three if I could just have a
favor can I get some time on this coma
yeah go ahead go ahead and reveal your
true identity
one has none yeah you know my name is
NJPW you know I'm saying I'm a legend
but enough about me and more about
myself I'm a legend you know I'm saying
you can reach me at at Cole James Cash
but yeah man it's been a couple months
since I called man good good to talk to
you it's good to talk to you what's on
your mind my friends well first of all
man um you know you know the you know to
click on line man on Twitter's called
left as best you know that
yes left is best and I I had a sale on
my music on my band camp because frankly
men like my son once this drone you know
my son was diagnosed with autism look a
couple weeks ago you know we're gripping
with some things and this and that but
also gripping with the fact that rent is
expensive out here as hell out here in
San Jose Bay Area and if you can believe
it man you know you're the followers man
they've chipped in and I was able to get
my son a nice expensive 200 all the
drone that's all of that and you know
those members are like Lisa Lisa W
temple Drake there's a guy named DJ
queuing on ok these people like
contributed a lot adult film star Carol
Fox you know like I had everybody from
porn stars - just communist donating and
I just wanted to say thank you all stars
to just come that is the audience right
that's good I like that
yeah yeah and Michael you know my
background man I made a whole album
about the big girl porn stars man that's
that's oh yeah most definitely I've been
I've made conversions if you go on my
page man on my Twitter my pin is big
girl big middle finger said
capitalism and great monster on them you
know I'm converting that's crops
candidates are gonna counter hegemonic
project sorry
fun half yeah yes so first of all them
we need to get over under them who
what's gonna happen first six nine get
in life or Congress impeaching Donald
Trump 69 getting life six nine getting
life that's it that's rather than
September yeah no they're not gonna
impeach him you don't think though I
don't think so unfortunately I tell you
what though I don't think they'll
impeach him but I am star
- in a way that I have never
contemplated before I think dude might
actually get indicted when he's out of
office well I might actually face like
actual criminal charges and I haven't
allowed myself to entertain that
possibility before and I'm not saying it
might literally be the National Enquirer
stuff but the way it's going I think he
might leave office and get hit with
charges like immediately I think that's
actually possible and I just saw you
know Tish James the new Attorney General
in New York she just said the other day
she she said she said I'm gonna use
everything I have to investigate that
guy and it's like if you and then and
then we didn't pull it because whatever
who cares about Donny Deutsch but Donny
Deutsch said on Morning Joe and Donna
and the only reason I take this
seriously is because Donny Deutsch is
known Donald Trump for decades and
they're on all these scumbag circles and
he's like the whole thing is a criminal
enterprise and his words we've known
about this for decades it's like well
then why are we giving the guy all this
shine but I mean he he's like he said
this thing's gonna take him down and his
family so I'm actually I'm starting to
think that this might this might end in
a really dramatic way I think it's
actually possible and as I always say
the goal of modern politics is Kjell
Trump free Lula I mean you know that you
know that's a Brazil you're you know how
I feel about that you know but I I just
want to say like I said man you know I
brought up 6-9 because you know the
black delegation on your left is best
quick man we kind of need an explanation
as to are you talking about how you like
69 as musically you know you know you
know I mean I'm not gonna ask you for an
explanation right now cuz there's other
things I want to discuss but trust me we
will be coming back today
no I noticed that I know that was funny
I mean I noticed that what is a garbage
ass wrapper and you kind of cold find
him
I don't know well here's here's my here
let me tell you here's the thing about
six nine so I we interviewed on wolf
Bros which is the show I do it
Bobby shmurda x' lawyer and I don't
think Bobby shmurda and definitely not
6-9 have I mean especially 6-9 is
obviously done some extremely up
oh you don't without a doubt but I also
think that there is I do think that
there's an NYPD whether they call it or
not but there is literally a rap tonight
yes that's a real thing yeah and I think
the way there they go after in an almost
paramilitary way you know essentially
like you know idiot 18 19 20 year olds I
think there's a bigger problem there but
it doesn't but six nines a trash person
I think is pretty clear secondly it's
also but it's like once he knows is
these are some marrow I don't remember
when but they were playing a six nine
song and making fun of them and then one
of them though had the honesty to be
like you know what makes me really angry
about this if this came on in a club I'd
be dancing right now and so that's where
I'm at
okay I can't lie got you yeah I got you
and I want to also shout out my local
congressman is ole offerin four
intentionally askin I was idiot come up
when you search the president come on
that you know that was all-purpose
dogs you know that was all perfectly
Kelly congressman ain't playing now you
saw how Ted Lou did him dirty man he did
he did Steve King dirt huh you know yeah
yeah that was just a day removed after
Pelosi put them in a body bag
you know and you think you see you see
Chuck Schumer like oh well my friends
are here I guess I could say something
now you know it's possible terrible we
did good right Nancy I said things to
such a ass up shut you know I mean
we'll talk you know
um but yes even though she body bag them
no man with that with that don't you
character don't you miss characterize me
talk because my whole set is insurance
now I'm Marlo and you prop Joe homie
it's a rest
you know oh I don't know prop Joe's a
lot smarter than Trump oh yeah and I
hate doing that comparison but when you
spewed out here in these streets
the wolf smell blood man hmm you know
like I said you got Chuck Schumer who is
the equivalent of we based son name in
popping aw come on man so so it sounds
to me like you have a lot of optimism
about the next couple of years you know
why man because I've already told you
the situation with you know the mother
my child the woman I love yes
you know and it's like if I don't got
hope I just drive her down with with you
know things like that and you know we're
working on relationship because you know
like offset I cheated you know so I'm
trying to fix that Nanette right and
that one simple offset right now man I'm
not I think all men all men are cheering
for offset right now yes yes because I'm
trying to really put my back
together and I don't have time like on
the real don't be a negative doesn't
help her because she says it you know
like like it doesn't there's nothing I
can do et cetera et cetera yeah I won't
think about I have have optimism so you
don't have the luxury of cynicism
cynicism is a luxury
don't hang exactly right and I do have i
do have one stuff in a thing to say arm
I have you know I I work two jobs I work
as a case manager at a homeless shelter
now before I was case manager at the
group home right at the group home I've
actually taken a position as just a
counselor which is basically someone who
comes in and kind of babysits and I do
that overnight um I was gonna call last
week and talk about how we deal with
veterans at my current homeless shelter
job but that ain't fun we talked
about that man I wish Jamie was in here
right now so we can have a read read
escutcheon about which ain't even a word
about having fun you know because I like
I like you know we mess were the last
time about that not just like cheesenut
but this time man I'm telling you I've
been you know that cat wasn't that cute
cutey q cubed I whatever you know that
Swedish cat you know cutie pie cutie pie
cutie pie
yeah yeah that that cornball man yeah
he's no he
some of the kids I work with you know
when and they're all minorities right
they you know they were watching his
videos it was like 7:00 in the morning
you know there was no school that day
they're watching his videos and this and
that and I had to put it monsoon when I
was like you know he said the n-word
right right yeah and they're like what
no like he just talks about like you
know blah blah blah blah and then the
other and it's just like I've had to
like kind of educate him and this and
that but another thing is man in order
to you know with video games men like
because I try to reach these kids any
way I can
yeah so these kids like that you know we
they have old xbox360 and they got Call
of Duty and this and that right well
I've been able to sort of reach a couple
of these kids by discussing some of the
missions they're doing you know and in
one you know I was able to if you can
believe this I was able to connect Paul
Manafort
into a game Call of Duty because there's
a section in black ops 2 where you're an
angle them participating in the Civil
War with Joseph Savimbi as a CIA age wow
now that's why really
sohow yeah and you know who you know who
put you up that mission or assist you
who Oliver North that's wild
yeah so I was able to discuss with these
kids I was like you know the guy there's
a guy you know in jail right now he's in
federal prison who used to support this
guy which normalized him enough to be in
this game they're like what he's
connected to Trump I said technically
yes you know definitely and so I'm able
to have these discussions with these
kids and to make the connection between
hey you know this actually happened that
happened there's also a section in black
ops 2 where you team up with the
Mujahideen to fight the Soviets you know
and for a guy like me who's a veteran
you know that's that's important to me
you know and then you know like I said
it's it's I try to reach the kid anyway
that I can with um there's a game called
Metal Gear Solid 5 and if you know
anything about Metal Gear madness and
real that takes place in
Afghanistan and Angola so it's like you
know and Metal Gear does a great job of
breaking down a lot of geopolitical
things you know and and the reasons why
it will happen etc etc so I just try to
throw in little little things here and
there like hey if you just google this
they take out your phone and call that
and all of a sudden we're having a to
discussion all know you're doing like a
book that I read in college and was and
it was who's Brazilian did you ever read
a pedagogy of the oppressed by Paulo
Freire eh
no I have not no I know I think you're
doing I was told people who do he I
recall correctly it's been a long time
since I read it but he talked about he
would teach literacy through instead of
like children's stories he he basically
used like newspapers so he teach like
the whole process at once like you
already know that this system is
designed to oppress you if you're poor
if you're marginalized so on and so he
the educational methodology would itself
be the tools for confronting the systems
of oppression that's what you're that's
awesome that's awesome
yeah and nature man one last thing I'll
say yeah yeah I definitely uh I I will
DM you and if you could just give me the
title again you know what's really got
you know from um and then so the last
thing I wanted to say is um the one of
the kids was playing a Wolfenstein
Wolfenstein to you know and I myself had
completed the game but a conversation
between two of the kids while they were
playing it right now this kid this kid
was white you know and the other kid the
other kid was Latino and they're playing
and this and that and you know I'm you
know I like the game personally but I'm
just watching it you know until it's
time for them to be put in the bed
whatever and there's a part where you
you know you're reading like what
happened and how the United States
surrendered the United States
essentially folded and there's a part
where you know they're reading about you
know the Ku Klux Klan has the South etc
and how white people are generally
comfortable with the rhetoric you know
like there's a letter being written was
like whoa we were supposed to be the
master race right like they're basically
saying like well what's wrong with being
white and this and that and the white
kid was like I mean he's like I know
there's a lot of racist people like that
but I mean we would definitely resist an
occupation it's nothing to lift you know
kiss says you see anybody resisting now
Wow and I was taken aback because the
kid you know you know I know the kids
background his before his parents aren't
citizens etc right so he's you know he's
he's heat this kid reads a little more
and he was like do you see me but you
see them
now and it's not about you know
enforcing this concept of white guilt
but just again I see why the church hate
that game so much a gamers hated that
game because there's also a part where
you know like you know the minority
characters in the game talked about
we've been fighting our asses off but
white folks have been real comfortable
that's a literal conversation that
happened in the game and considering
this was developed long before the
Trumpkin it came in the office these are
real things that I'm able to you know
have conversations about in convey and
it's not about demonizing white people
as much as it's about pointing out the
truth that so long as it don't affect
you it's all good you know that's it
yeah no I agree right but and that's and
that's a much deeper recognition than
like the woke rhetoric because that's
it's not essentialist
I mean it's like the the I the the
identity of whiteness that has been
created the reason it's so dangerous is
because the the fictitious creation of
identity has been rooted in that
privilege in that disconnect and yeah
you're exactly right I appreciate the
call man I love it I love what the
community is doing I love what you're
doing with those kids good luck to
offset and teach Trump and actually also
dealing the only problems the
over-and-under is Takashi definitely
might be cooperating with the feds but
for another yeah and and uh Michael one
thing you need to know man yes alc got
the youth man ALC got the youth they
love them yeah all right man she does
love her like they love it she was like
who want to get lit up next you know I'm
saying she was calling out paler than
all them and like her Twitter man like
the kids are following it no she like
she already said get used to me slain
who want to get lit up next remember
Paul Ryan's I'm a Paul Ryan you know
he's young and he's got a vision you
know my name is Ezra Klein and I'm a
super so I bought that
you know her crying a sticker you know I
mean it's like a lease he is like oh
yeah but he's a smart one right then she
posted that clip of Steve King like well
well well I you know posting the wrong
phone maker and this and that when he
was talking to Google CEO but I don't
know what I'm talking about
you know Ailes AK Street man no she's
not yeah we bang a anybody who had a
Palmer LC
see me come to the area thank you I'm
just a quick note on that awesome
I felt that that applying learning to
about real things right I think it's
rolling bar it talks about like there's
this exact like I said it's like this is
a lie and write a sentence you might
learned in school
obviously there's no lie in there so
you're basically learning some sort of
abstract or like language thing but it
doesn't mean anything and you learn you
and when all you learn is through that
method what you learn becomes like not
real it's like it's all simulated things
and then when you actually like and you
bring in real-world stuff I I thought
about this trying to learn French right
like seem like this is a cat is much
less I think um I guess educating then
hearing some like podcasters talk about
McCrone even if you only pick up like 30
percent of right exactly exactly yeah
that's exactly it all right what is this
speaking of PewDiePie who apparently is
really awful here is jordan peterson and
dave rubin being jackasses but it's at
pewdiepie and this is tweeted the 13th
rule for life subscribed to at pewdiepie
CC at jordan Peterson from the great
void himself dave rubin oh hey Jordan
what are you doing right now I'm
subscribing to PewDiePie oh hey Jordan
what are you doing right now I'm
subscribing to PewDiePie yeah yeah son
put on the phone not subscribe within a
week of the entire IDW joining this
campaign to make the most subscribe to
youtuber more subscribe to he plugged in
Nazi youtuber that's a given instantly
like 15 thousand more followers so well
done IDW yeah well done and don't call
Nazis or white supremacist or anything
of this order will sue you yeah will sue
you because that's totally unethical
Jesus you're calling from a tu-16 area
code who are you where you're calling
from so Michael this is uh Edler again
from Cleveland yeah oh what's going on
it's on your mind
I was know if you guys had any thoughts
on threesome A's snap election yesterday
I saw that Jeremy Corbyn still isn't
putting forward a no-confidence vote but
seeing the results yesterday that she's
she only got 200 votes out of 300 so
she's basically lost one third of her
party's confidence um doesn't a few I
was wonder if you guys thought that if
corporate were to call like a snap vote
of no-confidence what he'd be able to
get it thus creating a election to have
to come up I don't know how the sister I
think that the Prime Minister has to
call the snap election and the Tories
still have enough to where like the
government is not going to clap so Jared
Corbin can't just do that but he's been
calling steadily for them to go to the
polls because the Tory government is a
total disaster everybody hates the
brexit agreement that Tory that Teresa
mace come up with and the people I mean
they've just been being pounded by Tory
austerity now since at least 2010
it's increasing poverty it's increasing
mortality rates and they should
absolutely go to elections and I don't I
don't support Briggs at all but I also
do not think that Jeremy Corbyn should
use his political capital on a second
referendum he should use his political
capital on winning a race for prime
minister so yeah that's my read and I
mean she had enough to survive but as I
said in the beginning Margaret Thatcher
when Margaret Thatcher finally quit
after a you know very long and terrible
in terms of effect on people but
politically very successful leadership
she she had more votes than Teresa may
did but she estimated that her lack of
support was not enough to sustain
staying on as prime minister so I mean
yeah I mean Teresa Mays a disaster and
part of it is because structurally what
they're trying to pull off doesn't work
and obviously also she's a you know far
very very politically untalented person
initiate the call man uh all right let's
do a few more pieces of sound do you
worry Elon Musk I and all of us took on
so much heat because if you criticize
Elon Musk on YouTube it sets off some
type of like atom bomb inside the
psyches of obsessive young men it seems
like basically obsessive young men I
guess other people too he's amazing he's
trying to help Jesus he's an innovator
you're just jealous
we need a capitalist individual to save
us from the elements right the biggest
problems on the cat on the planet which
are gonna be never be dealt with without
structural policy initiatives can be
saved by all of us by one innovator
because I don't want responsibility for
my life and I don't want to think and if
you're criticizing him I'm gonna get
comically triggered I also will you know
usually I will grant that you know at
least the things he's working on are you
know desirable but I don't think a guy
that hates public transportation working
to increase the lifespan of the personal
automobile which I think has been
environmentally disastrous and not to
say like sociologically you don't just
think yeah we do automobile is like is a
massive threat to the planet and like
communities also but yeah so I don't
think that the Tesla's necessarily been
a positive project either no and so
people freaked out and then Elon Musk
started doing things like his companies
just don't achieve much besides the
Tesla the longer-term projects don't pan
out he tweets all sorts of bizarre
he accuses a guy of being a pedophile
because that guy is like hey we're
rescuing these tie divers could you
please not make this about you and so it
seemed like at least a couple of people
said you know what Michael
you were right to criticize the guy and
I even got to a point where I just sort
of felt bad for him I didn't have any
kind of personal animosity towards him I
just know that that sort of like
capitalist Savior complex that that
exists
an innate problem for society it's a
problem with Steve Jobs fulfilled that
role it's a problem with Elon Musk
filled that role though I will say my
god as evil as Steve Jobs was and look
up China look up the environment look up
how he treated his engineers look up
even just some personal life if you need
verification of that statement but my
god what a downgrade from a sort of
actual evil genius and Steve Jobs
through I think just apparently a very
talented but you know very kind of
insecure troubled guy in Elon Musk not a
genius not a genius and a guy who could
use our compassion and support he's
under way too much pressure but also
obviously kind of a narcissistic pain in
the ass and here he is he also got fined
by the SEC he had all sorts of troubles
so he let off of him for a couple of
months and now he's back on 60 minutes
reminding us that let's not even
personalize it to him this is the guy
that everybody from the hordes of people
on the Internet to Sam Harris to
editorial pages and politicians this was
what we were putting on a massive
pedestal have you had any of your tweets
censored since the settlement no none
does someone have to read them before
they go out No so your tweets are not
supervised the only tweets that would
have to be saved reviewed would be if if
a tweet had a probability of causing a
movement in the stock and that's it yeah
I mean otherwise it's a Hello First
Amendment it's pretty like speech is
fundamental but the market if they're
not reading all of them before you send
them oh I guess we might make some
mistakes who knows it was perfect you
know I I I want to be clear I do not
respect the SEC I do not respect them
but but you're abiding by the settlement
aren't you because I respect the justice
system Oh sharp distinction there now of
course he got dinged by the SCC got
fined earlier in the year
because he essentially used his Twitter
to manipulate a stock price and he
copped to it and he paid a fine and he
still clearly sore about it I also look
I will be a pendant here because this is
a guy that again
so much weird projections and odd
bizarre emotional issues of the internet
and of techno capitalism and if the
Pinker Harris delusion were projected on
to him no Twitter is not a First
Amendment place but literally not it's a
private platform that can do what it
wants which is a big problem that's why
we should be moving towards breaking up
these monopolies and nationalizing these
areas because they do have implications
for journalism and speech but they don't
implicate free speech that's just a
basic falsehood also Allah Elon Musk
another thing that he was toying with a
couple of months ago while his companies
were not succeeding in between weird
tweet tirades was setting up a
journalist monitoring system which of
course naive cultish idiots immediately
embraced and their complete lack of
understanding of how the world works but
really was actually clearly a system
that would be weaponized to attack any
journalists that even did the most sort
of minimal criticism of his companies
including the abusive labor practices so
I'm not gonna get back into a whole new
Elon must thing and I know that it
there's still some very very weird
dead-enders that still want to worship
the guy but I mean he should just be a
case study as to why the capitalist
savior complex is an innately delusional
idea and should be left to you know I
don't know Iran turgid prose and not
real life and hostile to democracy and
the rule of law like right I mean the
way that just the hostility as to the
sec right like i don't know
they dinged you they're there and by the
way we're in an era where the sec if
anything should force way more you so
extravagantly try to influence your sale
i believe in that
case to a Emmerich Ulf investment funds
I'm thinking about taking it Tesla
private at the price of 420 making a bad
joke yeah a bad joke that might also you
know affect stock prices which of course
ironically trying to get it private into
private golf equity hands is another
pretty strong irony of the you know
savior of the climate crisis guy but I
guess what I was gonna say is yeah there
is a whole bunch of rich bastards
waiting and just just really thirsty for
somebody make the case that insider
trading and market manipulation isn't
actually that bad
right because like as we know from the
long New York Times report on Trump's
real estate business that's a big part
of how he grew his fortune right I
basically pumping himself up in the
media and yeah like Megan McArdle this
was in the I Megan McArdle one of the
most steady boring yet constantly
destructive and harmful influences in
American life show me the victims of
insider trading I'll wait and that's
because these guys want they want to be
able to play with their money in the way
that they can they want crime to be
legal and they want to trade amongst
themselves and never have any
accountability and speak never any
accountability let's get to this clip of
the ever odious Jamie Dimon Jamie Dimon
whose Bank was involved in every aspect
of the 2008 crisis which eliminated
trillions of dollars of wealth because
of Wall Street greed crimes and
incompetence including things by the way
that like this insider trading thing
some of them were definitely legal they
were legal because Wall Street paid off
both political parties to make corrupt
practices legal and Jamie diamond thanks
to a client credulous press and people
like Barack Obama who insisted on
calling him smart somehow emerged from
his obscene role in not only the 2008
crisis but the whole political system
that led up to the 2008 crisis unscathed
he still still the CEO of a city and
there's a
walk in the financial press any type of
serious financial press certainly real
great economists like Professor Richard
wolf everybody should be subscribing to
and watching all of his videos that
economic update his work is excellent
indispensable that we might be heading
into another recession soon here's how
the CEO of one of the most important
financial institutions in the world JP
Morgan thinks of the possibility of
another recession and to his credit he's
being honest here all the big bank CEOs
here are quite positive on the outlook
for the economy but even a recession
could be good for JP Morgan's share
price here is their chairman and CEO
Jamie Dimon I don't look at a recession
as a bad thing I mean it's bad for
America it's bad for the people
unemployed it's using opportunity for JP
Morgan and so I don't sit there and say
oh my god this terrible earn to be down
so they say okay what are we going to do
to do even more do we want to do and so
I think there will be opportunity to
downturn to which hopefully we'll be
prepared for so at post 2008 global
meltdown over 95 percent of the gains of
the quote-unquote recovery have gone to
less than 1% of the population people
literally in the couple of hundreds like
the already criminally overcompensated
Jamie Dimon and this is the mindset it's
wrong and he's totally right yeah we
have money so when goes south we'll
be able to buy cheap we'll be able
to buy cheap maybe we can get into
the slumlord business like more things I
could take more of the economy wherever
is dismissal everyone else in the
country is pretty outstanding
we should put Jamie Dimon out of a job
hundred percent and then to gone to jail
he should he should all of the Wall
Street people should have gone to jail
and she still should go to jail him in
particular yes yeah check out uh there's
a old majority report clip where a Sam
and Toby discuss a Elks Perrine
appearance on CNBC where someone wasn't
entirely sure who they were booking I
think got it's very very good
I believe that got him a a lifetime ban
the network right for not worshipping
got to do this this absolute grotesque
scumbag Jamie diamond in Brazil over the
weekend I'm just gonna quote now briefly
from Brazil wire there's a movement in
Brazil it's called the landless rural
workers movement they had an
antagonistic but also mutually
supportive relationship with the Workers
Party government and they were mostly
protected and supported and a lot of
important aspects of the work by the
Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff
administrations and what they do is they
basically go into unused land even if
it's still technically owned by an
oligarch family in Brazil or a
corporation but if it's not used they go
in there and turn it to something
productive this is an this is a movement
that the prominent economist and
geographer David Harvey called and in
paraphrasing the most perfect social
movement that he can imagine I'm
paraphrasing they were supported as I
said by the Workers Party and now this
new fascist administration they've
already been under attack by the coup
government of Michelle temer that's
ruled Brazil in the last from 2016 after
the judicial coup that removed Dilma
Rousseff and now of course from moving
into the full authoritarian fascistic
return of balsan ro with the support of
Wall Street the Trump administration in
all aspects of Anglo capital and they
are quite overtly saying that they're
planning on criminalizing protests
bolson arrows son said that they did it
in Indonesia and they could do it here
referring to a mass murder of Communists
and other people in social movements and
there have been a series of
assassinations and murders going back
several months
Mariela Franco was a afro-brazilian
lesbian who was raised in poverty in a
favela she rose as a community activist
and she worked specifically on issues of
police violence against the Afro
Brazilian population and against the
favelas she ended up becoming a city
councillor she was assassinated her
driver were murdered by most likely a
paramilitary connected with the police
force and a drug syndicate she was shot
in such a way that her face was so
deformed they couldn't have an open
casket funeral there's still been no
arrests made as of course in a country
that has barred Lula da Silva the
two-term hugely popular usually
successful president who lifted 40
million people out of poverty from even
doing press appearances and over the
weekend to landless movement leaders
were gunned down in Perry Abba and I'm
quoting now from Brazil wire which is
the indispensable website following
what's happening in Brazil on Saturday
night 12 18 December 18th two activists
from the landless rural workers movement
MST were assassinated inside the dom
jose maria paris agrarian reform camp in
alejandra county
Paraiba around 400 kilometers from the
nearest city witnesses say that the
criminals entered the camp wearing masks
and riddled the area where the farmers
were eating dinner with machine-gun fire
the victims are rodrigo Celestino and
jose orlando bernardo de Silva both camp
coordinators which suggests the camp was
committed that the crime was committed
to intimidated people engaged in the
struggle for land rights 450 families
live in the dom jose maria paris camp
where they are exercising their
constitutionally guaranteed right to
farm on land that was abandoned or not
being used productively when they
settled on it the official owner of the
property is the santa teresa business
group i just wanted people to know that
it's important and just going back
briefly touch on this to our
conversation about Center for American
Progress this is a piece that came out
in Politico and the tenth the
establishment looks to crush liberals on
Medicare for all and it outlines how a
group of lobbyists and other and
industry people
from the insurance industry and HMOs are
getting ready to fund a massive
astroturf effort to destroy Medicare for
all all of these companies of course
represent the parasitic self-dealing
industries that profit off of the
immoral and inefficient health care
system we have and profit off of the
deaths and suffering of millions of
Americans and they are staffing up with
Obama and Clinton alums to as I say to
run a campaign to destroy the
possibility of Medicare for all
America's health insurance plans and
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association more
than a dozen groups this is now quoting
from Politico more than a dozen groups
intended to press their point next year
through the partnership for America's
health care future a vehicle to combat
expanding government role in health care
America's health insurance plans and
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association
helped found the coalition alongside the
Federation of American hospitals the big
lobby pharmacy nasc a Pharma and the
America Medical American Medical
Association you go back to the history
of the propaganda campaigns against
going back to the FDR and Truman these
were the interest groups which helped
destroy America having a national health
care system like every other
industrialized country the partnership
has received support from Lauren
Crawford Schaefer a veteran of the Obama
administration's Health and Human
Services Department and Hillary
Clinton's 2016 campaign who's running
its operations out of the lobbying shop
Forbes tape partners we believe all
Americans deserve access to affordable
high quality care but a
one-size-fits-all government controlled
system like Medicare for all isn't the
answer Schafer said note the word access
this is a major concern with beta
o'rourke this is why people are
criticizing and bado has not come out
clearly for Medicare for all and he uses
terms like access access doesn't mean a
goddamn thing everybody theoretically
has access to everything
a right a hundred percent no
delivery is what medicare-for-all does
former top obama aide eric smith has
been involved in morning communications
for the partnership though he told
POLITICO his relationship with the
coalition was ending in the next few
weeks now
basically look this group is gonna
harness and there's a long history of
corporate groups staffing up lobbying
shops with people who are veterans of
democrat campaigns these are the people
who actually are most effective in
developing the the talking points to
kill important things whether it's labor
union organizing whether it's net
neutrality and now most importantly with
medicare for all any consulting firm
that gets staffed up on a 2020 campaign
that has people who have been involved
in these efforts should immediately be
shunned that's the problem out of the
gate your staffing up saying that you're
progressive with people that are gonna
run propaganda to destroy the most
important legislative push in the United
States right now Medicare for all then
you should immediately fire that
consulting firm there should be a
blacklist on any democratic consultants
that work on these efforts or you should
publicly announce that you're running a
corporate right-wing campaign and you
value the profits of a parasitical
industry more than American lives
alright you're calling from a six for
six
area code who are you where you're
calling from hello hello six four six
are you there hi yeah you can hear me
yeah I can hear you I'm sorry hey SID
Jill how you doing thanks for calling
what's on your minds yeah I just want
you to talk about the Nigerian elections
for a bit cuz it's coming up early next
year and them asked me they're like so
you guys in a bit yeah please yeah so
there's two major parties in play and
it's a PDP and a pc the labels are
meaningless
they have no ideology it doesn't matter
but a PC has kind of proven itself to be
a kind of dangerous organization that
will like overturn ballot boxes in jail
journalists where they see fit yeah so
Larry's kind of a dangerous option for
us right now and I think the only answer
isn't really one particular candidate
candidate against him it's just anyone
that isn't him
would be better anybody but Buhari yes
Buhari was a military dictator in the
80s right yeah he was he was a military
dictator in the 80s I kind of call him
like a Nigerian Trump because he's kind
of he was relevant in the 80s and then
all of a sudden people like I get I
think this guy's really on our side for
some reason I think in part yeah in part
it was the fact that he had the kind of
Obama's PR team I don't know if Obama
like lent him their services or he was
actually able to afford to hire them but
like he ran on a big campaign of change
and we're gonna interruption and we're
going to get both Boko Haram and that's
how I kind of got elected there was a
lot of American consultants working in
Nigeria and yeah I mean I don't think
whether Obama I don't think you know
they're a private consultancy they don't
need you know they can go anywhere and
my guess is because there's so much
petrol money there's oil money floating
around you know campaigns can staff up
with these global consultants and you
know it's like another issue and I just
just make this point super brief people
loved the fact that tad Devine who was a
burny ad maker and Bernie strategist was
involved with Paul Manafort and Ukraine
and they tried to make it like this
dumbed down like who he's involved with
Ukraine now first of all he was not
involved at Ukraine the same way Paul
mana for it was Paul mana for it was
doing stuff that consultants don't
doing Ukraine but the bigger point is
that Democratic and Republican
consultants shop around the globe and
they have worked for clients including
very corrupt and very repressive clients
in every corner of Earth and it's what
they do in the off season and there
isn't much press and they make a ton of
money and it's another thing people
should be looking at and Obama's hope
people from Obama's team have been all
over the globe including with people
like Buhari and it's terrible for sure
yeah yeah I'd really appreciate it
I mean you guys could get a hold of your
corporate vampires for a second we're
doing our best is a CEO who is the head
of PDP right now he won the primaries as
much as there was anyway it doesn't
matter you start paying attention to
like the actual ins and outs of Nigerian
politics you like might as well start
watching Vanderpump rules
it's that inane and petty it's like how
do I decide my party it's whoever gives
me the most money that's it anyway yeah
I see goo is kind of just like this rich
guy he's like an dad who made most of
his money and like oil like
transportation so while he's just a guy
that's kind of running on this basic
neoliberal capital idea we're gonna get
an ID really working again I still think
it's way less dangerous than blue
harry's record of like proving to just
hate democracy and hate a good chunk of
the ethnicities in this country yeah
that sounds like and sometimes we're
stuck with those neoliberal versus
fascist choices and he still got yeah
you got a vote for the neoliberal yeah
well wait are you telling me that Buhari
wasn't so bad that there's gonna be a
communist revolution in nigeria I mean
we can we can all hope yeah right well
yeah there's a good contingent of like a
very small contingent but there's
actually like an active socialist party
and like if you'd like to talk to them
sometime that I'd be happy to set you up
with like the leader of the party
okay Kenya you might be a new email
majority reporters at gmail.com and put
attention with my name and I will
absolutely yeah do that I will have
that's definitely do okay thanks a
million
I appreciate the call
shut up to the guy earlier I'm currently
in the middle of getting like an awesome
diagnosis and it turns out we're just we
just make great left it so sad after
that guy awesome
preciate the call thank you alright
final caller today you're calling from a
201 area code who are you where you
calling from what's up man hey Sean from
Queens what's going on Sean not much I
wanted to talk for just a sec about a
guest yesterday and just sort of well
generally I'm getting a little bored of
libertarians
you know unless they tell you that got
Blake or whatever his nothing but uh you
know I I do get pleasure from seeing Sam
so happy though yeah like I am
definitely goes to it's like my kids
like yeah like like my kids like Legos
but you know I don't care about them but
they love this yeah so I get
pleasure from like watching their
pleasure and sort of the same thing with
Sam's oh oh okay but uh anyway so I'm
calling to me out for a second sort of
in defensive attacks and hackery sure
and you know I'll preface it by saying
that
I voted for Ocasio Cortez in the primary
and under general you know and uh you
know people get on her for not being you
know the polished you know law
background all that kind of stuff but
she got she got the right instincts you
know
yeah and that's the kind of thing that
we should be occurred like we need you
know not that it's comparison but we
need our louie gohmert you know yeah we
need we need our people that'll just go
out there and say you know I might
not push it as far as Louie Gohmert but
I agree with the jet look not everybody
needs to be a policy wonk or an
intellectual you need people who have
good instincts and know how to brawl
totally yeah yeah and I wonder if maybe
it's just sort of opening up people to
the idea of like so like you know how
when the GOP gets into power they they
either put into place incompetence as a
way of degrading whatever you know
position or whatever department they're
in charge or they'll put in somebody
who's sort of like uniquely bad in the
way that they're super competent in the
way it's sort of like deconstruct event
and do you think that that liberals sort
of have the stomach to do the same thing
like another like I'm talking like
Dennis Kucinich at CIA or like Raul
Grijalva I really I don't think I think
I kind of I like the general principle
of a point a strong critic of something
to head it I don't think the current
liberals have the stomach for that no I
do not yeah but it like that how do we
get around things like you know as much
as I'm for you know abolishing ice flake
realistically like once these things
we've come created you know they're just
sort of hard to you know and the way the
GOP is handle it is like just put in a
dope in there or put in like some evil
wizard and just sort of blow the thing
up but like our level is just too much
like I'm gonna do this to both our guns
you know even though all advice you know
I think there's a little bit I think
there is too much that with liberals I
think they need to be willing to be a
little bit more pyrotechnic but on
other hands it's just a structural
difference that you know the incentive
structure for the left is to have
government that actually works delivers
versus just blowing it up so the
Republicans have double advantage but
I'll think more about that I like some
of those I would I would be totally down
with putting lauhala in charge of ice I
love that thanks for the call brother
all right two more Iams and then we're
out of here
a penny for your thoughts record
Booker's proposals we have a project
providing savings investments for babies
in New Mexico and there's great research
showing the small amount of savings can
help pull a family out of poverty it's
very helpful than an establishment
candidate is introducing it in a policy
idea I agree it's a great idea that's
why Booker hasn't been getting the smoke
that Beto has been precise I mean also
betos more popular but he shouldn't but
that's look that's the thing Beto has
not that oh I mean I like Beto but the
realloc it's so delusional the pattern
is clear the pattern is clear and Beto
has not even done the moves that the
other centrist like Gillibrand and
Booker and Harris have made to get on
the right side of issues like Medicare
they're at least playing our game it was
not that's why we're not gonna play with
him exactly skull and bones responding
the yesterday's clip of the unsilent
Majority I figured out what a minority
is okay that wasn't that funny all right
let's see I got a pic I'm sorry I can't
get to all them let me pick the final i
M of the day who should it go to all
right you know what I don't usually go
for these things but Winnipeg Craig Shaw
I never knew Nixon was on tumblr curious
what he would have thought of them
banning sexual content see you tomorrow
everybody
to get to where I want but I know some
I was just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
