[Music]
let's play this so Sepp Korca on his
radio show you know I I don't know how
many people listen to Sepp Gorka on
Facebook Linked basically us I think
this is like at the point where the only
people consuming it or those that are so
invested in making fun of him evil prank
phone call
he's completely irrelevant I once
received a phone call from a
right-winger when I was on terrestrial
radio telling me that our enemies were
laughing at us because Dick Durbin wore
a pink tie on the Senate floor late they
did they actually was out their version
of a prank call nope okay
no I'm willing to accept that they're
laughing at us because of dick durbin
period the era of the pajama boy is over
well and how do we know the era the
pajama boy is over well because Sepp
Gorka has a radio show ladies and
gentlemen and he's still learning the
ropes still trying to figure out how to
deal with some of his more contentious
callers and here he is trying to defend
the president let's go to line four
Jane in Atlanta welcome to America first
oh yes mr. burkha I was just calling to
touch base with you about how come I
don't like Trump and I just don't
particularly care for Trump because he
likes to grope women by the vagina while
he's Mary Jane can you tell me how do
you know that he's actually done Jake
Jane what does that mean he did it
talking or we drop the line Jane you got
to stop talking and let me ask you a
question how do you know he actually did
that way and remember he said that when
he was a Democrat so let's not forget
that how do you know he did
Wow okay you are answer the question the
man falls for the question Pigman answer
the question Jane you don't want to
answer the question dude
closer but no can we take that as a
sound drop you are a semantic man could
apply she was talking over one of the
ways that you could know that he did
that would be to look at the allegations
by over a dozen women who made such
allegations in fact I think it was
number was closer like 17 when he was a
Democrat doesn't count so those were he
was that was a democratic
let's go Democrat hand that was doing
that grabbing by your logic Gawker what
if he did only just say it is that the
type of type of thing you want to say
when you're a married man
there you go but it was a Democrat mouth
that said those words
