[Music]
alright let's take a call you're calling
from a 7 1 3 area code who are you where
you calling from hello my name is
Michael hi Michael what's on your mind
hi hi so Sam talked earlier this week
about I'm from Texas so you talked about
the kind of Texas school how the Texas
textbooks and the curriculums are our
mess and kind of how they influence the
country and I kind of thought in a
different way that a lot of people
started I I remember I've noticed that
one thing is that we don't talk about
like the English curriculum as much we
talk about the history curriculum and
one thing I noticed is in my case I
remember in high school reading I ran in
Missouri uses and yeah and and I'm not
just saying it was a book of signed by a
teacher
I remember the iron rain Institute
sponsoring scholarships they promoted in
the school and I'm wondering if there's
been any looking into the extent that
that organization has influenced like
the English curriculum in school in like
red states because I think that's like
if your formative years or learning Hall
tix or the first time the first real
political book you're reading is like
anarcho-capitalist propaganda I think
that's troubling and I think more people
should look into the influence that
organization has an education to say the
least I don't know anything about it but
that's that's disturbing and it's a
great point I I don't know if it's
janeers
I don't know if it's Jane Mayer's dark
money or if it's a different a different
writer but I know for a fact that a lot
of these those right-wing foundations in
the 60s 70s and 80s were literally
buying Iran books in bulk and giving
them to university libraries and school
libraries like that so the and that and
and also sponsoring sort of like be a
libertarian essay contest that would get
people funded like the yeah this
infrastructure is actually very I think
I think it has been documented if you if
I should look around for that maybe
we'll talk about that more sometimes
sounds like thank you I appreciate that
yeah like I remember just so much like
books in my high school ninth grade
curriculum that was like why is
communism awful like we read first they
told my father about the cambodian thing
we read about about people escaping the
gulag so there was like the drumbeat of
communism is terrible which in those
cases yes but that's a weird tendency
and I'm wondering how that kind of
curriculum was like yeah the Cold War
it's also this I would look at it Ben
Burgess as a new video on zero books
mm-hmm and he's got a big that's gonna
come out which is gonna be really good
called give them an argument logic for
the left and this video is called like
did Karl Marx kill millions of people
and he does a really good logical and
historical breakdown of why you know
basically taking like the atrocious
crimes of whether it's Pol Pot or you
know yeah things that happen in the
Soviet Union and China as a proxy for
not reading Marx and not being you know
an intelligent person is ridiculous
he also is a great one of my favorite
factoids with him is his answer to the
and there's a lot to unpack with the
Venezuela propaganda but he'll always
make the point that a more of the French
government more of the French private
sector
basically there's a bigger public sector
and more government ownership in France
than there is in Venezuela and what I
like is it was like you either gonna
need to say acknowledge the obvious
which is that you know there's different
very different brands what we call
socialism and some of them actually work
very well in some ways or you're gonna
have to just you know or if you're gonna
assert no no France is really capitalist
then you're gonna actually have to say
well then as well as in fact definitely
capitalist if you're being real about it
all right I appreciate the call man
another quick example I've mentioned
before is or will has a quote from why I
write that says every line of work I've
written since 1936 in the Spanish Civil
War has been written directly or
indirectly against totalitarianism and
for democratic socialism as I understand
it
right and in the penguin the 1984 copy
that was sent to school houses around
America like tens of millions of copies
of this libraries the and for democratic
socialism was excised and putting under
ellipses
