[Music]
am seeder on the majority report ladies
and gentlemen our next guest has written
for every major worthwhile publication
in the country if he has not then you
know it is not a worthwhile publication
he is also when a date ladies and
gentlemen David daen David welcome back
to the venue and are you so wait I know
I know I was late I was late I apologize
I was trying to set up this piece but I
should also say author of chain of title
which some consider one of the best
books on the mortgage crisis that is out
there so if you want to know if you have
not read China chain of title you don't
know about the mortgage crisis ladies
and gentlemen thank you and I should
also say this is public knowledge right
I mean yeah that David daen is just
weeks away of officially taking the the
title of what editor in chief executive
editor of The American Prospect
available on the web at Prospect org
this is a very exciting I'm very excited
about it long overdue I mean not
necessarily with with the American
Prospect but it was long overdue for for
you to get a role like this but so David
let's talk about the piece that you
wrote in the intercept last week about
Wendell Primus Wendell Primus first came
to my attention I think well maybe I had
heard his name a while back but most
recently he was caught on tape
basically telling a roomful of insurers
don't worry about Medicare for all yeah
in fact he is he's this was almost kind
of a road show that he has done not just
to insurance lobbyist but to healthcare
researchers I found a very obscure video
of him and
a healthcare conference in Irvine
California where he was making the same
points essentially downplaying
medicare-for-all saying the house
leadership the Democratic leadership
would not support it that they would go
instead to try to make improvements to
the Affordable Care Act and this is one
of sort of many areas which Primus who
is the lead health policy adviser to
Nancy Pelosi is one of many areas where
he has differed with progressives on
these issues and that was I mean that is
why we're talking about him is because
of his central role in the I mean and we
don't think we're talking about them I
think we're talking about him because
it's billed into public view I mean you
don't near normally hear about a staffer
in Congress I mean that that's very
unusual that a member of Congress would
refer to a staffer at by name and and
and and in a pejorative sense and saying
that they oppose this staffers ideas I
mean that just doesn't happen but
Wendell Primus who has been around for
quite a long time is you know somebody
told me the term member staffer that
they've been around so long and
accumulated so much power and has has
been given so much power by the speaker
that he's almost as unelected voice
shaping the direction of democratic
policy particularly on health care which
as we all know is a huge issue for many
progressives okay so I mean I've got I
got so many questions to ask you about
this but I want to just set the table
get a sense of who he is and and then
you know sort of what the broader
implications are of this but before we
go specifically to his history
do we like understand the what mean do
you have a sense of what the
relationship is between Pelosi and
Primus like does he is he reflective of
what she wants to do or
is he driving the agenda like how does
that work well we can go buy her public
statement so in a town hall meeting in
2013 she said and I'm quoting on health
policy
what does Wendell think is what we say
all the time about this issue so there's
no question that Wendell Primus is
empowered by the speaker to speak on her
behalf to make policy on her behalf on
these particular issues around health
care and also around deficits actually
is very involved in that issue as well
and so we shouldn't see any distance
between Wendell Primus and and Nancy
Pelosi I think that that actually it's
kind of a failing on the part of house
progressives that they kind of divorced
the two right they say we have a problem
with what Wendell Primus is saying but
not not Pelosi that they are aligned I
mean they are they are completely in
step I'm taking them at their word that
that when Wendell Primus talks it might
as well be Nancy Pelosi talking on these
particular issues do you think and again
we'll get to who when the Primus is
because he's also his history is also
sort of fascinating and instructive I
think about what is sort of like a a
generational divide here but do you
think that do you think that it's there
is a reason why we are talking about
Wendell Primus why other members like
mark Pocan who's quoted in your piece
are talking about Wendell Primus as
opposed to Nancy Pelosi in other words
is it conceivable that this there's a
sort of a good cop bad cop quality
that's going on here is there a
conscious decision to sort of make this
like oh this is like a sort of at arm's
length from me or is it is it opponents
of Pelosi are
using this opportunity to not knock her
directly but rather to say I'm knocking
Primus so that she just gets the message
or what right I mean I think it's easier
for members to in this case go after a
staffer rather than the Speaker of the
House who you know any member needs the
the support or at least a working
relationship with the Speaker of the
House they want to get their legislation
onto the floor and passed so it's
difficult to overtly criticize the
speaker right but it's easier to
criticize the speaker staffer for
speaking out of turn or whatever you
want to say I think it's a bit of a
cop-out but you know in context you you
understand it to a degree that that this
is a way to express disappointment or
dissatisfaction with the direction of
the leadership's policies on
particularly around health care without
overtly attacking the speaker but you
know my view is that there's there's
just not a lot of distance right there
between Primus and Pelosi all right so
let's circle back around to to Pelosi
but let's just take this little detour
through a wendell premises history
because it really is fascinating this is
a guy who in 1996 in response to Bill
Clinton's welfare reform bill resigns in
protest like that's correct like just
even saying those words resigns in
protests never mind for something that I
agree with there's something that's
virtually unheard of it seems like in
politics I guess it's a very principled
position that that you do not see every
day as you said at the time Primus was
working in the Department of Health and
Human Services so he was he was on the
Clinton administration staff and and
when President Clinton said he would
sign the welfare reform bill Primus very
overtly
and and you know in a public letter
Edie I cannot remain here I I did this
analysis I think children would be hurt
by your welfare reform bill and and I
cannot stay and and I cannot disown that
analysis regarding the impact of the
bill and and and I'm going to publicly
resign now five years later no wait a
second let me just say this to put a
fine point on this this is like the type
of a guy like I would I would have a
poster of this guy in my you know in my
apartment back in the day right I mean
it's like you know now I want to say two
things about it though first of all five
years later Primus pops up in the New
York Times after there were studies
showing that the impact of welfare
reform was was not as acute at least at
that time which was wearing a boom boom
I mean you know from 96 2001 is not sort
of a stress test in yeah well he's I
guess six or seven years away from like
finding out that oh wait a second maybe
I should have doesn't work right but but
in 2001 he tells New York Times welfare
reform is working better than I thought
it were would and whatever we had been
doing over the last five years we ought
to keep going so a little bit too
credulous there it doesn't discount his
you know principal director resignation
but it adds some context the the second
thing is that you know what was he
actually doing here the the the the
fight over well for welfare reform to
someone like Primus who is indicative of
a lot of liberals in his generation who
were beaten down by the Reagan
Revolution and whose goal in public
policy is to just sort of hang on to
whatever scraps of the welfare state
were still left after the ravages of
Reaganism I mean that is his MO and it
was as mo in 1996 when he did this
resignation and it's his MO today he he
is someone who thinks that what you do
as a lefty is defend
we have now from right-wing assault and
never expand anything because the
America can't do that he believes there
are limits and constraints to
progressive policy and that the best we
can do is make sure food stamps are paid
for and make sure LIHEAP is paid for and
and and things like that rather than
transform the system and and so in and
to be clear this is a different story
than god I can't remember the guy who
went around and twisted arms for
Medicare D and the Republicans who was
the head of that play not delay but the
guy who was head of the committee and
literally was negotiating with an
insurance company at that time his name
escapes me
I wanted yes he was Billy Tauzin
right exactly and yes well he was
literally ended up becoming the head of
farm a farmer and he was negotiating for
that job while he was developing
Medicare Part D which was the drug now
he would come he was a member not a
staff right but but but I'm sure there
are examples of staffers who do that
type of thing to where it's just
completely I'm going to leverage this as
a job in the private sector is this I
mean this isn't that type of story is it
yeah I mean Primus is not a neoliberal
right he's not a clintonites he is not
someone who is is really out to reduce
the welfare state in meaningful ways
right he he is sort of a Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities where he
worked for a time in between the Clinton
administration and Pelosi where the
Brookings Institution there's there's a
type of liberal that's just sort of a
beaten-down liberal I I say the last of
the loser liberals in the piece who just
wants to hang on to these little scraps
of the welfare state you can't conceive
of government doing anything more
ambitious than that and this is useful
sometimes
and you know I mean Primus clashed with
Rahm Emanuel during the the Affordable
Care Act debate and we remember that
Pelosi was the one who said after Scott
Brown defeated to Martha Coakley and in
the seat for Kennedy Senate seat and
Democrats suddenly lost the 60-vote
majority in the Senate
you know Pelosi was the one saying we
have to keep going we have to keep going
and Primus was aligned with that right
whereas rahm emanuel was saying we
should cut back and just go for
something you know call it call it DP of
the ACA but let's just do right so
they're useful I mean what Dean Baker
was a progressive economist I'm sure
you've had on the show yes has what he
said to me for this piece is that you
know they are are they do great work
between the 40-yard lines right
when when something might be cut there
they're there to tell you why it's
important and it's good and useful but
it's never going to get you into the end
zone it's it's never going to change the
game they're they just don't they have a
very narrow mindset on policy debates
and Primus exemplifies that and I think
that's clear in how he's talked about
medicare-for-all I think it's clear in
something that's that's I go into detail
with in the piece which is this question
of drug price legislation that Primus is
spearheading going against a more
aggressive solution put forward by House
Democrats and cummick trying to come up
with something that the Trump
administration can sign which seems a
little cramped it's just their mindset
they're they're beaten down by the
Reagan Revolution there's a there's a
historical context to it they grew up
seeing all of these things go away and
and they built this sort of defensive
Crouch let's just protect what we have
let's not make trouble and and and and
let's move
and so okay and so we we have this this
is obviously this is a problem because
this problem now because we have a new
crop a new generation of Democrats who
have much broader policy ambitions
animated by the fact that the last forty
years of this defensive Crouch has not
worked right I mean we we have soaring
income inequality we have thirty million
people uninsured we have many more
underinsured
we have stagnant wages that we've had
for the last forty years
people think the status quo and just
protecting what we have is not good
enough particularly the new group of
Democrats on the left and now instead of
aligning with a Wendell Primus to fight
clean lights that they are they're an
open competition with the Wendell Primus
over the future of liberal policymaking
now I really I I really want to limit
this to this conversation to Pelosi in
in the house but although you know
there's obviously like a apparent a
parallel fight happening you know in the
context of the presidential election
with Bernie and cap and I don't want to
get into that because I don't need to
say that for tomorrow but but like what
what is going on wet mean what like what
is going on here with that fight because
Pelosi is out there making a real show
right this is not like oh she said
something offhand and people are blowing
it up there's been a consistent drumbeat
from her to attack this new generation
that is you know led by half a dozen
Democratic women frankly who are
freshmen at least in in the in the
public perspective
but what is going on with that like what
what what what is the theory here why
are they why are they being attacked
when it was a completely different
faction that was literally trying to
take her out in fact it seems to me that
that incoming freshman the the more
progressive ones were the ones who
ultimately sort of like shored up her
support what is going on is this is this
for show is this for the protection of
some of these blue dogs who won in you
know you know in in 2018 where you had
like a lot of purple districts turn you
know Democrat one in purple districts
like what's going on right I mean I
don't think it's particularly I think
part of it is protection of the the New
Democrat blue dog purple state freshmen
members who represent the margin of the
house majority but I also think it plays
back into this situation with Wendell
Primus who views house progressives as
people who leadership needs to be
protected from right the this idea that
these that progressive ideas must be
shunned because the best you can do in
public policymaking is is just protect
and defend the status quo and that it
you know we we hear about this this sort
of concept that Republicans cater to
their base and Democrats ignored their
base or one fears their base and wrong
doesn't right
and that's I think what this is about
right it's it's Pelosi who's comes from
the old guard Primus comes from the old
guard of thinking that fears moving a
you know an inch down
the the the football field on on these
various policies and it's almost a fear
of governing in some ways or at least
meeting the political moment their their
their particular beliefs about policy
have not been updated to match the
political moment I mean Pelosi is still
you know petrified of the deficit she
did a night behavior last year on the
floor of the house
praising Pete Peterson who was was this
millionaire billionaire that's you know
devoted the end of his life to trying to
cut Social Security yes she gave here's
a celebratory address on the floor of
the house for him at Primus is at the
center of those debates by the way he
constantly talks about the deficit he
was deeply involved in ensuring that
there was a Pago provision in the house
rules that says you you can't put a new
program up unless you offset it
somewhere else in the budget it this
this is a mindset this is a worldview
and and progressives of the modern era
of these these new freshmen represent a
threat to that worldview and their
whether its sincere that a sincere
disagreement over policy or a fear about
the political ramifications
either way the the functionally it's the
same right right I mean functionally it
that's how it manifests itself in this
tension that you're seeing right now
within the house caucus okay
