was the essence of his answer everyone
does it
no mr. president they don't not in the
America invincible to not for those who
believed in the idea that Lincoln
labored until his dying day to preserve
the idea animating our great national
experiments so unique then so precious
still that our government is chosen by
our people through our franchise and not
by some hostile foreign power this is
what is at stake our next election and
the one after that for generations to
come our democracy this is why your work
matters director pencil-neck this is why
our investigation matters to bring these
dangers to light ranking member news Oh
Thank You mr. chairman welcome everyone
to the last gasp of the Russia
conspiracy theory Nunez incidentally is
running literally running to the White
House the American people superfluity
did that he jumped out of the car to run
to the White House people may recall the
media began spreading this conspiracy
theory in the spring of 2016 when fusion
GPS funded by the DNC and the Hillary
Clinton campaign started developing the
steel dossier a collection of outlandish
accusations that Trump and his
associates or Russian agents fusion GPS
steel and other confederates fed these
absurdities to naive or partisan
reporters and to top officials in
numerous government agencies including
the FBI the Department of Ag and pushing
State Department gorilla mind rush among
other dossier allegations to obtain a
warrant to I'm going to send up a
majority share thing despite
acknowledging da see a legate dossier
allegations as being salacious and
unfair I'm gonna run to the former FBI
director James Comey breathe well Sam
does
reminds me my bid I used to do about and
President President Obama actually
having people artis where George W Bush
stayed when presented a crash on a
dossier that was my national thousands
it's like come on girls that's devil
stays miss bed take care of business my
one who admitted wow Akbar the Trump
lose the alleged Evolet is head in the
Gulf Coast Gold Coast it's got to a
source for leaking lay the plastic sound
of engineering yep you're my new show of
a special counsel Adam Schiff before a
self-promoting preening FBI
investigation right or might further
encompass are abuse and then Devin
Newton is the OJ's whose own Wyman
worked on embarrassing yes as I anti
operations in Congress fed steals
information to the FBI feel like I'm
about to fall into a family I fired
steal the top I can cater as lover
another top FBI officials client knew
about how much they hated Trump and
wanted to stop him from being elected
and the entire investigation was open
based not on five eyes intelligence but
on a tip from a foreign politician about
a convo that yacht lb and some nacho
servicemen chef he's a Maltese diplomat
who's widely portrayed as a Russian
agent spaceship care including their own
FBI and our own State Department then
with Russia
raising Li ignoring all these red flags
as well as the transparent absurdity of
the claims they are making the Democrats
have argued for nearly three years that
evidence of collusion is hidden just
around the corner
like the Loch Ness monster they insist
it's there even if no one can find it
consider this in March 2017 Democrats on
this committee said they had more than
circumstantial evidence of collusion but
they couldn't reveal it yet
mr. Muller was soon appointed and they
said he would find the collusion then
when no collusion was found and mr.
Mueller's indictments the Democrats said
we'd find it in this final report then
when there was no collusion in the
report we were told Attorney General bar
was hiding it then when it was clear
Barr wasn't hiding anything we were told
it will be revealed through a hearing
with mr. Muller himself that's true he's
not you can see now that the smaller is
here Myles they're claiming that the
collusion has actually been in his
report all along hidden in plain sight
and they're right Barr did there is
Clues high inside he lied who lied about
Usha and the new CEO who said the last
hearing the Democrats colluded with
Russian sources to develop the Steele
dossier and Russian lawyer natalia vasko
skya colluded with a dossiers key
architect fusion gps head glenn simpson
the democrats have already admitted both
in interviews and through their usual
anonymous statements to reporters team
team you today's hearing is not about
getting information at all they said
they want to quote bring the molar
report to life and create a television
moment through ploys like having mr.
Muller recite passages from his own
report political theater I didn't want
to kadar any American people didn't
wanna lose an is real and that it's
concealed in the report granted that's a
strange argument to make about a report
that is public it's almost like the
Democrats prepared arguments accusing
mr. Barr of hiding the report and didn't
bother to update their claims once he
published the entire thing just like I
did with the reading report thing among
congressional Democrats the Russian
investigation was never about finding
the truth it's always been a simple
media operation by their own accounts
this operation continues in this room
today once again numerous pressing
issues this committee needs to address
are put on hold to indulge the political
fantasies of people who believed it was
their destiny to serve Hillary Clinton's
administration it's time for the curtain
to close on
Russia hoax the conspiracy theory is
dead at some point I would argue we're
gonna have to get back to work until
then I yield back the balance of my time
nailed it to ensure fairness and make
sure that our hearing is prompt I know
we got a late start director Muller the
hearing will be structured as follows
each member of the committee will be
afforded five minutes to ask questions
beginning with the chair and ranking
member I'd be a bacon always because
I've added education and descending
order of seniority members of the
majority and minority after each member
is asked as intelligence the ranking
member will be awarded an additional
five minutes to ask questions during on
by the chair additional five questions
five minutes for questions the ranking
member and the chair will not be
permitted to delegate or yield our final
round of questions to any other member
after six members of the majority and
six members the minority have concluded
their five-minute rounds of questions
we'll take a five or ten-minute break
that we understand you've requested
before resuming the hearing with
congressmen's while well starting his
round of questions special council
Muller is accompanied today by Aaron Zeb
Lee who served as deputy special counsel
from May 2017 until May 20 where they
had him day today Muller wanted special
counsels investigation mr. Muller and
mr. Zeb Lee resigned from the Department
of Justice at the end of may 20 19 when
the special counsels office was closed
both mr. Muller and mr. Zeb Lee will be
available to answer questions today and
will be sworn in consistent with the
rules of the house and the committee mr.
Muller mr. Sibley's appearance today
before the committee is in keeping with
the committee's long-standing practice
of receiving testimony from current or
former Department of Justice and FBI
personnel regarding open and closed
investigative matters as this hearing is
under oath and before we begin your
testimony mr. Muller and Zeb Lee would
you please rise and raise your right
hands to be sworn
do you swear or affirm that the
testimony you are about to give at this
hearing is the whole truth and nothing
but the truth
thank you
the record will reflect that the
witnesses have been duly sworn ranking
member Thank You mr. chair I just want
to clarify that this is highly unusual
for mr. Zell be to be sworn in we're
here to ask director molar questions
he's here as counsel our sides not going
to be directing any questions to mr. Zeb
Lee and we have concerns about his prior
representation of the Hillary Clinton
campaign aid so I just want to voice
that concern that we do have and we will
not be addressing any questions to mr.
Sibley today I think the ranking member
I realize as you probably do mr. zeppeli
that there is a angry man down the
street who's not happy about your being
here today but it is up to this
committee and not anyone else who will
be allowed to be sworn in and testify
and they're not angry them as a private
citizen I'm not angry not to testify
members made direct question wherever
they choose who withheld zel be director
Muller you were recognized for any
opening remarks you'd like to make good
afternoon
chairmanship ranking member Nunez and
members of the committee I testified
this morning before the House Judiciary
Committee I asked that the opening
statement I made before that committee
be incorporated into the record here
without objection Georgia I understand
that this committee has a unique
jurisdiction and that you are interested
in further understanding the
counterintelligence implications of our
investigation so let me say a word about
how we handled the potential impact of
our investigation on counterintelligence
matters as we explained in our report
the special counsel regulations
effectively gave me the role of the
United States Attorney as a result we
structured our investigation around
evidence for possible use in prosecution
of federal crimes we did not reach what
you would call counterintelligence
conclusions we did however set up
processes in the office to identify and
pass counterintelligence information on
to the FBI members of our office
periodically briefed the FBI about
counterintelligence information in
addition there were agents and analysts
from the FBI who were not on our team
but whose job it was to identify
counterintelligence information in our
files and to and to disseminate that
information to the FBI for these reasons
questions about what the FBI has done
with the counterintelligence information
obtained from our investigation should
be directed to the FBI I also want to
reiterate a few points that I made this
morning I am not making any judgments or
offering opinions about the guilt or
innocence in any pending case it is
unusual for a prosecutor to testify
about a criminal investigation and given
my role as a prosecutor there are
reasons why my testimony will
necessarily be limited first public
testimony could affect several ongoing
matters in some of these matters court
rules or judicial orders limit the
disclosure of information to protect the
fairness of the proceedings and
consistent with long-standing Justice
Department policy it would be
inappropriate for me to comment in any
way that could affect an ongoing manner
second the Justice Department has
asserted privileges concerning
investigative information and decisions
ongoing matters within the Justice
Department and deliberations within our
office these are Justice Department
privileges that I will respect the
Department has released a letter
discussing the restrictions on my
testimony but I therefore will not be
able to answer questions about certain
areas that I know are of
public interest for example I am unable
to address questions about the opening
of the FBI's Russia investigation which
occurred months before my appointment or
matters related to the so-called steel
and dossier these manners are the
subject of ongoing review by the
department any questions one of these
topics should therefore be directed to
the FBI or the Justice Department the
third as I explained this morning it is
important for me to adhere to what we
wrote in our report the report contains
our findings and analysis and the
reasons for the decisions we made we
stated the results of our investigation
with precision I do not intend to
summarize or describe the results of our
work in a different way in the course of
my testimony today and as I stated in
May I also will not comment on the
actions of the Attorney General or of
Congress I was appointed as a prosecutor
and I intend to adhere to that role and
to the department standards that
government finally as I said this
morning over the course of my career I
have seen a number of challenges to our
democracy the Russian government's
efforts to interfere in our election is
among the most serious and I am sure
that the committee agrees now before we
go to questions I've want to add one
correction to my testimony this morning
I want to go back to one thing that was
said this morning by mr. Liu who said
and I quote you didn't charge the
president because of the OLC opinion
he's changed he's fed is not the correct
way to say it as we say in the report
and as I said at the opening we did not
reach a determination as to whether the
president committed a crime and with
that mr. Chairman right answer so we had
anticipated that he would probably
correct itself for 9 minutes dr. Muller
your report describes a sweeping and
systematic effort by Russia to influence
our presidential election is that
correct that is correct and during the
course of this Russian interference
in the election the Russians made
outreach to the Trump campaign did they
not that occurred over the course of
yeah that occurred it's also clear from
your report that during that Russian
outreach to the Trump campaign no one
associated with the Trump campaign ever
called the FBI to report it am i right
I don't know that for sure in fact the
campaign welcomed the Russian help did
they not I think we have reported in are
indications that that occurred yes the
president's son said when he was
approached about dirt on Hillary Clinton
that the Trump campaign would love it
that is generally what was said yes
the President himself called on the
Russians to hack Hillary's emails there
was a statement by the president and now
it's general lines and numerous times
during the campaign the president
praised the releases of the Russian
hacked emails through WikiLeaks that way
that did occur your port found that the
Trump campaign planned quote a press
strategy communications campaign and
messaging unquote based on that Russian
assistance I am not familiar with that
language comes from volume 1 page 54
apart from the Russians wanting to help
Trump win several individuals associated
with the Trump campaign we're also
trying to make money during the campaign
in transition is that correct that is
true Paul Manafort was trying to make
money or achieve debt forgiveness from a
Russian oligarch generally that is
accurate Michael Flynn was trying to
make money from Turkey true Donald Trump
was trying to make millions from a real
estate deal in Moscow to the extent
you're talking about the the hotel and
Moscow yes yes it when your
investigation looked into these matters
numerous Trump associates lied to your
team the grand jury and to Congress
number of persons that we interviewed
and our investigation it turns out did
lawyer Mike Flynn lied he was convicted
of lie yes George papadopolis was
convicted of lying true Paul Manafort
was convicted of lying
oh man afford was in fact went so far as
to encourage other people to lie that is
accurate
man affords deputy Rick Gates lied that
is accurate Michael Cohen the
president's lawyer was indicted for
lying true
you lied to stay on message with the
president allegedly by him and when
Donald Trump called your investigation a
witch hunter that was also false was it
not
I like to think so yes well your
investigation is not a witch hunt is it
is not a witch hunt when the president
said the Russian interference was a hoax
that was false wasn't it true when he
said it publicly it was false
yeah he did say publicly that it was
false yes and when he told it to Putin
that was false - wasn't it I'm not
familiar with when the president said he
had no business dealings with Russia
that was false wasn't it I'm not gonna
go into the details of the report that
along those lines
when the pressure when the president
said he had no business dealings with
Russia in fact he was seeking to build a
Trump Tower in Moscow is he not I think
there there are some question about when
this was accomplished well you would
consider a billion dollar deal to build
a tower in Moscow to be business
dealings
wouldn't you director Muller yeah
absolutely in short your investigation
found evidence that Russia wanted to
help Trump win the election right I
think generally that would be accurate
Russia informed campaign officials of
that I'm not certain - what conversation
- you're referring to him well through
an intermediary the informed
Papadopoulos that they could help with
the anonymous release of stolen emails
accurate Russia committed federal crimes
in order to help Donald Trump when
you're talking about that computer
crimes in charge in our case absolutely
the Trump campaign officials built their
strategy their messaging strategy around
those stolen documents I'm generally
that's true
and then they lied to cover it up but
generally that's true thank you
mr. Nunez thank you welcome director as
a former FBI director you'd agree that
the FBI is the world's most capable law
enforcement agency I would say where yes
the FBI claims the counterintelligence
investigation of the Trump campaign
began on July 31st 2016 but in fact it
began before that in June 2016 before
the investigation officially opened
Trump campaign associates Carter Paige
and Stephen Miller a current Trump
adviser were invited to attend a
symposium at Cambridge University in
July 2016 your office however did not
investigate who is responsible for
inviting these Trump associates to this
symposium your investigators also failed
to interview Stephen Schrag II an
American citizen who helped organize the
event and invited Carter Paige to it is
that correct
can you repeat the question whether or
not you interviewed Stephens Reggie who
organized the Cambridge nose areas I am
going to stay away from the first Trump
associate to be investigated was general
Flynn many of the allegations against
him stem from false media reports that
he had an affair with a Cambridge
academic swetlana low cover and that low
cover was a Russian spy some of these
allegations were made public in a 2017
article written by British intelligence
historian Christopher Andrew your report
fails to reveal how or why Andrew and
his collaborator Richard Dearlove former
head of Britain's mi6 spread these
allegations and you failed to interview
swetlana low cover about these matters
is that correct I'm gonna get it and I
can get into those matters to which you
refer you had a team of 19 lawyers 40
agents and an unlimited budget correct
mr. Muller I would not say we had an
unlimited budget let's continue with the
ongoing or the opening of the
investigation supposedly on July 31st
2016
the investigation was not open based on
an official product from five eyes
intelligence but based on a rumor
conveyed by Alexander downer on volume 1
page 89 your report describes him
blandly as a representative of a foreign
government but he was actually a
longtime Australian politician not a
military or intelligence official who
had previously arranged a 25 million
dollar donation to the Clinton
Foundation and has previous ties to
Dearlove so downer conveys a rumor he
supposedly heard about a conversation
between Papadopoulos and joseph Mifsud
James Comey has publicly called Mifsud a
Russian agent yet your report does not
refer to myths it as a Russian agent
Mifsud has extensive contacts with
Western governments and the FBI for
example there is a recent photo of him
standing next to Boris Johnson the new
Prime Minister of Great Britain well
we're trying to figure out here mr.
Muller is if our NATO allies or Boris
Johnson have been compromised so we're
trying to figure out Comey says Mifsud
is a Russian agent you do not so is do
you stand by what's in the report I
stand by that which is in the report and
not so necessarily with that which is
which is not in the report I want to
return to mr. downer he denies that
Papadopoulos mentioned anything to him
about Hillary Clinton's emails and in
fact Mifsud denies mentioning them pop
took that to Papadopoulos he denies that
Papadopoulos mentioned anything to him
about Hillary Clinton's emails and in
fact Mifsud denies mentioning to them to
Papadopoulos in the first place so how
does the FBI know to continually ask
Papadopoulos about Clinton's emails for
the rest of 2016
even more strangely your sentencing memo
on Papadopoulos blames him for hindering
the FBI's ability to potentially detain
or arrest Mifsud but the truth the truth
is Mifsud waltzed in and out of the
United States in December 2016 the US
media could find him the Italian press
found him
and he's a supposed Russian agent at the
epicenter of the purported collusion
conspiracy he's the guy who knows about
Hillary Clinton's emails and that the
Russians have them but the FBI failed to
question him for a half a year after
officially opening the investigation and
then according to volume 1 page 193 of
your report once Mifsud finally was
questioned he made false statements to
the FBI but you declined to charge him
is that correct you did not indict mr.
mrs. I'm not going to speak to the
series of happenings as you articulated
them but you did not indict mr. my
mother the gentleman has expired
a pardon you did not indict mr. mixon
true mr. Himes director Mahler
thank you for your lifetime of service
to this country and thank you for your
perseverance and patience today director
your report opens with two statements of
remarkable clarity and power the first
statement is one that is as of today not
acknowledged by the president the United
States and that is quote the Russian
government interfered in the 2016
presidential election in sweeping and
systematic fashion
the second statement remains
controversial amongst members of this
body same page on your report and I
quote the Russian government perceived
it would benefit from a trump presidency
and work to secure that outcome do I
have that statement right
I believe so director Muller this attack
on our democracy involved as you said
two operations first a social media
disinformation campaign this was
targeted campaign to spread false
information on places like Twitter and
Facebook is that correct
that's correct Facebook estimated as per
your report that the Russian fake images
reached a hundred and 26 million people
is that correct I believe that's the Sun
there we record director who did the
Russian social media campaign ultimately
intend to benefit Hillary Clinton or
Donald Trump Donald Trump the second
operation direct I guess a dollar drop
there were instances where Hillary
Clinton would subject to much the same
behavior the second operation in the
Russian attack was a scheme what we call
the hack and dump to steal and release
hundreds of thousands of emails from the
Democratic Party and the Clinton
campaigns at a fair summary that is did
your investigation find that the
releases of the hacked emails were
strategically timed to maximize impact
on the election I'd have to refer you to
the our report on that question
page 36 I quote the release of the
documents were designed in time to
interfere with the 2016 US presidential
election mr. Muller which presidential
candidate was Russia's hacking and
dumping operation designed to benefit
Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump mr.
Trump similar is it possible than the
sweeping and systemic effort by Russia
actually had an effect on the outcome of
the presidential election those issues
that being or have been investigated by
other entities 126 million Facebook
impressions fake rallies attacks on
Hillary Clinton's health would you rule
out that it might have had some effect
on the election I'm not gonna speculate
mr. Malla your report describes a third
avenue of attempted Russian interference
that is the numerous links and contacts
between the Trump campaign and
individuals tied to the Russian
government is that correct could you
repeat that question your report
describes what is called a third avenue
of Russian interference and that's the
links and contacts between the Trump
campaign and individuals tied to the
Russian government yes let's bring up
slide one which is about George
papadopolis and it reads on May 6 2016
10 days after that meeting with Massoud
much discussed today Papadopoulos
suggested to a representative of a
foreign government that the Trump
campaign had received indications from
the Russian government that it could
assist the campaign through the
anonymous release of information that
would be damaging to Hillary Clinton and
director that's exactly what happened
two months later is it not well I can
speak to the excerpt that you have on
the screen as being
correct from the report but not the
second half of your question well the
second half just to refer to page six of
the report is that on July 22nd through
WikiLeaks thousands of these emails that
were that were stolen by the Russian
government appeared correct that's on
page six of the report this is the
WikiLeaks posting of those email I can't
find it quickly but I please continue
okay so just to be clear before the
public or the FBI ever knew the Russians
previewed for a Trump campaign official
George papadopolis that they had stolen
emails that they could release
anonymously to help Donald Trump and
hurt Hillary Clinton is that correct
I'm not going to speak to that director
rather than report this contact with
Joseph Mossad and the notion that there
was dirt that the campaign could use
rather than report that to the FBI that
I think most of my constituents would
expect an individual to do Papadopoulos
in fact lied about his Russian contacts
to you is that not correct that's true
we have an election coming up in 2020
director if a campaign receives an offer
of dirt from a foreign individual or a
government generally speaking should
that campaign report those contacts
should be it it can't be depending on
their circumstances a crime but I I will
yield back the balance of my time
mr. Conaway
Thank You mr. baller did anyone ask you
to exclude anything from your report
that you felt should have been in the
report I don't think so but it's it's
not a small report I don't ask you
specific to exclude something that you
believe should have been in there that
you thought that I can recall well he'll
the bounce might Andres correctly thank
you thank the gentleman for yielding
good afternoon director Muller in your
May 29th press conference and again in
your opening remarks this morning you
made it pretty clear you wanted the
Special Counsel report to speak for
itself you said at your press conference
that
that was the offices final position and
we will not comment on any other
conclusions or hypotheticals about the
president now you spent the last few
hours of your life from Democrats trying
to get you to answer all kinds of
hypotheticals about the president and I
expect that it may continue for the next
few hours of your life
I think you've stayed pretty much true
to what your intent and desire was but I
guess regardless of that the special
counsels office is closed and it has no
continuing jurisdiction or authority so
what would be your authority or
jurisdiction for adding new conclusions
or determinations to the special
council's written report as the latter I
don't know or expect changes in
conclusions that we included in our in
our report so to that point you
addressed one of the issues that that I
needed to which was from your testimony
this morning which some construed as a
change to the written report you talked
about the exchange that you had with
congressman Lew I wrote it down a little
bit different I want to ask you about it
so that the record is perfectly clear I
recorded that he asked you quote the
reason you did not indict Donald Trump
is because of the OLC opinion stating
you cannot indict a sitting president to
which you responded that is correct that
that response is inconsistent I think
you'll agree with your written report I
want to be clear that is not your intent
to change your written report it is your
intent to clarify the record to that as
I started today this afternoon and added
either a footnote or an EndNote
what I wanted to clarify is the fact
that we did not make any determination
with regard to culpability in any way we
did not start that process then down the
road terrific thank you for clarifying
the record a stated purpose of your
appointment a special counsel was to
ensure a full and thorough investigation
of the Russian government efforts to
interfere in the 2016 presidential
election as part of that full and
thorough investigation
what determination did the Special
Counsel office make about whether the
steal dossier was part of the rush
government efforts to interfere in the
2016 presidential election again when it
comes to mr. Steele I defer to
Department of Justice well first of all
director right I very much agree with
your determination that rough Russia's
efforts were sweeping and systematic I
think it should concern every American
that's why I want to know just how
sweeping and systematic those efforts
were I want to find out if Russia
interfered with our election by
providing false information through
sources to Christopher steel about a
Trump conspiracy that you determined
didn't exist well I was again I'm not
gonna discuss the issues with regard to
mr. steel the and in terms of a
portrayal of the conspiracies we
returned two indictments in Computer
Crimes arena one GRU and in other active
measures in which we lay out in
excruciating detail I under and those
two and either large conspiracies I
agree with respect to that though this
is important is an application and three
renewal applications were submitted by
the United States government to spy or
surveil on Trump campaign Carter
associate or Carter page and on all four
occasions the United States government
submitted the steal dossier is a central
piece of evidence with respect to that
now the basic premise of the dossier as
you know was that there was a
well-developed conspiracy of cooperation
between the Trump campaign and the
Russian government but the Special
Counsel investigation didn't establish
any conspiracy correct
well what I can tell you is that the the
events that you are characterizing here
now it's part of another matter that is
being handled by the Department of
Justice but you did not establish any
conspiracy much less a well developed
one again I pass on answering that
question the special counsel did not
charge Carter page with anything correct
national counsel did not all right
my time has expired I yield back miss
Sewell
director Muller I'd like to turn your
attention to the June 9th 2016 Trump
Tower meeting slide 2 which should be on
the screen now is a part of an email
chain between Don
Jr Don Donald Trump jr. and a publicist
representing the son of a Russian
oligarch the email exchange ultimately
led to the now infamous June 9th 2016
meeting the email from the publicist to
Donald Trump jr. reads in part the Crown
prosecutor of Russia offered to provide
the Trump campaign with some official
documents and information that would
incriminate Hillary in her dealings with
Russia and is a part of Russia and it's
government's support of mr. Trump in
this email Donald Trump jr. is being
told that the Russian government wants
to pass along information which would
hurt Hillary Clinton and help Donald
Trump is that correct that's correct
now Trump juniors response to that email
is slide 3 he said and I quote if it is
what you say I love it
especially later in this summer then
Donald Jr invited senior campaign
officials Paul Manafort and Jared
Kushner to the meeting did he not he did
this email exchange is evidence of an
offer of illegal assistance is it not I
cannot adopt that characterization isn't
it against the law for a presidential
campaign to accept anything of value
from a foreign government generally
speaking yes but they're generally the
cases are circles or a unique well you
say in page 184 and volume 1 that the
federal campaign finance law brought
broadly prohibits foreign nationals from
making contributions etc and then you
say that foreign nationals may not make
a contribution or donation of money or
anything of value it said clearly in the
report itself thank you now let's turn
to what actually happened at the meeting
when Donald Trump jr. and the others got
to the June 9th meeting they realized
that the Russian delegation didn't have
the promised quote-unquote dirt in fact
they got upset about that did they not
generally yes
you say in volume 1 page 118 that Trump
jr. asks what what are we doing here
what what what do they have on Clinton
and during the meeting Kirchner actually
text mana Ford saying it was quote a
waste of time in quote is that correct I
believe it's in the report along
Alliance you've specified so to be clear
top Trump campaign officials learned
that Russia wanted to help Donald
Trump's campaign by giving him dirt on
his opponent Trump jr. said loved it
then he and senior officials held a
meeting with the Russians to try to get
that Russian help but they were
disappointed because the dirt wasn't as
good as they had hoped so to the next
step
did anyone to your knowledge in the
Trump campaign ever tell the FBI of this
offer I don't believe so
did Donald Trump jr. tell the FBI that
they received an offer of help from
that's about all I'll say on this aspect
of it wouldn't it be true sir that if if
they had reported it to the FBI or
anyone in that campaign during the
course of your two-year investigation
you would have been covered such other I
would hope yes yes sir is it not the
responsibility of political campaigns to
inform the FBI if they receive
information from a foreign government I
would think that that's something they
wouldn't should do well not only did the
campaign not tell the FBI they sought to
hide the existence of the June 9th
meeting for over a year is that not
correct in the general characterization
I would question it if you're referring
to later initiative that flowed from the
media then no what I'm suggesting is
that you've said and volume 2 page 5 on
several occasions the president directed
aides not to publicly disclose the email
setting up the June ninth meters that's
a card Thanks
sir given this illegal assistance by
Russians you chose even given that you
did not charge Donald Trump jr. or any
of the other senior officials with
conspiracy is that right
and while when you're talking about if
you're talking about other individuals
you're talking about the attendees
that's a few 9 that's right
so mr. Mallory even though it didn't you
didn't charge them with conspiracy don't
you think that the American people would
be concerned that these three senior
campaign officials eagerly sought a
foreign adversaries help to win
elections and don't you think that
reporting that is important that we
don't set a precedent for future
elections I can't accept that
characterization well listen I think
that it seems like a portrayal of
American values to me sir that someone
with if not being criminal is definitely
unethical and wrong and I would think
that we would not want to set a
precedent that political campaign should
not divulge of information if it's
foreign governments yes this Tennessee
thank you sir mr Turner mr. Muller I
have your opening statement and in the
beginning of your opening statement you
indicate that pursuant to Justice
Department regulations that you
submitted a confidential report to the
Attorney General at the conclusion of
the investigation what I'd like you to
confirm is the report that you did that
is the subject matter of this hearing is
to show the attorneys tabs yes you also
state in this opening statement that you
threw overboard the word collusion
because it's not a legal term you would
not conclude because collusion the
infallible term well everybody seems
better including dollar general parlance
people can think of it that way but if
you're talking about in the criminal
statute arena you can't because some
really it's much more accurately
described as conspiracy right so your
words are it's not a legal term so you
didn't put it in your conclusion correct
that's what you're correct
mr. molar I want to talk about your
powers and authorities now the Attorney
General and the appointment order gave
you powers and authorities that are
reside in the Attorney General now the
Attorney General has no ability to give
you powers and authority greater than
the powers and an authority of the
Attorney General correct I don't believe
you know I pick that up it's correct mr.
Moore I want to focus on one word in
your report it's a second to the last
word in the report its eggs on
raped the report states accordingly
while this report does not conclude that
the president committed a crime
it does not exonerate him now in the
judiciary hearing in your prior
testimony you've already agreed with mr.
Radcliffe that exonerate is not a legal
term but there is not a legal test for
this so I have a question for you mr.
Martin mr. Martin does the Attorney
General have the power or authority to
exonerate when I'm putting up here is
the United States Code this is where the
Attorney General gets his props and the
Constitution and the annotated vert
casas of these which we've searched we
even went to your law school because I
went to Case Western but I thought maybe
your law school teaches it differently
and we got the criminal law textbook
from your law school mr. Muller cousin
okay we had them scanned is there a
process or description on exonerate
there's no office of exoneration to
Attorney General's Office there's no
certificate at the bottom of his desk
mr. Moore would you agree with me that
the Attorney General does not have the
power to exonerate I'm gonna pass on
that why because it boils us in the
political discussion and I'm not
prepared to do a legal discussion in
that arena
well mr. mr. Miller you would you would
not disagree with me when I say that
there is no place that the Attorney
General has the power to exonerate and
he's not been given that authority you
would know I'm not gonna take your
question great well the one thing that I
guess is that the Attorney General
probably knows that he can't exonerate
either and and that's the part that kind
of confuses me because if the attorney
Joe doesn't have the power to exonerate
then you don't have the power to
exonerate and I believe he knows he
doesn't have the power to exonerate and
so this is the part that I don't
understand if your report is to the
Attorney General and the Attorney
General doesn't have the power to
exonerate and he does not and he knows
that you do not have that power you
don't have to tell him that you're not
exonerating the president he knows this
already so then that kind of changed the
context no it was included in the
reporter and this has been known the way
he warned me not know it and he should
know it so you believe that the attorney
bill Barr believes it's somewhere in the
hallways of the Department of Justice
there's an office of exoneration
no that's not what I said well I believe
he knows and I don't believe you put
that in there for for mr. Barr I think
you put that in there for exactly what
I'm gonna discuss next and that is to
the Washington Post yesterday when
speaking of your report the article said
Trump could not be exonerated of trying
to obstruct the investigation itself
Trump could not be exonerated now that
statement is correct mr. Muller isn't it
and that no one can be exonerated the
reporter wrote this that this reporter
can't be exonerated mr. Muller you can't
be exonerated in fact in our criminal
justice system there is no power or
authority to exonerate now this is my
concern mr. Muller this is the headline
on all of the news channels while you
were testifying today Muller Trump was
not exonerated
now mr. Muller what you know is that
this can't say Muller exonerated Trump
because you don't have the power or
authority to exonerate Trump you have no
more power to declare him exonerated
than you have the power to declare him
Anderson Cooper so the problem that I
have here is that since there's no one
in the criminal justice system it has a
power the president totally Examiners
hungry I'm the only person that can say
yes and then declare not guilty they
don't even declare exoneration the
statement about exoneration is
misleading and it's meaningless and it
colors this investigation one word out
of the entire portion of your report and
it's a meaningless word that has no
legal meaning and it has colored your
entire arm of the gentleman is
experiment mr. Carson thank you chairman
Thank You director Muller for your years
of service to our country I want to look
more closely sir at the Trump campaign
Chairman Paul mana for an individual who
I believe betrayed our country who lied
to a grand jury who tampered with
witnesses and who repeatedly tried to
use his position with the Trump campaign
to make more money let's focus on the
betrayal and greed your investigation
sir found a number of troubling contacts
between Mr Man afford and Russian
individuals during and after the
campaign is that right sir correct
correct in addition to the June 9th
meeting just discussed mana four also
met several times with a man named
Centene Clinic who the FBI assessed to
have ties with Russian Intel agencies is
that right sir correct in fact mr.
Manafort didn't just meet with him he
shared private Trump campaign polling
information with this man linked to
Russian intelligence is that right sir
that is correct and in turn the
information was shared with a Russian
oligarch tied to Vladimir Putin is that
right sir allegedly director Muller
meeting with him wasn't enough sharing
internal polling information wasn't
enough mr. man afford went so far as to
offer this Russian Oleg are tied to
Putin a private briefing on the campaign
is that right sir yes sir
and finally mr. man afford also
discussed internal campaign strategy on
for battleground states Michigan
Wisconsin Pennsylvania and Minnesota
with the Russian intelligence linked
individual did he not sir that's
reflected in the report as were the
items you listed previously director
Muller based on your decades of years of
experience at the FBI would you agree
sir that it creates a national security
risk when a presidential campaign
chairman shares private polling
information on the American people
private political strategy related to
winning the votes of the American people
and private information about American
battleground states with a foreign
adversary is that the question sir yes
sir
I'm not going to speculate along those
lines to the extent that it's within the
lines of the report then I support it
anything beyond that it's not part of
that which I would support well I think
it does sir I think it shows an
infuriating lack of patriotism from the
very people seeking the highest office
in the land director Muller Manta Ford
didn't share this information exchange
for nothing did he sir I can't answer
that question without knowing more about
that the question well it's clearly he
hoped to be paid back money he was old
by Russian or Ukrainian oligarchs in
return for the passage of private
campaign information rather that is
director Muller is my colleague mr. heck
we'll discuss later agreed kurup's would
you agree sir that the sharing of
private campaign information in exchange
for money represents a particular kind
of corruption a one that presents a
national security risk for our country
sir I'm not gonna apply on that and I
don't have the expertise in that arena
to really applied would you agree sir
that man affords contacts with Russians
close to Vladimir Putin and his efforts
to exchange private information on
Americans for money left him vulnerable
to blackmail by the Russians
I take generally so that would be the
case would you agree sir that these acts
demonstrated a betrayal of the
democratic values of our country rests
on I can't agree with that director not
that is not true yes sir
director Muller well I can tell you that
in my years of experience as a law
enforcement officer and as a member of
Congress fortunate to serve on the Intel
committee I know enough to say yes
trading political secrets for money with
a foreign adversary can corrupt and it
can leave you open to blackmail and it
certainly represents a betrayal of the
values underpinning our democracy I want
to thank you for your service again
director Muller we appreciate you for
coming today I yield back chairman dr.
wind strip Thank You mr. chairman Thank
You mr. Muller for being here today
smeller is it accurate to say your
investigation found no evidence that
members of the Trump campaign were
involved in the theft or publication of
Clinton campaign related emails yeah can
you read can you repeat the question is
it accurate to say your investigation
found no evidence that members of the
Trump campaign were involved in the
theft or publication of the Clinton
campaign related emails I don't know I
don't know what well well Volume one
page 5 the investigation did not
establish that members of the Trump
campaign conspired or coordinated with
the Russian government in its election
interference activities so it would
therefore be an
you're it based on this to describe that
finding as open to doubt that finding
being that a trump campaign was involved
with theft or publication of the Clinton
campaign emails you're following that I
do believe I'm following it but it is
that portion or that matter it does not
fall within our jurisdiction all right I
already which what you your report says
volume 1 page 5 I just want to be clear
that open to doubt is how the committee
democrats described this finding in
their minority views to our 2018 report
and it kind of flies in the face of what
you have in in your report but so is it
accurate also to say the investigation
found no documentary evidence that
george papadapolis told anyone
affiliated with the trump campaign about
joseph smith's it's claims that the
russians had dirt on canon and clinton
let me turn that over to mr. Sablan
i'd like to ask you sir this is your
report and and that's what I'm basing
this on and then could you repeat the
question for me again yeah is it
accurate to say the investigation found
no documentary evidence the George
papadopolis told anyone affiliated with
the Trump campaign about Joseph Misfits
claims that the Russians had dirt on
Canada Clinton I believe it appearing in
the report that's accurate okay so yeah
and the report it says no documentary
evidence that Papadopoulos shared this
information with the campaign it's there
for you inaccurate to conclude that by
the time of the June 9 2016 Trump Tower
meeting quote the campaign was likely
already unnoticed via George papadopolis
is contact with Russian agents that
Russia in fact had damaging information
on Trump's opponent would you say that
that is inaccurate to say that it's it's
likely already I directly I could direct
you to the report well I appreciate that
because the Democrats jumped to this in
contract incorrect collusion and their
minority views again which contradicts
which you have
in your report concerned about a number
of statements I'd like you to clarify
because the number of Democrats have
made some statements that I have
concerns with and maybe you can clear
them up so a member of this committee
said president Trump was a Russian agent
after your report was publicly released
that statement is not supported by your
report correct that is accurate not
supported multiple Democratic members
have asserted that Paul Manafort met
with Julian Assange in 2016 before
WikiLeaks released DNC emails implying
Manafort colluded with the signs because
your report does not mention finding
evidence that man afford met with
Assange I would assume that means you
found no evidence of this meeting is
that assumption correct I'm not sure now
I agree with that assumption but you
make no mention of it in your report
would you agree with that yes I would
agree that okay mr. Muller does your
report contain any evidence that
President Trump was enrolled in the
Russian system of compromised a member
of this committee once claimed what I
can speak to his information evidence
that we picked up as the special counsel
and I think that's accurate as far as it
thank you
I appreciate that so let's go for a
second to scope did you ask the
Department of Justice to expand the
scope of the special counsels mandate
related to August 2nd 2017 or August
20th 2017 scoping memoranda well there
without looking at the memoranda I could
not answer that well let me ask you did
you ever make a request to expand your
office's mandate which at all generally
yes and was that ever denied I'm not
gonna speak to that you're not go
internal deliberations well I'm just
trying to understand process as
expanding the scope come from the acting
Attorney General or Rosenstein or does
it come from you or can it come from
either I'm not gonna discuss any any
other alternatives Thank You mr. Malla
miss appear I think interesting that
Muller declined to answer about manna
for
fear of contradiction that you're the
greatest patriot in this room today and
I want to thank you for being here thank
you you um said in your report and I'm
gonna quibble with your words that the
Russian intervention was sweeping and
systematic I would quibble with that
because I don't think it was just an
intervention I think it was an invasion
and I don't think it was just sweeping
and systematic I think it was sinister
and scheming but having said that one of
my colleagues earlier here referred to
this Russian intervention as a hoax
and I'd like to get your comment on that
on page 26 of your report you talked
about the internet research agency and
how tens of millions of US persons
became engaged with the posts that they
made that there were some 80,000 posts
on Facebook that Facebook itself
admitted that a hundred and twenty-six
million people had probably seen the
posts that were put up by the internet
research agency that they had 3,800
Twitter accounts and had designed more
than a hundred and seventy-five thousand
tweets that probably reached 1.4 million
people the internet research agency was
spending about 1.25 million dollars a
month on all of this social media in the
United States in what I would call an
invasion in our country would you agree
that it was not a hoax that the Russians
were engaged in trying to impact our
election absolutely that was not a hoax
the indictments we were turned against
the Russians two different ones were
substantial and in their scope using
that scope word again and I think one of
the we have under played to a certain
extent and that aspect of our
investigation that has and would have
long-term damage to the United States
that we need to move quickly to
address thank you for that I'd like to
drill down on that a little bit more the
internet research agency actually
started in 2014 by sending over staff as
tourists I guess to start looking at
where they wanted to engage and there
are many that suggest and I'm interested
in your opinion as to whether or not
Russia is presently in the United States
looking for ways to impact the 2020
election I can't speak to that that
would be in levels of classification all
right let me ask you this
oftentimes we engage in these hearings
we forget the forest for the trees you
have a very large report here of over
400 pages most Americans have not read
it we have read it actually the FBI
agent said he hadn't read it which was a
little discouraging but on behalf of the
American people I want to give you a
minute and 39 seconds to tell the
American people what you would like them
to glean from this report well we spent
substantial time assuring the integrity
of the report understanding that it
would be our living a message to those
who who come after us but it also is a
signal a flag to those of us who have
some responsibility in this area to
exercise its over those responsibilities
swiftly and don't let this problem
continue to linger as it has over so
many years all right you didn't take the
whole amount of time so I'm gonna yield
the rest of my time to the Chairman I
think the gentleman for yielding
dr. Miller I wanted to ask you about
conspiracy generally a conspiracy
requires an offer of something illegal
the acceptance of that offer in an overt
act in furtherance of it is that correct
correct and Don jr. was made aware that
the Russians were offering dirt on his
opponent correct I don't know that for
sure but one would assume at the meeting
and
when you say that you would love to get
that help that would constitute an
acceptance of the offer it's a wide open
request and it would certainly be
evidence of an acceptance if you say
when somebody offers you something
illegal and you say I would love it that
would consider be considered evidence of
an acceptance okay stay away from any
addressing one particularly situations
well this particular situation well I'll
have to continue in a bit now yield to
mr. Stewart the smaller it's been a long
day thank you for being here I do have a
series of important questions for you
but before I do that I want to take a
moment to emphasize something that my
friend mr. turner has said I proved many
people state no person is above the law
and many times recently they had not
even the president which i think is
blazingly obvious to most of us I'm
having a little problem hearing it sir
is this better that is better thank you
I want you know I agree with this
statement that no person is above the
law but there's another principle that
we also have to defend and that is the
presumption of innocence and I'm sure
you agree with this principle though I
think the way that your office phrased
some parts of your report it does make
me wonder I have to be honest with you
for going on three years innocent people
have been accused of very serious crimes
including treason accusations made even
here today they have had their lives
disrupted and in some cases destroyed by
false accusations for which there is
absolutely no basis other than some
people desperately wish that it was so
but your report is very clear no
evidence of conspiracy no evidence of
coordination and I believe we owe it to
these people who have been falsely
accused including the president and his
family to make that very clear mr.
Miller the credibility of your report is
based on the integrity of how it is
handled and there's something that I
think bothers me and other Americans I'm
holding here in my hand a binder of 25
examples of leaks that occurred from the
special counsel's office from those who
associated with your work dating back to
as early as a few weeks after your
inception in the beginning of your work
and
continuing up to just a few months ago
all of these all of them have one thing
in common they were designed to weaken
or to embarrass the president every
single one never wasn't leaked that
you'd found no evidence of collusion
never wasn't leaked that the steel
dossier was a complete fantasy nor that
it was funded by the Hillary Clinton
campaign I could go on and on mr. Muller
are you aware of anyone from your team
having given advance knowledge of the
raid on Roger Stone's home to any person
or the press including CNN I'm not going
to talk about specifics I will mention
but talk for a moment about persons who
become involved in an investigation and
the understanding that in a lengthy
thorough investigation some persons will
be under a cloud that they should not be
under a cloud and one of the reasons for
emphasizing as I have the speed of an
election or not an election to speed of
an investigation is that so those
persons who are disrupted as a result I
appreciate that but I do have a series
with the result of that investigation
thank you and you're right it is a cloud
and it's an unfair cloud for dozens of
people but to my point are you aware of
anyone providing information to the
media regarding the raid on Roger stones
home including CNN I'm not gonna speak
to that okay mr. Miller you sent a
letter dated March 27th to Attorney
General bar in which you claimed the
Attorney General's mammal to Congress
did not fully capture the context your
report you stated earlier today that
response was not authorized did you make
any effort to determine who leaked this
confidential letter no and I'm not
certain this is a letter of March 27th
yes sir
okay I I'm not certain when it was
publicized I didn't know it was
publicized but I do not believe we would
be responsible for the leaks well I do I
do believe that we have done a good job
in assuring that no leaks occur
we have 25 examples here of where you
did not do a good job not you sir I'm
not accusing you at all but where your
office did not do a good job in
protecting this information
one more example do you know anyone who
anonymous a maid claims to the press
that attorney-general bars March 24th
letter to Congress had been
misrepresented or misrepresented you're
the basis of your report and what was
the question do you know who anonymously
made claims to the press that attorney
general bars March 24th letter to
Congress had misrepresented the findings
of your report no sir given these
examples as well as others you must have
realized that leaks we're coming from
someone associated with the special
counsel's office but I'd like to ask you
I do not believe that well well sir this
was your work you're the only one your
office is the only one who had
information regarding this it had to
come from your office putting that aside
which leads me to my final question did
you do anything about it
from the outset we've undertaken to make
certain that we minimize the possibility
of leaks and I think we were too
successful over the Thar over the two
years that we were in operation well I
wish you'd been more successful sir I
think it was disrupted to the American
people my time is expired I yield back
mr. Quigley
Angus chairman director thank you for
being here Muller will not go who else
had access to that stuff earlier today
and throughout the day you have stated
the policy that a seated president
cannot be indicted correct correct
and upon questioning this morning you
were asked could that could a president
be indicted after their service correct
yes and your answer was that they could
good director please speak into the
microphone I'm sorry thank you so they
could the follow-up question that should
be concerning is what if a president
serves beyond the statute of limitations
I don't know the answered that one would
it not indicate that if the statute of
limitations on federal crimes such as
this or five years that a president who
serves his second term is therefore
under the policy above the law I'm not
certain I would agree with the I'm
circa I would agree with the conclusion
I'm not certain that I can see the
sensibility that you suggest but the
statute doesn't tall is that correct I
don't know specifically it it clearly
doesn't and I just want as the American
public is watching this and perhaps
learning about many of these for the
first time we need to consider that and
that the other alternatives are perhaps
all that we have but I appreciate your
your response earlier in questioning
someone mentioned that it was a question
involving whether anyone in the Trump
political world publicized the emails
whether or not that was a case I just
want to refer to volume 1 page 60 where
we learned that Trump jr. publicly
tweeted a link to the leak of stolen
Podesta emails in October of 2016
you're familiar with that so that would
at least be a republishing of this
information would it would it not I'm
not certain I would agree with that
retweets are not published director
Pompeo assess WikiLeaks
in one point as hostile intelligence
service giving your law of enforcement
experience in your knowledge of what
licky leaks did here in what they do
generally would you assess that to be
accurate or something similar how would
you assess me what WikiLeaks does
absolutely and they are currently under
indictment
it's really an assault a sergeant but
would it be fair to describe them as you
would agree with miss director Pompeo at
let's when he what he was when he made
that remark that it's a hostile
intelligence service correct if we could
put up slide six this just came out
WikiLeaks I loved WikiLeaks Donald Trump
October 10th 2016 this WikiLeaks stuff
is unbelievable it tells you the inner
heart you got to read it Donald Trump
October 12 2016 this WikiLeaks is like a
treasure trove Donald Trump October 31st
2016 wiki
well I love reading those wiki leaks
Donald Trump November 4th 2015 many of
those quotes disturb you mr. director
I'm not certain I would say you asked
well it's probably problematic is an
understatement in terms of whether
display displays in terms of giving some
I don't know hope or some boost to what
isn't should be illegal activity volume
1 page 59 Donald Trump jr. had direct
electronic communications with WikiLeaks
during the campaign period on October
3rd 2016 WikiLeaks sent another direct
message to Trump jr. asking you guys to
help disseminate a link alleging
candidate Clinton had advocated a drone
to attack Julian Assange Trump jr. right
respond to that quote he had already
done so same question
this behavior at the very least
disturbing a reaction I just terminated
also subject to investigation could it
be described as aiding comfort to a
hostile intelligence service sir I
wouldn't categorize in mace with any
specificity I yield the balance to the
Chairman please I'm sure I can make good
use of 27 seconds but director I think
you made it clear that you think it
unethical to put it politely to tout a
foreign service like WikiLeaks
publishing stolen political documents
that presidential campaign certainly
calls for investigation
thank you director we're gonna go now to
mr. Crawford and then after mr.
Crawford's five minutes we'll take a
five or ten-minute break hey mr.
chairman Thank You mr. Malla for being
here days after your appointment Peter
Straub texted about his concern that
there's no big there there in the Trump
campaign investigation did struck or
anyone else who worked on the FBI's
investigation tell you that around 10
months into the investigation the FBI
still had no case for
lucien who can you repeat that Peter
struck could you I'm sorry can you move
the microphone closer sure there's
there's a quote attributed to Peter
straw he texted about his concern that
there is quote no big there-there in the
Trump campaign investigation did he or
anyone else who worked on the FBI's
investigation tell you that around 10
months into the investigation the FBI
still had no case for collusion no it is
the Inspector General report correct
that the text messages from Peter struck
and Lisa pages phones from your office
were not retained after they left the
special counsel's office well I don't
depends on what you're talking about the
investigation into those Peter struck I
went on for a period of time and I am
not certain what it encompasses it may
well have a compass what you're learning
- okay let me move on just real quickly
did you ask the department to authorize
your office to investigate the origin of
the Trump Russia investigation I'm not
gonna get into that goes to internal
deliberations so the circumstances
surrounding the origin of the
investigation have yet to be fully
vetted in I'm certainly glad that
attorney general bar and US Attorney
Donna Durham are looking into this
matter with that I'd like to yield the
balance of my time to the ranking member
Nunez I thank the gentleman for yielding
mr. Moeller I want to make sure you're
aware of who fusion GPS is fusion GPS is
a political operations firm that was
working directly for the Hillary Clinton
campaign and the Democrat National
Committee they produce the dossier so
they paid steal who then went out and
got the dossier and I know you don't
want to ask answer any dossier questions
so I'm not going there but your report
mentions a Natalya of less than Ischia
65 times she meets in the Trump Tower
it's this infamous Trump Tower meeting
it's in your report you've heard many of
the Democrats refer to it today
the meeting was shorter than 20 minutes
I believe is that correct I think what
we have in our report reflects it was
about that length so do you know so
fusion GPS the main actor of fusion GPS
the president of the company or the
owner of the company is a guy named
Glenn Simpson who's working for Hillary
Clinton
Glenn Simpson you know how many times
Glenn Simpson met with Natalia of lesson
skaia myself no what a surprise you that
the Clinton campaign dirty ops arm met
with Natalia of lesson skya more times
then the Trump campaign did well this is
an area that I'm not gonna get into as I
indicated at the outset
did you ever interview Glenn Simpson I'm
again I'm gonna pass on that
according to I'm gonna change topics
here according to notes from the State
Department official Kathleen Cadillac
Christopher still told her that former
Russian intelligence head Truman the
cough and Putin advisor Surkov were
sources for the steel dossier knowing
that these are not getting into whether
these sources were real or not real was
there any concern that there could have
been disenfranchised
as I said before this is an area that I
cannot speak to is that because you're
it's not in the report or you're just or
because of the Mongolian liberation to
other proceedings alike okay when Andrew
Weissman and Zhanna
Ahmed joined your team were you aware
that Bruce or Department of Justice top
official directly briefed the dossier
allegations to them in the summer of
2016
again I'm not going to speak to that
come before you have arrested George
papadopolis in July of 2017 he was given
$10,000 in cash in Israel do you know
who gave him that cash again it's
outside our ambit and questions such as
that you go to the FBI or Department but
it involved your investigation it
involved persons involved in my
investigation Thank You mr. chairman we
will stand in recess for five or ten
minutes please folks remain your seats
allow the director mr. Sedley to exit
the chamber so we're gonna take a
five-minute recess - let's just put up
the graphic I need to walk around I mean
so far you know we've seen gaps in terms
of what they know and this is a function
probably of the obstruction on some
level some people are saying this is
probably the first hearing that should
have gone first so that it is easier for
people to sort of digest why there are
gaps in in what the Muller report was
able to determine and that would have
been a function of the obstruction all
right let's take quick break and we'll
be back in a moment can we just put up a
logo that says we'll be back in a moment
[Music]
it's live coverage of the House
Intelligence Committee hearing with
Robert smaller the second hearing of the
day
former Special Counsel testifying this
afternoon as chairman Schiff said in
particular this committee focusing on
the counterintelligence implications of
the Muller investigation the
investigation into Russian interference
in the 2016 election Eric's wall well
middle of your screen he is set to
question a mr. Muller next when they
come back taking a brief break here as
they did also added Judiciary Committee
a couple of things our c-span coverage
includes other cameras on Capitol Hill
expecting reaction to today's this
afternoon's hearings we will bring that
to you as members come to the cameras
and also want to let you know that both
of today's hearings the four and a half
[Music]
you
[Music]
you see people's feedback loops
interrupted
[Music]
the fun and games have begun
[Music]
[Music]
so we are back ladies and gentlemen your
all the photos being taken of Muller
sits down for
comedy will come to order
thank you sir like a director mr.
swallow you recognized Thank You
director molar is a prosecutor you would
agree that if a witness or suspect lies
or obstructs or tampers with witnesses
or destroys evidence during an
investigation that generally that
conduct can be used to show a
consciousness of guilt would you agree
with that yes let's go through the
different people associated with the
Trump campaign and this investigation
who lied to you and other investigators
to cover up their disloyal and
unpatriotic conduct if we could put
exhibit 8 up director molar I'm showing
you campaign chairman Paul Manafort
political adviser Roger stone deputy
campaign manager Rick gates national
security adviser Michael Flynn Donald
Trump's personal attorney Michael Cohen
and foreign policy adviser George
papadopolis these six individuals have
each been charged convicted or lied to
your office or other investigators is
that right
yes although I look askance at mr. stone
because he is he he is in a different
case here in DC so National Security
Advisor Flynn lied about discussions
with Russian ambassador related to
sanctions is that right that's correct
Michael Cohen lied to this committee
about Trump Tower Moscow is that correct
yes George papadopolis the president's
senior foreign policy adviser lied to
the FBI about his communications about
Russia's possession of dirt on Hillary
Clinton is that right yes the
president's campaign chairman Paul
Manafort lied about meetings that he had
was someone with ties to Russian
intelligence sector that's true
and your investigation was hampered by
Trump campaign officials use of
encryption communications is that right
we believe that to be the case you also
believe to be the case that your
investigation was hampered by the
deletion of electronic messages is that
correct it would be yes generally any
case would be if those kinds of
communications
are used for example you noted that
deputy campaign manager Rick gates who
shared internal campaign polling data
with the person with ties to Russian
intelligence at the direction of man
afford that mr. gates deleted those
communications on a daily basis is that
right I think you were say I don't know
specifically but if it's in the report
then I support it that's right director
it's volume 1 page 136 thank you
in addition to that other information
was inaccessible because your office
determined it was protected by
attorney-client privilege is that
correct that is true that would include
that you do not know whether
communications between Donald Trump and
his personal attorneys Jay Sekulow Rudy
Giuliani
and others discourage witnesses from
cooperating with the government is that
right that guy talked to that that would
also mean that you can't talk to whether
or not pardons were dangled through the
president's attorneys because the shield
of attorney-client privilege no I'm not
going to discuss that did you want to
interview Donald Trump jr. I thought I
discussed that did you subpoena Donald
Trump jr. and I'm not going to discuss
that did you want to intervene I'm like
yes director Muller on January 1st 2017
to through March 20 mash tagged me to
Donald Trump met with Vladimir Putin
I get the sense in Perth Muller feels
that his report is about compresses
exchanged for landed with him he can't
reveal this information about Donald
Trump you know it's not appropriate for
him to do that
he did not meet with you in person is
that correct he did not as a result of
Lies deletion of text messages
obstruction and witness tampering is it
fair to say that you were unable to
fully assess the scope and scale of
Russia's interference in the 2016
election and Trump's role in that
interference I'm not turned I would
adopt that characterization in total
there may be pieces of it they're
accurate but not in total but you did
Staton
Volume one page 10 that while this
report embodies factual and legal
determinations the office believes it to
be accurate and complete to the greatest
extent possible given these identified
gaps the office cannot rule out the
possibility that the unavailable
information would shed additional light
is that correct that is correct it we
don't know what we don't know why is it
so important that witnesses cooperate
and tell the truth in an investigation
like this as a testimony of the
witnesses goes to the heart of just
about any criminal case you have thank
you and mr. chair and I'd yield back and
thank you director moment mr. phonic you
mr. chairman mr. Muller as special
counsel did you review documents related
to the origin of the counterintelligence
investigation to the Trump campaign on
occasion was the steal dossier one of
those documents that was reviewed and I
can't discuss that case I'm just asking
a process question have you read the
steal dossier and again I'm not gonna
respond to that you were tasked as
special counsel to investigate whether
there was collusion between Russia and
the Trump campaign associates to
interfere with the 2016 election and the
FBI we know has relevant documents and
information related to the opening of
the CI investigation were you and your
team permitted to access all of those
documents again I can't get into that
investigative what we can we collected
what we're doing with investigation
investigation materials let me ask it
this way was there any limitation in
your access to documents related to the
counterintelligence that's such a broad
question I really I have real trouble
answering it did the special counsels
office undertake any efforts to
investigate and verify or disprove
allegations contained in the steal
dossier again I can't respond the reason
I'm asking for the American public that
is watching it's a it's apparent that
the steal dossier formed part of the
basis to justify the FBI's
counterintelligence investigation into
Russian interference in the 2016
election as we know it was used to
obtain a FISA warrant on Carter page
this is why I'm asking these questions
did your office undertake any efforts to
identify steals sources or sub sources
again the same answer was were these
tasks referred to any other agencies
again I can't speak to it did your
office consider whether the Russian
government used steel sources to provide
steel with disinformation yeah I can't
speak to that I understand I'm asking
these questions just for the record so
thanks for your patience shifting gears
here did any member of the special
counsels office staff travel overseas as
part of the investigation yes but I
can't go further than that I'm gonna ask
to which countries and I can't answer
that do they meet with foreign
government officials again it's out of
our out of our bailiwick did they meet
with foreign private citizens again I
have the same response did they seek
information about a US citizen or any US
territory that I cannot go to thank you
for answering on the record these are
important questions for the American
public and were hopeful that the IG is
able to answer these questions I will
yield the balance of my time to the
ranking member thank the gentlelady for
yielding mr. Muller I want to go back to
we started off with Joseph Mifsud who's
at the center of this investigation he
appears in your report dozen times or
more he really is the epicenter he's at
the origin of this he's the man who
supposedly knows about Clinton's emails
you've seen on the screen the Democrats
have can you put up all the
prosecution's that you made against
Trump campaign officials and and others
but I'm I'm struggling to understand why
you didn't indict Joseph Mifsud who
seems to be the man in the middle of all
of this well I I think you understand
that you cannot get into
either classified or law enforcement
information without a rationale for
doing it and I am set on going to be
able to say with regard to mr. myth soon
were you aware of Kathleen Cavill ex
involvement that she had met with miss
Steele the State Department official yet
and I can't respond to that question to
outside my jurisdiction come the Carter
page FISA warrant was was RIA the last
time it was react was under under your
watch so you did you were you in the
approval process of that last time that
the Carter page warrant was well I can't
speak specifically about that warrant
but if you ask or was I in the approval
chain the answer's no okay it's very
helpful Thank You mr. moon
Thank You mr. chairman I yield back mr.
Castro Thank You chairman Thank You
Special Counsel Moeller for your
testimony and for your service to our
country
Donald Trump over the years has
surrounded himself with some very shady
people people that lied for him people
that covered up for him people that
helped him enrich himself I want to talk
specifically about one of those
instances that's in your report
specifically let's turn to the Trump
Tower Moscow project which you described
in your report as quote as a quote
highly lucrative deal for the Trump
Organization is that right I would have
to look at the quote from the if you
have it sure it's on volume 2 page 135
it's described as highly lucrative
okay I have it sure have it thank you
sir yeah no problem your office
prosecuted Michael Cohen and Michael
Cohen was Donald Trump's lawyer for
lying to this committee about several
aspects of the Trump organizations
pursuit of the Trump Tower Moscow deal
is that right correct according to your
report Cohen lied to quote minimize
links between the project and Trump
unquote and to quote stick to the party
line unquote in order not to contradict
Trump's public message that no
connection existed between Trump and
Russia is that right that's an yes
that's correct now when you're talking
about the party line here the party line
in this case if I can interject one
thing I should have said the outset if
it was in the report and consequently I
do believe it to be true thank you
the party line in this case was that the
deal ended in January 2016 in other
words they were saying that the deal
ended in January 2016 before the
Republican primaries in truth though the
deal extended to June 2016 when Donald
Trump was already the presumptive
Republican nominee is that correct
that's correct the party line was also
that Cohen discussed the deal with Trump
only three times when in truth they
discussed it multiple times is that
right also true in the basis for part of
the basis for that plate indeed that he
entered for a line to this entity thank
you and thank you for prosecuting that
the party line was also that Cohen and
Trump never discussed traveling to
Russia during the campaign when in truth
they did discuss it is that right that's
accurate and the party line was at Cohen
never received a response from the
Kremlin to his inquiries about the Trump
Tower Moscow deal in fact Cohen not only
received a response from the from the
Kremlin to his email but also had a
lengthy conversation with a Kremlin
representative who had a detailed
understanding of the project is
right if it's in if it's in the report
that is accurate resident recitation of
that piece of the report so you have the
you have the candidate Trump at the time
saying he had no business dealings with
Russia his lawyer who was lying about it
and then the Kremlin who during that
time was talking to president Trump's
lawyer about the deal is that right
I can't adopt your characterization not
only was Cohen lying on Trump's behalf
but so was the Kremlin on August 30th
2017
two days after Cohen submitted his false
statement to this committee claiming
that he never received a response to his
email to the Kremlin Vladimir Putin's
press secretary told reporters that the
Kremlin left the email unanswered that
statement by Putin's press secretary was
false wasn't it I can't speak to that
although it was write widely reported in
the press again I can't speak to that
particularly if it was if it was
dependent upon media sources but it was
consistent with the lie that Cohen had
made to the committee is that right I'm
not certain I could go that far so Cohen
president Trump and the Kremlin were all
telling the same lie I defer to you on
that I can't get into details a special
counsel mullah I want to ask you
something that's very important to the
nation did your investigation evaluate
whether President Trump could be
vulnerable to blackmail by the Russians
because the Kremlin knew that Trump and
his associates lied about connections to
Russia related to the Trump Tower deal I
can't speak to that
are you back Chairman mr. hurt Thank You
mr. chairman director Muller you've
you've been asked many times afternoon
about collusion obstruction of justice
and impeachment and the steel dossier
and I don't think your answers are going
to change if I ask you about those
questions so I'm going to ask about a
couple of press stories because a lot of
what the American people have received
about this I'm have been on press
stories and some of that has been wrong
and some of that some of those press
stories have been a cure
on April 13th 2018 McClatchy reported
that you had evidence Michael Cohen made
a secret trip to Prague during the 2016
presidential election I think he told
the one of the committees here in
Congress that was incorrect is that
story true I can't I can't go into it
got you on October 31st 2016 slate
published a report suggesting that a
server at Trump Tower was secretly
communicating with Russia's alpha bank
and I quote akin to what criminal
syndicates do do you know if that story
is true do not do not you do not whether
it's true so did you not investigate
these allegations which are suggestive
of potential Trump Russia because I
believe not true doesn't mean it would
not be an investigating it may well have
been investigated although it my belief
at this point is not true
good copy thank you as a former CIA
officer I want to focus on something I
think both sides of the political aisle
can agree on that is how do we prevent
Russian intelligence and other
adversaries from doing this again and
after overseeing in counterintelligence
operations for 12 years as FBI and
director and then investigating what the
Russians have done in the 2016 election
you've seen tactics techniques and
results of Russian intelligence
operations our committee made a
recommendation that the FBI should
improve its victim notification process
when a person entity or campaign has
fallen victim to active measures attack
would you agree with this with this it
sounds like a worthwhile endeavor I will
tell you though that the ability of our
intelligence agencies to work together
in this arena is perhaps more important
than that and adopting whatever and I'm
not that familiar with the legislation
but whatever legislation will encourage
us working together by us I mean the FBI
CIA NSA
the rest it should be pursued
aggressively early who do you think
should be responsible within the federal
government to counter a disinformation I
have no longer the federal government
but you have you've had a long storied
career and I don't think there's anybody
who better understands the threat that
we are facing than you do you do you
have an opinion as a former FBI officer
as to as to who should be coordinating
points within the federal government on
how to deal with I don't want to wade in
those waters a good copy I'm one of the
most striking things in your report yeah
the internet research agency not only
under social media campaign in the US
but they were able to organize political
rallies after the election our committee
issued a report and insight on saying
that Russian active measures are growing
with frequency and intensity and
including their expanded use of groups
such as the IRA and these groups posed a
significant threat to the United States
and our allies in upcoming elections
would you agree with that yes in fact
one of the other areas that we have to
look at and many more companies are not
companies many more countries are
developing capability to replicate what
the Russians had done you you alluded to
making sure the other all the elements
of the federal government should be
working together do you have a
suggestion on a strategy to do that to
counter the Syst information not
overarching it is this in your
investigation that you think that this
was a single attempt by the Russians to
get involved in our election or did you
find evidence to suggest they'll try to
do this again oh it wasn't a single
attempt they're doing it as we sit here
and they expect to do it during the next
campaign director Muller I'd appreciate
your time and indulging us here in
multiple committees and I yield back to
the ranking member if he has
I'll yield back to the Chairman mr. heck
director Miller I'd like to go to the
motives behind the Trump campaign
encouragement and acceptance of help
during the election obviously a clear
motivation was to help them in a what
would turn out to be a very close
election but there was another key
motivation and that was frankly the
desire to make money I always try to
remember what my dad who never had the
opportunity to go beyond the 8th grade
taught me which is that I should never
ever underestimate the capacity of some
people to cut corners and even more in
order to worship and chase the almighty
buck and this is important because I
think it in fact does go to the heart of
why the Trump campaign was so
unrelentingly intent on developing
relationships with the Kremlin so let's
quickly revisit one financial scheme we
just discussed which was the Trump Tower
in Moscow we indicated earlier that it
was a lucrative deal Trump in fact stood
he and his company to earn many millions
of dollars on that deal did they not
serve and Cohen mr. Cohen his attorney
testified before this committee that
President Trump believed the deal
required Kremlin approval is that
consistent with what he told you I'm not
certain whether it's mr. Trump himself
or others associated with that
enterprise that had discussed the
necessity of having the input from the
state in the Russian government in order
to afford to go forward successfully
isn't it also true that Donald Trump
viewed his presidential campaign as he
told top campaign aides that the
campaign was an infomercial for for the
Trump Organization and his properties
I'm not familiar with that and let's
turn to Trump campaign chair Paul
Manafort did in fact your investigation
find any evidence that mana Ford
intended to use his position as Trump's
campaign chair for his own personal
financial benefit
I would say there was some indication of
that but I won't go further I think
you'll find it on page 135 of volume one
during the transition Trump son-in-law
Jared Kushner met with Sergey Gourcuff
the head of a Russian owned bank that
was under is under US sanctions and
according to the head of the bank he met
with Kushner in his capacity as CEO of
Kushner companies to discuss business
opportunities is that correct sir I'm
not certain it was about that let me
just put it that way it was asserted
thusly in your report volume 1 160 and
pages 161 and 162 your report notes that
at the time Kushner companies were
trying to renegotiate a billion with a
be a billion dollar lease of their
flagship building at six six six Fifth
Avenue correct I am not familiar with
those financial arrangements also on
page 162 where Kushner companies it was
asserted had dead applications coming
due on the company Erik Prince a
supporter close to Trump a subordinate
administrator I just support her others
yes he met in the Seychelles during the
transition with Kiril
demetria who was the head of a
sanctioned Russian government investment
arm which had close ties to Vladimir
Putin correct sir yes your investigation
determined that mr. Prince had not known
nor conducted business with Dmitri F
before Trump won the election correct
well I defer to the report on that yet
it does and yet Prince who had
connections to top administration trump
administration officials met with Dmitri
F during the transition period to
discuss business opportunities among
other things but it wasn't just Trump
and his associates who are trying to
make money off this deal nor hide it nor
lie about it
Russia was too
that was the whole point to gain relief
from sanctions which would hugely
benefit their incredibly wealthy
oligarchs for example sanctions relief
was discussed at that June 9th meeting
in the Trump Tower was it not sir yes it
was not a main subject for discussion
Trump administration National Security
Advisor designate Michael Flynn also
discussed sanctions in a secret
conversation with the Russian ambassador
did he not correct
so to summarize Donald Trump Michael
Cohen Paul Manafort Jared Kushner Eric
Prince and others in the Trump orbit all
tried to use their connections with the
Trump Organization to profit from Russia
which was openly seeking relief from
sanctions is that true sir I'm not yep
that's right I could adopt what you like
I will and I had further assert that was
not only dangerous it was on American
greed corrupts greed corrupts and it is
a terrible foundation for developing
American foreign policy mr. Ratcliffe
director Muller given your constraints
on what you're able or allowed to answer
with respect to counterintelligence
matters or other matters that are
currently open and under investigation
you're not going to be able to answer my
remaining questions so I thank you for
your courtesies in the answers that you
have given to my prior lawyer that he
brought and I do not you and for your
extraordinary career not answered any
record of service and yield the balance
of my time to the ranking member thank
you
Thank You mr. Ratcliffe and mr. Muller
let me associate my words with mr.
Ratcliffe and a few more questions I
want to clean up a little bit about the
Eric prince Seychelles meeting so Eric
prince testified before this committee
that he was surveilled by the US
government and the information from this
surveillance was leaked to the press
did you investigate whether prince was
surveilled and whether classified
information on him was illegally leaked
to the media do you say did you or will
you well I know you can't know you're
not going back up in the ranks but but
did you refer were you aware that you
know Prince has made these allegations
that he was surveilled he's concerned
that there were leaks about this
surveillance did you make any referrals
about these I can't get no sorry about
that folks
bear with us anyone
like I get up and I can't about that I
thought this is did you report named any
people who were acting as US government
informants or sources without disclosing
that fact I can't answer that
come on a volume 1 page 133 of your
report you state that Constantine column
mnek has ties to Russian intelligence
his names came up quite often today but
your report omits to mention that column
Nick has long-term relationships with US
government officials including our own
State Department I can't be I can't get
into that I know it's not in the report
but you know if column Nick is being
used in the report to say that he was
possibly some type of Russian Russian
agent I think it is important for this
committee to know if column Nick has
ties to our own State Department which
it appears that he that he does again
it's the same territory that I'm loath
to get into you were asked this earlier
about Trump attorney John Dowd that
pieces of his phone call were omitted
from the report it was what mr. Dowd
calls a sculpt Ettore evidence are you
concerned about I'm not certain I would
agree with that characterization I think
I said that before yes an American
citizen from the Republic of Georgia who
your report miss identifies as a Russian
claims that your report omitted parts of
a text message he had with Michael Cohen
about stopping the flow of compromising
tapes of Donald Trump and the omitted
portions he says he did not know what
the tapes actually showed
was that portion of the exchange left
out of the report for a reason no we got
an awful lot into the report but we did
not get every intersection or
conversation and like so I am not
familiar with that particular episode
you're talking about Thank You mr. I
want to thank you mr. chairman mr. Welch
director Muller did you find there was
no collusion between the Trump campaign
and Russia well we don't use the word
collusion and the word we usually uses
the not collusion but one of the other
terms that that fills in when collusion
is not not used in any of that the we
decided not to use the word collusion in
as much as it has no relevance to the
criminal law arena the term is
conspiracy that you get her to you
that's a conspiracy exactly right you
help me I'll help you
Thank You San agreement thank you and in
fact you had to then make a charging
decision after your investigation where
unless there was enough evidence to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt you
wouldn't make a charge correct generally
that's the case but making that decision
does not mean your investigation failed
to turn up evidence of conspiracy
absolutely correct and in fact I will go
through some of the significant findings
that your exhaustive investigation made
you found as I understand it that from
May 2016 until the end of the campaign
campaign chairman mr. Manafort gave
private polling information to Russian
agents correct right and who's speaking
of I kept I will
and you're thank you and your
investigation found that in June 2016
Donald Trump jr. made an arranged
to meet at Trump Tower along with Jared
Kushner and others expecting to receive
dirt and the Hillary Clinton campaign
correct correct
and you found in your investigation that
in July 27th a candidate Trump called on
Russia to hack Hillary Clinton's email
something that for the first time they
did about five hours later correct
that's correct
and you also found that on August 2nd
mr. Manafort met with a person tied to
Russian intelligence mr. clinic and gave
him internal campaign strategy aware
that Russia was intending to do a
misinformation social media campaign
correct on certain of the tie there but
the fact of that meeting you of the
react to the meeting took place as a
factor in your investigation as I
understand it also found that in late
summer of 2016
the Trump campaign in fact devised its
strategy and messaging around WikiLeaks
releases of materials that were stolen
from the Democratic National Committee
correct is that from the report yes it's
according to mr. gates yes yes thank you
and you also talked earlier about the
finding in your investigation that in
September and October of 2016 Donald
Trump jr. had email communications with
WikiLeaks now indicted about releasing
information damaging to the Clinton
campaign correct wrote so so I I
understand you made a decision
prosecutorial decision that this would
not rise to proof beyond a reasonable
doubt but I asked if you share my
concern my concern is if we established
a new normal from this past campaign
that is going to apply to future
campaigns so that if any one of us
running for the US House any candidate
for the US Senate any candidate for the
presidency of the United States aware
that if hostile foreign power is trying
to influence an election has no duty to
report that to the
other authorities I hope go ahead I hope
this is not the nor the new normal but I
fear it is and would in fact have the
ability without fear of legal
repercussion to meet with agents of that
foreign entity hostile to with the
American election I'm sorry what is the
question is that an apprehension that
you share with me yes and that there
would be no repercussions whatsoever to
Russia if they did this again and as
you've stated earlier as we sit here
they're doing it now is that correct
you're absolutely right do you have any
advice to this Congress as together what
we should do to protect our electoral
system and accept responsibility on our
part to report to you or your successor
when we're aware of hostile foreign
engagement in our elections I would say
the basis the first line of defense
really is the ability of the various
agencies who have some piece of this to
not only share information but share
expertise share targets and they use the
full resources that we have to address
this problem Thank You director Muller I
yield back
mr. Maloney mr. Malla thank you I know
it's been a long day and I want to make
clear how much respect I have for your
service and for your extraordinary
career and I want you to understand my
questions in that context sir I'm gonna
be asking you about Appendix II to to
your report and in particular the
decision not to do a sworn interview of
the president it's really the only
subject I want to talk to you about sir
why didn't you subpoena the president
well at the outset after we took over
and initiated the investigation if I
could ask you to speak in the mail but
of course at the outset after we took
over the
investigation and began and pursued it
quite obviously one of the things we
anticipated wanting to accomplish that
is getting having the interview of the
president we negotiated from with him
for a little over a year and I think
what you've inverted to and the appendix
lays out our expectations as a result of
those negotiations but finally when if
we were almost towards the end of our
investigation and we'd had little
success in pushing to get the interview
of the president we decided that that we
did not want to exercise the subpoena
powers because of the necessity of
expediting the end of the investigation
was that was that excuse me did you I
was going to say and the expectation was
if we did subpoena the president he
would fight the subpoena and we would be
in the midst of the investigation for a
substantial period of time right but but
as we sit here you've never had an
opportunity to to ask the president in
person questions under oath and so
obviously there must have been a
difficult decision and you're right
Appendix C lays that out and indeed I
believe you describe the the in-person
interview as vital that's your word and
of course you made clear you had the
authority and the legal justification to
do it as you point out you waited a year
you put up with a lot of negotiations
you made numerous accommodations which
you lay out so that he could prepare and
not be surprised I take it you were
trying to be fair to the President and
by the way you were going to limit the
questions when you got to written
questions to Russia only and in fact you
did go with written questions after
about nine months or right and and and
the president responded to those and you
have some hard language for what you
thought of those responses what did you
think of the president's written
responses mr. Muller certainly not as
useful as the interview would be in fact
in fact you you pointed out and by my
count there were more than thirty times
when the president said he didn't recall
he didn't remember no independent
recollection no current recollection and
I take it by your answer that it wasn't
as helpful that's why you used words
like incomplete imprecise
adequate insufficient is that a fair
summary of what you thought of those
written answers that is a fair summary
and I approve and presume that comes
from the report and yes sir and I asked
this respectfully by the way the
president didn't ever claim the Fifth
Amendment did he I'm not going to talk
to that well I from what I can tell sir
at one point it was vital and then at
what another point it wasn't vital and
my question to you is why did it stop
being vital and I can only think of
three explanations one is that somebody
told you you couldn't do it but nobody
told you you couldn't subpoena the
president is that right no we understood
we could subpoena the president
Rosenstein didn't tell you
Whittaker didn't tell you Farr didn't
tell you you couldn't mean we could
serve a subpoena
so the only other explanation well
there's two others I guess one that you
just flinched that you had the
opportunity to do it and you didn't do
it but but sir you don't strike me as
the kind of guy who flinches hope well
then the third explanation I hope not to
sir and the third explanation I can
think of is that is that you didn't
think you needed it and in fact what
caught my eye was page 13 on volume 2
where you said in fact you had a
substantial body of evidence and you
cite a bunch of cases there don't you
about how you often have to prove intent
to obstruct justice without an in-person
interview that's the kind of nature of
it and you and you and you use terms
like a substantial body of evidence
significant evidence of the president's
intent so my question sir is did you
have sufficient evidence of the
president's intent to obstruct justice
and is that why you didn't do the
interview there's a balance in other
words how much evidence you have that
satisfy the last element against how
much time are you willing to spend in
the courts litigating a the interview of
the president in this case you felt that
you had enough evidence of the
president's intent we had to make a
balanced decision in terms of how much
evidence we have compared to the length
of time I would say sir because I have
limited time you just said you gave it
to the Attorney General or to this
Congress that there was sufficient
evidence that it was better than that
delay can you state that again well that
it was better than the delay to present
the sufficient evidence your term of the
president's intent to obstruct justice
to the Attorney General in to this
committee isn't that why you didn't do
the interview the reason we didn't do
the interview is because of the length
of time
that it would take to resolve the issues
attendant to that thank you sir
he just bases them said that he made a
thank you so much waive the decision
between right time and the amount of
evidence that they had already in
integrity that they already have
sufficient evidence not me better for it
do I do now as opposed whatever is your
two-thirds and did provide and the
solution is legal cases during the 2016
election where the president answers
submitted under oath yes yes thank you
they were were these all the answers
your office wanted to ask the president
about Russia interferes in the 2016
election no no surely so there were
other yes questions that you wanted to
answer did you analyze his written
answers on Russia interference or draw
conclusions about the president's
credibility no it was perhaps one of the
factors but nothing more than that it
was one of the factors so what did you
determine about the president's
credibility and that I can't get into
director Muller I know based on your
decades of experience you've probably
had an opera mazing that they didn't
subpoena a president delay in the
investigation at that point would have
been witnesses but you arm the president
so with this witness was every witness
particularly a leading witness one
assesses the credibility Moniz
questioning what Robert Lee Donald's
relevant it seems to me of in this case
in terms of getting a little and by the
end we thank you well let's go through
some of the answers to take a closer
look at his credibility because it seems
to me director Muller that his answers
were not credible at all to some of
president Trump's incomplete answers
relate to Trump to our Moscow yes for
example did you ask the president
whether he had had at any time directed
or suggested that that discussions about
Trump Moscow project should cease should
what
cease do you have any citation yes we're
still in Appendix II Section 1
seven the first page uh-huh
as the president did not answer whether
he had at any time directed or suggested
that discussions about the Trump Moscow
project should cease but he has since
made public comments about this topic
okay and the question was did the
president deliver let me go on to the
next but did the president fully answer
that question in his written statement
to you about the Trump Moscow project
ceasing again in appendix L and can you
direct me to the particular paragraph
you're averting to him it would be
Appendix C - C 1 but let me move forward
nine days after he submitted his written
answers didn't the president say
publicly that he quote decided not to do
the project unquote and that is in your
report I'd ask you I'd ask you if you
would to point out the the particular
paragraph that your okay okay we can
move on did the president answer your
follow-up questions according to the
report there were follow-up questions
because of the president's incomplete
answers about the Moscow project did the
president answer your follow-up
questions either in writing or orally
and we're now in volume 2 page 150
through 151 no he did not in fact there
were many questions that you asked the
president that he simply didn't answer
isn't that correct
true and there were many answers that
contradicted other evidence you had
gathered during the investigation isn't
that correct yes director Marlowe for
example the president has written
answers stated he did not recall having
advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks releases
is that correct I think that's what he
said
but didn't your investigation uncover
evidence that the President did in fact
have advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks
public releases of emails damaging to
his opponent and I can't get into that
area
did you investigation determine after
very careful vetting of Rick gates and
my
coins that you found them to be credible
we found the president to be credible
but you found gates and Cohen to be
credible in their statement about
WikiLeaks those are as I'm not gonna
discuss okay could you say director
Morello that the president was credible
I can't answer that question
director Marella isn't it fair to say
that the president's written answers
were not only inadequate and incomplete
because he didn't answer many of your
questions but where he did his answer
showed that he wasn't always being
truthful there I would say generally
generally director Muller is one thing
for the general e not being truthful
answer faucet main that you found no
collusion and no obstruction but it's
something else altogether for him to get
away with not answering your questions
and lying about them and as a former law
enforcement officer of almost 30 years I
find that a disgrace to our criminal
justice system thank you so much I yield
back to the Chairman just krishnamurthi
director Muller thank you for your
devoted service to your country earlier
earlier today you described your report
as detailing a criminal investigation
correct yes yes director since it was
outside the purview of your
investigation your report did not reach
counterintelligence conclusions
regarding the subject matter of your
report that's true
for instance since it was outside your
purview your report did not reach
counterintelligence conclusions
regarding any Trump administration
officials who might potentially be
vulnerable to compromise or blackmail by
Russia correct those decisions probably
were made in the counter at the FBI but
not in your report correct not in our
report we advert to the the counter
counterintelligence goals of our
investigation which were
secondary to any criminal wrongdoing
that we could find let's talk about one
administration official in particular
namely President Donald Trump other than
Trump Tower Moscow your report does not
address or detail the president's
financial ties or dealings with Russia
correct correct
similarly since it was outside your
purview your report does not address the
question of whether Russian oligarchs
engaged in money laundering through any
of the president's businesses correct
correct and of course your office did
not obtain the president's tax returns
which could otherwise show foreign
financial sources correct to speak that
I'm not going to speak to that in July
2017 the rep the president said his
personal finances were off-limits or
outside the purview of your
investigation and he drew a
quote-unquote red line around his
personal finances were the president's
personal finances outside the purview of
your investigation I'm not getting in
that were you instructed by anyone and
not to investigate the president's
personal finances no mr. Muller I'd like
to turn your attention to
counterintelligence risks associated
with lying individuals can be subject to
blackmail if they lie about their
interactions with foreign countries
correct who for example you successfully
charged former national security adviser
Michael Flynn of lying to federal agents
about his conversations with Russian
officials correct correct since it was
outside the purview of your
investigation your report did not
address how Flynn's false statements
could pose a national security risk
because the Russians knew the falsity of
those statements right I cannot get into
that mainly because there are many
elements of the FBI they're looking at
different aspects of that issue
currently currently thank you as you
noted in volume 2 of your report Donald
Trump repeated five times in one press
conference mr. mauler
in 2016 quote I have nothing to do with
Russia of course Michael Cohen said
Donald Trump was not being truthful
because at this time Trump was
attempting to build Trump Tower Moscow
your report does not address whether
Donald Trump was compromised in any way
because of any potential false
statements that he made about Trump
Tower Moscow correct that's right I
think that's right director Muller I
want to turn your attention to a couple
other issues you've served as FBI
director during three presidential
elections correct yes and during those
three presidential elections you have
never initiated an investigation at the
FBI looking into whether a foreign
government interfered in our elections
the same way you did in this particular
instance I would say I personally know
but the FBI quite obviously has the how
do you defense an attack such as the
Russians undertook in 2016 now director
Muller is there any information you'd
like to share with this committee that
you have not so far today well that's a
broad question and I think me a while to
get an answer to if I say no mr. Muller
you said that every American should pay
very close attention to the systematic
and sweeping fashion in which the
Russians interfered in our democracy are
you concerned that we are not doing
enough currently to prevent this from
happening again
I'll speak generally and what I said in
my opening statement this morning and
here that no much more needs to be done
in order to protect against this
intrusions not just by the Russians but
others as well thank you director
you have to a five minute its remaining
mr. Nunez and myself mr. Nunez you were
recognized mr. Malla it's been a long
day for you and you've had a long great
career I want to thank you for your
longtime service starting in Vietnam
obviously in the US Attorney's Office
Department of Justice and the FBI and I
want to thank you for doing something
you didn't have to do you came here upon
your own free will and we appreciate
your time today with that I yield back
thank you sir dr. Muller I want to close
out my questions turn to some of the
exchange you had with mr. Welsh a bit
earlier I'd like to see if we can
broaden the aperture at the end of the
hearing from your testimony today I
gather that you believe that knowingly
accepting foreign assistance during a
presidential campaign is an unethical
thing to do and a crime and a crime yes
and to the crime given certain
circumstances and to the degree that it
undermines our democracy and our
institutions we can agree that it's also
unpatriotic true and wrong true the
standard of behavior for a presidential
candidate or any candidate for that
matter shouldn't be merely whether
something is criminal
there should be held to a higher
standard you would agree I will not get
into that because it goes to the
standards to be applied by other
institutions besides ours I'm just
referring to ethical in other words we
should hold all the standards elected
officials to a state couldn't be
Airlines iconically shouldn't we
absolutely you have served this country
for decades you've taken an oath to
defend the Constitution you hold
yourself to a standard of doing what's
right I would help you have I think we
can all see that and befitting the times
I'm sure your reward will be
ending criticism but we are grateful the
need to act in an ethical manner is not
just a moral one but when people act
unethically it also exposes them to
compromise particularly in dealing with
foreign powers is that true true because
when someone acts on ethically in
connection with a foreign partner that
foreign partner can later expose their
wrongdoing and extort them true and that
conduct that unethical conduct can be of
a financial nature if you have a
financial motive or an illicit business
dealing all right yes but it can also
just involve deception if you are lying
about something that can be exposed and
you can be blackmailed also true in the
case of Michael Flynn he was secretly
doing business with Turkey correct yes
and that could open him up to compromise
that financial relationship I presume he
also lied about his discussions with the
Russian ambassador and since the
Russians were on the other side of that
conversation they could have exposed
that could they not yes if a
presidential candidate was doing
business in Russia and saying he wasn't
Russians could expose that too could
they not I leave that to you
well let's let's look at Dmitry Peskov
the spokesperson for the Kremlin someone
that the Trump Organization was in
contact with to make that deal happen
your report indicates that Michael Cohen
had a long conversation on the phone was
someone from Dmitry Peskov office
presumably the Russians could record
that conversation could they not yes and
so if candidate Trump was saying I have
no dealings with the Russians but the
Russians had a tape recording they could
expose that could they not yes that's
the stuff of counterintelligence
nightmares is it not well it has to do
with counterintelligence and the need
for our strong counterintelligence
entity it does indeed and when this was
revealed that there were these
communications notwithstanding the press
denials the president was confronted
about this and he said two things first
of all that's not a crime but I think
you and I have already agreed that that
shouldn't be the standard right mr.
Miller true and the second thing he said
was why should I miss out on all those
opportunities
I mean why indeed merely running a
presidential campaign why should you
miss out on making all that money was
the import of his statement we ever able
to ascertain whether Donald Trump still
intends to build that tower when he
leaves office that question sir yes were
you able to ascertain because he
wouldn't answer your questions
completely whether or if he ever ended
that desire to build that tower I'm not
gonna speculate on that if the president
was concerned that if he lost his
election he didn't want to miss out on
that money might he have the same
concern about losing his reelection yes
you know that money of speculation the
difficulty with this of course is we are
all left to wonder whether the president
is representing us or his financial
interests that cludes my questions mr.
Nunez do you have any concluding remarks
dr. Moore let me close by returning to
where I began thank you for your service
and thank you for leading this
investigation the facts you set out in
your report and have elucidated here
today tell a disturbing tale of a
massive Russian intervention in our
election of a campaign so here to win so
driven by agreed that it was willing to
accept the help of a hostile foreign
power in a presidential election decided
by a handful of votes in a few key
states your work tells of a campaign so
determined to conceal their corrupt use
of foreign help that they risk going to
jail by lying to you to the FBI and to
Congress about it and indeed some have
gone to jail over such lies
and your work speaks of a president who
committed countless acts of obstruction
of justice that in my opinion and that
of many other prosecutors had it been
anyone else in the country they would
have been indicted
now withstanding the many things you
have addressed today and in your report
there were some questions you could not
answer given the constraints you're
operating under you would not tell us
whether you would have indicted the
president but for the OLC opinion that
you could not and so the Justice
Department will have to make that
decision when the president leaves
office both as to the crime of
obstruction of justice and as to the
campaign finance fraud steen that
individual one directed and coordinated
and for which Michael Cohen went to jail
you would not tell us whether the
president should be impeached nor did we
ask you since it is our responsibility
to determine the proper remedy for the
conduct outlined in your report whether
we decide to impeach the president in
the house or we do not we must take any
action necessary to protect the country
while he is in office you would not tell
us the results or whether other bodies
looked into Russian compromised in the
form of money-laundering so we must do
so you would not tell us whether the
counterintelligence investigation
revealed whether people still serving
within the administration posed a risk
of compromise and should never have been
given a security clearance so we must
find out we did not bother to ask
whether financial inducements from any
Gulf nations were influencing this u.s.
policy since it is the outside the four
corners of your port and so we must find
out but one thing is clear from your
report your testimony from director
Ray's statements yesterday the Russians
massively intervened in 2016 and they
are prepared to do so again in voting
that is set to begin a mere eight months
from now the president seems to welcome
the help again and so we must make all
efforts to harden our elections
infrastructure to ensure there is a
paper trail for all voting to deter the
Russians from meddling to discover it
when they do to disrupt it and to make
them pay protecting the sanctity of our
elections begins however with the
recognition that accepting foreign help
is disloyal to our country unethical and
wrong we cannot control what the
Russians do not completely but we can
decide what we do and that this
centuries-old experiment we call
American democracy is worth cherishing
director Muller thank you again for
being here today
and before I adjourn I would like to
excuse you and mr. assembly everyone
else please remain seated all right I
guess that's it I think this you know if
you take the totality of these two
hearings that we've we've watched today
particularly I thought the Sean Melones
questions regarding why you didn't
subpoena the president really brought
out the fact and there's been other
moments when this has occurred brought
out the fact that Muller believed that
there was sufficient evidence to charge
the president with obstruction and never
made that final determination or at the
very least
I mean clearly Muller felt there was
sufficient evidence to charge the in
regards to charging the president with
obstruction relative to the return on
the investment that would be involved in
a year's worth of battle on a subpoena
to get the president to speak and I
think that's pretty significant I mean
really the the question here is will
this encourage more investigation and
perhaps an impeachment inquiry by the
Congress I think part of that I think
some people are going to be moved in
Congress simply in terms of sheer
numbers then the other question is was
there sufficient will the public be
sufficiently moved to do so I I don't
think the public I don't think that that
second bar was was crossed as a
threshold but it remains to be seen if
this doesn't shake loose some other
things in terms of investigations that
might push it more
I mean Muller just was not a
particularly cooperative witness and I
think you know I think the Democrats
should have pushed them a little more
but my money's on this won't change
anything
well yeah I mean I don't know nothing
will change anything I mean I mean
honestly like what what what would I
don't think this is going to be a this
isn't going to make a dramatic change in
the disposition of the American public
but you know few things rarely do and I
don't think anybody anticipated that
after today there was going to be this
sort of massive swell of support for
impeachment I do think that the stuff
that will come out that came out today
so explicitly and certainly like I
didn't know the reason why they decided
not to subpoena the president was
because of a because of time and because
they thought they had sufficient
evidence to obstruct it's clear from
some of the exchanges here that Muller
said that there should be that that
there was that he thought that Congress
was going to impeach and based on the
obstruction
will that change anything I don't know
what's what I mean what-what would
change anything well I mean plenty of
cigs I mean I hate to sound like a
broken record but if anything's gonna
change the disposition or the obedience
of the American public it's gonna be the
massive of miseration that people are
currently experiencing in their lives
deaths of despair are going up they're
still going up every year deaths from
suicide deaths from opioid overdose
people have no control over their lives
they don't have the basic things that
they need to live that's what's going to
inspire grassroots uprising
okay so aside from a slow devolution of
American life and and despair there's
nothing else that will change my problem
is from that I mean I don't deal my
problem is how little information like
every the reason I haven't finished the
Muller report frankly is because the
good stuff is clearly left out of it
like every time there's an interesting
part where it's like okay we're gonna
get to the bottom of this it's like this
is redacted yeah and that's the thing
that's frustrating and like and so you
have the bar stuff on that element and
then you also have these ongoing
investigations with the FBI that
preclude I think you said at one point
Donald junior right yeah exactly that I
want to know about those investigations
this Moeller stuff seems like it's like
an introduction or something I mean
there has been and I don't know what the
Democrats could have done differently in
this instance to be frank but bar in
particular has done an exceptional job
it seems to me politically of of killing
this of or at least severely diminishing
it like it was effective in those first
couple of weeks and frankly the uh you
know the people who ran around and said
that this report totally exonerated
Donald Trump based upon what Bill Barse
we're foolish and it's hard for me to
take the sort of like concerns about
meddling in our election as seriously as
you know obviously was stated there
basically because I have a cynical
perspective that the that is informed by
the United States meddling in other
countries but just as I think that we
shouldn't do it other country shouldn't
do it here either it's hard to say that
this meddling did not have an impact on
the outcome of this election because I
mean clearly the email exposures did I
mean that that seems to be you know
fairly obvious I don't know if you know
the Facebook postings impacted 70,000
people in in Wisconsin and Michigan and
Pennsylvania but certainly the themes
that they were promoting were certainly
echoed by a lot of people I mean who
knows there's no way to make that
determination you certainly can't make
the determination that it didn't do
anything and you certainly can't make
the determination definitively that it
made the difference but you know again
when you're talking about this small of
a victory its anything could really the
things don't have to be terribly
substantial when you have this narrow of
margin of victory and you know I don't I
don't need to make any type of defense
in terms of like the the the idea that
I'm apologizing for Hillary Clinton's
mistakes and move gone over them at
nauseam over the past couple years so I
mean I think it's uh I I anticipated the
seneschal for this to be a lot worse
frankly for the Democrats and I don't
know if it will move the needle in any
way and in really what is the measure of
this the measure of it would be if
polling shows a rise in the number of
people who want to see Donald Trump
impeached and if we see a an increase in
the number of Democrats in the caucus
who who announced that they're for
impeachment I mean that's basically what
is and I would also say if we saw we see
more energy in oversight at this point
those would be the three measures in
which we would determine what what the
implications of these hearings were and
just from a practical standpoint I mean
I think I saw to it that Trump was never
left to the place that he's probably
watching of course of course he's
driving him insane impeachment would be
great for that just to keep him occupied
hey well again you know I keep I keep
saying that nature does not like a
vacuum and something's going to happen
between now and and the election bill
bar will find a way to fill it well that
and the Republicans without a doubt
without a doubt and so I think it's it's
crucial that the Democrats continue on
the offensive and continue to put the
administration on the defensive with
this stuff
crucial yeah like impeachment let's be
clear it's not gonna work it's not gonna
get him out of office but if they don't
do it they're gonna set a precedent
that's quite dangerous that there are no
consequences for any of this criminal
activity right and I would say that the
measure of impeachment working or not
working is not simply whether he is he
is going to be convicted in the Senate
yeah yeah open ways for it to work
III think one could argue that the
impeachment of Bill Clinton worked
insofar as Al Gore did not win that
election
and I would argue that the for
impeachment to work it's not just a
measure of whether it it leads to him
being booted out of office but whether
it sends like you say a signal of
accountability and it's a political it
is a political mechanism and so if it if
it led if it made it harder for Donald
Trump to get reelected which I think it
would then I think that would be it
would work if it caused people to be
held accountable if it was effective in
making people address subpoenas which it
would then I think it would work so all
right folks that's it for our
programming today we will be back with
just one show tomorrow and we will see
you then don't forget check out the a.m.
quickie bye bye
[Music]
to get to where I want but I know some
I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
and
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
that bears
breaks me fell off switch right
[Music]
