so Heather we're still talking about the
the the testimony by Michael Cohen this
week it was it was really it was really
something and and there were a couple
things that came out that you know we
learned stuff there was some stuff that
was just oh we found out that Donald
Trump thinks that Donald Trump jr. is an
idiot we all basically suspected that we
found out that he's just as racist if
not more so in private than he is in
public we found out that he is a con man
and a fraud and and a narcissist and had
no interest in in winning the presidency
there was a bunch of other stuff I mean
first off and we could go down the list
and I'm curious as to what's on your
list about what you think was what what
what we learned more in terms of the
potential criminal liability the
President himself has I mean we
obviously had conspiracy to defraud the
United States we didn't get a lot of
that but we did hear this from Michael
Cohen as I earlier stated mr. Trump knew
from Roger stone in advance about the
WikiLeaks drop of emails in July of 2016
days before the Democratic convention I
was in mr. Trump's office when his
secretary announced that Roger stone was
on the phone mr. Trump mr. stone on the
speakerphone mr. stone told mr. Trump
that he had just gotten off the phone
with Julian Assange and that mr. Assange
told mr. stone that within a couple of
days there would be a massive dump of
emails that would damage Hillary
Clinton's campaign mr. Trump responded
by stating to the effect wouldn't that
be great alright and so now look it was
the case that WikiLeaks had announced a
month earlier that they had another set
of emails that were going to dump you
know stone Roger stone could have been
lying about
on the phone with Julian Assange it
could have been he could be in touch
with Assange through a conduit maybe he
could have been making the whole thing
up we don't know but certainly it is
another step in terms of you know the
the broad conspiracy here to defraud the
United States and so far as you you know
they should not be coordinating these
things and we don't know who hacked into
the accounts or I guess to the extent we
do it was Russian operatives and so but
beyond that what else did you see in
terms of criminal liability was there
anything else that that spoke to those
charges of conspiracy to defraud the
United States which is the sort of the
technical charge that some suspect will
be you know is what would underline the
sort of the more colloquial notion of
collusion or was it also just like the
the sheer number of other criminal
activities that Donald Trump has been
engaged in like you know campaign
finance laws like you know you got Trump
you know providing false testimony to
Muller and his written questions what
what else well I think that one was a
biggie the one you just mentioned the
campaign finance laws and the reason it
was big was that we now have evidence
that Donald Trump was signing checks to
Michael Cohen while he was in the Oval
Office after he became president and you
know I'm not sure what that with the
full legal implications of that are but
it really is bad I mean that is a bad
bad thing you have that you know the
president paying off his you know fixer
for doing this
campaign finance violation which the
Southern District called you know I mean
Cohen's going to jail for this you know
this was a felony and he's going to do
real time for doing this and there's
Trump paying him off and calling him
into the Oval Office and you know
telling him you know and and he's got
the check then telling him hey you know
we'll get the check here there's a
little bit of a delay because of I don't
know the white sales
our summer yeah FedEx is late today or
something like that but I mean there
were there were details in that
testimony that really indicates it's
pretty clear and he showed the check and
not only that there's another check as
that has Donald Trump Jr's signature on
it
now he'd said that he didn't feel that
Trump jr. would have known specifically
what that was for but there are a lot of
implications there to having to do with
how they declared that that
reimbursement on their taxes I mean and
this is serious he did it when he was
president I mean I'm not excusing him
doing it before he was president but
it's obvious that he knew by this point
that this was a completely illegal
transaction that hit and he was hiding
it and a lot of what what Cohen said you
know really you know get validated the
idea that Trump knew that this was an
illegal transaction right and he was you
know he wasn't just hiding it from his
wife I mean this but he was president by
this point so I think that's big I also
think it's really big that he called in
Michael Cohen and the way Cohen talked
to him the Waco and explained how Trump
gives orders and I think this applies
perhaps to the cover-up of the Russia
stuff as well as the the cover-up of the
fraud and you know other criminal
activities that took place in the Trump
Organization which is he acts like a mob
boss I mean all the prosecutors who
prosecuted you know the demacia say this
is how it's done which is you know you
know they don't expose themselves by you
know directing giving an order writing
an email they look at it and said hey
you know buddy we didn't do anything
with Russia we nothing to do with
Russian the guy Nala just said oh yeah
nothing to do with Russia and they go
out of course the guy who had something
to do with Russia knows very well but
that's not true so that is how they that
is how that remember that BuzzFeed story
where that got knocked down by the
special prosecutor it really turned on
that one forward directed and Rowan in
his testimony explained yes he was
directed but it was done in this very
particular way that mob bosses direct
their you know their their employees to
do things
so I think that that was something that
was very you know that it was very
telling and it may end up being you know
applicable to other situations in which
Trump will try to worm his way out but
they're going to have to infect some of
the people on the Democrats who were
asking questions they sort of followed
up on that you know their other was
saying listen you know this isn't and
and Cohen said and this is the other big
thing I was going to mention there's
other in there are other investigations
that he can't talk about is that Wow
absolutely now that is unclear as to
whether they have anything to do with
Trump but let's be honest this guy's
been working for Trump for the past 12
years you know there there's not many
reasons for the Southern District of New
York to be investigating crimes that
took place 13 14 years ago and you know
maybe there are other clients that that
you know that Michael Cohen had but we
only know of three right supposedly
Trump yeah Sean Hannity and yeah exactly
and so there's there's a lot that it
remains there
we've got multiple false statements
possibly by Donald Trump campaign
finance violations and aoc at the end of
her questioning or I should say through
her questioning brought up questions
about false statements on loan
applications about it possible insurance
fraud about possible tax fraud and
basically opened the door to the idea of
so painting Trump's financial records
so painting you know tax records or
which the the Congress can do and in
providing a a real like a criminal
investigatory reason to look at these
taxes as opposed to sort of some
open-ended one also
she got Cohen to give her names of
people who come in and testify directly
about these questions and so there was a
lot of stuff there and this is just the
beginning this is and at the end of
Michael Cohen's
this is just the beginning and so let's
take a quick break when we come back
let's talk about the the distraction
that never was Donald Trump's trip to
Vietnam and boy what a long way to go to
find out that your dinner reservation
was cancelled we gotta take a quick
break we'll be right back after this Sam
see to ring a fire radio
