before the break in the last segment you
had basically walked us through what you
found you have obtained leaked documents
and these are internal FBI documents
counterterrorism documents where they
outline a the potential threats that
they see in the coming years ahead you
have documents from that that outlined
the threats in 2018 and 2019 and 2020
one of these threats before this
document was leaked was known to be a
category called black identity
extremists that seems to be a euphemism
for black lives matter that came out of
the Ferguson protests a month ago they
were questioned by members of Congress
about this and they the head of the FBI
said we've gotten rid of that
designation but it turns out that this
documents that you show say that they
actually haven't gotten rid of the
designation they have just genericized
the term to mostly a racially motivated
extremist groups or something to that
effect motion and they have lumped it in
with white supremacist and so I mean I
think most people have a vague awareness
but can you tell me a number of terror
attacks domestic terror attacks or ever
however you want to determine it that
have been that have been perpetrated
that could even be remotely related to
this notion of black identity extremism
whatever that means
versus the ones that are explicitly
white supremacists and we know they're
explicitly white supremacists not just
by the nature of who they've attacked
but in many cases there have been some
you know screeds or at least a trail
online like I'm trying to think of the
time where we have a white church shot
up or where we have you know white
shoppers shot up by
a black person a black identity
extremists well the FBI actually had
problems finding examples too because if
you look at their definitions of you
know the two components of racially
motivated extremists for the you know
black identity extremists they don't
cite a single example and then you go
over to the white supremacists one and
they have if I recall
half a dozen so it's not just you know
us that
it seems difficult to find cases the FBI
themselves couldn't at least according
these documents so that's stunning
so they mean do they have other threats
that they've listed up there that are I
mean that's a hypothetical threat right
I mean if you can't point to a single
example of violence coming from a some
kind of supposed domestic terror
movement you're just talking about
something completely hypothetical right
I mean they could they could easily have
just put in there like you know frothing
radio hosts who seem to have a problem
with the American Way of life I mean
that could be in there there'd be just
as much evidence that you know people
like me represent a threat a domestic
terror threat yeah I think it's
extremely concerning and what's odd is
that they actually assert that there has
been you know violence political
violence perpetrated on the part of
black identity service but they don't
cite an example they just assert it and
then when you go to the white
supremacist portion you know they they
cite extensively all of these different
cases so it appears that they believe
that it's happening but at least
according to documents they don't
mention it no can you see on this
documents that there are there
references to other domestic terror
threats that seem to be you know as
far-fetched as this I mean I guess the
real problem is that they're lumping it
in with a real threat as in white
supremacy
right I mean I guess I mean I I guess my
point is this is that I can contemplate
the idea that you that the FBI would and
probably should but you know present
hypothetical threats right like it's
conceived
that these that that you know we're
getting some sense that all of these
radio hosts are banding together and you
know maybe there's their you know we're
picking up chatter that they're talking
about buying weapons or whatever it is
and I could see that you would put that
in like we have a category of threats
hypothetical threats we call them where
there's you know it's not a real threat
but it could potentially be a threat I
mean how do they break these down or is
it just numbered and to the extent that
it's numbered like how do you put as a
tie between white supremacists who have
killed you know I mean tens of people
scores of people at this point in the
past several years versus another group
that hasn't that hasn't seemed to have
even injured anybody that hasn't done
anything that we can't even point to
anybody who would be a member of this
domestic terror movement yeah well they
organize them by what's called um I
think it's called threat bands and so
yeah racially motivated rather than the
extremism as they call it that's at the
very top that's in the you know topmost
band and what I thought was a little
shocking was you know it's in the same
band is Isis and beneath it you know
threats that are considered you know
less of a counter-terror concern are
al-qaeda and basically all of its
affiliates all Shabaab al Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula so it's they you know
then that's difficult because we don't
know now that they've collapsed white
supremacists and black identity
extremists in the same term they could
say oh well actually we're taking the
you know white supremacy threat very
seriously but we don't know because they
don't they don't so here's the bottom
here's the bottom line is that what
we're looking at is not just their
assessment of threats but we're looking
at a plan on how they're going to expend
their resources and now they can come in
from and tell Congress yes we are are
you handling the white supremacist
domestic terror threat seriously yes we
are we're expending a lot of money on
racially what we call racially motivated
violence and they could literally be
talking about oh we have people spying
on the leadership of black lives matter
right right and I'm gonna add one more
thing one of the most incredible things
to me was they actually it's not apples
to apples they don't because I know
people are gonna you know look at this
and say oh well why not just put the
different races and the one thing so
that you don't treat them discreetly or
whatever and you know on its face that
that might seem to make sense but they
don't actually define black add any
extremists and white supremacists in a
sort of apples to apples fashion they
describe black identity as the word
suggests and if you look at documents
say they stress a notion of like a
separate black you know homeland in
personhood and only it's all about how
they conceive of their their personhood
and then when they describe white
supremacists they just they don't they
don't know that that that notion of of
one's personal identity that's not
that's not how they define it they
define it more in much different terms
and so I would encourage people to sort
of look at look at that gulf between how
their point being that the threshold to
call someone a black identity extremist
is much lower than it would be to call
someone a white supremacist I believe so
yeah well this is a fascinating work and
people should check it out we will
obviously people should check out your
work here King clippin Stein pieces
entitled leaked to FBI documents reveal
bureau's priorities under Trump forty
whitey thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate
