[Music]
the molar testimony tomorrow
Jerrold Nadler as you know the DOJ is
told robert muller to remain within the
boundaries of the the Muller report now
Muller is no longer working for the
Justice Department he doesn't need to
listen to them any more than I do about
the lawful testimony that he's going to
give here is Jerry Nadler expressing
that Muller does not need to listen to
the DOJ I think they have any authority
to instruct him in that way must he
comply with that letter no he must no he
does not have to comply with that letter
he doesn't work for them and that letter
asks things that are that are beyond the
power of the of the agency to ask even
if he still worked for them there you go
he's supposed to testify in front of
Congress they want to know how he
developed his report he should be
speaking outside of the bounds of the
report that's the whole point there were
these literary historians called the new
critics that came out of the south and
one of the things they want to do is
keep you really focused on the text and
nothing extraneous to the text like
historical or social surrounding of the
text a little bit of a flash back there
yeah you know this this posture by
Muller that's all well and good in your
role as a prosecutor it is perfectly
appropriate for you to offer the report
and then offer nothing else but you are
not a prosecutor you are a witness in
this instance and you are giving
Congress information that it wants that
is your job as a citizen so he has a
responsibility to do this responsibility
that trumps the role that he did have
because he no longer has that role
if he thinks it's out of bounds for
Congress to ask these questions that's
on Congress he's not God he's not King
he has a responsibility to answer these
questions we may not like the answers
but he has a responsibility to answer
the questions and I guess we'll find out
tomorrow if he does so but I don't buy
this you know he's a good guy with a
sense of honor and that's why he won't
go outside the bounds of a prosecute a
prosecutor anymore what have you had
done this report 30 years ago he's not a
prosecutor anymore American public has
the right to know if the president was
involved in activities that don't
necessarily reach the level of
criminality as defined by our statutes
but ones that people might find
reprehensible for a president to be
involved in Ken Starr certainly let us
know stuff that did not involve
criminality we know a lot of details
still to this day about Bill Clinton
hell yeah what dips blue dress is not
quite a criminal so wrong but not
criminal it's so right why do you keep
wrist representing a jury gang so you'd
be up all right
