let's go to the phones for a moment
you're calling from a 702 area code
who's this yes what are you calling from
a across the room or what you okay hey
thank you can't be better now I'm sorry
about that yeah it's all right
well I'm sorry who is this rough woman
go from Las Vegas what's on your mind oh
three things number one you Burt
Charlie Clerk that was great oh well I'm
dad your degree and um congratulations
badly I sometimes say that the kind of
thing that struck me saying maybe you
could probably leverage on this better
than I can
is that um it just seems like in terms
of the right wing or the wing nuts it
almost seems like in the strictest sense
like the talking points are the argument
there is no argument II Morris like the
talking points or the argument you know
just seems like he was certainly empty
platitude or a white still right wing
talking point as the argument it wasn't
my connected to like employed or yes I
don't think that it was necessary for me
to be there for him to deliver those
lines like he was not responding to
anything I was saying he was throwing
out things and then he you know clearly
there were some areas that he just
didn't know what he was talking about
like he in and and we will probably
cover it when we cover the next 20
minutes of the debate I think that's
where some of the most obvious ones were
like he didn't know how banks seemed to
work he didn't know the role of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac Fannie Mae in
particular he confused them with rating
agencies that are private institutions
that in fact and I and I'm quite sure
that Al Franken was the driving force
behind trying to change the way that
those rating agencies were
paid and there was a lot of things he
didn't seem to understand but I don't
know I if someone came to me and said
you know in ten years
oh yeah Charlie querque he's either does
not want to be in public talking about
right-wing stuff like he just sort of
receded from the argument or he's
actually now like I don't know he's off
doing social work in like third world
countries right you know that wouldn't
surprise me because he there were some
things he was inclined I thought that
were were we're like you know his
perspective was in the right place I
can't I can't quite tell if he was just
trying to to you know follow some type
of different template with with Trump
but I'm not sure but what were your
other two points I just felt like
sometimes I think just just from the way
the rhythm of his debate he just seeded
ground to you because he knew he
couldn't argue I think that's why
sometimes you straight up agreed with me
because he just maybe some
differentiation so I just feel like
sometimes you just see that the grass is
like what I might want to go there it's
no point and my second thing is I'm
sorry you saw on the news all the bombs
that be mailed to all the Democrats and
you know talk to the stuff um you know I
said this to Mike as to myself to
Michael says to Mike you know when you
practice on reality for so long when I'm
talking about the right-wing so me you
practice fun reality for so long you
foster societal insanity and I'm 99.9%
sure this is some right wing wing nut
probably a white guy ranting about Jews
and blacks and Mexicans and stuff like
that um I just think it's time to crack
down and prosecute on these white
supremacist thugs and that's what I
think it is of course look you know
eight years ago plus there was a report
put out by the Department of Homeland
Security
the most prominent threat in terms of
terrorism in this country were white
supremacist organizations like this and
the they the the department homeland
security got a lot of in the DOJ got a
lot of grief for that they cut back I'm
sure on the investigations because of
that because shortly thereafter they
were getting we said also the
investigative thing right means know
that I needed also to your point I don't
know if you remember this in 2006 I
think the FBI released a report that
white supremacist organizations were
training police departments around the
country yeah yeah so so basically what
I'm saying is we are seeing the
resurgence of white supremacy alcohol in
all areas of society just for example
even the Cavanaugh hearing that was
literally I know this makes a little bit
crazy but literally the Cavanaugh
hearing was just programming an
engineering society like look white DVDs
my gosh they're off limits you can't
prosecutor you know saying whatever
basically what we need to do is start
prosecuting these guys
full stop need to start investigating
like for example Dylan roof who when he
talking to he was talking to somebody
online I mean he was radicalized online
she strange because I think there was a
report they talk about how Isis because
radicalized online you know very similar
I mean that's not going to happen under
this administration I mean you know my
point being that the Obama
administration the DOJ and the the DHS
were basically intimidated away from
doing the you know further
investigations which I'm sure would have
involved like you know which would have
involved like getting a sense of what
the networks that these people were and
they were they were intimidated away
from it by a Republican Congress and and
it metastasized I mean the only thing
interesting well I don't know if that's
a you know I know that's the right word
but the the only thing that's
interesting about what's happening now
is that usually we see this resurgence
when Democrats are in power the the
dynamic here is that these people are
ostensibly in power and it is it is a
yeah it is they I think it the
difference is is that because they are
being openly usually they're not oh
they're openly courted when the
Republicans are out of power but the
Republicans are continuing to openly
court them in a way and maybe that's why
we're seeing more of them now but listen
I appreciate the phone call thanks ma'am
thanks to the cop
appreciate
