[Music]
however over at Fox they are of course
worried about a different thing well is
this fox business this is they have
gotten yeah let's say this is yeah this
is trish regan here one of the things
that's quite clear is that and
apparently there's data to suggest this
the Trump administration and that and
really the Trump campaign it has been my
sense that they are pushing this because
they're playing directly to that base
those people that Trump could shoot on
shoot a person on Fifth Avenue and and
still have these people support him
apparently there's new data I think it
came from Ron Brownstein I think I'm not
100% sure where this comes from there's
new data that suggests and this is gonna
come to a shock to everybody that the
people in the Republican Party who don't
like Trump they like the tax cuts turns
out there's something else that they
like and I'm gonna give you the context
they are maybe live in the suburbs
fairly well-to-do they live in white
enclaves
can you guess what else they like they
also like the bashing of immigrants they
also now why they're not worried about
their jobs they're not worried I mean
these are not people are like I'm
competing with these guys for you know
doing yard work or picking produce or
being domestic help
they don't fit in fact maybe in some
instances maybe they hire them maybe
they don't they are not concerned about
their impact on wages they probably
don't even see any immigrants
but for some reason they seem to have a
problem with them and it's not even just
immigrants right because all we're
concerned about is the southern border
when we talk immigrants right so we know
who they're talking about
well the data shows that and that the
Trump reelect campaign is functioning
this way the bashing immigrants is
actually good for business across the
Republican Party even with people who
don't like Trump I know that's coming to
a shot as a shock to a lot of you but
that turns out to be the case because
they are the party who play identity
politics there is one identity in which
90% of their electorate at least is made
up of white folks and here's trish regan
one of the whiter folks on TV reminding
him that the border crisis is beyond the
breaking point even though it hasn't
broken yet
attorney general bar now directing
judges to deny bond hearings denying for
asylum seekers who illegally enter the
country in other words if you come in
the right way through the port you can
claim asylum posit but if you come this
is incidentally a lie every asylum
seeker comes in illegally they come in
to the port and they say I want asylum
they are found to have a credible case
for asylum but there has to be a hearing
and prior to this point they have been
then released on bond so they come back
for this hearing and now they're not
going to seize lying about all this but
good but if you come in the wrong way
illegally you're gonna have a hard time
doing so think about it now if you're a
person with absolutely no Economic
Opportunity living in Honduras or
anywhere else in Latin America I get it
why not roll the dice
why not try and come here
however you can including illegally and
that's exactly what we see again in this
video people i've showed this to you
before literally swimming under barriers
trying to get here migrants will do what
they need to all in an effort to come to
the united states now as they march
towards our border in many cases with
their own flags they are most definitely
threatening our sovereignty we have no
idea who they are we have no idea what
their background is we have no idea
whether they're gang members we have no
idea whether there are even terrorists
certainly plenty in venezuela we've
talked about that among them no idea
it's a completely unverified group of
people if you were genuinely afraid of
all these people and we don't know who
they are you would actually let them in
at the port's but we know that they are
pushing people away from the ports and
to into the desert and we're into the
you know wherever at all these
alternative crossings but i mean this is
just absurd but this is there's a reason
why they're doing this it's because it
works with the republican party whether
they like Donald Trump or not so get
what you know gird yourself for it
that's what the next I guess 18 months
are going to be like that's basically
