democracy and chains is the intellectual
history of our present political moment
a probe on its the backstory for the
rise of transforming American politics
through a look at the life and the ideas
of James McGill Buchanan I call James
Buchanan the critical missing piece
because we need to understand James
Buchanan's ideas in order to make sense
of the strategy that is being pursued by
this billionaire backed radical right I
never set out to write this book I did
not go looking for James McGill Buchanan
I'd never heard of him when I started
researching this book I had just
finished another book and I learned
about the school closures in Prince
Edward County Virginia in reaction to
Brown versus Board of Education and then
in the course of digging into that story
I came across a footnote about
Buchanan's work and then someone alerted
me to another footnote that contained a
report that Buchanan's Virginia school
had had a more lasting impact on chilly
than Friedman's Chicago school so then I
was really curious and I began to dig
into the Buchanan's story as well after
he died in January of 2013 I finally by
September was able to get into his
papers and that's where my hypotheses
were confirmed and I found some really
interesting stuff
[Music]
welcome to the Michael Brooks show on
Michael Brooks we're broadcasting live
from downtown Brooklyn USA we're left as
best as it is everywhere else with super
producer Matt luck hello chief economist
and quick on the draw
David Griscom how's it going so producer
David Slovak is in the digisphere
in the ever growing ever aggressive
ever-expanding t MBS universe on this
week's program crew and host of the way
with a noah co-editor of the progressive
army I know achamma joins us we're
talking about the crucial governor's
race in Georgia the next escalation on
the Republican war on civil and voting
rights and can a stacey abrams wind be
an indication of placeholder a precursor
of a radically transformed southern
democratic and left politics one that
can create an actual American democracy
plus shout out to the animal kingdom we
have a dope story that has some poachers
on the losing side of natural innovation
plus we have a gem a Griscom economic
minute the gem system socialist
methodology for winning in the modern
economy a regulate with Matlack in the
postgame Kanye's in Uganda playing nice
with yet another dictator and talking
Jurassic Park and you know that I have
to bust out my MLK Kanye routine plus
potential fruit shortages because of
brexit Mark Zuckerberg sentenced to the
gulag all that's in the post game and
we're gonna touch on this Elizabeth
Warren thing dunk on Anna Navarro had a
absolutely horrifying terrible but oh
god so
amazingly awesome tweet an idea for
Elizabeth Warren that and much much more
on this week's Michael Brooks show Thank
You DJ Dan turkey thank you all of you
let's get to it
the Duke University professor Nancy
McLain who we saw there in the cold open
has written one of the most important
books of our time I've been privileged
to be able to interview her in the past
and to dopeboyz in a podcast and she
will be hopefully again with me on this
show it's called democracy in Chains
democracy in Chains trance traces a
history going back to segregationist
southern foreign policy maker and Arden
an anti majoritarian pro-slavery
advocate James Calhoun through the
libertarian propagandist and academic
James Buchanan to the Koch brothers who
funded Buchanan's work this is the
origin of the infamous Mercatus Center
at George Mason University in Virginia
and whose ideas have been distributed
through at the very least Latin America
but influenced global policy-making
through the neoliberal ization of
institutions like the World Bank and IMF
and structural readjustment packages
that have benefitted US corporations and
hand-tied developing countries across
the globe this is a vital history for
understanding of course not only the
rise of fascism aided by Chicago School
eeeek in this case Chicago School not
Virginia School of Economics in Brazil
with Boston ro and the embracing of it
by The Wall Street Journal and the
Brazilian business community and middle
class but also for what's happening here
especially in light of the confirmation
of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court
these are people whose ideological
foundations rested on a recognition that
going back to Calhoun that if you wanted
to in their minds protect capitalism you
needed to protect it from democracy this
is the actual policy counter the
libertarian myth of freedom it's about
the free
of small propertied minorities to do as
they will at the expense of anybody
whether it be african-americans women or
labor unions in the 1950s and a major
influence on Buchanan's work was the
understanding that Brown versus Board of
Education was not only something that
they exposed vigorously on its own terms
because they were opposed to civil
rights because it had implications for
federal interventions to propagate the
protection ironically given the
propaganda of libertarians individual
rights across the board that's actually
what it was about the contest was one
that said freedom was about the states
being free from a national sovereign to
do basically whatever they want slavery
apartheid disenfranchisement of women
labor and large swaths of the population
they defined freedom as the federal
government doesn't interfere with our
repressive systems and this is not just
a handy talking point that was developed
by a segregationist in the 40s 50s and
60s
it goes back to Calhoun it goes back
before the Civil War that recognition
was coupled with a concern of the
business class as exemplified by the
Koch brothers that that same impulse to
ensure rights which is the other side of
this equation the notion that a national
authority could supersede state
authorities if groups and individuals
were being systemic Lee oppressed as
they were in the apartheid south as
labor unions in fact are as well in the
south in a different way although also
and far less encompassing obviously but
also an important one this is the
politics of capitalism as the expense of
all else but they have an advantage not
only because of all of the money behind
them but because they have an
ideological coherence the court system
which rules on behalf of corporations in
the oligarchy props up the corporate
patient's who fund the politicians who
generate the policy frameworks that get
fed to the courts and cut and ratified
by the courts so the Federalist Society
works informally with the Mercatus
Center works informally with all
Republicans in Congress they also
shrewdly exploited disingenuous cultural
interventions to make economics cultural
this is one of the problems we're having
right now and why the distinction
between people who just want to have a
cultural conversation and those who just
want to have an economics conversation
are failing in a full analysis because
the right under the leadership of these
people already recognized that things
like school vouchers which are less
trendy now could be stand-ins to both as
they attempted to rebrand themselves
from being arch segregationist even
though in fact they still are on the
merits but show that they supposedly
were concerned about African American
opportunity well what better to use that
than as a Trojan horse against public
education the deficit as a Trojan horse
a public conversation on morality became
a Trojan horse against the entirety of
federal government spending to benefit
the middle class in the poor not federal
government spending writ large obviously
there's always government it's just who
is it working for even in the most
supposedly anti-government vision
Democrats and the Liberals center-left
failed and fighting back partially
because they didn't understand or maybe
they were paid to not understand by
their own ideological blinders the ways
in which this all fit together
strategically and that is why a sort of
piecemeal approach of small
interventions and I'll and I'll cover
the range here whether it's an
unambiguous unapologetic advocacy of the
positions we need on labor on
single-payer health care on breaking up
banks on a mass reclaiming of wealth in
this country and the fact that
billionaires are antithetical to
democracy and the fact that huge swaths
of this economy needs to be public sized
and democratized
but also in a positive and affirmative
way I overarching vision that recognizes
that white supremacy that systemic
sexism our profound social ills that
affect and work on all of us and we all
participate in well winningly or
unwittingly the structural macro
critique that can feed a vision of our
view of approaching the courts our view
of approaching policy and our view of an
intellectual framework that provides an
alternative to this is the only way of
beating it the right thought
structurally while the center-left was
thinking tactically and while we can
talk obviously about the fact that
corporations compromised everybody in
the whole process the Democratic Party
with the advent of neoliberalism sold
out its traditional constituencies to
Wall Street and Silicon Valley while the
fact that the old social democratic
arrangements of the 1960s most like will
not work today in a highly globalized
economy which is why we need a genuinely
mask global solidarity in order to
advance even a genuine social democratic
agenda the other missing piece was that
the right thought in terms of systems
and long term strategy and the left
thought in terms of how to navigate
within systems that the other side
created and any project whether it's the
socialist one that we favor whether it's
a social democratic one that others
favor whether it's even a sort of
broad-based progressive coalition one
that others favor and obviously all of
these share a lot of traits you're going
to need to have the type of synthetic
and integrated strategic vision that the
right had or we will continue to lose
and it's already profoundly late in the
process they have been winning they have
been gutting democracy they have been
gutting the small social advances of
both the social movements of equity
coming out of the 60s and also the vital
economic gains
of the New Deal and the Great Society
the fusion of which is articulated by
people like Adolf Reid is the necessary
future of politics okay guys please jump
in I'm actually thinking about doing a
democracy in Chains reading group book
club sort of thing for literary hangover
 is a really important give the full
attention at first because the main
problem in which is not really the point
white supremacy shadow in using finance
capitalism and that appealed and
fantastic writer people should go to
that book sort of very rich narrative
sort of project anything it's all your
mean I don't leave this every single
advise dictator shoes that were designs
of
main casts of people being fully
disenfranchised at a put into our
systems just a sub layer group that was
abused and exploited as part of how they
did papal ISM and also yes let me just
be bunk one another one people that
treated him the second-class citizens at
a cafe counter as an example they so got
their business they just had to sit
elsewhere
this is myth and nonsense oh I'm gonna
be in the interest everybody they had
literally a captive class of people who
both needed to pay them for their
services plus could be disenfranchised
from any type of basic civil democratic
and labor rights there's a lot of money
to be made that way and even if you read
all the temples let's say for a second
that Rand Paul personally in his heart
does not think that people should be
mistreated because of the color of skin
he still as of several years ago was
saying that the greater question of
Liberty in the question cities was a
Howard Johnson's owner being able to
dictate get served freely in their shop
versus the people who couldn't get
housing murdered by the police
terrorized by the KKK could vote and
couldn't labor organized and has
disobeyed those same businesses for
services and products that they were in
disenfranchised from he thought the
first thing was the greater question of
liberty and thus take these people face
value if they are not racist and morally
opposed to it then they're in fact even
more demented for having this ludicrous
worldview it's I love Scientology except
for the cult part yeah and it's like the
thing is when a lot of these
libertarians talk about increasing
Liberty they're not interested in
increasing Liberty they're interested
increasing tyranny over the marketplace
so when their Tom o Johnson he's wanting
to increase his ability to be a dick
tater within his own realm right in his
own hotels and you look you know closely
at what happened though with the right
wing and you know especially this
libertarian consensus that sort of you
know really dripped into American
society I mean you gotta remember like
in the 50s most economists for Keynesian
that's right and these you know put so
much money and effort into trying to
shift that worldview to what you know
the fact that even in the 90s and the
2000s Democrats accepted very you know
ridiculous right wing talking points and
Alan Greenspan was the head of the Fed
who everybody praised the guy literally
was part of the iron ran cult they know
exactly I remember when I said he had a
flaw in his ideology my worldview but I
mean you know it's something that you
know we really need to understand why it
was so so successful and why we really
need to fight back not just in winning
power but also in destroying that
framework in that kind of conversation
that's been happening because the
Gramsci dimension yes the counter
hegemonic narrative and that sounds
really fancy but it literally is having
a full counter strategy that's why
things like triangulation even if they
won in the short term could never be
durable because you're playing on
someone else's terms because when and
then look also what happened with
triangulation every victory that the
democratic party the quote-unquote left
one was in a sense of victory for the
right in many ways because they enacted
the right definitely was the nineties
yeah absolutely took over the that
rhetoric they incorporated it to give
them power and then they acted out on it
if it's intentional or not that's the
result of these things and that's why
you know the right has been very smart
in the u.s. understanding that cultural
political and academic dimension of
politics we're so often we forget when
we try to talk about things as if
they're happening individually you know
history isn't something that's given
it's something that's made and something
that's really important that we remember
that as we build you know left-wing
power and coalition said going forward
absolutely by the way I just want to I
just want any I need to comment on the
technical stuff first though we will
have this uploaded with proper audio we
have an excerpt rubble with it's fixed
now but we'll make sure to check that
beforehand but anyway is this up on
screen sorry guys we had we actually had
a bunch of weird
there's something going on here
tech-wise butt-butt-butt forest shutup
forest who's helping us out with the
YouTube he'll have that clipped with
proper audio we'll get that for the
YouTube channel and on that youtube
channel subscribe Michael Brooks show on
YouTube but yeah Louis Hyman who we've
had on majority report recently posted
this was a really long worthwhile thread
on Sears
and how Sears sort of had this well
basically I'll just start in the second
the stores were not self-service so the
black customers would not have to wait
and then would have and then would have
to ask the proprietors to give them
goods off and on credit because
sharecropping the landlord often owned
the store in every way shopping to
reinforce to hierarchy until Sears the
catalog undid the power of the
storekeeper and southern store key was
fought back they organized catalog
bonfires in the streets so they just
wanted that inefficiency so much but it
reminds me of this argument I got in
with on Twitter with a guy who was
trying to suggest that it was the
government forcing store keepers to be
you know enforce the apartheid in the
south right against their will which is
I mean man if there's anything more
insidious but like naked ly stupid it's
that in this false distinction I'm sorry
just like you know I very rarely I don't
guess I've just sort of excommunicated
most libertarian people from my life so
I very rarely get into these dates
anymore yeah I do I think it's really
important to mention to is like this
kind of false dichotomy that between
like the the market and the government
between business owners and the
government is really false throughout
American history attacked as if these
are two separate classes when they've
been very much intertwined and the act
as if you know the the government of you
know states especially in the south was
separate from the business community
throughout the southern history that's
patently false I mean for and the entire
southern government for years was all
about one thing was about promoting
southern industry which was you know the
slave industry which was very much the
business that's Calhoun
yes exams calcium that's part of the
origin story right there all right let's
do this is a fun shout out the printer
is not agreeing with us but oh yeah we
have to play our songs
I can't give that Eminem song out of my
head I like this better than you but it
totally I mean it is that it is that
don't know don't tell the algorithm oh
by the way we have we have nude Anarchy
for interstitial well DJ dinner key
everybody be seeing is the Beast you
love them
thank you today's shout out we want to
shout out the animal kingdom and we're
gonna put this up on screen when we have
a chance it's a story for its science
alert science alert which was reported
by the BBC look up David Slovak and your
Gmail it should be the latest one or or
IIM that's you I am Tasya Matt it's
right under the the sound we're using
with the Noah so it lets in let's throw
this on screen David this is old
actually but why not this is from 2016
young gorillas have learned how to
dismantle poachers traps in the wild
days after poachers kill the young
mountain gorillas which is really
depressing way to start this in Rwanda
is volcanoes national park in 2012
researchers spotted something remarkable
two four year old gorillas were working
together to dismantle similar snares in
the area this is absolutely the first
time we've seen juveniles doing that and
I don't know of any other reports in the
world of juveniles de story destroying
snares Veronica for teleo from the DN
Fossey gorilla fund funds Karis sock
Kara sock a Research Center in Rwanda
told National Geographic we are the
largest database and observers of wild
gorillas so I would be very surprised if
somebody else had seen that the snares
are set up by poachers this is of course
a major issue and a something that you
know is an active challenge in areas
like
the to protect these gorillas but in
this dope shout out the gorillas have
done it themselves so shout out nature
we need ingenuity gorillas to start you
know breaking into oil refining yes is
that some other assignments for you like
gorillas need to start like tearing up
pipelines I have a like that shitty
Michael Crichton movie the Congo it's
like where the gorillas can fight they
they just start like taking down like
like Blackwater Plains and I have a
late I've a late honorary mention for
shout out today we have Kissinger was at
NYU and students were a protest in to
him I can't believe that this bastard
still out here and all that's going on
who's that you know you
know what people should do though is get
like some I don't want to recommend
Hitchens but some someone who's labeled
off Kissinger's crimes and just read
that right like just have the content
there to just incite and while they
throw you up yeah just read it you get
no points for being an extemporaneous
but this is all great because apparently
they're timing it out so they don't get
into it might you and they're outside
that's good that's good from the
government are you telling you that
you're not a worker that's not what you
can offended by these people saying
promote yeah I am I kiss your kisses
your there's I don't give a crap I'll
clean up my language I don't give a crap
that Kissinger doesn't have a platform
anywhere to be honest oh yeah that
guy you should be in prison although I
think prisoners def platforms so
that's tricky all right yeah so actually
I do think you should have flat form all
right well we're gonna do a little pitch
and then we're gonna talk to the great
ánoá changa of the way of an OA and T
ambient rip a new Dan re let's check it
out
new interstitial I buy it
I definitely buy it fits perfectly thank
you Dan turkey so I can shout out we
just need to grow as a show we have
crossed 1700 patrons of course the next
big goal is 2,000 patrons huge amount of
extra content just got to review the
other day that said that we had the best
patreon extra content in the game which
I was very honored to hear those
histories those you know setups of ideas
and histories from you know from Africa
to Gramsci to the history of the super
elite to the Middle East these are
really are gonna give you a lot of
grounds for understanding how the world
works how to under and how to engage in
activism how to engage in arguments and
I think it also you know the goal really
is to actually enact and prototype what
is a real global solidarity what really
is a proactive and affirmative vision of
the kind of socialism the kind of
democracy the kind of just basic human
empathy that were even as we you know
fail and make mistakes and you know we
don't obviously no one knows all the
answers but we are working towards were
grappling towards and there's a really
powerful community growing out of this
show as well there's calls with me to 21
and above levels I say I promise one
soon when I get back from this
conference in Idaho woke Bros with Waze
and I and I'll just say live shows are
now like legit in the works as are I
think we're doing hoodies
we'll be right back with the noah chakra
patreon.com slash t NBS
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
welcome back to the Michael Brooks show
joining us now is T MBS show crew and
host of the way with inoa which
everybody should subscribe to as I do on
my podcast subscription service of
choice or as well as become a patron on
a patron of also the co managing editor
of the progressive army and Noah Chonga
Noah thanks for being here
thanks for having me uh Noah we're gonna
start with a piece of sound that you
tweeted out involving the Georgia's
governor's race which you are very
strongly involved in Stacey Abrams has a
real chance here and Brian kept who is
one of America's premier apartheid
politicians using voter suppression
voter Trance enfranchisement strategic
white supremacy to fear monger and lie
and literally eliminate votes his way to
the governorship and against this
incredibly impressive run by Stacey
Abrams this is Brian Kemp you tweeted
this out earlier here he is talking with
the ever correctly named Steve Doocy on
Fox News we're gonna play that and then
you're gonna tee off on it okay mm-hmm
well it means she won't see illegals to
vote in Georgia I mean this is a
shocking development in the campaign
while she was campaign sorry it's the
frozen so I'm gonna right just gonna put
it up one more time reset this
sorry guys we're having a bit of
technical difficulties across the board
tonight my apologies although I will say
I know a great fan connection
excellent phone connect well guys we had
enough notice so I'm here in the house
on skype not out in the I think the last
time I was on I might have been
downstate in the six you were I remember
I'm thrilled okay let's play this we got
it now well it means she won't see
illegals to vote in Georgia I mean this
is a shocking development in the
campaign while she was campaigning with
Elizabeth Warren she actually said this
her network of groups actually filed a
lawsuit that says the same thing
in the lawsuit and look early voting
starts in Georgia today I think
hardworking Georgians who should decide
who their governor is not people here
illegally like my opponent wants yeah
but your Secretary of State it's not
legal to if you're in the country
illegally to vote is it
no absolutely it's against the law just
against the Constitution which makes it
even more shocking that she would say
that but when you file the lawsuit she's
trying to get a pic of a liberal judge
that would just make a ruling to order
this that's what the lawsuits ask and
that's why so this this is so extreme in
a radical position quite honestly for my
opponent it's not just her saying this
but her you know groups that support her
that she helped create that have filed a
lawsuit and that's why we need
hard-working Georgians to know and and
urge them to get out and vote and and
let them decide who their governor is
going to be you know mr. Kemp your
opponent says you're trying to suppress
the vote by holding up thousands of
voter registration applications what do
you say to that oh that's a smokescreen
trying to hide her radical views those
folks that are on the pending list all
they have to do is go to the polls show
their photo ID and they can vote again
this is just a distraction from her view
of her groups filing a lawsuit to get
non-citizens to vote in the state of
Georgia we're not going to allow that
we're gonna have secure accessible and
fair elections in our state and by the
way they're not talking about the fact
that we have more registered voters on
our rolls now than we've ever had and
she voted against online voter
registration that I helped create this
improved our voter rolls and has more
people participating in the process I
Noah what did she actually say and
explain all the ways that this man is
lying I mean what's so funny is as they
note on the Fox News in the segment but
of course it's part news - they don't go
in for the kill with this he's the
Secretary of State it's ludicrous when
Republicans make these accusations but
this dude is in charge of the voter
rolls he's in charge of the elections
including his own and
he's afraid of quote unquote of
non-citizens of undocumented folks quote
unquote criminal illegals as he calls
them which is a horrible phrasing or
whatever but like he's acting like he's
really afraid this could happen but he's
the one in charge so if any anything
like that were actually to happen in
large numbers and we already know from
all the different studies and results
and stuff that that this is like if it
does happen it's so negligible it's
rarely ever found anywhere in the
country that this happens but let's say
this actually did happen it'll be
because he failed at his damn job it was
too busy purging actual citizens
lawfully registered to vote and admits
this whole cadre of quote-unquote non
citizen voters who he thinks Stacey
Abramson Liz before and are trying to
rally together
so what's he lying about Elizabeth
Warren is Stacey Abrams and Jana Presley
and some amazing folks here locally had
a big rally on an HBCU campus and
Clinton Clinton County which is just
south of Atlanta last week part of the
the conversation is talking about what
Stacy has been building since she
launched her campaign last year which is
a campaign as for all Georgians and
building a Georgia that's for all I know
that sounds a little kumbaya SH but it's
really what she's doing when you look at
who she's bringing together to vote in
this election but what they talked about
was the blue wave and how the blue wave
what that means it's not literally and
they explain this she they talk about
this it's not just the people who are
expected to vote it is all of our
communities and in fact that
undocumented families non-citizens are
also part of our communities they are
welcome here in Georgia what Brian Kipp
is really saying is that people who are
black and brown are not welcome in his
Georgia that's all he's saying by the
way he aggressively pursues you know
purging African American black Latino
AAPI voters from the rolls over the last
several years this is not just it's not
just happening right now that he's
running for governor he's been doing
this there's a clip that MSNBC I think
maybe I might've even been Rachel Maddow
played in the 2014 where he talks about
the skins that how if
these organizations meaning the new
georgia project and other organizations
were allowed to register minority voters
this is in 2014 when he was running for
reelection um
that they will be able to win the
democrats can't be loud basically he's
already been on record talking about his
fear of of voter registration and
participation of black and brown people
so we already know this man has a
vendetta not just against Stacey Abrams
who created the new Georgia project in
2013-2014 but it's made it her mission
to expand voting opportunity so he likes
to lie he likes to throwing jabs and he
has the you know the Governors
Association all these other groups they
work with him to do this stuff Fox News
is apparently has been hamming it up as
well but it's like it's really
ridiculous in the saying when it's
happening here now and to even say that
the lawsuit that was filed so the backup
for everyone who might I saw the
headlines over the last week 53,000
Georgians have their voter registration
on hold they're pending he is correct
when he says that technically per the
law voters can with their proper ID with
their name is substantially similar on
their registration as on their ID they
can go to the polls and still vote if
they were in queue to register and are
just simply pending right if they've
been like kinda added to the system cuz
they're some people saying that they
registered and they're not even showing
up so there's that's a whole nother
issue but for him to say that this
lawsuit could pertaining to the 53,000
is actually an attempt to get
non-citizens voting this list this law
these 53,000 people 70% are black
Georgians they're black southerners so
we have the Reese Reese oppression of
the black vote happening right now and
it's like I said it's been happening in
the last at least the last eight years
since he's been in office so he's lying
on multiple fronts he's been sued
multiple times this exact match issue
right now that involves 53,000 Georgians
he was sued actually back in 2016 but
then lawyers Committee for some rights
and the law along with several other
groups and they reached a settlement and
everything was about 42,000 people at
that time and they reached a settlement
in February 2017 about this exact issue
he was sent a warning letter I believe
in July of this this year this summer
ahead of this election about this exact
issue so now have
3000 people after they previous sued
previously sent him warning letters and
for now for him to sit here a lie it
shows that wine he's just a liar he's
not trust with her into he's scared he's
there in a dead heat right now and
really we believe the polls are under
estimating her the same way they did in
the primary okay that's perfect so I
want to know yeah you cuz I think that
you can answer both of these questions
in in sort of one that I'll set up so
I'll be really clear about this I didn't
follow the Georgia primary particularly
closely I don't know you know it's I
don't know enough I spoke publicly for
Stacey Abrams because you and and
Benjamin Dixon who you know I know and
friends with and respect both live in
Georgia and supported her so I thought
okay they if she passes like muster with
them then I'm gonna trust that she's a
good candidate so what is she you know
what's her campaign about what's she
running on what's she talking about
and how does that overlap with your
sense that maybe she's being
underestimated in the polls well I'll
take the second part right in terms of
the polling okay because I just want to
note we saw the same thing happen and I
forget her the polling Andrew Gilliam
was never supposed to be the nominee
right / the polling until that final
weekend Andrew Gilliam was always in a
distant third right he he there was like
one random poll that had him second at
that final weekend ahead of the election
anyone well why I say the polling the
polling always had Stacey Abrams winning
against her her opponent in the primary
also named Stacey both spelled the same
way funny sorry the Republican you know
the current lieutenant governor who was
the Republican favorite Casey Cagle his
middle name is actually Stacey also
spelled the same way so he would have
had another Stacey
and versus Stacey race but um so the
polling always had her winning but the
margins she ultimately won by was like
unprecedent like no one from the polling
would have expected her to have a
blowout the way she did she lead her
phony by like almost 50 points and all
the polling had it very
My dear by 50 points yeah 73 225 Wow I
knew it was big I don't know was that
big it was it was something and I you
know forgive me guys it's been a while
since I looked at those numbers but it
was a huge gap and we saw but what we
saw and what we're not seeing it's the
same thing we were saying I'm in 2016
about the polls right the polls just
can't account for voting behavior and
how campaigns are really building with
field in engaging there they rely on old
models and old ways of thinking about
how to do electoral work now post 2016
we're seeing a lot of candidates that
are really investing in not just issued
based campaigns that are strong and we
saw this obviously when we saw Bernie
Sanders running 2015 26 you know that
whole his presidential run standing
strong on certain issues as well as the
the grassroots movement that built
around him so we're seeing a lot of
candidates who have built their own
followings up just using that similar
type of model so to speak right so what
we're seeing happening here though is
we're seeing that polling isn't still
not considering what they call the low
propensity voters you know people who
have not voted like in in midterm
elections people who have set out for
non voters they're not they're not
counting new voters they're not counting
younger voters like these polls are rid
of like there's a recent CNN poll that
everyone's been going either Gaga or
angry about with showing that Joe Biden
is leading the pack if you were to run
for president but that CNN poll I think
when we broke it down it only looked at
people over 45 and white so the polling
that we're seeing that's being pushed at
us by mainstream media is it really
grappling with the reality that
activists and organizers the grassroots
is seeing actually on the ground in
these campaigns so what stacy is running
on are things like Medicaid expansion
now I know a lot of folks are like we
need Medicaid Medicare for all I
absolutely agree but living here in the
south having immediate members of my
family who but for you know Medicaid
expanding expansion will not be able to
get medicaid care I'm okay with that me
like I step in the right direction
because I believe that a lot of
organizations like our revolution like
Center for popular democracy like
democracy for America have gotten in so
early with Stacy and I
been able to really help her you know
have the support she needs to move left
the way she needs to distrain
progressively and strong I mean she's
looking at you know expanding
opportunity in terms of pre-k education
really investing in universal pre-k
she's moved she moved she moved left
enough on enough issues but in a and and
it's not just that she was doing this
because she wanted to get the vote we've
had this conversation offline before
Michael about how black candidates
sometimes candidates of color do not
have the same access or support to be as
progressive they want to be if they're
dependent upon only these party systems
or structures to support them running so
with her because she has built the
support that she's built over the years
but also because organizations like
center for popular democracy because I
don't know if when people if people
listen when she talks I listen to a talk
she gave so like a construction Union I
came here what it was but like I
listened to her when she talks and
she'll say things like freedom to thrive
that's actually not only a hashtag but
it's also a theme that runs through this
really brilliant report that Center for
popular democracy did about how we can
read envision the way we spend money and
resources in our local communities in
terms of defunding police and investing
in communities so that people have the
freedom to thrive so it's not that she's
just repeating these terms and phrases
but it's really been in beauty you see
it in the organizers who are working on
her campaign and we have really been
helping her flesh through some of these
issues she was the first gut woman at
Oriel candidate recently um this past
week and she's the first convert or of
pinger candidates ever speak address
pride here in Atlanta so she addressed
pride for the and she was the first
person to ever do that and he's just a
lot that's going on with her campaign
that made sense to me in terms of
education public education opportunity
and what's at stake here in Georgia
Medicaid for all Medicaid expansion is
actually a very popular thing across
both parties on Republican Republicans
we've had so many rural hospital
closures here which really decimate not
just health opportunity but also entire
you know economies and then you also
have the burden of uncompensated care
across
at the county and at the state level
that has really been a huge issue when
you look at that as well so that's like
one topic that she's been talking about
that I think again for those who are
organizing like I appreciate my local
DSA folks and again I'm not our DSA
spokesperson here in Atlanta but what I
appreciate the way folks have been
organizing is the fact that we want this
other thing but this this immediate you
know think that there are legislature
here stateside already has the support
you know in terms of people to do gets
us closer and then we can build on that
to help educate people for why we need
to get to medicare-for-all and also
expand their sense of what's possible I
mean that is a fundamental argument that
always comes again with these I mean
look acceleration ism is and
I'm not playing with other people's
lives and certainly I could speak
personally to you know as I've said
things like knowing the difference
between home heating assistance being
cut or funded really basic stuff but
also the other thing that they don't I
mean even Obamacare even Obamacare which
of course the best part of Obamacare was
a Medicaid expansion but even just the
idea that there was some regulations put
into place for HMOs to not be able to
entirely abuse people they still abuse
people a lot because private insurance
is in my view just fundamentally an
abusive parasitic proposition but being
that as it may that enhance people's
expectations even that neoliberal
centrist like that's actually all true
is describing that bill that bill
enhanced people's conception if you put
people getting Medicaid on the table in
the Republican governor far-right anti
poor anti healthcare anti rural people
an see people of color south and people
get that care there they're not gonna
sit and go alright well that's cool they
might start saying well wait a second
what about that a little Medicare for
all things that's how it works from
being an VSA and getting to knows like
some some of the comrades across various
different chapters right like I thought
yeah
a lot on Twitter especially I folks from
the larger you know the larger chapters
not because I don't think people are
good people aren't doing good work but
like there's really there's a lot
happening in the south and I've learned
a lot more being here in Atlanta getting
more involved around Stacie's campaign
and starting to get to know because when
like the real organizers are like yeah
this is how we're rolling and not that
and and you listened to the conversation
right cuz you'll see quote-unquote real
like the real hardcore organizers the
folks that really be that crew out there
all the time pounding the pavement like
you'll see those people maybe get behind
a candidate and they'd be like oh that's
the best we can do someone else so
horrible but like the idea was that you
know Stacey actually is a good candidate
and there's the opportunity to actually
push like she wants to explain like the
work that's been done locally with
sistent with with a song southerners on
new ground and other organizations
around any cash bail reform here in the
city of Atlanta that is something that
has there are some some remnants of
criminal justice reform they were put in
place surprisingly by our current
Republican governor who has chosen to
support obviously the Republican nominee
who actually was undoing his work but
Stacey you know is looking to these
these organizers or such to expand upon
this stuff at the state level so when
we're what I love how people are
actually I talk about this all the time
we need to build accountability into our
support into the process right I'm in
st. L'Enfant who is the executive
director of the new Georgia project as I
mentioned that's the organization that's
been doing the blasts of voter
registration over the past few years and
I can't remember the exact numbers but
the numbers are like mind-blowing what
their organization has done they
actually released a new app a boater and
a civic tech app that if you put in you
know you put in your address and stuff
and it brings up all the different it
brings up your whole ballot for you
right there in your phone it goes
through the different amendments and
ballot issues and so you know they do a
lot of work they also have work
connected with local you know uh you
know celebrities and rappers and they do
like a soul so the poll type of thing
but then they do it from like the HBCU
campuses so they have rappers and
reverence and HBCU students and so
there's all this great work that's
happening and so one thing in say and I
talked about though was like you know
space is our girl we're here for this
black girl
but you best believe we hold her
accountable like yeah you know brunch we
love you blah blah blah but you still
gonna come correct to do it needs to be
done so so this is being built in the
process and no there's no perfect
candidate right there's no perfect
candidate anywhere in the world we're
gonna be upset with folks you know sup
for Loula that's my dude he's nothing
I'm just plain but seriously though this
is what we have happening right now in
Georgia so what I'm seeing now in
Georgia I'm seeing like even the ladies
who kind of drove me the folks who try
and drove me nuts in 2016 like post 2016
the special election for John Assos race
like a lot of people are coming together
and really like building community I'm
just yesterday black voters matter is an
organization that has been like touring
the South they have this amazing it's
really dope this amazing tour bus I
actually got to do a two-day bus tour
with their group
I'm through South Georgia but they have
this amazing buses black voters matter
and they've been going around doing
voter outreach doing geo TV stuff like
basically just helping where they can
and helping to spread the love because a
lot of the rural areas people think of
rural think is just oh you know white
Trump supporters there's a lot of people
who are white and rural areas who didn't
vote who didn't support Trump either
right but there's black people in those
areas it's brown people there's other
people in those areas too so they've
been going through the south to like
make the case and also the south is a
lot more progressive than it gets credit
for it's just that a lot of times people
are cut off from opportunity from
resources and they don't feel connected
to anything like one of the things I'm
finding through my current work working
with you know Municipal candidates as I
have folks running for County
Commissioners and these like red
traditionally red communities they are
seeing some of the same issues of
affordable housing health care
homelessness that we're hearing about in
our Oakland's and our Atlanta's in our
Chicago's etc and so they're they're
they're getting excited when they're
finally getting connected to people
because especially when you're living a
rural area your nearest neighbor is
however many miles away you may not know
that anybody else like you exist so it's
great when initiatives like this happen
but what was what what what happened
though with black eyes black voters
matter yesterday though Latasha brown
and cliff
or the founders they were taking a group
of black seniors to vote early voting
started here yesterday in Georgia they
were really excited they had a local a
senior herself who organized the event
and well I don't know she's a senior my
best is cuz you had gray hair so I
shouldn't assume but um but someone who
was local to the community right who was
known by the seniors at this Community
Center they knew her they trusted her
they all agreed so they were excited
Natacha and cliff and their crew were
really excited to be able to do this
service I mean to take 40 you know
predominant women to go vote that's like
life-giving I mean I was on the bus with
them back when the Randolph County
situation was happening when they were
trying to close those polls and we got
to go through the southern southern
Georgia and stuff so that was
life-giving from events I can only
imagine what it is right now with all
this energy
well somebody from the county got
nervous or whatever and they they may
ordered them off the bus they filed a
complaint and the senior citizen center
was just like well someone complain and
they're worried so you everybody has to
go off the bus and we can't do this
today so they stopped them from taking
over 40 seniors to go black seniors to
go vote yesterday these people are still
going to go vote and they were even more
fired up and they're gonna tell you no
but but this is what we're this is
what's happening this is it's not just
here it's across the board and it's sick
yeah I want definitely want you to
elaborate on that in 30 seconds or not
not I'll ask about in 30 seconds but I
just wanted to note I liked what you
alluded to before about sort of like
even like kind of some of the aasif
people and one thing I think especially
in contrast like all of the you know
social media spiciness and everything
that people gets into is that and and
also the fact that it's okay that people
have genuine ideological disagreements
and a coalition that's actually very
healthy and good for an ecosystem but a
lot of some things are resolved by
people actually doing things together
right like we look at things differently
but we're working to elect Stacey Abrams
we look at things differently but we're
working you know on a particular
ecological or justice or you know global
initiative like
not just you know reviewing each other's
hot takes which you know of course I do
and everybody does and it's fun it's
great whatever but I think some of that
stuff is literally addressed by doing
things together agreed like and when we
when we actually move people past these
like hyper silos on social media we find
the commonality and we're able to build
that doesn't mean we ignored like bad or
idiotic things we were doing but still
we're seeing it and we're seeing support
not just for Stacey Abrams went for also
candidates down the ballot you know we
got Shelly I'm not just and running and
can't remember the house issues with it
but we got amazing candidates okay I
usually coop running we have a el-mahdi
highly running down in Houston she 111
Regina Lewis Ward and 109 those were
actually two of the candidates present
with the infamous you know now infamous
Eric Holder comments like there's a lot
happening and we have Michael I know we
gotta go like super minutes go okay cool
with this fact though there were six
counties that went red to blue in 2016 I
know everyone always focuses on all the
counties that went blue to red oh my god
but there were six counties that flipped
red to blue right in 2016 three of them
are here in Georgia Henry County where
Regina Lewis Ward and el-mahdi Holley
are and Winnett County and Cobb County
Quinet Connie all of those are right
raisers state rep races we're talking
either state right so like so there are
there are these we're seeing one one one
in the Georgia primary we saw explosive
turnout yes there were more Republicans
and Democrats in voting in the primary
but what we saw was a huge increase in
democratic participation in the primary
and a real narrowing of the gap between
Republican and Democratic turnout when
we look at the general and the press two
cycles like the it's been such a small
kiss percentage difference between in
the final vote so when we're just
extrapolating out and looking at the
participation in the election as well as
these candidates who are running now in
these districts like the people have
been mentioning like we have folks who
are also in
yes Shelley Shelley Hutchinson is in
House District 107 which is in Gwinnett
County which is one the counties that
flipped and went from you know red to
blue it's also one of the most diverse
rapidly diversifying counties in the
country or something like that like
there are these places in the state that
are now minority majority districts but
they have not had anyone of color
actually running in them now I'm with a
lot of folks you know I'm saying I know
folks that they backed by identity
politics for me representation always
matters and y'all can hit me up on
twitter if you funky and we can talk
about more about that but what I'm gonna
but what it's important that we have
people were actually reflecting and
representing the communities they come
from as well in the mindset which these
candidates are as well as an actual it
lived experiences instead of right so
having a black woman social worker mom
like Shelley who is representing her
district which looks more like her than
the incumbent is important having a
district down in Henry County with
Regina Lewis Ward who's originally
actually from Brooklyn Big Ups to
Brooklyn and he'll might be highly liked
having those two people you know running
in a district which actually has been
redistricting the past five years having
them overcome the incumbents they're
running against and actually reflecting
and representing the district where they
are is important and valuable and yes
I'm plugging these people because
they're also right on the issues you
know if you all know me you know I don't
just roll people because they black
right well that's to me like ya know I
mean that's to me like I mean I think
everything is is you know there's always
a dialectical relationship and I think
that like a lot of that initial critique
was people like Clinton campaign saying
you know everything is subordinate to an
identity and that's trash that's wrong
um that is a totally different thing
than saying of course and by the way
like literally across the board I don't
like I don't have a problem you know
not if it's positioned in a racist way
obviously but I'm a problem if
somebody's like hey you know I grew up
in some rural district somewhere
and maybe I want somebody who has
farming experience right like I don't
like we could really expand the bounds
of people wanting to have some sense
that who represents them share an
experience with them is not a radical
notion and it shouldn't be to anybody
like it's actually pretty obvious um
can you can Oh actually real quick
before I ask you to find a question you
have a candidate I believe in Boston
that you wanted to talk about can you do
that yes I need everyone to go check out
Rachel Rollins Rollins for Suffolk
County DA you know Rachel Rollins is
running for Suffolk County da da races
also have a County I'm Buffalo this one
in mark Hayes is running in Hennepin
County Minnesota got da candidates
running across the country you know
we've already seen with with with the
Kim Fox and Larry and Philly like like
we've seen the way VA matters there's a
lot who's in the DA position Rachael
Rollins is you know similar to the DA's
we saw before her and like you know you
know crasner and others like is really
trying to you know aiming at you know
addressing issues with cash bail in in
cash bail addressing like she's declined
to prosecute actually certain lower
level offenses and have them handled
with community service or other things
she's getting a lot of flack so I need
folks to check her out I would
definitely be tweeting about her and
stuff like that
I need folks to check out Rachel Rollins
give her a boost give her support go if
you're in the area go and volunteer with
her campaign help them out because she's
running even though Boston is a
democratic city or whatever she's
running against an impendent who's
backed by the police who has prior DV
charges from his from his ex by with his
wife for exercise I can't remember but
the police are trying to handpick once
again their da same similar things
happening in Hennepin County Minnesota
which is the largest I think it's the
largest County in Minnesota it's where
Minneapolis is Marcus is running against
a 20-plus year incumbent who actually
prosecuted a black young black trans
women's every several years ago for
defending herself he prosecuted her for
attempted murder for defending herself
when she was actually being physically
attacked and and violated outside of the
outside of a jail was actually
cocoa it's actually a
I'm not Koko apologies says CeCe it's
actually Cece McDonald it's actually a
famous case so like he's also like part
of the war on drugs and just like he
actually tried to testify in its early
2000s against the disproportionality
between crack cocaine Singh so like he
really like most Republicans got on that
one
but he's a Democrat and he's a Democrat
right wear any blue won't do so these
are two DA's I need y'all on this I'm
gonna give Michael some more information
to tweet it out and stuff but I need
jobs to look at these two DEA races and
you know I got some more in local
elections and stuff I was talking about
earlier to y'all y'all wanna know what's
going on municipal elections definitely
hit me up cuz that's that's where I have
that's what gives me hope right now with
all this craziness is the local level
stuff in the future okay so I think it's
fair to say and I'm definitely
supportive Stacey Abrams I'm supportive
of Andrew Gilliam and I would say and I
always draw the distinction right
there's like my favorite favorite
candidates Bernie Sanders aoc Connie le
egg barbara Lee then there's people that
I like and I need to know more about but
I am actually like if I could vote for
them it would be an affirmative vote and
that's a drew Gilliam Stacey Abrams and
some other candidates whose names are
escaping me right now and then there's
other candidates like I would also vote
for Bill Nelson in Florida because I'm a
harm minimize voter sorry right like
that's how it is but when you look at
candidates like gillum's and Abrams who
are like genuine center-left candidates
definitely Abrams moving very strongly
in the right direction you have people
like you in her circles which to me is
like a bigger metric for measuring where
they're going than they are in some ways
because that's the context for campaigns
is a bigger deal the the structure
around them and you look at the broader
changing you know just demographics and
ideological leanings of people who would
vote Democratic across the board in the
south
combined with the fact that obviously
this is a you know the war on voting
rights and civil rights is intensifying
although it has been going on for quite
some time as you say do you see a future
where the southern Democratic Party and
maybe also I know you you're one of the
things I love about you is how
historically oriented you are so there's
also a you know the hidden southern left
history which you know also exists as
well do you see a scenario where the
southern Democratic Party goes from like
you know Bill Clinton pulling everybody
to the third way and to Tyson chicken
versus you know Stacey Abrams and others
actually pulling the Democratic Party
towards genuine commitments on health
care on ending cash bail on you know the
environment justice and so on I think we
beginning of the possibility of that
happening while I personally am NOT a
Democrat identifying I do you know
caucus with them from time to time but
of pumpking I'm a Georgia Bernie right
yeah I'm sorry Bernie frequently on
because they're they're often right on
the issues that I need to see and quite
a few I mean I have a lot of hope when I
look at some of the folks who are
running for county chair right now I
have some friends who I really heard who
are strong progressives who are looking
in the right direction who get this for
nurturing and getting out there and
organizing and emphasizing field so it's
possibly eventually the party could go
in that direction it just depends upon
if we as progressives were actually
building our pipeline I think Abrams is
doing that through her campaign the way
she's not nurturing and providing
opportunity I think despite some of the
issues I've noticed with gillum's
campaign and some of the interference I
will say from the Florida Democratic
Party he has done that as well I've met
probably one of the youngest people I've
ever met involved in data who worked
with his campaign who's only about 20 to
23 years old and she was just data
director so I mean so I see that there
is there are those those it just depends
on whether or not we as a block state
one engaged and organized and that we to
work on expanding our ranks in building
the pipeline to come behind us so I
don't think when Abrams win it's going
to be an overnight you know thing but I
do think it definitely makes the case
for the
strategy that she's an employing we're
talking about expanding the electorate
and really investing in what it looks
like to have a coalition of progressive
you know leaning white people and people
of color voters because when we're
looking at the South when you look at
Georgia in particularly Georgia has not
like had more than like thirty percent
of the white vote going Democrat since
Bill Clinton in 1992 it's been steadily
around between 22 and 25 percent of the
votes since the mid late 90s and Abrams
is polling at about twenty seven twenty
eight percent so she's doing slightly
better but that's also because in the
last several years we've had an influx
of progressive white people into the
south we've had an influx of more and
more people of color in these states as
well I mean George is on its way to
being a majority-minority state in the
next I think like ten years or so
because of the huge population shifts
that we're seeing across the state so I
mean kinda happiness out there some
amazing work being done project South
has been doing work across the entire
south as well as Puerto Rico I mean
we're seeing you know what we've been
seeing with Chokwe Lumumba and in Jack's
Mississippi so it's possible but it's
going to take time just the same thing I
think it's possible we can shift the
nation but it's going to take time and
we have to build a pipeline and we have
to stay organized I know it Changa
everybody should follow her find all of
the links to all of the ways you can
you're on Spotify now I'm pissed
we're not in Spotify define mean so I
mean now it's like I you know it Spotify
and in like three days later they
announce that everybody would podcast
you know Spotify so like I was special
for like three days there's a lot of
amazing work happening down here at
shots Eric Ross Robertson and you know
in Satan thought was a new Georgia
project Newport Georgia project action
fun like I said candidates that I'm most
excited about these are not the only
ones but these are somewhat on top of my
hand
Shellie Hutchinson Aisha Kubb is an
amazing young Muslim sister who's
running for for for state-level State
House ronita Shannon is is dopin has
been she's an elected official herself
but has been organizing and canvassing
for all these other amazing progressives
all cycles so you know el-mahdi Holly
and Regina Louis Ward
tons of great people as well so don't
just look at the what's on the top of
the ticket if you're really annoyed with
whoever's on top of your ticket where
you are looking to see what's happening
with local races if you don't have a
local race right now you're going to
have a local race in the next cycle too
because there's literally a local
election happening all the time and you
guys will possibly be having a special
election for a public advocate in New
York who knows oh yeah well no Mickey no
Mickey Const that's uh that's that's
gonna happen and you're gonna and when
you come to New York you have to come to
the show in Studio Inoa
thank you a million as always a NOAA
changa NOAA thank you thanks a lot
that was a revelation a NOAA with a
clean phone connection it's pretty
amazing that was amazing she was she
went from one of the like the average
she shot up to like the highest quality
phone that was like that was amazing is
right right Yeah right Anna Navarro is
one of the dumbest people in American
politics she's the opposite of
everything I know I was just talking
about I believe her father was connected
with the Contras I should have
double-checked that before the show
maybe somebody can double-check that for
me but she actually I mean to her credit
yeah her dad was a contra heard that was
literally a contra her dad was in the
CIA drug traffic kill nuns guerrilla
army no I don't know what he did I do
know what the Contras did maybe he was
just in Miami and again one does not
need to idolize or not recognize the
flaws of say Daniel Ortega to know that
like in the 1980s if you weren't
supporting the Sandinistas over the
Contras you're a fundamentally
untrustworthy person that's why she
became a republic that is why she became
a Republican because Ronald Reagan were
supporting death squad groups across
Latin America and she built a business
where she was a Republican consultant
there was more opportunity in the George
Bush era for sort of pretending to not
be racist and you know promoting
vouchers and things like that yes
there's a just on a profile of her in
Tampa Bay at Tampa Bay calm in the 1980s
the first-year law student at University
of Miami compan campaigned for aid to
the Contras in her native Nicaragua the
daughter of a well-off family in the
agriculture business her father was an
early opponent of Anastasio Somoza who
went on to fight against leftist
revolutionaries she moved to Miami at
age 8 to escape the violence I became a
Republican before I knew what a
Republican even was because of Ronald
Reagan she said and now that she's yeah
and there's a theme there because now
she's rebranded herself as the
resistance on CNN and all she does is
tweet like Ronald Reagan what never
duties John McCain I don't know what he
would do but it will be classy and I
wish we could have it right now and that
is half a ridiculous problematic
impression it's also half totally
accurate so lay off and when we do
things like that that might get us in
trouble we we always pick our targets
well take our targets so in which case
we can say I'm glad we're talking about
Navarro being in the daughter of a
contra yeah we're right which reminds me
of like John McCain support the Contras
okay when he supported death squads that
rape and kill nuns he did it with a
certain class which Donald Trump does
not have so this is Anna Navarro
speaking of problematic she is a
solution to the whole is Elizabeth
Warren debacle
now I Elizabeth Warren this whole DNA
testing I mean look here's my read I'm
not gonna spend much time talking about
this Elizabeth Warren in many ways is a
very good candidate she is not as good a
candidate as Bernie Sanders Bernie
Sanders is the absolute number one pick
in my view of anybody with left politics
in my opinion but Elizabeth Warren is a
good candidate
if they both ran I hope they wouldn't
both run cuz I don't want them to cancel
each other out but it would be a very
novel experience to have two candidates
that one actually likes and respects in
a presidential primary but she's not a
socialist she definitely has a foreign
policy which is not impressive so far
and she has not broken orthodoxies and
moving in this more integral direction
that Bernie Sanders has done and the
foreign policy is not a side piece
that's an integral part of any long-term
left strategy I think that there's no
unless you go for the jugular you're not
gonna win those tabloid racist
bully misogynist games of Donald Trump
he's a piece of garbage he knows exactly
how to play to his cult and he's really
good at that and you know it seems like
there's a family story of a part of her
heritage being Native American she used
it in a way that was advantageous to be
clear let's not buy into conservative
mythology here one does not get to be a
faculty at Harvard because of that it
might have helped her in a way and it
might have been inappropriate for her to
do that although I'm frankly not in a
position where I'm gonna judge that it's
just not my place to judge but she's an
incredibly accomplished person she's
been usually beneficial in American
debate on bankruptcy on Wall Street she
held the Consumer Financial Protection
Agency which is one of the prime
benefits of the Obama era is her and
she's proposed some very good things in
the Senate and this play is sort of
blowing up in her face but anyways and
this is Anna the type of I wish this
woman would become a political
consultant again because I want
Republicans to pay for this kind of
advice Elizabeth Warren should poke fun
at all of this and actually dressed like
Pocahontas for Halloween
I'm doing a terrible accident here I
can't even do it Elizabeth Warren
releases the results of DNA tests at
Native American ancestry the Boston
Globe so and Navarro's brain
breakthrough brain break through is
Elizabeth Warren she dress up as
Pocahontas for Halloween and I'm gonna
end eko friend of the show Brendan from
the discourse which is another great
show that everybody should subscribe to
on patreon or iTunes or both I just was
on actually this past Sunday he does a
great show he tweeted out and we don't
have it but he tweeted out I'll
paraphrase this is an absolutely
horrible idea and I really hope it
happens so let me let me go side with
Brendan on that one and this is Anna
Navarro she's one of the most important
voices in mainstream cable news and a
real trooper against galloping American
fascism even as she literally got her
start by having solidarity with death
squads in her native country so great
all right we got to get to our segments
and we've got some believe a regulate we
could switch it up let me switch up the
order you want to start with it yeah
mine's a bit mine's a bit shorter so all
right let's start with the gem system do
you like this gem for Griscom do not
miss a little luxurious well I was also
thinking like this is my guide socialism
the gem system want to succeed in real
estate but also impress people at a
party that's how we have to package
socialism like one of those infomercials
high five steps to the dictatorship of
the proletariat right gee get all the
money eradicate five steps geez forget
all the money ease for eradicate now
this is gonna sound a little extreme
but we're gonna break it down guys by
the time breakdowns can be really simple
there was a group called the Cossacks
[Laughter]
show just to generate it to like really
weird historical hits
Russian characters yeah I just want to
make sure that everybody had a solid
background I'll be Marco Rubio if he was
a communist hey I'm Marco Rubio when I
introduce you interesting thing called
democratic socialism it's an awesome
system for not only improving your life
but also your friends and neighbors hi
I'm Marco Rubio I just want to update
people as to the theme song this was
sent in by a soul brother to 1/5
infinite content on Twitter this is the
Philly news and Philly theme WPVI TVs
this is not bad it's going for the
mayhem vibe yeah so I just wanted to
talk he actually fits with this actually
because it was a all right go ahead
 this was a huge disaster
last week so if you didn't notice the
stock market had a huge sell-off last
week yes in just two days the Dow Jones
Industrial Average dropped more than
1300 point oh I I'm sorry I feel really
rude here how's everybody's portfolios
looking I'm sorry I didn't ask this
earlier you know I've been uh I've been
investing pretty widely so I wasn't hit
as hard but diversify diversify my
portfolio diversify bonds I can't move I
can't finish that thought that's uh
that's what I'm a great Chappelle so
sketch yeah so you know there's a pretty
massive sell-off last week and just to
put it in some numbers that we can
understand and also to lap out a little
bit there were some very big losers last
week some of our favorite people Jeff
Bezos took one of the largest hits
twelve billion dollars in value
evaporated over two days boom
alphabet CEO Larry Page lost that 2.3
billion dollars in value and Facebook's
Mark Zuckerberg also saw his shares
dropped one-point-seven billion dollars
so of course this led to a lot of debate
about what this
[Music]
what the reasons behind this massive
sell-off were and you know I'll just go
over them real quick it's like sort of
what we've been talking about once the
Federal Reserve is going to be you know
is rising interest rates and that has
you know sort of ended the cheap money
era that has sort of blown up the you
know sort of propped up the stock market
through you know things like corporate
buybacks and things like that it made
money cheap so there's a lot of money to
go around now of course that money never
trickled its way down and to investing
into corporations we're investing into
the working people we're wage increases
it really just went to inflate stocks so
that's a big blow for them and the other
thing is a trade war with China which
looks to be getting worse mm-hmm now so
we're we you know Morgan Stanley's chief
US equity strategist Mike Wilson said
that this is likely to be a continuing
trend in the coming months but over the
past couple of days we've actually seen
as typically happens a market rebound so
you know I've been getting a lot of
people asking me about this and I just
really want to make this very clear to
people now you get is a camera on you so
people can see the Bernie hand motions
that he's making
let's Bill Clinton there it's like the
Wall Street is not the real economy
I do communist bill I hey I can't do the
good Bill Clinton Act fine where you
going I'll translate you know the stock
market is not the economy what the stock
market is is a way for rich people to
pay themselves off of the value that
they've already extracted from the
people who create value in this country
which are is the working class now it's
really important that we understand this
because people oftentimes like to take
cheap political hits at their opponents
analysts love to do this it's the point
to the stock market Trump does this all
time whenever the stock market is up oh
look how great I am on the economy
Democrats do this too on the opposite oh
look how bad Trump is on the economy
this misses the point the point is is
very simple it's been the point of the
past 40 years of the US economy which is
that as we've shifted our perspective of
how what a good economy looks like by
looking at the stock market by tying
CEOs compensation to the stock market by
creating laws that encourage
corporations and have CEOs have duties
to make sure that shareholder value is
increased all the time that we've
created this bizarre
me where the number-one most important
thing is to increase shareholder value
for stockholders this is a small portion
of the population and it doesn't do
stuff that creates a strong real economy
for workers it certainly hasn't helped
out with wages for you know working
people in the United States and this is
what happens when you have a
contradiction between fictitious capital
which is what stocks basically are right
and the real economy and these are
opposite sides of the spectrum because
the more money that you extract for
increasing stock value so when you do
things like sell everything that is in
Toys R Us and fire all the employees and
pull off a massive profit for yourself
that's in contradiction with creating an
economy that's putting people to work
and it's creating some value or meaning
or you know creating some service in
people's lives instead there's this
focus on creating shareholder value
which is something that could be so
abstract from any kind of real or
material reality for people that it's
completely nonsensical and this created
this very tiered system that we have in
the US economy where some people are so
fixated on the movement of fictitious
capital which can evaporate in a day and
can grow back the next day because it
does not necessarily represent the
actual on-the-ground material reality of
production in the US economy it's just
as a gas on future profit and then it is
a legal title to extract future profits
and we need to be really clear about
that and to stop focusing on it so much
because if we don't we're not going to
be able to get out of this hellhole
cycle that we've been living in for the
past thirty years where we just try to
inflate the stock market to make
everyone think that the economy is doing
good when people really are struggling
to get by on their basic needs I got a
question for y'all when LeBron scores a
point do you think you scored that's
right you're not on the floor you're not
in that game same theory Wall Street
except Wall Street scores a point it's
at your expense
and the wall and LeBron scores a point
you cheer so you need to get out of this
false consciousness of thinking for
yourself as an investor and understand
that you're part of an exploited class
it's the only way we're gonna move
forward Michael that hurts me because
when Texas football when the Texas
Longhorns score a touchdown I scored
touchdown honestly that's the type of
delusion that's at work that's the fairy
tale the capitalist mentality people
since time immemorial to divide them
from their actual interests good stuff
as always David Griscom David Griscom
the gem system winning in life and
politics with socialism and now we have
I believe the gem system comes from
themes Darwin prominent not only a
smartypants patron but actually the
guest on the illicit history of German
socialism and German social democracy
which Alexa understands better than
steven crowder I was going to find a
Nixon tape to go with that because
there's a famous Nixon tape it's
actually people can look it up I just
couldn't find the sound at the time but
it's like hanging May 4th 1972 nixon's
talking about the stock market he says
the American people the middle the gray
American they're suckers and they're
talking about the stock market going up
and how they could be manipulated by
that stuff is that's not how it goes I
feel like it's veering into like prices
right territory yeah anyway I've changed
a little bit maybe we should we should
experiment seeing if chopping up the
speed could do something with it
probably could have you seen a bad
situation is Michael no I have i watch
Sam's work with the same attentiveness
that he watch his mind so uh so I
actually have watched that one I know I
didn't actually I'm that's like the
obvious cheap joke but I have to figure
out here that's the one where Benjamin
and Maron plays the radical no I haven't
okay yeah it's a watch pilot season it's
funny but bad situation just a
situationist is a these French
philosophers and I I'm not terribly
caught up on it to be honest but I do
know one concept from it which is called
psychogeography
and I have it up here psychogenic screen
right now is an exploration of urban
environments that emphasizes playfulness
and drifting it has links to the
Situationists and blah blah blah
so it's interesting concept I first
heard of it because of will self who
famously wrote for the Guardians
columns where he would walk to from his
place in London to Heathrow just by foot
and then walk from and then fly to LAX
and then walk from LAX to his hotel in
LA and you get a very interesting view
of the city by on foot and I've been I'm
a big Walker I walk to work every day
I've walked from like basically Red Hook
to Green Point to Flatbush so I've seen
a lot of Brooklyn and if you would if
and one observation I've made is that if
you were to place me down anywhere in
Brooklyn and I didn't open my eyes and I
just smelled piss mmm
I would know that I would be next to a
giant luxury high-rise that had just
been completed because what they don't
plan for this at all it's clear that
they make these things too tall and they
don't have room for people's pets so
there's always one side of the building
where where people come and let their
animals and literally there's a nearby
our building
the sidewalk is made for drainage so
it's a big wide sidewalk so it but if
you look very closely there's different
there's a path that goes through so if
water goes on and you'll snake through
these and that's always just dog piss
basically right and it's it's uh it's
frankly disgusting it's disgusting
people have to realize if you don't know
Brooklyn
I mean it's cross New York we're
particularly Brooklyn because there's
actually a lot of neighborhoods that are
they are more not only residential but
even when they were built up it wasn't
built up with high-rises and they stick
these new buildings in which are
quote-unquote luxury buildings and they
I mean they literally are just like
they're sore thumbs just sticking out
like total monstrosity is in the
landscape they don't fit anything they
look like something that like Tony
Montana would like try to build in
Scarface or so like they're they're just
a rash and but they're quote-unquote
luxury yeah and I'm very against them
because I'm a person I'm from North
Dakota okay there is one skyscraper in
North Dakota that's in North Dakota
capital 18 stories so not huge
uh I think it's pretty much blend in in
Manhattan private London and I and
because of that I used to have a
fascination with skyscrapers and now
basically it's beginning about five or
ten years ago once you realize the
conditions that say the big skyscrapers
in the Middle East and like Dubai for
instance yeah the ones in the Emirates
you realize that it's not quite the
amazing like look at them look at human
achievement it's like oh look at the
slave laborers yes money in slave labor
will get you anything you want
yeah and I would just say I just thought
you know it this isn't maybe the most
deep but I think look disgust as
Jonathan Haidt who none of us like says
disgust is a big part of people's
politics and that's what just disgusted
me on the walk and to work today you
also so there's a there is a class
distinction here oh yeah well totally
like it's like there be people like I
just because you know we've been
watching a lot of steven crowder in
dealing with proud boys the type of
things that sort of like is often
racialized remarks of the type of the
way these people view the city right
right like and how they're never really
interested in the suburbs oh yeah and
and like that sort of sort of flip and
comments and really like IIIi think that
we should maybe more focus on the
developers that are put in making this
be our surroundings you're angry about
piss on the street don't be a racist
 be a advocate of universal
public housing and breaking up the real
estate trust and maybe like have a place
in Manhattan where you can go to the
bathroom without spending five dollars
for a latte
indeed I mean that's something like if
you go I mean that really is a
distinction with Europe right like not
to put Europe on a pedestal and I
haven't spent even that much time in
Europe but like one thing that will just
hit you it's like oh this is just like a
really nice Park and there's a bathroom
that people can use and and you're and
you're trained like who do I have to
give money to or like what person lives
around here that's giving me the key
code to get in here and it's like no
this is public space for the public I
mean these are like basic hallmarks of
any remotely decent Humane Society and
that is in fact psychic geography it has
a huge effect on people being
psychologically to have those rest bits
but you but I can just imagine somebody
walking through and they could walk past
something where like 20 dogs have peed
on the sidewalk right and not not you're
seeing things besides like look at that
amazing real estate right and then they
walk they walk past a homeless guy and
be like isn't that just curls why can't
he get a job or something like that
right right exactly right right no doubt
meanwhile the real states the one that's
driving down their property value so
they're not so thing is they don't look
at it structurally and they'd also say
just another little shot is I think the
people that buy that kind of real estate
don't really care where their dog pisses
no I think like they're gonna go down
that street let the dog piss and go but
alas they're a patron of this show in
which case I'm sure that they had a
great reason for moving wherever they
moved yes no of course yeah literary
literary hangover as well indeed that
was Bill those buildings freak me out I
was walking there they are there's a
there's one that's being you know it's
just grown up in the past three months
near my apartment and they all look so
similar and the worst thing is when they
try to make the lobby very like friendly
so there was there is one today and they
all are done by the same graphic design
company alike and it just said welcome
home and like big big letters those are
truly like not Orwellian they're very
brave new world be happy relax well
there's other speaking of
psychogeography you walk around New York
when it's freezing cold out and again
people are sleeping on the streets and
then you walk by and you see how every
bitter real estate has just a massive
empty well that lobby or full of couches
that aren't being used like it is it is
perverse it's it's really disgusting
literally perverse yes and it should be
disgusting and the and this is the and
this is another problem not to get into
it with hate is
make distinctions about what you're
disgusted about I think if you're
disgusted about like a food smelling
you're not used to that's on you to grow
the up if you're disgusted because
somebody is laying on the street and ten
degree weather and there's a heated
couch in a lobby that's because you have
basic moral imagination and that's a
good thing and that is a superior thing
and that's what we're gonna need to
cultivate if we're gonna survive as a
species thanks everybody we're gonna
head into the postgame we have a ton of
sound kanye's in africa food shortages
in the UK with a Tory Briggs it lots
more to get to this Sunday for the
primer and we might unlock it Jean Basel
on and on Cru Jean bustling we're doing
an actual breakdown of Bernie Sanders
foreign policy speech because this
actually was important this is a real
step in terms of structural foreign
policy thinking following up from the
conversation with Daniel bessner which
everybody should go back and check out
if you haven't yet go to Michael Brooke
show on YouTube share our clips
subscribe we're growing that become a
patron today it's time patreon.com slash
t MBS get the full experience every
shape and form thank you David thank you
Matt thank you David thanks everybody
for watching listening sharing and of
course most importantly for being
patrons thanks everybody
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
