the mistake that Nancy Pelosi might be
making that somehow impeachment might
hurt the Democrats or more importantly
it seems to me that the net of not
impeaching won't hurt the Democrats
because I actually think there's a
bigger price to pay for Democrats if
they don't impeach you know with the
assumption that it's not going to go
anywhere I've been saying for a while
that I think Nancy Pelosi should get out
there and say look we're gonna impeach
because part of our responsibility is to
hold the President to account but we
know that he's gonna still be in office
come November 2020 because the
Republicans will do nothing they don't
believe in good government they don't
believe in holding the President to
account
they are just partisan hacks who put
their party above the presidency and one
of the things she can cite if she does
this in my hypothetical is Justin Amash
who really puts lie to the notion and he
doesn't make this bipartisan cuz this is
one of the one of my like pet peeves
when one member of another party steps
up and says I'll vote with the other
party that it's in some way a bipartisan
thing it's not bipartisan but what it is
is it's no longer just partisan it's
somewhere in between it signals to the
voters of the Republican Party who could
just say all the impeachment stuff
that's just partisanship it now looks
like it's not just partisanship because
definitionally if someone from the
Republican Party can agree with this
it's necessarily not partisan it's not
bipartisan it's just a partisan on some
level and I think Nancy Pelosi with a
combination and we should talk more
about Carson and minuchin in a moment
but a combination of minuchin
performance and Carson's performance
this week and the revelations from the
IRS and with Justin Amash
and I know you've written about Justin
Amash so we can talk more about this I
think she's about I think she is feeling
the pressure and this week on Wednesday
she said before going in with Donald
Trump that Donald Trump is covering
stuff up and we know it and I think that
she is starting to basically go to plan
B which is if she can't avoid
impeachment then her conversion to
signing on to impeachment is going to be
very public very deliberate very slow
and it's gonna start with her saying
like there's a cover-up and III think
that's I think that's what we're
starting to see I agree with you I mean
something did shift this this past week
and some of it had to do with I mean I
think that when when Trump instructed
dawn McGann the former White House
Counsel who was a pivotal character in
the moa report that he was not to
testify and of course McGann you know
being him he said he's a Republican hack
too although apparently he didn't really
feel like obstructing justice so he did
he also knows he's a hack but he also
knows the law and he says he's had a lot
of clients who have got to prison right
exactly
exactly I mean you know so he didn't
feel like you know committing perjury on
behalf of Donald Trump but he's you know
obviously looking for any way out of
having to go public with this and he
went along with it he doesn't have to I
mean people just because the White House
claims executive privilege he's not an
employee of the White House and he could
go out and testify there's nothing that
Trump could do about that but of course
you know he didn't do that but
nonetheless that seems to have kind of
broken the log jam among the members of
the Judiciary Committee including Jerry
Nadler the chairman and they had a big
meeting this week and confronted Nancy
Pelosi and said look it's time and she
put them off and said you know now wait
whatever but that seems to have been a
moment you started to see people like
representative Cicely non-tv and certain
other ones who've not up to now said
they were in favor of impeachment coming
forward and that's on the heel of some
presidential candidates who have done so
to both Warren and Harris came out early
a Roark came out with a very strong
statement in favor of impeachment and
others are sort of saying well and
leaving it up to the Congress you know
but there they're not ruling it out so
you know there has been pressure coming
and of course you know people like you
and me and anybody who's got you know a
platform have been screaming at Nancy
Pelosi and the activist base of the
party has been making its wishes known
so you know that the pressure was coming
on her and at the same time I think that
trumps behavior which you know maybe
it's this Bluff this game of chicken
that he's playing maybe he thinks he
wants impeachment or maybe this is just
his way of buying time and trying to
keep from having to face you know the
music here but whatever it is you know
his behavior has pushed it too instead
of doing the smart thing and continuing
to sort of pretend like he's a president
and having meetings and being you know
being you know decent and inhospitable
to the to the Congress and kind of
saying well we really need you know need
to work this through the courts and we
need to do you know do this they're not
doing that they're just basically saying
no to everything and and William Barr is
out there giving interviews to Fox News
and sounding like a you know the worst
kind of Trump toady and sycophant so you
know he it's coming pressures coming
from that side as well and as a result
Pelosi has clearly moved off the dime I
don't think there's any doubt when she
said it was a cover up you know that
that's a very evocative phrase it goes
right to to Watergate and you know it's
not the crime it's the cover-up you know
I mean kudex it's a cliche it's
something everybody in the country
understands using those words was
deliberate and it just it was a way of
signaling that she has moved off of her
position which is you know has been
vacuous to be honest this idea nobody
wants to hear about it we just want to
talk about kitchen table issues that
just isn't going to fly and you know
maybe I'm not giving her enough credit
first you know strategically doing this
and thinking the whole thing through and
thinking that she's just been pushed
into it but I do know that that it's
important that people push on these
things because I don't think her
position was tenable and maybe she was
saying you know make me do it you know
the old FDR thing I don't know but
whatever it is it does seem to be
happening and I think I don't know how
long we'll take
and I don't know what the the catalyst
for you know just basically you know
flipping a switch on impeachment but it
we're closer this week then we were the
week before I think that's pretty
obvious oh yeah I I think by far without
a doubt and you know the I think the
part of the miscalculation that the
Trump administration may be making is I
think they are trying to dare the report
the Democrats to impeach but while they
do this while they try and put the
Democrats between a rock and a hard
place right and I think I think the
Democrats are in many respects in it
between a rock and a hard place but the
fact is I think the hard place is a
little bit harder than the rock in this
instance and that they're gonna have to
go for impeachment the problem that the
Trump administration I think has is that
they can overreach right like this is a
game of chicken that they're playing and
I think that they could be pressing on
the accelerator just a little bit too
much when statement reaching goes in and
and let's talk about that we'll take a
quick break we'll talk about that and
we'll talk about the Ben Carson
testimony this week - that was stunning
just stunning disregard for Congress and
this is the it is permeating the entire
executive branch this notion that they
can disregard Congress and again I think
that's a bit of a problem because if the
idea is by the Trump administration
we're gonna coax the Democrats into
impeaching us they're doing too good of
a job on some level because yeah I think
the American public at one point is
gonna say it maybe this is warranted
much quicker than the the White House
expects but let's take quick break we'll
talk more about this on the other side
