[Music]
thank you for joining us we have a full
complement of people here today for your
listening pleasure let's go right in to
Donald Trump is attempting to argue that
well let's start with number three first
and then then we'll go to number two so
it makes sense Donald Trump of course
engaged in a war of words with Iran and
of course what better way what better
way to demean your enemy than to forget
that they're dead here is Donald Trump
saying that he has signed an executive
order to to further sanctions against
Ayatollah Khomeini who died over a
decade ago doesn't save you
sanctions imposed through the executive
order that I'm about to sign will deny
the Supreme Leader and the Supreme
Leader's office and those closely
affiliated with him and the office
access to key financial resources and
support the assets of Ayatollah Khomeini
and his office will not be spared from
the sanctions these measures represent a
strong and proportionate response to
Iran's increasingly provocative actions
we will continue to increase pressure on
Tehran until the regime abandons its
dangerous activities and aspirations
including the pursuit of nuclear weapons
increased enrichment of uranium
development of ballistic missiles
engagement in and support for terrorism
fuelling of foreign conflicts and
belligerent acts directed against the
United States and its allies now first
of all I mean how many more sanctions
can we impose on Iran is
seems well these are distinct I mean
these are ratcheting up and getting you
know targeting specific members of the
government I don't know why that wasn't
rounded leaders time way to the extent
they were they were rolled back as part
of the deal I think I mean I thought
yeah that's what we we had changed when
we left the deal well when we left the
deal the first things I hit were things
like medicine and others so if you know
Trump's concerned about 150 people dying
the sanctions have already killed well
over that so the ayatollah khomeini of
course has been dead for decades and
that's right apparently nobody knows
that in the White House or I don't
understand how that happened hominy
Khomeini do you think he pronounced it
you just pronounce it wrong I think I am
I would be shocked if he nuts I don't
know if he knows the difference but it's
it's it's a close enough pronunciation
that somebody like Trump could easily
screw it up all right well there you go
but more importantly than Trump not
really having done a first pass read on
that is that Trump is convinced and look
Donald Trump obviously has no sense of
of how our government works so to the
extent that he has an opinion on the
separation of powers it is a function of
what he's being told by his advisors
advisers who we now know are extremely
invested in the United States attacking
Iran and here is explaining how he does
not need congressional authorization to
strike Iran I like the idea of keeping
Congress abreast but I wouldn't have to
do that sure Nancy Pelosi actually said
you must have
you disagree with her on that I disagree
I think most people seem to disagree but
I do like keeping them they have ideas
that intelligent people they'll come up
with some thoughts I actually learned a
couple of things the other day when we
had our meeting with Congress which were
I think helpful to me but I do like
keeping them abreast but I don't have to
do it legally someone does not want sole
responsibility for a disaster
backcheck he's never learned anything
right and they're saying that this is
covered under the AUMF which is why
they've been regurgitating a lie about
Iran being connected with al Qaeda which
is an even more like extravagant lie
than a rock being connected with al
Qaeda and it also you know emphasizes
how what a big deal and would the
necessity the Democratic Congress
anyways the Democratic House rolling
back the AUMF so obviously not you need
the Senate to sign off on that and you
need it veto proof but that's a big deal
moving at least in the correct direction
