[Music]
if you do not provide it for us this
will be prima facie obstruction so stay
tuned because I think that's what's
coming up meanwhile it's been very very
trying on everyone involved in this in
the white house working at the white
house can be very difficult working on
the campaign to re-elect the president
particularly in this context can be
equally difficult and sadly we are
seeing we're seeing the results of this
I know we've all had a couple questions
about Larry Kudlow and his health
well now the heart attack watch is on
for Corey Lewandowski who at 9:06 p.m.
was on Fox Business News last night 806
central had dinner one wonders what the
ratio between liquid and solids were at
that dinner here he is with me we know
that the the whistle blow is a former
CIA agent who was detailed to the NSC
who's probably back at the CIA who hates
this present more than they love their
country and the fact is they never had
any first-hand account of what
transpired Corey yes did you have a
little Merlot with dinners no should I
have it sound a little slurry it sound a
little bite enough no look look what
about what I'm mad about candy is that
there's you blaming the president for
this conversation with the Ukraine class
named so seconds buddy can you go back a
little bit before she asked that because
we could hear him slur a little bit
because he heat when she calls him on it
he starts to try and run
t√° trying to nun c8 yes did you have a
lo no no no back back back back back
just a little more just here a little
more of him talking back at the CIA who
hates this present more than they love
their country and the fact is they never
had any first-hand account of what
transpired Cory yes did you have a
little Merlot with dinner no should I
have it sound a little slurry it sound a
little bite enough no look look what out
what I'm mad about candy they're still
blaming the president for this
conversation with the Ukraine president
Solinsky and what this is really about
is people who don't love this country as
much as I I love this country
so much that I would like to hug it till
it squeaks yeah but Kennedy he's still
blushing inside after you tell about
like he can't even he is so so
embarrassed right now that he can't hear
that she just made a joke and that he
know that yeah I'm serious
I can't be drunk if I'm serious yeah go
back go back go back watch the I love
the fact that she makes this joke as a
way of like trying to say like let's
just joke around because you're not
capable of doing this and he's like no
I'm I'm gonna show you how sober I am up
I'm gonna drive us home
didn't for this conversation with the
Ukraine president Solinsky and what this
is really about is people who don't love
this country as much as I love this
country so much that I would like to hug
it till it squeaks yeah but but Kennedy
no president in the history of our
country before this one who's had so
many leaks and that should be a real
concern for our national security
apparatus yeah Thank You Corey great to
have you thank you maybe a cup of coffee
Wow that's pretty good expect Kennedy
yeah there you go
got to appreciate that no okay stupid oh
that I was invited on her show once and
then because I'm blacklisted at Fox that
adds happened to me like three or four
times over the years he hit the talking
points though oh he's drunk he's made oh
you're right he did hit the talking
points hey Cory might want to take a
break now it could have been just a very
celebratory dinner cuz there's so much
celebrate right now things are going
very well on that campaign that looks
about a half hour after your sleeping
pill to me no no no that that I think
that's booze it's a cocktail
I think that's yeah I think that's
that's
