it does feel like the the Trump
administration is thinking that a war in
Venezuela I mean I don't even know what
that would look like I guess we matter
absolutely horrifying it might actually
also unlike the fake lying one
legitimately creates some type of region
wide migration crisis which God knows
the bowls narrow government would
already respond to obscenely what's
already trickling out of Venezuela but
here is Mike Pompeo and look there's a
lot of reasons in terms of the domestic
politics you could imagine why the Trump
administration would want to get
involved in a war now I happen to
believe that as effective as these
things were back in the day for
distracting the American public this is
just not going to cut it
so here's Mike Pompeo in front of the
United Nations sitting behind him if I'm
not mistaken said Elliott Abrams behind
him yup Elliott Abrams is the point man
on Venezuela for the administration now
I don't know if people remember Elliott
Abrams well let's listen to a Pompeo
says first the United States stands with
the Venezuelan people so far many other
nations have chosen to do the same and
they too have recognized the legitimate
government president gray though the
United States stands proudly with you as
we stand together in support of
Venezuela you knew the Venezuelan people
Venezuela people did not have a moment
to spare and now it's time now it's time
for every other nation to pick a side no
more delays no more games either you
stand with the forces of freedom or
you're in league with Maduro and his
Mayim there you go the forces of freedom
where we heard that before
Elliott Abrams sitting behind here we
had just keep that image of him up there
because this is like Elliott Abrams
was Reagan's point man
or one of them in the iran-contra affair
he just coincidentally was pardoned by
George Herbert Walker Bush and
ultimately I think Herbert Walker Bush
avoided his implications or being
implicated in that scandal Elliott
Abrams was also the one of the early
architects of the Iraq war he was I
remember one particular story where he
had called in a bunch of evangelical
Christians and basically told them that
we need to do this and they were I think
upset about maybe this is endangering
Israel in some way and they're like oh
no we to do this because of the
apocalypse coming something to that
effect I don't know I can't remember off
the top of my my head but I'm I'm quite
sure that during the Reagan era Elliott
Abrams was implicated as a as a guy who
was in who was helping with death squads
he helped out in in El Salvador Salvador
and Nicaragua across I mean this guy's
crimes or and facilitation of just
brutality and mass killing in the Reagan
era and Central America is unparalleled
and it is like and also I mean him and
Otto rice played a major role the Bush
administration's Latin America policy
too but there is just something like you
know he there's no even pretend that the
end game that they're envisioning is
death squads and mass cleanup if the
right wing to heed roles in as well he
was running like in Congress he had some
role
and he wasn't in Congress he was part of
the Reagan administration and he was
basically trying to make sure that I
think it was Guatemalan I think it was
the Guatemalan president I think it was
a president could get funds because he
was accused of basically trying to kill
off indigenous people in Guatemala and
he was trying to make sure running
[Music]
interference in Congress to make sure
that funds were not cut off to him I
mean there was there's more and I got to
go back and civically tried to whitewash
a massacre of a thousand men women and
children by us-funded death squads in El
Salvador that's the main big you know
the big one the Guatemala stuff is real
it was indigenous villages I think
actually if I'm not mistaken the young
girl that was recently killed or died in
ice custody if you recall one of these
which she was indigenous she wasn't
Spanish yeah I think that might be the
same group that we were supporting
massacre in the 80s so I mean Elliott
Abrams is one of the great her if
reminyl just obscene disgusting people
of our time and of course he helped
finance the Contras okay you know we
talk about accountability for these
people when they're in office and why it
was so dangerous that that barack obama
basically said turn the page on this
part of the problem is isn't is you know
metaphorically you're not holding the
elite to account and it can create more
problems in the future the other problem
is actually really practical and that
they bring these people back again and
again and again steve minuchin ends up
being Treasury secretary he should have
been in jail and that should really I
mean look again I think ironically the
the lane that staked out on opposing a
coup and supporting a diplomatic process
is moderate and obvious and but you know
a lot of Democratic leaders have still
gone on board with this yes and a lot of
even you know liberal commentators or
prevaricate and playing false
equivalencies and you know it should
have been obvious
never supported us coup to begin with
but the Elliott Abrams role should be
that should be done be red flag II but
now the the good news were told about
Americas you know sort of beating the
drums for a war with Venezuela basically
what would creating a civil war with
Venezuela it seems to me is that it
would bring this country together you
don't believe me ask you Hewitt MSNBC
contributor word cloud the next thirty
three weeks allow the opportunity to go
big and solve this Jared Kushner is
leading it and it is far more important
to shut down the Maduro government than
our government and I think Donald Trump
is leading there and he is winning there
because of Bolton and Pompeyo going down
to see Paulson ro and and Duque it's
that's gonna happen that's gonna bring
us together that is gonna bring us
together I think I'm getting involved in
a Latin American politics that has never
gone well lately become your washer is
against that I understand or that and
that will help that will help I think
all right
there's how is this ban allowed on
television here's Chuck Todd basically
saying the subtext of which is like are
you out of your mind that's gonna mean I
think what hugh hewitt's trying to say
like that should be a distraction if we
see donald trump actually like getting
involved directly in latin america and i
saw a report earlier that said that we
had gotten involved in the past hundred
years or so from from a john h
cotesworth harvard review of latin
america from 1898 to 1994 the US
government has intervened successfully
to change governments in Latin America a
total of at least 41 times that amounts
to once every twenty eight months for an
entire century now let's take a look at
how Latin America is doing right
I mean Guatemala El Salvador Honduras
society has in many respects civil
societies bro
looking down in many respects that's why
we see so many people from these
countries trying to you know risk
everything to to get out of those
countries there's way too good right I
mean let me go back to the 50s an
Eisenhower of those infamous like
Guatemala coup and the seventies Chile's
the big thing but then through the 70s
and 80s we've helped fund I mean they're
called the Condor years we literally
helped right-wing governments coordinate
the mass murder of everybody on the Left
and not just you know of course I mean I
shouldn't I feel like I shouldn't even
need to make this distinction but just
this point of clarity not just leftist
guerrillas were they slaughtering they
were slaughtering first of all any
villages where those guerrillas might be
but also slaughtering the equivalent of
Rachel Maddow like I'm a liberal and I
have some qualms with the government
well you're gonna get a bullet in your
head from the regimes that we supported
and even as one example like the
Brazilian regime we supported through
the 80s it's always reported here that
they killed less people than rivaling
regimes and that's partially true but
what isn't included in the estimates is
mass slaughter of indigenous people
right and now we're on the next wave of
it because there's no doubt that the
u.s. foreign policy shifted towards
reversing the pink tide and in 2009 when
Obama and Clinton signed off on that
coup in Honduras
that was the reversal and that shows up
in Brazil and they never stopped trying
to undermine Venezuela I mean the top
that sanctions on Venezuela have been
vicious under Bush Obama and obviously
Trump
