CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Elise
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday November 28th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor from the Harvard School of
Government Stephen Walt on the hell of
good intentions Americans foreign policy
elite and the decline of us primacy
meanwhile revealed yesterday it turns
out in fact mana forts lawyers were
briefing Trump's lawyers even after
having made a plea deal also on the did
they or didn't they front jerome corsi
pretends he thought up the whole idea of
WikiLeaks passing on emails and a vote
today in the Senate to end our Yemen
assault meanwhile Chuck Schumer does it
again folks this time offers Trump part
of his wall in return for nothing
meanwhile us creating a border crisis by
stalling on asylum applications at the
border and Cory Booker to propose baby
bonds and while last night in
Mississippi racist wins but not as big
as she should have meanwhile North
Carolina a racist may not get on the
federal judiciary after all speaking to
North Carolina
it could be 41 folks it still could be
41 we thought the midterms were over but
the 9th congressional district in North
Carolina where the Republican won by 900
votes refused to certify the election
because of some shenanigans unnamed
shenanigans all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen forgive me
for one moment
because I I really need to blow my nose
excuse me
that's very triggering a guy does not
rock it right onto my bag today on my
way to work Wow I'm sorry about that I
know you guys are the same room no I was
I didn't mean to
that was an accident but it's not rocket
all right see ya I need to pack your
folks before we get today is a is a big
day in my life before we get to that let
me remind you that you spend a third of
your life in your sheets and it's about
time for a bedding upgrade literally let
me just tell you this as I was reading
this my first reaction was goddamn it
because I just bought a set of pillows
and I didn't realize we were gonna get a
20 buck off promotion I had no idea what
am I talking about I'm talking about
Brooke linen they were founded in early
2014 they are the fastest growing
bedding brand in the world with over
thirty thousand five star reviews half a
million happy sleepers and Counting
their mission is to make the 5-star
Hotel quality sheets that are affordable
and easy to order and since they believe
that sheets should look great in
addition to feeling great they offer
over
any colors and patterns that you can mix
and match I have multiple sets of
Brooklyn and sheets pillowcases and I
just went in for the pillows and I may
actually go now with this deal I may go
in with some king-sized pillowcases as
well why not why not have it all match
that would be new for me
but I've spoken about Brooklyn and a lot
they give you a couple of different
styles of cotton sheets if you want to
be like me you go with the classic cool
crisp cotton ones but they have the you
know the more silky types that's just
not what I go for I like it I like it
rough anyways folks my Brooklyn and
sheets are the best most comfortable
sheets I have ever slept on and now it's
time for your upgrade Brooklyn in.com is
giving an exclusive offer just for my
listeners get 20 bucks off and free
shipping I've got to get those pillows
now when you use promo code majority at
Brooklyn and Comm Brooklyn and is so
confident in their product that all
their sheets comforters and towels come
with a lifetime warranty the only way to
get 20 bucks off and free shipping is to
use the promo code majority at Brooklyn
and Comm
that's Brooklyn and be are oh okay li n
en dot-com promo code majority Brooklyn
these really are the best sheets ever
I'm telling you believe me okay folks
like I say today is a very special day
for me it is the anniversary of the day
Mike Tsarevich provided for me one of
one of the more enjoyable experiences I
had had in an extended period of time
and at the same time essentially took a
hammer and smashed his own fingers
that's a metaphor of course he didn't
really do that although he may have for
all I know
so let's go back a year to the day
sometime before November 28th 2017 we
had looked at this video of Mike Serna
vich in a basically a live audition on
Infowars this was a show many of you
probably don't remember there was this
guy Alex Jones and he used to have a big
show that people apparently I don't know
if they watch anymore but when was the
last time you heard Alex Jones name talk
about the value of D platforming but
anyways hero is Alex Jones and he Mike's
sort of itch was in a big opportunity
for him
looking for legit work and well he
didn't do so well I think this is an
executive order outside of law just
legalizing everybody there but then that
was ignored what he really said but
think about the takeaway of this with
this mayor where you can say okay and
also not welcome law and order also not
welcome safe society also not welcome a
property tax base that isn't being
eroded I mean these Democrat run cities
are sinking into the mud and here is
Rahm Emanuel demonizing the president
trying to save the economy right because
he has no answers he has no answer for
violence
he has no leadership while there how
many people are shot every weekend in
Chicago 30 to 50 people some weekends
are shot record numbers of murders
deposit for one second I want to go back
just do and just take it just just
seconds before Alex Jones tees up the
the audio from rahm emanuel and instead
here's mike Serna vich and you could see
the anger on jones into the mud and here
is rahm emanuel demonizing the president
trying to save the economy right because
he has no answers he has no answer for
the violence he has no leadership while
there how many people are shot every
weekend
3250 people some weekends are shot
record numbers of murders in Chicago and
rather than deal with those real
problems he virtues signals which is all
this is why Hillary losses by the way
conference up oh it's ready okay well
let's go to play that clip thank you for
shut up now shut up shut up now
obviously a lot of people would just
Slough it off and they say okay maybe
I'm not cut out for this or you know
Alex Jones got his thing I'm gonna start
my own thing or whatever it is but this
must have really really hurt Mike Stern
avouch sir Novick Serna I can't
because when we watched it and laughed
and laughed and laughed I mean it was
very very very very very funny we got
Mike Stern of itch very upset and what
he did and maybe we have the original
tweet that he what he did was he paid I
think it was Jack Prabhas II pres Obama
guy who ended up getting caught on
bumble cheating on his pregnant wife and
then ostensibly said it was some type of
miss there's an FBI investigation Sam
yeah I don't want to say any more
because they're still an FBI
investigation that's been going on for
months the FBI very slow on this one but
he dug through my tweets and nine years
ago he found a tweet that I did in
response to a an attempt by people in in
the entertainment business
a hundred directors or you know
filmmakers had signed a petition saying
we want Roman Polanski to be allowed
back into the country to get some type
of Lifetime Achievement Award because he
of course had left on the eve of a
sentencing with a plea deal for
statutory rape decades ago and I found
that to be pretty offensive the idea
that you would excuse
a fugitive who had been convicted of
statutory rape because he's a good
filmmaker and so I I fashioned a tweet
you can decide for yourself if you think
it's legitimate satire but I did I wrote
don't care repo Lansky but I hope if my
daughter is ever raped it's by an older
truly talented man with a great sense of
meson sin meson sin of course is a
basically just like a sense of scene you
know an ability to to shoot a good
cinematic image and so that was the a
joke and then Mike Serna well but
he tweets out he goes I just published
MSNBC contributor Sam cedar endorses
Polanski's sex crimes in now deleted
tweet and that was a medium post that he
had done and so so what happens is on
this day November 28th 2017 I take the
rush home was before I was aware of this
and I and I get off the subway and I was
rushing because it was my birthday and I
was going to the to the the local key
food to get some paper plates because I
had a bunch friends coming over bunch
friends like three people and we were
having Chinese food celebrate my
birthday and and so I'm in the
supermarket and I get a call from MSNBC
and I think oh they're I can't do I
can't go on Hayes tonight it's my
birthday and but it turns out to be some
other guy who's from and he's like do
you know who Mike Tsarevich is and I'm
like yeah I do and he goes oh no I
should say I just go back as I get off
the subway I checked Twitter you know
because this is when I pull stories
whenever I can and I noticed that some
somebody had retweeted this tweet of
mine from nine years ago and I thought
that was weird
it was the Polanski one and I looked at
it I said it's like some guy who had
just like three followers and followed
like 300 people and I thought some type
of bomb
or something so I went in and I just
deleted the tweet I didn't have time to
look at it I was rushing to the
supermarket and when I get into the
supermarket I get a call do you know
Mike certificates and I'm like yeah I
make fun of him on a regular basis and
the guy said well are you aware of a
tweet that you made about Roman Polanski
and I'm like I just saw that someone
retweeted it and he goes yes well
certain of its retweeted and this and
that and that's basically started the
whole thing and she said and I explained
it to him I said this is what it was and
he said let me know and then over the
course of the next week things developed
at MSNBC and by Sunday four or five days
later MSNBC basically spoke to a press
person and said that I had been fired or
at you know I think there's some
questions the way they were trying to
fire me or just let me fade away but it
all came to a head and then Mike Serna
vich was very very happy this is what he
said ever back Mike sermon sermon com
big breaking news Sam cedar who is MSNBC
contributor he is no longer in MSNBC
News contributor after tweet of him
making a joke about child rape and Roman
Polanski was reported by Mike Tsarevich
and was made publicly available thank
you to everybody who emailed MSNBC thank
you to all of you you're heroes you're
heroes because you emailed MSNBC and you
let them know about the tweet you let
them know the people when people will be
heard we are the media now we are the
media now and if you endorse or if you
can call it satire same goes it's satire
whatever MSNBC ain't laughing who's
laughing now Sam
everyone in this office is I think the
rest of the story is well-known after a
couple of days to MSNBC reversed their
decision mike Tsarevich became very
depressed and desperate he attempted to
to dig himself out of a hole by getting
Chuck Schumer by smearing Chuck Schumer
and turns out that he got sort of rat
EFT and used documents that were fake
and then we haven't heard much of Mike
Serna vich the gorilla has gone back
into the cave and has been hibernating
so to answer this question what was the
question again
Matt could you play those laughing now
Sam who's laughing now Sam who's
laughing now Sam who's laughing now Sam
who's laughing now Sam who's laughing
now Sam who's laughing now Sam who's
laughing now new ringtone I encourage
people go back and use that as a
ringtone and so not only laughing but
also growing significance as a show oh
absolutely it's been great it was really
the whole experience I was just
explaining to Brendan it was it was it
was fun for me in a lot of different
ways I felt very confident that I had
not done anything wrong I didn't know
that it would turn out so well at the
beginning of it but I enjoyed every
moment of it both professionally and
personally we reintroduced the mic Serna
vich can kiss my ass
membership which people love and which
you can find at join the majority report
dot-com just head there so I want to
wish myself a happy birthday slash
Mike's urn of each day as we call it
around my house
[Music]
who's laughing now Sam alright so and
whenever I'm afraid that I suck at my
job and everybody hates me I'm just
gonna watch that clip of him on Alex
Jones again it's so great
alright the most inconvenient part of
that clip was having to explain to so
many normal people who these people are
just so they could enjoy that clip
exactly relentlessly played it for like
people any money yeah like yeah like if
you had any idea of what they put into
the world you wouldn't like them at all
alright folks gonna take quick break
when we come back stephen walt author of
the hell of good intentions americans
fall in policy elite in the decline of
us primacy
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Steven Walt
author of the hell of good intentions
Americans foreign policy elite and the
decline of us primacy he is also the
Robert and Rene Belfort professor of
international affairs at Harvard Stephen
welcome to the program okay so the the
the book basically covers more or less
the last twenty five years I guess he
almost exactly the last twenty five
years from the fall of the the Soviet or
shortly after the fall of the wall and
the fall of the Soviet Union the end of
the Cold War but before we get there
just give me your assessment of of broad
strokes u.s. foreign policy following
World War two just so that we have a
context in which to view these last 25
years I would argue that the u.s.
foreign policy post-world War two was
mostly successful in terms of its
fundamental objectives the primary focus
was in the containment of the Soviet
Union and motion of what some now call a
liberal world order at least in parts of
the world and that set of goals was
achieved fortunately without you know
blowing up the world or having a major
great power war it was not a perfect
record by any means the United States
made a number of pretty significant
blunders of which I think the Vietnam
War is probably the most obvious example
but in terms of its sort of core
objectives of both defeating the Soviet
Union preserving American independence
Foster and global prosperity we were we
were largely successful in in and just
also to tease this out in terms of like
what sort of the fundamental assumptions
are when we assess foreign policy is it
is it exclusively from the perspective
of what the agenda is of when we're
talking about the United States of the
United States I mean in other words I'm
just trying to tease out you know sort
of I guess the the the the the notion of
foreign policy realism versus other you
know fundamental assumptions that define
other perspective on foreign policy
because you know some people would say
we did a great job in terms of
containing the Soviet Union but maybe
not so well in fostering democracy in
Central America at Latin America right
as I said though it was not a perfect
record and there were times when I could
go to the United States erred in a
variety of different ways I think we
exaggerated the danger that communism
posed in certain contexts so we were Lee
in some places and Central America is a
good example I think sort of behind the
curve in promoting you know democracy or
human rights and things like that I tend
to think of it in sort of three
categories foreign policy is about
trying to make the American people more
secure against various foreign dangers
trying to encourage American prosperity
so the American people can live more you
know bountiful and secure lives at home
and finally promoting a set of values
that we care about the sort of
traditional values of democracy human
rights relatively open markets rule of
law things like that those are the three
basic objectives and there are sometimes
trade-offs between them but when we try
to evaluate foreign policy we sort of
ask are the American people safer are
they more prosperous or are their values
being accepted more widely around the
world and that's the criteria I tend to
judge a foreign policy against okay
great all right so we have a sort of a
baseline as to you know what what is the
what is the watershed as it were as to
what we're assessing these things so in
1993 what we're talking at the fall of
the Soviet Union the talk about the idea
of liberal
I mean what what is this this notion at
that time or I should maybe let's put it
this way what are the various competing
foreign policy ideologies or
perspectives that emerge from the cold
or the post cold in the beginning of the
post Cold War era well what's what's
interesting is there was hardly any
debate after the Cold War ended you know
this so the Union had disappeared this
is a fundamental change in world
politics the United States is now the
unipolar power really unchallenged by
ever and the 90s are a period of great
optimism you know we're now heading into
a world where people think liberal
democracy is going to spread easily as
indeed it is in Eastern Europe and in
Latin America we think pizza at least
through the Oslo process Iraq has been
disarmed Iran has no nuclear enrichment
globalization has been beginning to
spread you know Russia is adopting a
market economy and so there's this great
sense that you know the wind is that
America is back and everything's going
to go smoothly and if you look at what's
going on today it's clear that those
hopes were all disappointed our
relations with Russia are worse than at
any time since the Cold War democracy is
now in retreat it has been for over a
decade
now even the United States was
downgraded by The Economist magazine
from a phone to a flawed democracy last
year the Middle East has not become more
peaceful if anything the Middle East is
more divided and oh by the way we have
fought several Wars and most of them
didn't turn out particularly well at
great cost to the United States which is
why I think you know again you would
judge this record as being one more far
more failures than successes and I argue
in the book that it's largely because we
adopted a very ambitious strategy of
trying to essentially transform the
world in our image what were the was was
there any variance there in terms of
that I mean because I mean I guess I you
know because of ultimately where we
ended up in terms of Iraq
had you know keyed into the ideas that
came out of the out of P knock right
this notion of of the United States
being a hyper power and the I mean what
was there any all those ideas I mean
maybe you can characterize characterize
those ideas and was there no divergence
theoretically between you know the the
neo-cons and and anybody else actually
much less divergence than people often
think so again it's not that there are
no differences between say Clinton and
Bush or Bush and Obama but the
continuities are at least as important
as the differences all three presidents
actively supported the idea of using
American power to transform other
societies Obama and Clinton I think did
it more gently more discreetly than Bush
did with the invasion of Iraq but the
United States was formally committed to
spreading democracy and using military
force to do that if necessary certainly
the way that Obama responded in Libya
that's certainly what he did when he
sent more troops to Afghanistan in 2009
and that has been a consensus view
across both political parties the
mainstream Democratic foreign policy has
been one of again sort of promoting
liberal values using American power
bringing more and more countries into
American alliances and that was also
true of the sort of neo cons in the in
the Cheney era who got us into Iraq
there are some differences I think you
know the Democrats were more favorably
disposed towards international
institutions like the United Nations and
others than the neo cons were but in
terms of seeing the United States as the
indispensable power that had to push to
shape local politics in just about every
corner of the world whether by expanding
NATO endlessly eastward or by
intervening in other countries it was
still pushing an agenda that eventually
pushed back in us in various ways why
okay
before we get into sort of the
intentions and maybe that's where there
is like you know maybe some maybe
there's a little bit more disparity
there maybe there's not but what
ultimately I mean I think people have a
sense of why it failed because you you
know that it comes down to even basic
human relations sometimes you can't make
other people do what you want them do
well that that's right I mean there were
there certainly limits to u.s. power but
again this was a ambitious and
revisionist agenda and I would just
remind him that you know Joe Biden and
Hillary Clinton and a number of other
prominent members of the Obama
administration voted to support the Iraq
war they were not skeptical of that
particular adventure as well so again
this was pretty much a bipartisan
consensus I think where I failed is
multiple reasons first of all it
threatened non-democracies including
countries like China and Russia you know
we may have had the best of intentions
but if you say that you know our goal is
to spread democracy around the world non
democracies are going to see that as
threatening and some of them are going
to be in a position to do things to sort
us
second we turned out to be pretty good
at regime change we could get rid of
weak foreign governments but we had no
idea what to do with those societies
after we broke them of unfortunately
Afghanistan Iraq Libya to some degree
Syria certainly Yemen as well and this
was I think delusional to think that we
could create democracies in places that
were very unpromising and certainly to
believe that we could do it quickly made
no sense at all finally globalization
was of course all part of this we were
going to expand global markets and I
think that's a good thing I'm in favor
of free trade but it did not deliver the
benefits that were promised those
benefits were not distributed widely
with our society so the Asian middle
class did very well
Asian lower classes did well the
one-percent here in the United States
did pretty well but the lower and middle
classes in the United States and also in
Western Europe did not really
from this and that's part of the
backlash I think that you're seeing now
with populism in Europe and here in the
United States and so the the goal of
spreading democracy which I guess would
align with on some level I mean
theoretically right we're I mean we're
looking at the the sort of trying to
take a non jaundiced eye towards this
but to the idea of promoting a set of
values I mean just fundamentally having
that goal which you mentioned is the
third sort of tenant I guess of how you
would assess US foreign policy that that
goal in and of itself was problematic or
was it really just more than the the the
tactics used to follow that strategy um
well certainly it's the tactics I I
think liberal values are excellent
values and I'm really thrilled to live
in a society where they are still
reasonably well established some
questions about how how much they may be
at risk today here even in the United
States but but I'm glad that I live in a
society where your freedom of speech is
protected and there is a functioning
legal system and we have representative
government but it turns out it's not a
great export commodity the process of
building democracies even in the West
took centuries and was very contentious
and it's very difficult for outsiders to
come into societies that they don't know
particularly well that have their own
deep divisions where any form of regime
that creates winners and losers and the
losers are going to be resentful and may
resist violently the idea that we could
do that kind of social engineering
quickly again I think was was fanciful
so it is largely the tactics we should
of course adhere to those values and
respect those values and I think the
best way to spread them abroad is mostly
to create a society here in the United
States that is so impressive and so
admirable that others will see it and
want something like that so we can stick
to our values but the best way to spread
them is by setting a good example here
at home alright and I want to circle
back to that and maybe expand on
on that question but let's let's move to
the what you call the blob this is the
foreign policy community and maybe on
some level you know it it is now
conflated or maybe it may be properly or
improperly with the deep state on some
level but there is clearly a foreign
policy establishment discuss I mean tell
us it characterized them for us yeah
yeah well these are people who devote
their careers to working on matters of
foreign affairs and so you could include
me is but I guess probably a dissident
member of this by the way just for the
record the term the blob was coined by
Ben Rhodes who is Barack Obama's deputy
national security advisor and
speechwriter and he used it to refer to
essentially the Washington you know
Beltway establishment on foreign policy
so I'd include you know the institutions
of government state Defense Intelligence
they in Washington who work on foreign
affairs lobbying groups of all kinds
whether it's human rights or arms
control or defense spending or whatever
that Lobby on Foreign Affairs issues
those people in the media who cover
Foreign Affairs so they're part of this
community as well and of course people
like me in academia who also study these
issues and the thing I'd say about it is
twofold one is it is a community
particularly at the higher levels you
know people know each other they worked
in various capacities or four different
organizations and success in that world
depends almost entirely on one's
reputation there's no formal degree you
have to have no license you have to pass
no bar exam could practice foreign
policy you just have to be respected by
others in the field who will point you
to key positions or listen to what you
have to say and that creates a very
powerful incentive for conformity you
don't want to do or say anything that
makes you look suspect or suggest to
your judgment isn't sound or whatever so
one of the central themes of the book is
that there's been remarkable conformity
across Democratic and Republican elites
here and surprisingly little change in
what the foreign policy
wants to do despite the fact that for
the past 25 years many of their major
projects have gone very badly and it
really wasn't until Donald Trump showed
up that you had someone openly and
aggressively challenging that elite I
say that by the way someone who thinks
Trump has only made things worse but
that he's 16 when he ran for president
one of targets was this elite and he
said you know us fool then he was
probably more right than wrong
Magritte with at least a you know with
that assessment it was sort of fun to
watch him criticize and Jeb Bush for his
brothers work in Iraq so I mean how does
this the the continuity through the
years it's it's simply just I mean I
guess it's it's it's it's Blob nature
and this dynamic is not I mean we find
this dynamic in in nature right I made a
in nature and in academia and in another
this idea of you know look around and
see what others are saying and sort of
like a slightly conform to that what you
I think your assessment of the blob is
that they are well-intentioned but and
not necessarily as I guess the the
reasons why they pursue this strategy is
is a well-intentioned I guess temerity
as opposed to you know maybe or or is it
possible there are people like Dick
Cheney who are like well I slightly
defined US interests in a slightly
different way right where let me just
break that down for me yeah yeah I don't
think everyone in the foreign policy
elite is a saint right but I do think I
tend not to believe the sort of worst
conspiracy theories that the United
States has some really no farias
objectives in all these things I think
the vast majority of people in the
foreign policy establishment
believe in what they're doing they
believe that for the United States to be
the world leader the dominant world
power to be spreading its values
actively in other places to be pulling
more countries into us left alliances
then creates an obligation for the
United States to protect those countries
is a good thing to do so I think that
their their intentions are for the most
part benevolent the problem is that the
results have not been the ones that
they've promised have not been the ones
that they claim to produce so if one of
these goals was to spread a set of
liberal values and by liberal I don't
mean left-wing I mean sort of classic
principles of liberalism of rule of law
a representative government freedom of
speech things like that spreading those
around the world they believed was going
to be a good thing but if that was what
they were going to bring us that's not
what we're getting we're actually
getting a world where freedom is
declining as measured by Freedom House
where the number of democracies is
shrinking and where some democracies
like Hungary or Poland are sort of
rearing back in an illiberal direction
and we even have some concerns here in
the United States about the robustness
of the set of values we've all come to
revere so again their intentions I think
we're positive but the results were
disappointing and why is there no
accountability I mean it doesn't I mean
it you know like I I as I mean I know
that you were instrumental in or at
least at the very least involved in
placing that big ad in the run-up to the
Iraq war to the extent that I became
more politically active it was it was a
it was in those months leading up to the
Iraq war and you know the information
was there I distinctly remember you know
telling my dad this is not going to be
as easy as they say it that's just on
page one but if you read page fourteen
of the paper they start telling you this
is gonna cost
you know maybe a couple of trillion
dollars that they this is gonna that
this is going to be intractable that
this is there is no weapons of mass
destruction I mean I the information was
there for someone who was you know
slightly less casual than a completely
casual bystander and yet all of these
people who sold the war to us it seems
to me suffered less than no consequences
yeah I think this has been a big problem
and it's not unique to the foreign
policy right me it's true of lots of
other organizations so it's hard to hold
people accountable I mean just to take
another example look at the scandals in
the Catholic Church where people were
constantly forgiven for really heinous
actions as well and you could multiply
other examples too but certainly the
experience of the last 25 years is
exactly what you suggest it's it's a
record time and time again if people not
being held responsible look at the 9/11
Commission report which is a did an
interesting job of dissecting what
happened but didn't hold anyone
personally accountable no one actually
made a mistake no one is named in that
report as having done something wrong
you consider most of the architects of
the Iraq war have retained positions of
respect and responsibility throughout
and to figure just the most obvious
example the current US National Security
Advisor John Bolton it was an open
advocate of the Iraq war and defended it
for years after its having been the
correct response you would think if we
held people accountable for bad judgment
you would be a marginal figure who we
kind of regarded with a certain amount
of disdain but instead he has served in
multiple administration in a very
influential position in this one as well
and I could multiply more examples
what's even more a greater concern is
that some of the people who have it will
go on public with reservations I talked
about several examples in the book end
up being marginal figures right as soon
as you go outside the consensus the
likelihood that you'll get ignored or
not get advanced goes up and that's
I think unfortunate if you want to try
and learn from experience reward the
people who have been right in the past
and pay maybe less attention to the
people who have been consistently wrong
how do we I mean you you you talk about
how not to fix u.s. foreign policy but
just zeroing in for a moment and I want
to get to that but but zeroing in on
that notion of accountability how do we
how do we fix that I mean because that
to me seems to be a universal problem
you mentioned like the Catholic Church
no one's held accountable or you know
not nearly enough but that's
theoretically a lot less a democratic
institution than our the US government
and but but I guess the foreign policy I
mean but this is also the case I mean
frankly it's the same thing with like
with pundits right like you know with
all due respect I get on the the TV and
I sometimes have to you know be in the
same building as Bill Kristol who seems
to me couldn't have been any more wrong
I had the opportunity to sit across Tom
Friedman and say suck on this to him on
TV and that was one of the the greatest
moments of my life but he still is
considered to dab a notion of what he's
talking about and I mean what what do we
deal with the accountability issue
rather than just simply saying hey
people should be more accountable well I
wish I had a you know magic button
solution to this one but there really
isn't one I think the only thing one can
do is is try to publicize these things
and make them hold people publicly
accountable by raising the issue by not
just going along and saying well is he
or she is a respected member of the
elite they've got lots of experience I
will treat them with great deference and
respect I may be willing to do that but
only if their record justifies it so it
does involve you know the willingness to
sort of confront what people's actual
records looks like this is a tricky
problem however because of course
foreign policy is difficult and
challenging and nobody gets everything
right none of us are infallible and any
public official is going to make some
mistakes particularly if they're in
positions of responsibility then I think
the thing we have to look for is are
people willing to acknowledge mistakes
and acknowledge that they've learned
from them or do they keep defend
things that clearly did not turn out
well and don't appear to be learning at
all and can appear to be continually
recommending the same sort of policies
that have failed over and over and over
again so you wouldn't rehire a baseball
team's manager if they presided over ten
losing seasons and insist that
everything was fine you'd fire them and
get somebody else to do it seems to me
if there's a consistent record of
failure and a sort of stubborn
unwillingness to learn from one's past
mistakes then we ought to be looking for
other people to do the jobs I agree
sadly we don't have an owner right I
mean that's the to make that I mean
that's the what's the dilemma but but
let me say let me let me just transition
into what we should be doing because I
wonder you know the structure of the way
that we have been approaching foreign
policy is that something that we need to
change to minimize the the damage that
being wrong can do yeah III think that
sort of the long term I mean there are
some forces at work in the world today
that I think are gonna shift the United
States to a somewhat less
interventionist posture I think we're
gonna find ourselves more focused on
China which is going to leave less
opportunity to go get into trouble in
other parts of the world I think there
are you know pressing demands we have
here at home I think adapting to climate
change is going to be very expensive and
that's going to put limits on the
projects we get involved in in distant
areas but I think you're also going to
have to see the emergence of what you
might call a new foreign policy or elite
or at least a more diverse
intellectually diverse foreign policy
elite for the past 25 years as I've
suggested we had a pretty uniform
mindset you know did not a hundred
percent agreement on every single issue
but a very powerful consensus in favor
of ambitious American global leadership
I think if we get a broader community of
people debating these issues more people
within it who have a skeptical view of
some of these projects we're going to
end up with more intelligent policies
and we're going to be less likely to
make real missteps building that
diverse community is going to take a
while I think Millennials have a
different attitude some of them are
moving into the political scene now the
composition of Congress is changing in
some interesting ways as well but it's
not going to be something that changes
overnight and so and you advocate an
outsourcing of sorts explain that well I
I believed in least one one part of
outsourcing is that the United States
should be devolving responsibility in
some parts of the world to other
countries particularly in Europe where
the United States really does not need
to play a large security role there any
longer than Russia is not the Soviet
Union the Russian economy is now smaller
measured in terms of GNP than that of
Italy it's not going to take over Europe
Europe in fact spends more on defense
every year Europe combined then Russia
does the United States doesn't need to
do very much there we shouldn't be doing
very much in the Middle East
either because almost everything we do
there makes things worse
and we should be focusing most of our
attention on Asia where there is a
rising power that may be challenging US
interests in a variety of plays and so
does that involve cutting our military
budget I mean how does that work
I mean is there how do we how do we
actually make that happen
well I again I think it's partly by
building a more diverse national
security and foreign policy community
that doesn't just subscribe to the
prevailing sort of mainstream consensus
and providing creating new think tanks
new organizations that can work in
Washington to shape congressional
opinion and can also be available to
fill key positions in administration's
that are going to be elected down the
road again this is something of a
generational challenge and one of the
reasons I wrote my book was to try and
accelerate that process so instead of
taking you 30 years maybe it only takes
it takes 20 um you also could see some
interesting coalition's emerging
politically there is I think on foreign
policy a potential coalition between
what I would call
real progressives and realists like me
and also some libertarians these three
groups don't agree on everything and
there's lots of disagreements on aspects
of domestic policy within those
different groups but on foreign policy
they all tend to favor a rather non
interventionist approach and that lets
in about today in the Senate right I
mean we're seeing yeah today on this
vote on Yemen that's exactly right and
you know it took a while to reach a
rather obvious conclusion because the
Senate does not always move with great
swiftness but I think that that is
exactly the sort of thing you may see
more of in the future
all right last Lehman should ask you
about the intervention I've read where
you've you've expressed that you think
that it is appropriate for US
intervention in the to stop a potential
genocide so how do you how do you make
that assessment I mean in my mind that
is why I was supportive at least of what
the initial UN mandate was in in Libya
because theoretically the the that is
what it was supposedly about and how do
we make that assessment
if we don't outsource that assessment to
you know some type of of theoretically
third party yeah that's a great question
and I'd certainly don't rule out the use
of American power to prevent a genocide
but I set a fairly high bar for such
actions first of all what has to be
really confident that that that's what
one's really facing and there is a
debate even now about just how serious
Gaddafi's threat to the citizens of
Benghazi was there was some concerns
that there was going to be a bloodbath
there was no certainty that that is the
case but the more certain you are that
there's really going to be a mass
killing or loss of life obviously the
greater the incentive to try and do
something to prevent it so one you have
to be really convinced something
horrible is about to happen second you
have to be convinced that you do have
the means to prevent it that that and at
an acceptable cost to the American
people one hates to be sort of so
cost-benefit related but that's
I think relevant and then finally and
very importantly you also have to
believe that you're not going to make
things worse and for example there is a
legitimate debate to be had on US policy
towards Syria or an awful humanitarian
tragedy has taken place it seems to me
the judgment of the Obama administration
and especially President Obama was that
for the United States to get more
actively involved or in particular to go
in and try and take down the Assad
regime was actually going to make things
worse was going to create a failed state
and ultimately possibly opportunities
for extremist groups to gain power there
as well now he may have been wrong but
it seems to me that's the way you have
to think about it is there a real danger
is there something we can do about it at
an acceptable cost and are we confident
that we're not going to make things
worse I guess the question is how do you
get you know I mean that's how do those
a tough question
these are judgment well they're there
they are their judgment calls and
reasonable people are sometimes going to
disagree about how to answer them but
those are the questions you have to ask
it seems to me as opposed to sort of
reflexively saying oh well something bad
is happening someplace it's our
responsibility to go stop it
and you just also want to be aware that
there is a slippery slope here that you
know that the more you welcome sort of
moral Crusades of this kind the more
likely you are to suddenly discover
you're back in the business of trying to
govern countries that you really don't
understand very well
Stephen Walt the book is the hell of
good intentions Americans foreign policy
elite and the decline of us primacy
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it it was really great
talking with you too Thanks okay all
right folks
everybody's got a cold around here we're
gonna take a quick break ahead into the
fun half of the program he had to go
teach a class could have kept him on for
another 20 minutes I think but gotta get
that gotta get to class
students are waiting
just a reminder this program relies on
you our listeners for 98% of its revenue
96 96 96 5 I don't know what the latest
numbers are you can support this program
and tell Mike Serna again to kiss
his ass kiss your ass kiss his own ass
kiss any ass he wants to by heading over
to join the majority report calm I want
to thank all of you who have become
members and I want to thank Mike
Tsarevich for for the fun that the last
year I think it's I think every year on
the 28th I'm going to celebrate because
of Mike now where our time is becoming
delayed now where I always ask people
how long ago was that when Kathy Griffin
pulled their little Isis beheading stunt
how long ago was scare Moochie fired
everything is happy she was like a
thousand years ago yeah exactly I saw
our time has become and elated because
we're being up we're approaching the
singularity whatever that means never
noticed go back I'd never noticed when
Alex Jones when you know like the tilt
he was with him with a delay did but
then when he got to the singularity Alex
Jones did that same thing where he looks
up like his eyes just rolled back into
his head watch this hey everything is
happy was like a thousand years ago yeah
exactly I saw our time has become and
elated because we're being up we're
approaching the singularity whatever
that means that we don't know yet
because we've never been in the
singularity but but our time now is
being we live so much in a day now a
full day now feels like a month in a
month feels like a year in a year feels
like a decade I mean think about it
we hadn't even met feels like I know you
10 years 20 years we met like what for
the first time a few months ago agree
it's crazy right it's been a long time
every second say an eternity time
undulating for me
Mike Tsarevitch I feel like this it was
it was just three weeks ago that that
you were providing for me one of the the
more dynamic dramatic exciting weeks
that I have had in a long time it used
to be my life used to be a lot more
dynamic you know but then you get kids
settle down
you show up to work every day most days
and then things slow down so you can
support this program by going to join
the majority report calm also folks you
got a hustle I am not kidding now
tickets are we've just been back for two
days since Thanksgiving break and
tickets are selling like hotcakes to the
Brooklyn pod fest live majority reports
show on January 13th at 2:30 p.m. 18 and
over the whole gangs gonna be here and I
don't wear wear like we're debating I'm
debating about a guest or who it should
be
what kind of guest so we'll see about
that but nevertheless we'll be there
with bells on and I mean that's just a
say in the festive season so go to
majority dot F family are stoked I'm
doing that Alex Jones face you can okay
oh great at bat do we have that clip
here's that clip you can head to
majority dot F M to buy your tickets or
just uh the it's owed the show is going
to be at the Bell House in Brooklyn and
it's a decent sized venue but it is we
are we're getting close to there not
being any tickets first time we sell
that baby out it's true it would be the
second time yeah but this time States or
the selling act that's right that was
awkward
I think they I think they're doing it
differ
okay that was that was a different
festival that was the New York pod fest
this is the Brooklyn podcast yeah yeah
what a diverse marketplace
exactly we've we're almost like it's one
point four miles away from that place
right so check it out also just coffee
co-op very coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
Jamie brought us back some Zappos see
Zapatista coffee that is we're just
coffee started that Fairtrade that's why
they've got that same star on their
thing and pretty cool I'm drinking a
little bit right now it's good thanks
James smelled good I bought it right
from the Zapatistas there you go now
now you can't all do that but you can go
to just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chai visa coupon code Maggiore
get 10% off today is Wednesday
it is Mike's turn of each day and which
means that yesterday when Mike Serna
vich Day falls on a Wednesday that means
the day before it was a Tuesday and I
was reminiscing with the bit that we did
on t MBS the week after it all just went
really badly for Mike was a Mandela
radio show where he was just like we
don't know weird Mike he's weird
he got Tovar standard oh yeah weird Mike
I mean he's weird Professor Richard
Wolff was on yesterday we had an
incredible time in studio in studio
Corbin Briggs it I mean really just a
master class in both the main and
postgame um you can watch a Griscom
deliver his economic minute as sort of
lounges in the background lounge is in
the couch staring over his shoulder
battle there it was actually a wits it
was definitely a battle of wits and we
played the Goodfellas clip for for wolf
as well um the beginning focusing on
Northern Ireland and South Africa and
Briggs it and uh also uh tickets are
moving fast like a empty potato bag for
the February first live show and also at
the Bell House not part of Brooklyn
just TMDs get your tickets for that too
and patreon.com slash t MBS for
everything we should get some maybe some
like swag that if you go to both shows
like somehow you get a tick like we work
out something like that like you get
like a coupon and if you match it that's
like torn and if you match it at the
second show you get like yeah
Jamie what's happening on the anti fada
oh who knows man alright I just got back
from Mexico I'm still so tired now there
are things happening
you guys gotta take a nap weird we're
doing our best we had a chill night last
night but uh anyway top stuff we gotta
we still have our episode out on the
history of the IWW that Sean did with
Jake and Alex from pod damn America that
is a crossover episode folks this
weekend we are having on a Marxist
professor of our own named Paul Matic
jr. to destroy neoclassical economics
with facts and logic so that should be
interesting for anyone who wants to know
more about Marxist economics aka the
kind that actually makes sense and then
the following week we'll preview for you
we're definitely going to put together
an episode on the Zapatista uprising in
Mexico all right
and Matt literary hangover it's my
podcast it's available where podcasts
are and the new the most recent episode
will be uploaded for the people who like
to watch it on YouTube shortly no I was
just gonna say that now all of the team
yeses are on our youtube channel just so
people in case you're looking for it oh
the live show the live show yeah all
right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty the IM machine is on we will call
into the show and see in the fun half
you
don't get better than that ladies and
gentlemen that is like that is a
birthday lapu pay for me speaking of
which it's like my throne is trash and
we hate him we take that up but that's
what was German actually so do you have
anything yeah that was that was a sandy
Wolfram the album title was Zen monk
funk I'm not that was totally Shannon
not much better Merkel not much better
but actually I would say better like not
much better but
McCrone is really in his own class of
trash yeah calling from a six one seven
area code who's this where he calling
triple-a barely
who's this hey mica from Seattle mica
from Seattle what's on your mind
hey guys want to talk about like
environmental sort of sort of issues you
know this election recently I believe
there was a change in policy about
asbestos you know like there's now I'm
bar use of asbestos in the environment
notice that are curious like why do you
think some of these environmental issues
are not like that bigger political
cudgel you know to talk about all the
people they're gonna die from more crap
in the environment when when the Trump
administration zpa
rolled back those asbestos rules I mean
we we mentioned it why why do I think it
doesn't come up I think I mean I think
there's just so much that is there that
it's it's like it's like drinking from a
firehose I will say this that you know
you did see if you could pick out two or
three cabinet secretaries who have been
the the recipient of the most ire from
the Democrats within Congress I would
say that you know I would put de vos up
there and then I would say EPA had
was getting most of the fire so but yeah
you know these small rules I mean look I
went through this with the the Bush
administration like the clean skies
initiative where it basically ordered
states to allow for more mercury
emissions than they were allowing at the
time so yeah I think I think you know
when you got what's happening with
climate change it's it's tough to sort
of like rally people around asbestos
that's the only answer I have I don't
have I don't have a satisfactory answer
for you I mean to me I find it
outrageous but I think it's just it is I
think it just ends up being I think if
people don't feel it as materially as
they do let's say health care which is
why you saw health care as a primary
issue in the in the midterms I would
only add that there are major
generational differences in how much
people care about climate change like if
you pull they've done polls of like
Millennials and even younger people who
say that it's like pretty much at the
top of their list in terms of what
they're concerned about in terms of
policy and they care a whole lot more
than other people do which makes sense
yeah demagoguery you know about care of
an abortion you know on the right and
it's just it's kind of interesting why
there's not like you know more pushback
against but hey people are literally
gonna die kids are gonna die I think the
number or the best is yeah I mean in
terms of asbestos I think the number was
something like what Brendan did that
number was it was like something like
16,000 or 30,000 people were going to
die because of that a specialist
rollback I mean we've seen you know I
had these numbers I think in the context
of the charlie kirk debate I remember
looking these up in it in it's wrong
it's pretty bad wrong look forty
thousand honest
I mean and and you know it's just
basically it is the perfect giveaway to
corporations like we're going to allow
you to profit more and the cost is going
to be absorbed by just citizens who are
going to pay for you know in the form of
their deaths or in terms of you know
their diminishing health as it goes it's
just
it is completely just offloading these
externalities on to other people but I'm
sorry what was your name again
Micah Micah I appreciate the call
Thanks thank you by calling from a three
one five area code who's this where he
come from hey Sam it's Chris from
Syracuse Chris from Syracuse what's on
your mind well I just turned 50 so the
oncoming hand of death is on my mind
that's for sure
hey buddy take it easy well yeah there's
some people around here might be just
slightly older than you
well it's a good thing I found a new
bourbon oh and it's from New York too so
you know you don't even have to you know
support Mitch McConnell Oh what would
that be by any chance
it's called bean ball it's from
Cooperstown bean balls
all right that's very good all right
I'll check that give it a try I will so
what else what's it look like
well at the risk of picking the scab of
the of the zero-sum debate I came across
some research that said that almost half
of Americans would rather make $35,000 a
year if the median income was 25 then
makes $50,000 if the median was $100,000
so it just goes to show that you know
class status is a lot more than about
you know just the raw number and how
much people make
it's about their relative status in
society well it's tough though with
numbers like that because if the median
income is lower than what you're making
things are going to be a little bit more
are going to be more accessible to you
do you know what I mean
I mean if New York City if the the
average you know for people I guess in I
don't know what the average isn't for
men in Manhattan let's say but I would
imagine it's significantly higher than
it is in the other boroughs and if it
wasn't I have a feeling real estate
would be a little bit maybe Manhattan
may be a bad but in any type of region
if you're making more than the median
your buying power is that much better as
opposed to making less than the median
where even if in real dollars it may be
more or I should say in relative dollars
you follow I'm saying so that it's hard
to know if if if that's it's hard to
know but I but I know what you're
talking about there's like a there's a
classic personality test where it's like
if you are working at a place and the
person next to you they're doing the
same job you have a choice you both make
$50,000 or they make 70 and you make 60
which option do you prefer and more
people than you would imagine will say I
want to make what that other person's
making as opposed to making more than I
make it you know more more in the other
scenario as long as you know the other
person isn't making more I mean so III
know what you're saying I just don't
know if what you're talking about really
is assess is that quality but but but I
tend to agree with you well I think it I
totally believe that stat and I totally
believe that Americans I'm assuming
that's who was surveyed have that desire
the only thing that I would caution
against is taking that as a poll of
human nature you know because
we live in such an intensely competitive
and hierarchical society it would be
weird if people were not like that
yeah people answer oh I totally totally
I totally agree with that and you know I
think I think we need to think about
sort of the Gramsci an idea Marxist
myself I think we need to talk about
kind of the hegemony of capitalism and
where social status fits into that so I
might suggest you guys take a look at
Christian chums work he's at UMass he
wrote a book called discourses of
everyday capitalism where he looked at
what you know just everyday people think
about how capitalism works for them
that's a really interesting book Brendan
will you put that down like a guest and
check out and just the guys I think in
general the concept of overdetermination
is great appreciate the call crisis
getting comfortable from multiple
variables interacting with each other in
ways that aren't linear and hard to
figure out thanks Chris thank you man I
want to go back to ov antique cup come
fro 509 area code who's this where he
come from Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan
how are you sir good hey I'm out on
climate change I don't believe that
any morning are you done you're done
believing it why is that
I'm out yeah makes me uncomfortable you
know I don't know those people who wrote
that stuff I don't know
do you remember Pluto do I remember
Pluto yeah the planet the planet anymore
right how do you know you don't even
know what it called how do you explain
that because it used to be a planet and
now it's now just a rock it exists yes
actually you know to be called so I've
had this conversation
case closed in fact it's bestest
asbestos used to be good for you
and now it's bad for you I doubt you
ever good for you I'm quite sure when I
dress neutral and I grew up when I grew
up you could eat lead paint and it was
like no big deal and now scientists are
like no actually when you grow up unless
you're my understanding is that you're
younger than I and I believe that when
you grew up it was well known at that
point that lead was problematic well I'm
from the West Coast Oh anyway you know
just like I feel good to believe that
life ends for me and I don't like
thinking about climate change so I just
you know I'm gonna I'm all in on it not
being real and I'm telling you feels
 great well I will take that to
heart thank you Ronald Reagan I
appreciate that good mental health
advice yes that's good that's good
self-care you doing if thanks man can I
make one quick super super quick point
real quick sure real quick so I called
the other day and I mentioned that the
the sort of acceptance of climate change
reminds me of when people are like okay
gay people weren't born that or were
born that way right and you said
something like yeah I'm not sure how
that shifts happened and I'll just tell
you from my own personal experience and
from the people I know the reason that
shift happened 100% was due to the
courage of people coming out of the
closet and people like me who were sort
of indoctrinated and homophobic having
to confront really dumb antiquated views
with real people in our lives and and
tragic stories of people being you know
losing their families
or taking their own lives in some cases
sadly and I think they're just hit a
critical mass when people could no
longer live in that kind of bubble
because they were surrounded by people
who were really nice and good people and
also were gay openly and I yeah I think
some way to thoughts about that one is I
think part of the reason why that
happened
you know it was was was activists and
even like TV shows right like where you
could have actually openly gay TV
characters and that gave a lot of
courage to people who weren't
necessarily in communities where there
was a lot of openly gay people but it's
funny that you make that point because
yesterday I recorded an interview with
Michael Mann who is one of the premiere
client climate scientists in at least in
popular culture and his point was he
thinks that people are going to and have
become more sensitive to climate change
sadly because they're getting more
first-hand experience of it you know
California he says used to have a fire
season and he says California is now a
fire season that there that you you know
used to be in winter you wouldn't get
these these massive wildfires and now
you still are and now you are I should
say and he says the only thing that's
that's you know problematic with that is
that stuff is a lagging indicator in
other words you can't reverse not only
can you not reverse where we're at today
you can't reverse where we're going to
be a year or two from now even if you
start today like it so you you know
that's inevitable the momentum who told
you that who told you that I was gonna
say don't give Michael a man imagine how
loaded that guy is it's like the
premiere
oh yeah yeah rolling in the scam I heard
he has a Bugatti yeah he does he's like
he's like he's like he's like he's like
jetting on the Pacific coast Bugatti so
to speak as far as fires happen all the
time a lot of people don't know the Big
Pimpin music video was actually on those
climate scientists yeah yeah it was a
class one of those flat Earth's YouTube
videos that I that I watched they
superimposed uh just dollar bills making
it rain all over Neil deGrasse Tyson was
talking about how the earth is round
well I mean well because they thought
you work in a museum I've been talking
about the earth being round for years
and no one has given me a single dollar
for yeah me neither
now I will say this one of the things
that we were talking about with man and
this is on ring of fire radio folks you
can go and head over to our of' podcast
calm and check it out I don't know
what's what's gonna be on the free
version or the paid version this year
but this week but check it out he I
asked him specifically you know what
about this claim that the the scientists
who make this report are making money
and he goes they literally are all doing
it volunteer like they take a not sunny
hostile tracks like sometimes you do a
free thing and then that opens business
opportunities so it's probably on the
other end that's where they're making
all their money right that's pretty
that's outwork stop become easy Sam
you're a man of the world they're all
right a free you rich kids incidentally
you tired for the Menashe I think you
could do you do is you start with a free
internship writing it you add report
just to tell Ronald Reagan JB AIIMS
Pluto is called a trans-neptunian object
it's mostly ice not wrong oh god boo
good day
sure yeah no I agree Pluto let's
say I think somebody took seriously what
I said the other day that science should
be allowed to run I'd like to clarify
that they should not be allowed to run
for public office
yeah that wasn't a joke that was a joke
it was completely sincere their stories
about that are you know the the there
was a great story in Al Jazeera about
the US government's policy now of
creating this border crisis by by
essentially preventing people from
coming into the the border I mean you
can only apply for asylum when you're in
the United States and US law has said
you know how you get in is how you get
in but you as long as you attempt to
apply then you get into the system so
they are basically keeping people from
outside and they're there they're
preventing them from crossing the border
to apply for asylum this is creating
this crisis situation on the border and
I mentioned that you know we've been
talking about this for the past couple
of days about all the different ways
that the right wing has been
prevaricating about this like there's
actually more men than women and
children in the caravan true as as if a
that means that there's no men women and
children and which is decidedly untrue
maybe it's a 30/70 maybe it's a 4060
split
maybe it's 2080
but you're still tear-gassing or
pepper-spraying women and children and
the men who women and children may be
depending on like it's not such a great
thing just a pepper spray magnet me like
I don't say well I understand like why
all of a sudden like oh yeah you can
pepper spray back but here is Geraldo
Rivera on Fox News knowing that his job
is to be the stick in the mud very rare
occasions but a very rarely he does it
and here he is with the odious and
equally moronic Jesse Watters
interrupting this Jesse Watters moment
to deliver a what I think is a pretty
impressive heartfelt plea for some shred
of decency and humanity from these
people president will be speaking at a
rally in Mississippi this hour and we're
gonna be monitoring it and we'll bring
you the latest
all right so Geraldo on the tear gas
situation everybody is showing in the
mainstream media this one image of the
mom and the young girl fleeing what
they're not showing is that they're
surrounded by almost all men who had
been you know violently attacking and
throwing things and taunting the Border
Patrol do you think that this is what
the media is doing or dishonest I
refused to deal with this as a media
issue because it's far too important
role due respect Jesse this is something
that goes to the very quick this goes to
my soul filling my role is the
designated pinata on Fox News I want to
say that's racist I am ashamed this tear
gas choked me we treat these people
these economic refugees is if they're
zombies from the Walking Dead I think we
arrested 42 people eight of them were
women with children we have to deal with
this problem you mainly and with
compassion these are not the these are
not invaders stop using these military
analogies
this is absolutely painful to watch this
is we are a nation of immigrants these
are desperate people they walk too
and miles why do what because I want to
rape your your daughter or steal your
your lunch no because they want a job
well they want to fill the millions of
unfilled jobs we have in the
agricultural sector they want to wash
dishes in the restaurants they want to
deliver the pizzas for goodness sake III
I can't we suspend our humanity when it
comes to this issue and I fear that it
is because they look different than the
plank can I respond because Jurgis
because I actually I understand what
Aldo is saying but you cannot demean
people for looking in this and seeing
this as a violation of a process oh no
you don't know what the process is the
violation of the process is actually on
behalf of the Trump administration which
is not allowing these people to come in
apply for asylum have their asylum
claims or petitions adjudicated and then
either be a granted asylum or rejected
for asylum and told to go home now
if it was up to me I would have a far
more lenient process one that wasn't so
requiring with such a high bar in terms
of a silent but that's the process so
this is you know gut fields position is
a retreat to attempt in the light of
being shamed for having no humanity to
make it about process and he's lying
here too because he's got no answer for
that as well
they do this move where says you can't
blame people for looking at this and
seeing what they're seeing like broken
processor like rocks being thrown right
but they're creating the impression that
right they're the ones who are mediating
what's going on down there blame them
for believing our lies and propaganda
exactly you can't blame them heavy
you're watching the five you know
they're watching the rest of the tripe
on this network and rather they've been
watching us lie about it and give them
anxiety it's exactly in fact we should
be held legally accountable for
premature aging and heart attack
I've isolated old people watching this
garbage all day and that's why you could
look at the ads that they offer and then
it all comes together and speaking about
the economic nationalism in some of
these arguments they're making I saw a
stat on Twitter that if you which is
clearly a great source if you just gave
a million dollars to every person in the
caravan the government would come out
ahead and I believe it considering how
much it costs to station all those
troops there
oh oh yeah the cost that they're
expending on you know housing 14,000
children let's say or the cost that they
expended on the hundreds of millions of
dollars to send troops down there yeah
and I don't and be clear I don't think
the military troops are actually even
engaging in this I don't know that
they're even there just there is like
backup but the military presence and
brutality is the investment they're
making right there they think it's gonna
have long-term payoff last night
Christie hyde-smith won the Mississippi
Senate race over Mike sb by about 10
points a little bit uh you know between
nine and ten points the the Delta the
normal Delta the are the partisan index
for Mississippi's excuse not the
Mississippi Delta but the grand enough
my nice he's good the the partisan index
Brian the note but the partisan index is
what I was talking about the Delta
between what the partisan index is at
seventeen and what s we lost by seven
points that could be significant and
also I should also say that there was a
couple of places where in Mississippi
where you've got some some very helpful
a change because of down ballot races
there was a bunch of judicial run offs
in the circuit court and I think all of
the the women who won I got a double
check that I think there was like three
or four
it was the first time three
african-american women will be circuit
judges in Hinds County I think maybe
because one or two women won on November
6th so you know I mean in losing you can
sometimes win some other things right
you're bringing people out to the polls
but here is a better route what's that
yeah exactly
very yeah very similar dynamic and here
is however just so that you don't walk
away thinking that Christy Hyde Smith
was a an unrequited racist and she won
in Mississippi so they don't get the
wrong impression about that state folks
or at least the 54% of people who voted
for her here is the what's this show
called outnumbered where there's one guy
surrounded by the ladies how crazy is
that
this is nuts when there's when there's
four four guys in one woman you know
what they call that a regular normal but
they just can't call a show normal they
just come up with some other name and
here it is
boy it beat exits he's surrounded by the
ladies it's a red state hide Smith is
going it's going to win the polling
shows that the attempts by the media to
further spin listen you can say
graceless things foolish things that
doesn't make them racist things in every
way that you have said I really think
people that know her do you think she's
a positive for one second we're gonna go
back the people who know her these are
the people who know her from that that
school that you went to so she didn't
have to go to segregated schools is it
those people all the other races she
surround herself with say that she's
perfectly nice oh her you think she
doesn't have a racial connotation who's
a nice lady with a gift for saying
gracious thing first of all I don't want
to get into the semantics of it but
there will have to I don't want to get
into the semantics there we get it - the
semantics it'll be the last thing you
want to get into in a conversation on
language obvious right I don't
I definitely don't to talk about the
semantics of what she said I'm not a
linguist she did I go out there is do a
lynching she said good public she did
not seem like she said public hanging
which were which will refer to lawful
executions at certain times in the 19th
and 20th century no really there I'm not
saying it's you're playing on the field
you want a plan which is saying this
lady's racist no what'd she say her
public career shows that she isn't and
there are a lot of big issues that
people vote about and their prayer about
race at the last minute this is a
Republican state she's going to win and
and I and I don't I don't think playing
the race card wins at the polls okay she
didn't say lynching okay well public
hanging public Lynch it has connotations
especially in the south for the fact
that African Americans were lynched she
also wore a hat with a confederate flag
on it she went to a segregationist
school but I'm not here to call her a
racist I'm here to say that I agree with
you and I think that she is going to win
this election it's not like Doug Jones
who was running against an alleged
pedophile
and even so he only won by one point
seven points I understand it as the deep
south but for you to just say that this
is graceless to make a joke that it was
so utterly inappropriate and should have
been condemned by everybody I think is
irresponsible your impugning her motives
and saying it was rigged it's funny is
that your sense of it was Jesse it was
funny he didn't say it was funny yes yes
this is Lee's Eisley where my role on
this network comes in right about now
and let me just say I'm not just doing
it as a an african-american person I'm
also doing it as a woman to tell you
getting a little hysterical ironically I
would like to engage in the most
primitive base form of identity yes
about God come on now he's not laughing
he takes this very very seriously charge
of making it sound like a unrequited
racist is not a racist and I am too so
let's just calm down little lady first
of all be fair to him he's not very
bright and I remember when Roger Ailes
told me that he liked cha
chuckling she know and could I run
interference for racism and massage on
the network and I said by golly Roger I
can and then I pretended I had a stomach
flu so I didn't have to follow his
grotesque obese repulsive caucus to a
hotel room in midtown Manhattan could we
not get our panties in a bunch
that was actually the working title of
the show panties in a bunch
panties unbunch we can't possibly have
an all ladies show so we're gonna call
it out numbers that's what we're going
to do time of the month I'm a black
woman and I'm not as upset about this as
you yes so don't forget I'm here to give
everyone license I'm agreeing with Pete
that sound you hear in the background is
the cash register every time I come to
the defense of one of my white
colleagues I hear one of these babies
that goes right into the threat in your
monitor that's right I guess it's a
performance based exactly so yesterday
we talked about GM cutting 15,000 jobs
in the wake of a seven-year stock
buyback frenzy this job cutting is
supposedly going to save them six
billion dollars a year
supposedly they over the past seven
years have bought back of 14 billion
dollars worth of stock they have just
been on the receiving end of hundreds of
millions of dollars of tax breaks
annually and they of course also
continue to have incredibly massive CEO
salaries all this just seven eight years
shortly after the US government bailed
them out saved all of the executive jobs
as well as
other jobs and Fox News is starting to
get a little bit worried here's Brian
Kilmeade with Peter mori ichi am i
saying his name right and he is he is
starting to worry for capitalism because
it's it's showing a little too much
flesh i think it's probably the way to
put this got a huge corporate tax cut
didn't they and wasn't the thought was
that the american industry would start
bringing industry home because our
corporate tax rate was now competitive
absolutely there's no reason why we
shouldn't be selling cars in China that
are made here now the president has to
open up the Chinese market and you know
I guess that's the next stage but
abandoning the American worker
she says that Americans aren't buying
sedans do you see Toyota getting out of
the sedan business they make money on
sedans they know how to make sedans well
the problem of Ms Barra
is she has a company that doesn't make
competitive sedan wait where's the part
doesn't he go on to say the oh here it
is
okay sorry I got confused and so there
is Fox News saying you know maligning
the company but here's the real issue
this is on a Charles Payne and shannon
bream here he is
Fox News is getting a little bit
concerned here let's do we have this is
clip number four he's broke when you
were sitting here yesterday and all we
really had was the headline I think as
the day went on the news sunk in and
this news is it's not good for these
things it's not good last quarter the
company did thirty five billion dollars
in three months 77% came from North
American customers eighty-seven percent
of operating income came from North
American business so yeah you can build
out factories all over the world but the
Americans are keeping you in business
and you kick them to the curb at the
first sign of the president's not happy
he's shooting back at Mary but but the
president told us that the tax cuts were
going to make this all magically be
problem the GM wasn't going to outsource
their thing because of the the the taxes
are coming home it's good I'll be
magically no problem I guess it's just
going we could do in the opposite I
meant the opposite at Mary Barra who by
the way happened to be at the white
house is straight for a pre-scheduled
meeting with Larry Kudlow we don't
really know it was discussed there but
the president's fired back saying that
they should make a better car that that
he was very tough on GM's borrow over
these plant closures having no he
shouldn't be happy of course I don't
think any American president would be
happy about this and again it's not like
they're in dire straits now they're
trying to get ahead of things they want
a big fat cash flow but this is why I
think capitalism in of itself is in a
lot of trouble in this country because
you know these companies keep posting
record earnings and to keep firing
people they keep posting record earnings
and they keep buying back billions of
dollars of their own stock the American
public is going to get hip to this and
my fear is that they're going to end up
electing not a democratic socialist just
a straight-up socialist because of these
kind of shenanigans from your mouth to
God's ears money you know how would have
walked away right Natalie right on her
segments talk about did wrong walk away
I would love to see Dave Rubin Dave
Rubin
react to this clip oh well I mean well I
enter competitions a big deal sometimes
the government there's competition and
competition would start kicking in
competition I think what he's really
saying is that when government
interferes that paves road to socialism
no I think like when when Dave Rubin is
like struck with something like the
first of all he would be completely over
not do that analysis no he could be but
he would say like look everybody has
they can do what they want this is what
a free country is about and then he
would just ask the moving onto topic to
I will say this I think you know based
upon the other day I was listening
last night I think it was maybe I don't
know I was listening to Mark Levin who
is now taken
calling Bernie Sanders a communist
because and I think that that's true
that that notion they're like we're not
gonna vote for a Democratic Socialist
we're gonna vote for a socialist
socialist I think and and good for that
dude for just having the wherewithal I
realize like hey there's a problem here
and I think like you'd have to be really
really oblivious not to notice it that
they're gonna have to start they're
gonna have to come up with another word
to demonize the and I don't think
communist is gonna work either frankly
because they've been trying like sjw's
but they need something specifically
economic but that that doesn't hide that
by the way like communists what are you
talking about fashion it's retro and
retro cool it's it's all like it's it's
it's the equivalent of like saying that
Chicago politics but also pretty big
stigma around the word communist but
less and less I would say there's
definitely a stigma around the word
communist but the the vast majority of
people who react to it as if it's like
saying a boogeyman are already going to
vote for the the right-wing it can and
this is with two quick point I mean this
was exactly what happened with de Blasio
who by the way is an insult to the
Sandinistas but they remember when he
was first running for mayor they were
like Bill DeBlasio who hung out with the
Sandinistas for a week in the 80s and it
was like over 90% of New Yorkers were
like the Sun the one you mean like he
was in on a clash recording that's cool
not even that like a handful of people
who read the New York Post tell you he's
a communist because they're already like
brain-dead Upper East Side lunatics and
weren't gonna vote for me and then
people like me were like yeah that's
what Obama did for me when Reverend
Wright came out I was like hey it's like
the sector of conservative publishing
that's trying to really really hard to
make the anti-semite Ilhan Omar stick
right based on just BDS support and
that's a very dynamic and I also think
like I would love to see an actual
president would immediately nationalize
GM plants and let's get it into the
court system and see how that works out
because that's how you would save those
jobs you don't want to do this
government's taking it over these are
public cooperatives now jobs stay we
make energy-efficient cars we support
the economy screw GM and not either fake
totalitarian hectoring like Trump or
like training people for the jobs of the
future whatever the third way scam no it
seemed that the right is a whole lot
more optimistic about the chances of
communism in our lifetime than the left
so maybe we should cheer up a little bit
well the very least you know that would
be a good clip to show you know people
in Schumer and Pelosi is calm staff like
you're so neurotic about a systemic
critique of capitalism when you get
asked the question from a young person
on CNN meanwhile Charles Payne is saying
this on Fox
I'm Matt Brendan just check out the I am
because I'm looking for a couple of
clips I can't seem to find this
afternoon and we'll know by the time any
of you hear this as a podcast or a we
will know the outcome of the vote in the
Senate to essentially stop all US
involvement in the war in Yemen which
it's not just in terms of like the
troops that we have they're coordinating
or selling weapons to the Saudis to
continue on providing other forms of
support here is Bernie Sanders on the
Senate floor explaining why the war in
Yemen is unconstitutional
it is also inhumane but trying to vote
on inhumane against inhumane policies
don't necessarily pull on the same
institutionalist heartstrings within the
US Congress but here is Bernie Sanders
on the
of the Senate was this yesterday this
morning sir
pay attention to and that is this war in
Saudi Arabia was not authorized by the
United States Congress was not voted
upon by the United States Congress and
therefore is unconstitutional let us not
forget that the founding fathers of this
country
put the awesome responsibility of war
and peace into the hands of the US
Congress that is to the United States
not a Democratic president or a
Republican president article 1 of the
Constitution clearly states that it is
Congress Congress Congress not the
president who has the power to declare
war it's the president the time is long
overdue
for Congress to take back that
responsibility which it has abdicated on
the Democratic and Republican leadership
ok and here is a Sanders final call to
action before yielding is by my friend
senator Lee of Utah senator Murphy of
Connecticut and many many others this is
an enormous ly important vote this is a
vote that says to the world we are going
to end the horrific humanitarian
disaster that is killing tens and tens
of thousands of defenseless children in
Yemen it is a war that says that we are
going to stand for American values
it is a vote which says that the time is
now the cell tells Saudi Arabia that we
are not continuing to partner with them
in this horrific crisis there you have
it we will find out the results of this
vote later this afternoon but I mean I
you know it's all of a part on some
level when you see Trump's covering up
for the khashoggi killing I mean is
exactly the same thing the same
continuum and the only thing in some
ways I mean I don't want to minimize
show cuz shogi and all it's horrific and
it's important but I mean there's been
happening in Yemen for years oh oh yes
without doubt and we should say that the
Obama administration opened the door to
this walked through it a little bit they
stayed probably in the the front hall as
it were the the theory as expressed by
former Obama officials and you can you
can take it for what it's worth I think
it's clear that I think the record shows
that Obama did not have the best of a
relationship with Saudi Arabia and was
as Saudi Arabia skeptical as any of our
any you know US president but they did
engage in in providing support for the
Saudis in Yemen ostensibly as a way of
being able to control what they were
doing or to exercise some influence over
it you can believe that or not believe
that I tend to I tend to believe it and
think it was a mistake obviously it's
both well yes I mean it's a Targa's
they're just also giving a gift like
okay we did the Iran deal you're freaked
out about it eggs all ahead exactly and
and I think it was also a way to
maintain like some small leash on it
which we have it's just that what Trump
did is he let go of them yeah well they
specifically narrowed the weapons they
would sold right sure
I just can I just add real quick on the
slate slightly related but when MBS
comes here he was welcomed by Mark
Zuckerberg and Mike Bloomberg and of
course Trump and obviously Freeman
Freeman was glowing about him lawyers
and activists in Tunisia are attempting
to get a court injunction to bar him
from visiting the country a little shout
out to them there you go good for them
you know you gotta wonder what NBS get
so much welcoming if he wasn't so damn
wealthy it's bad as ideas it's at ideas
many secondary its ideas meanwhile you
know we're talking about the way that we
welcome refugees into this country we
now the number of refugees that we are
now letting in put aside for a moment
what's happening at the border the the
number of refugees from war-torn
countries is a fraction of what we let
in just three or four years ago fifth
sixth maybe a tenth I think maybe
there's maybe a couple of thousands
several thousand Syrian refugees who
will be led in people's whose homes were
destroyed whose lives were destroyed
cities were destroyed so when you see
what happens in this clip it's
incredibly disturbing this is in in the
UK these are British kids I guess just
the videotaping each other coming off it
of like it seems to be in a school and
they're on a soccer pitch and they are
some British school kids not that young
you know it looks like maybe high school
age and they see a there's a Syrian
refugee you must be in their class it's
got a broken arm and they just do this I
mean it's just it's just a moment of
just sort of stunning cruelty kids can
be super cruel but you know they're
getting this from their parents and from
society
at large right and we should watch this
to be reminded of just like you know
what the what this cruelty is on its
most sort of like basic level all right
your mouth yeah yeah yeah I mean there's
a lot of other kids who come over to
this kid's support to a certain extent
but you just imagine like I mean the
best case for this scenario for this kid
is that he didn't lose family members
but but unlikely right and I mean it's
just it's just horrible to watch and it
just you know the only thing I can tell
you is just like you know the what we're
doing to people at the border in many
ways at least metaphorically is is
similar it's just just a total lack of
humanity and God knows what drives it
just some notion of like this guy's
different so he's Nessa
I mean the kids obviously not a threat
right it's just whatever problems this
guy has in his head the the he's gonna
take it out by being cruel to somebody
who filmed the video too it seems like
one of his friends liked the idea if the
bully is filmed the video and thought
that that was like a cool thing to put
online that just adds another layer of
disturbing as to it definitely wouldn't
be the first time they've oh no they
think it's funny they think it's funny
they think it's really funny
very disturbing meanwhile since we're in
in Britain without this yeah
the reason for that arguably right right
you know you see a British kid beating
up a a Syrian refugee and you wonder
where does it where do they get that
we're you know I understand the idea of
teen angst and in difficulty and social
problems in this net but how do they get
the notion that that's the outlet to go
find a kid who's gone through a god
knows what kind of Hell who represents
no threat to you and just beat them up
as a way of getting your your
frustration out where do they get that
idea well here's here's a suggestion you
know I can only imagine what it's like
to live in a country with a total
bigoted a-hole as one of your top public
officials but here is Boris Johnson
before meeting up with the economy
minister the foreign secretary has to do
a quick bit of filming for his official
Twitter feed Johnson foreign secretary
I'm here in Lisbon is Portugal to
celebrate what is the oldest Alliance
and friendship in diplomatic history
going back to 1386 going forward through
the Napoleonic Wars through to the
Second World War when of course this was
a place that
what are we doing is all positive like
I'll get I mean this I mean it's funny
but it's also what and a halt but all
right continue hi folks I'm Boris
Johnson I the Foreign Secretary I'm here
in Lisbon Portugal is our four biggest
trading partner training partner class
we are Portugal's fourth largest
Portugal is not our fault
Thank You Kiki hi folks Boris Johnson
I'm here in Lisbon James Bond himself
was said to have been born in Estoril
and today came for the ideas for James
Bond was born the idea for the icon here
for James
boy I'll tell you something he is James
one incidentally was a book character
yeah that's what mi6 wanted yeah exactly
it's brilliant it's a great friendship
it's a great partnership it's built on
shared values I'm gonna take it
all right good bike off the tyranny of
the Twitter feed is relentless enemy of
the massive is relentless how
did the BBC get this video it's you know
they were shooting it they were doing a
documentary about him and they probably
have the politicians in in Britain are
probably just not as handled and they
don't they're they don't set certain
terms I bet they will in the future well
that's true but I mean also in general I
mean actually when we look at like
really direct analogs to Trump I'm in
Berlusconi's an obvious one but Boris
Johnson's another guy that was treated
like a joke and was great at doing TV
hits and great at playing this like
right I'm a buffoonish aristocrat oh boy
what did I get myself into and he also
was given this like essentially like you
know tabloid pass and the British press
and helped build this brand where he you
know Mayor of London Foreign Secretary
advocate of very far-right policy let's
go back to the phones come from a 2 for
0 area code who's this where you come
from
damn is that you yes hey it's Beto from
Maryland how are you hello Vito what's
on your mind hey so um I was doing some
reading and I came across an article I
can't remember the publication but it
was I guess a political scientist from
Georgetown University and he was sort of
bombed he has a his his feeling is that
maybe we shouldn't have as many
primaries as as we have and that if
we're going to have as many primaries as
we as we do that the delegates should be
awarded proportionally as opposed to a
winner-take-all
now which do you mean and not as many
primaries and states I'm not sure I
follow you right correct right so you're
talking about in the presidential
elections we being who Americans are you
mean the Democrats or what are you
talking about
Democrat I'm sorry a Democrat well I you
know look i up until 40 years ago 50
years ago it was 1970 essentially I
think it was there were no primaries or
there was and it was it was meaningless
I mean I think I'm not sure what problem
that per that person's trying to solve I
mean Democrats have won the elect or the
the popular vote in what seven out of
the last six elections on a presidential
level I mean I think you know the issue
isn't that the the candidates have been
wrong I get it let you go veto because
I'm getting a lot of feedback but I just
don't know what the you know the the
primary purpose I mean the primaries it
seems to me are fine I think the reforms
that in terms of the super-delegates
I've always contended that the
super-delegates would would go the way
the of the of the of all the other
delegates I mean I understand the
argument that it creates a
predisposition towards a certain
candidate if delegates commit to them
early but it didn't that didn't work out
that way in 2008 but you know the
super-delegates thing is just
availability heuristic right I the it's
not even that it's more just sort of
like there's like a soft primary right
it's like the money primary but in this
instance it is you know the super
delegate and I think it's a and people
would get more concerned that it would
like create an air of inevitability
where there may not be any i i think the
relevance of that is overestimated but i
am happy that there has been at least a
you know reformation that has made that
the case i think in some respects maybe
I don't know exactly what they settled
on they eliminated many many of the
delegates the super-delegates I
personally think that like if you're
gonna have super-delegates have them
they cannot you know reveal until until
like the convention say I think it also
depends on the mood of the electorate
because I could see a scenario where
that doesn't help you
I could backfire well it didn't it did
it do know I'm saying it didn't yeah no
no I know it didn't work in 2008 but I'm
saying even quite the opposite like it
really might become an advantage of
somebody or if they were running an
insurgency to use super-delegates as a
proxy for a bunch of other institutional
perhaps I don't think they're really
that big a deal though it has to create
some sense of inevitability when you
look at the TV and you see the numbers
are so uneven before any primaries have
even happened what very possible but the
question is how many votes
how many minds does that change we can
remember you're talking about the
primaries the number of people who look
on the TV to find out the primaries it
may make it might affect turnout maybe
what like if you think there's no point
in voting for the candidate that you
like maybe in the context of Bernie's
Hillary's race I think like turnout was
probably up I mean there there's no way
to know it's not inconceivable and if
you can keep them from declaring I mean
personally I think that there is a role
for them because let's say you get to
march in and one person is is up in the
delegate count John Edwards at John
Edwards yeah I mean maybe there should
be a democratic process for rescinding a
candidate that doesn't rely on giving
that much power to elites within the
party and what would that process be
coming from a practical standpoint it's
March
it's April it's May you're a month away
from the convention recall we have
recalls in other scenarios yeah but what
but how would you actually like
literally do that a recall will take
like you need a year in advance to run
that election
you need the funds to run that election
you need to go state-by-state and set up
an apparatus like there's no way to do
it and you can think there's no way to
do it I haven't worked out the specifics
I mean it's gonna involve some level of
delegation probably you're gonna have to
and the question is do you delegate it
to just the DNC chair or do you and you
know maybe you you delegate it to the
delegates that are already picked at
that point plus you know another
complement of people but those are
people who are picked and ostensibly
right like they would have all been
theoretically John Edwards delegates and
are they going to vote against John no
he'll he'll get past this are Hillary
Clinton's indicted there she'll get past
this I mean there's a there's a problem
there and there needs to be a solution
and I don't know what it is and it needs
to be a specific solution like not a
general idea there needs to be a
solution and if there's a better one
than having you know super-delegates or
uncommitted delegates you know reserved
for the end I don't know what it is and
then the question is how do you pick
those super-delegates maybe you could do
it like in you know during those
elections but those those elections
themselves are going to end up being
you're gonna get the same it's gonna
fall on the same lines right I mean then
there's also the fact that is you would
say and clearly is coming through in
this conversation how do you square this
with a blame the electorate perspective
that's right
let's go to the IMS lateral Lisp Sam do
you think your victory over Serna Mitch
made you a more confident lover what
about a more confident boss I'd like to
hear your thoughts and those of the crew
well listen I'm not the person to say I
mean maybe maybe it made me a more
confident lover no I don't think it yeah
I don't think so I think it made me it
added some measure of confidence I I
felt I learned a lot from it guys my a
more confident boss since the siRNA
 think yeah I mean there's a
certain events in my
very very very very very very but
noticeably slightly more pleasant to
deal with yeah I don't think it's good
to be a confident boss so I would say no
I would say you have become a more
sensitive your your pleasant you've been
well no no excuse me
nominally slightly in a barely
discernible but yet relevant on the
margins way Pleasant so a very sensitive
equipment I don't need the Commandant's
listening to the show no Brendan just
pop here is this the the hockey puck nor
this different one
oh this is the hockey puck okay so um
good news folks
we have cracked the code I know there's
a lot of people who send their their
kids to college and they worry because
of all sorts of things and you know for
modern parents one of the things you
worry about my kid had a lockdown drill
the other day is it's the idea of a
suitor coming in and killing people well
a lot of people say we should probably
curtail the number of guns and the type
of guns and the type of ammunition that
people could buy that's silly when there
is much more common-sense solutions that
are on the table
in fact at Oakland University in
Michigan a lot of gun lovers out in
Michigan fact I shot some skeet out
there they've come up with a new plan
and here's Fox to tell us about it how
do you stop a bad guy with a gun a
college in Michigan says use a hockey
puck
hockey coach for my kids when they were
growing up and I remember getting hit in
the head with a hockey puck once and it
hurt the hockey puck fits really well
into your briefcase or your backpack it
doesn't roll around when you're taking
out your books 800 pucks have been sent
to Auckland University faculty members
in case of a potential active shooter
another 1700 will go to students can we
get the music as well cannot be real
that cannot be real did we do a double
check on this got a good deal on somehow
honestly I know it's on Fox but maybe
they got hoodwinked well no maybe I mean
the hood Joaquin is gonna be as Fox is
not bi if that's not like the yes-men or
something like that that just feels like
to me it's a yes men i think it's a
michigan hockey puck manufacturer it is
that the idea that that is the response
to the gun crisis like you would do more
to actually inhibit the chances of
having a shooting event at that campus
by simply like holding a protest and
saying that we should we should have
more gun control like that like talk
about butterfly wings the idea that
someone's going to take the hockey puck
out and throw it well they say it's very
easy to carry around with you but I
gotta say if I'm preparing to save
myself from a mass shooting with hockey
pucks I'm going to carry more than one
no because you're not ever gonna be in a
moment thinking that guy's got a gun
unfortunately in my pocket I have a
hockey thank you I don't want to throw
it at it oh well you don't you only need
I feel like I was a pitcher you know
what they say you should always bring a
puck to a gunfight
exactly but no they say you should
honestly a puck I'm very confident about
my throwing arm that looks like a
medieval sort of
no I have this just in case we have an
open shooter in the studio and I'm just
gonna throw it at their head and it
believe me this'll hurt I mean wow can't
be real
I mean maybe we're being a bit too
judgmental imagine if a kid pulled a gun
out in a classroom and every single
student through a hockey puck at them at
that moment all right it sounds cool
you'd probably lose two or three kids
yeah maybe two or three but you would
probably take that guy out then you can
go play huh okay I'm being informs that
NPR is reporting on this as well I know
joke no I know Brendan just so bright in
here that I'm sorry
so that's wow I can't believe that's
real acquitting resourceful it could be
a yes-men thing it could be Colin from
Nebraska will they be sacks of potatoes
in the VIP section of the majority live
show we do not have a VIP a VIP section
at the majority report show you're all
VIPs so I know you are right we just my
show my show is a clear hierarchy we're
a post net neutrality show yeah my show
you got to be the better one or the
worst one Neph happy birthday Sammy
wishing you much love and shouting Freud
on your special day yes thank you
JJ cool professor Wolff was great on t
MBS last night of all the things he
talked about there's one thing I was
blown away M say he quoted stormy
Daniels game on tiny black Marxist
congratulations Chuck Schumer you are
the only person who knows less about
politics than Trump no wall you suck I
you know like when I saw that I was like
maybe I should just run if nobody runs
against Chuck Schumer I'm not closing
the door on it let me just know you've
got a great campaign out already yeah
I'm not sure I would push that put that
I'll push that one too hard but what
happened to the Joe Rogan clip you're
gonna play Monday but put off till
Tuesday did I miss it from yesterday's
show or did you forget to play it says
Moses in fact we have that clip it's a
little bit long but we have we have time
to play this we won't play the whole
thing but here is Joe wrote I think it
is this is a Joe Rogan explaining why
Gavin McGinnis
having to leave in in lamenting on it
and this is what the you know I mean I
this is what is problematic and it's not
that pretty
what Rogan says in and of itself is
problematic the problem is like this
video how many millions like it's like a
million views right I mean every video
you does get to half a million views and
they are all what is what is this on
this one how many uh they're all they
are all young they're you know I don't
know if they're all young people but
they're all like Huntersville or Baraboo
young boys yeah I mean and so when Rogan
who you know is a you know the the the
source of like news and understanding
and analysis for so many people it's
really dangerous to sort of say like oh
this whole thing was a misunderstanding
but let's listen to what he says about
Gavin McGinnis having to having to step
down or not step down and Gavin McGinnis
is step away and we should also just add
that Gavin McGinnis says there was no
leaders he was never the leader of the
proud boys he was just a founder so he
wasn't really stepping down he was just
disassociating himself the proud boys
then came out and said we have a
replacement for Gavin McGinnis it's our
lawyer who's a nut job in and of himself
also a clear racist but why would you
replace somebody who is never your
leader in the first you can't really
replace a founder right that's weird but
continue and you know look it's one of
those things you want to have a
group you can't control everyone in the
group so anybody in the group that does
something horrible I just sent you
something
pull this up this is Gavin's response to
all this because so many people got mad
at me that I had Gavin on in the first
place
first of all I had Gavin on because he
used to be one of the founders advice
also because I had Gavin on before that
and he was fun to hang out with then
when I had him on did he become with
when I had him on the last time one of
the things that he was talking about was
the proud boys I don't even know what
the that was I think maybe I had
heard of it but I thought it was a joke
turned out he used to be a joke it
started off as a joke on compound media
and Anthony will get into it better he
knows the history of it but they were
making fun of something and they decided
to make a fake mock group crawled the
proud boys now the problem with this is
when you have a group that's supposed to
be fighting and Tifa and I actually
tried to express this to him when he was
on the show because he was talking about
kicking people's ass we're gonna punch
him in the face I'm telling him to punch
people in the face I'm like okay that's
not how reality works like I don't know
if you ever been punched in the face or
if you've been around people that like
to punch people in the face but you
don't just punch someone in the face
what happens is you punch them in the
face they come back with a bat somebody
gets a knife people get guns it always
escalates it's gonna keep going you
don't just get away with punching people
in the face you know and yeah it's not
good that these auntie four people bring
by clocks and smack people in the heads
with them and that's kind of the point
in that in the first place those people
don't understand what happens when you
start the chain of violence when you
start that domino chain they don't
understand what how's it for one second
see here's part of the problem okay is
there is a fundamental misunderstanding
as to what an Tifa is he is conflating
some groups of people who are who either
protest or you know may you know use
black bloc tactics with an Tifa Gavin
McGinnis at one point in his his swan
song video said we never the proud boys
never go to Antipa rallies and harass
them that's because the Aunt Emma
doesn't have rallies they are a reaction
they are definitively as a
definitionally they cannot exist as a
and they don't I don't there is no group
auntie feh there are people who decide
to go out and fight against fascists and
there is it may have started as a joke
but for whatever reason I have a couple
ideas Gavin
started carrying it into an organization
that he could monetize and all right
continue so so this this notion that
somehow Gavin was responding to the
people who were responding to Gavin is
not correct not to mention it is
literally an initiation right of the
proud boys to beat up a leftist or a
liberal continue I think that they
living in some book that they
love about some revolutionary liberal
character that you know reaches out and
and and smashes all these oppressors of
social justice J some reality and
reality you just hit a guy with a lock
who's talking to you you assaulted them
with a deadly weapon and the next thing
you know they're gonna kill you are they
gonna beat you they're gonna punch you
so when a guy like Gavin says something
like you should punch them in the face I
understand why he said that because they
were inciting violence these these nt4
people would hit people with things that
were in masks they some of them some of
them were doing it non-violently some of
them just wanted what they thought was
the right things to happen but like all
groups you get a big group you
can't control everybody in the nude and
that happened without boys no that's not
what happened with brown boys because
you can go online and you can see Gavin
purposely inciting Alling for violence
this is not on his show on his show in
other shows on Rogen show yes and in you
can't be responsible for every member of
your group but if you say go commit
violence and you have initiation rites
that are violent then chances are you're
gonna get some violence but continue to
I think I think he decided to have this
thing that was gonna you know mockingly
oppose and Tifa then it became real and
then it became violence and this this is
this is just one of the problems that
people have when there's a group
of people opposed to another group of
people and you know him quitting the
proud boys is definitely smart but I
don't think it's gonna help because now
people are there's they're saying he's a
white supremacist and yeah
what the perception that people have of
you is almost important almost as
important what as what you actually do
it's probably even more important almost
yeah because if not for you and not for
me not for people that are gonna
actually read into it but for people on
the outside the perception of who you
are is is there's too many things to
learn okay he's a racist oh that
racist that's all people hear that's all
they say and then they keep moving
meanwhile you got a guy who's Gavin who
first of all he's not even American he's
Canadian second of all he's married to a
Native American woman he is not a racist
he says he's a provocateur on your scent
unquestionably he says ridiculous
cuz he thinks it's funny but he's always
in a very bad situation it's almost a
troll or like it was I didn't even think
like I know him now I mean look I can
only tell you that I know that nearly
all of Gavin's friends from a couple
years ago are no longer friends with him
I mean it may be every single one and
it's not because they've they have a
arms-length perspective on what he's
doing it's because they see upfront what
they're doing are those and it is he's a
truck you know when you when you sit
there and you say you know people just
look at the surface and they don't look
what goes beyond it and he's got a
Native American wife as if that all of a
sudden is he can't be a racist you can't
be doing anything that's racist
or there's members of the group who are
black or there's members of the group
who are Latino they can't be doing
definitionally they can't be racist no
that's not true
I mean that's not true you can promote
anti-semitism and have a grandchild who
is a Jew you can you can be racist and
own slate you just thought I just
thought you can have sex with one of
your black slaves and still be racist I
just managed a bad mother a Jew
crack kid Brera toy i mean honestly like
this it is more nuanced than that and
really at the end of the day it doesn't
matter what's in your heart
the perception of what you put out is a
function of what you put out as a public
figure this is the thing he's like they
want to judge Gavin based upon their
personal relationships with him and the
bottom line is it's irrelevant
99% of what Gavin is and the only reason
why anybody's talking about him and the
only reason why he has to disassociate
himself from that group is because of
what he's done publicly because of the
perceptions he's created and that have
caused other people to act upon that's
the only thing that's relevant here this
is not Joe Rogan at a bar talking about
one of their friends this is Joe Rogan
broadcasting to literally a million-plus
people that's too many
I mean whatever whatever it's just that
you got to be you got to take some
responsibility for whatever
that's my common quote I say it's
you forever we're done well my comment
quote I say where does David Cross stops
returning my texts I really need to make
some inroads into the like stoner
college bro dorm room community like Joe
Rogan is the smartest one of those guys
right now but if you became one of those
guys huh that's gonna take a lot I think
it's gonna take it's like social
security like do you wanna cut
it but it's there like one more call
fine solving comfrey 734 area code who's
this where you come from 734 734 bye-bye
all right last call the day come from a
four two three four two three area code
clam yes who's this all right this is
John from
Johnson Texas yesterday like you were
offering some form of migrant Caravan
insurance well I got a couple questions
about that so when will it start right
so I can't I can't get myself an
insurance and then just have them jump
over the border tomorrow and have it not
be in place so wondering about that and
then also if will I be covered it's like
I got some weird strange disease from
Honduran land if you got a strange
disease from Honduras from from Honduran
land yeah yeah yeah it's like Fox News
told me that actually we do a an
addendum policy for something like that
actually it is probably worth it because
Honduran land has some pretty exotic
diseases that you could catch but no Fox
also Sam you should probably think about
whoever your background like need like
the waiting calm weight and stuff like
it sounds like some liberal talk show so
he you should maybe call up whoever that
is and make sure it's not we will we
will definitely do that John from Texas
about that we say appreciate the call
thanks Mike alright that's it for the
phone calls you'll take a bunch of items
and get out here all the caller's a
concept it was a context credit for
concept at a minimum I grew up in North
Carolina my experience we're all voters
view people of color in the same light
as stray cats it's nice to bring them
inside when your budget can handle it
but when times get tough it's time to
put the cat outside in that regard these
voters think Dems are crazy cat ladies
to reach those people you'd have to
convince them their budgets can handle
the aid and provide universal programs
you don't have to you don't have to stop
giving a the aid to win them over I mean
I think you know that was one of the
questions that came up with that
interview with John sides was the you
know he expressed it in that regard
people don't want to feel like somebody
else is stepping in front of line
for them to get what's theirs and the
the question is what if you basically
said everybody there's no line
everybody's just gonna get it you don't
have to wait in line you'll have to wait
your turn
your turn everybody's turn comes at the
front of line that that's really the
question if that can be successful
Universal programs in date Kentucky
Fried yeah I went to Foxwoods casino for
a show and stayed a couple of days I
think I experienced what one potential
libertarian futures would look like just
the constant siphon of money from people
who might need some regulation of their
vices instead our financially exploited
and literally every single way
conceivable Jed's garsh lei hasn't the
work of people like Noam Chomsky over
the past half a century proven the
notion of good intentions to be a
pernicious smokescreen for naked
self-interest around power and resource
control and can't believe you accepted
that guy's frame like a sack of potatoes
I mean my point was in and I think III
clearly upfront showed where his
perspective was coming from and broadly
speaking I think he's probably pretty
accurate in terms of good intentions as
far as these people are concerned you
know their intentions might be might be
molded in such a way that you and I
would not perceive them as good
intentions let's put it that way well he
just doesn't he also just has a you know
a different baseline understanding well
I mean he had three things that yeah
that that he thought were the goal of a
foreign policy now I may not agree with
those three goals but you know that's
the way to assess foreign policy I might
you know say like well shouldn't one of
the things be like it makes the world a
better place you know just like broadly
speaking or and certain amount of
suffering or whatnot I mean it but I was
trying to the issue wasn't for me to
argue with his base assumptions it was
to sort of make sure that those are
brought out and then see where you would
go from there
but like your majority report thought
your pre possessing faces ebullient
today mr. cedar the Chris loboc oh happy
birthday you magnificent son of a
thank you Doh manufacturers of asbestos
are looking down the barrel of a gun
multiple suits as before they'd be
idiots to continue manufacturing it
indeed Frankie B hey Sam it's no mistake
the Southern Poverty Law Center views
Serna vich is a right-wing extremist as
a veteran I'm sensitive to the vacuum
that's left once you leave combat and
return home only to feel a sense of
longing and loss people like sort of
itch come and take advantage of this
feeling and fill it with hate and false
sense of power people like him are scum
and need to be called out at every
opportunity 77 Chris day behind the
shows had just listened to the call from
North Carolina North Carolina rednecks
are a lost cause I've lived here for 38
years all the screams about voter fraud
in the state came from Republicans
started when a black guy won a no 8jb
got that bedre bearded hey Sam
what do you think Trump will start
backing rush of Ukraine and when do you
think Putin state visit will happen
don't don't call for a hawkish approach
to what's happening in Ukraine because
you don't like Trump that could get
incredibly dangerous I don't
aggressive happy birthday Sam and Lou of
a gift I bought brought a good story my
right wing shut-in cousin was until
recently hardcore into the IDW he's
obsessed with Jordan Peterson even
though he still never cleaned his room I
sent him some clips of you guys banging
on Peterson it must have worked he is
now a huge fan of Michael Brooke show I
tried to get him to watch mr but he said
your voice was too annoying happy
birthday so a boy a very promising
future this telling Millicent antipático
all of his friends I have a mellifluous
voice tell him to harass all of his
former friends with the new content crap
Oh zap oh happy birthday Sam
mr. paps happy birthday Sam I ran my
50th marathon and my 50th birthday on
Sunday was hoping to get a shofar good
for you farmer Gillian so Sam one of my
bad habits is listening to syndicated AM
radio program where a cranky lawyer
verbally abuses collars the radio
station broadcasting that show played an
ad for a storytelling podcast called
read build America where former
Breitbart and Liberty one TV Nazi youth
recently interviewed Mike Serna bitchin
on is the mainstream media really
concerned about the safety of reporters
kid you not happy birthday I love Sarah
Palin on climate change I think it's
important to mention the Republican
Party's the only political party in the
entire planet that's fighting for
climate change and here is the final I
am of the day RAM Saint similar to
Reagan's point on accepting
homosexuality by societies similar to
Ryan White putting the face on AIDS
crisis in the 80s people listen to the
homophobic dogma and fear-mongering
until a 10 year old kid became publicly
known sympathetic figure and the four
billion dollar bill to fund research was
even written in his name I'm not sure if
the same humanization is necessarily
possible for the climate crisis folks
thanks for all the birthday wishes
Michael be here tomorrow see you on
Friday
to get to where I want but I know sir
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
babe
[Music]
