[Music]
Joe Biden has been unfazed by at least
the criticism and the criticism has been
narrow right I mean most Democratic
voters do not read you know the New
Republic or or current affairs or or any
really publication most voters don't
read a period and most of them don't
listen to this program and so it's hard
to know whether people are still
supporting Biden
despite their knowledge about things
like you know Jane Mayer wrote in The
New Yorker today reiterating that fact
that the reason why Anita Hill was hung
out to dry during those hearings is
because Joe Biden prevented three women
who would corroborate if not the
specific stories at least stories about
Clarence Thomas that's in The New Yorker
that's a little bit more a mainstream
there are issues with Joe Biden when it
comes to race when it comes to trade and
his you know the depth of his his union
commitment seems to be rhetorical at
best yet with all that his numbers are
going up and the data at least in
certain circles shows and certainly the
anok data shows that the reason why Joe
Biden is getting this support is
articulated and probably very
appropriately so I mean I have no
problem with her but I mean I think it's
indicative by Alyssa Milano on MSNBC
with Ali Velshi and Stephanie ruhle
it is not a mistake are they not focused
on the overall mission for all Democrats
which is to defeat Donald Trump earlier
today Michael Steele said Democrats have
a choice you want to be woke or you want
to win do Goosen I think it's a great
point I think look there's nobody in the
world that wants progressive policy to
be set in place more than I do but this
primary to me is not about policy it's
about beating Trump period that's it end
of story we need to nominate someone
that is going to beat Trump and drink
honesty and integrity and in dignity and
truth back to the United States of
America empathy compassion all these
things that I want to teach my my
children growing up in this great
country we need someone that's going to
represent that to the best of their
ability and um and fight trunk and and
you know I can't it's not about who's
gonna make the best president it's
really about who's going to beat this
man is horrible horrible president now I
mean this is a part of the problem with
making it all about Trump on some level
as opposed to the fact that he is the
perfect representation of Republicans
but I will say this there has not been
in my lifetime a candidate who has been
picked because that candidate can win
who has won they understand what I'm
saying is that the when you start when
voters start getting meta and trying to
anticipate who is the strongest
candidate to people who are not like me
it's always ends up being a failure well
there was also that good I mean you know
I know some people with some problems
with the methodology and there's a
there's always a balance between
accommodating where people are and then
trying to push where you want to go but
I think you know there was that really
important piece in The Times about the
just total disconnect between like
online
sort of Twitter woke stuff and where
most normal voters are at and that's
real you can't get by that and that's
why I've said you know Joe Biden is bad
is tough for us to cover because his
appeal is not covered by any of our
quadrants I think even think some of the
other candidates that we don't like and
we don't support are more recognizable
in our worlds right I think Joe Biden
really isn't on both cultural and
obviously policy levels but I also agree
with you I mean I don't know if you're
leading up to this I don't think any
argument for any I mean look I think you
can make narrow arguments like I do
think Bernie would be quite effective in
the industrial Midwest I think
unfortunately Biden might be too so I'm
not going to be resting any of my
arguments elected I think it's totally
if we think it's totally a rebel there's
another saying that somebody's coming at
me saying bernie is unelectable then I
will marshal the a is yes exactly right
but saying that someone appeals to
certain types of folks I think is
actually something that you can prove in
the moment right you can look at that
and and and you it's also it's just
founded on a lot more than then then you
know sort of speculating who is going to
beat Trump in the context of a
one-on-one election I mean I think it's
quite clear why people like Joe Biden
now versus why they didn't like him in
2008 and in whatever it was 88 when I
ran it is because he has the imprimatur
of being the vice president of a
president who is considered very popular
of a president who is very much in
contrast to Donald Trump there's also a
sense that people have that a Hillary
Clinton's loss proved and I don't I
don't know if I subscribe to this but
certainly Hillary Clinton's loss or even
had she won I think it would you know by
a narrow margin would have
exposed the intensity of sexism in this
country and it's the comfortableness in
which people have in in their sexism
versus their racism in many respects I
think and yet the fact that there are
people whose first choice is Joe Biden
and second choice is bado or I'm sorry
people who people have the first choice
of Bernie and a second choice of like
bado or anybody bought Warren that
proves that sexism is real
yeah and I also think I mean I I think
that I think that's part of it I think
it also yeah shows that like the the
sensibility in which people are if you
if you look at a candidates appeal on
various different planes that the plane
in which you're you may have you may
find Bernie appealing on the policy
level it's not necessarily the same
plane that somebody else would somebody
else could just see them as being
outside of the mainstream and someone
could see that as Beto as being outside
the mainstream to politics our dumbest
 in this country what we'll do not
always vote based on policy that's
chapter I mean brand identity policy
also and I think that that that is where
you know again like what well here's and
here's the other thing is that in June
of 2016
my big fear was that if you get four
years of Trump and you're able to get
rid of four years of Trump you're going
to get exactly what we got after eight
years really twelve years of Reagan and
eight years of Bush and twelve years by
Reagan I mean the the for the the third
term of of his was with HW Bush and
eight years of of Bush which is a you
know a safe democratic pick now Obama
was some weak tea in terms of ideology
in terms of policy he
some weak tea particularly coming after
Bush and Joe Biden frankly I think his
politics are worse than Hillary
Clinton's and so we are in you know
maybe there's an argument on foreign
policy it's a little bit better but I I
mean I think think it's essentially it's
a wash and I think he's got a few I mean
he can he can point to Joe Biden just
cuz the lad this time
led the fight to cut Social Security
true in the in the Obama White House
I don't think Hillary Clinton would do
that I think she's a to know oh okay we
see it did want to privatize Social
Security Bill Clinton did and and and
there was certainly members of his his
of his cabinet who did but I'm also
comparing Hillary Clinton to Bill a to
to Joe Biden contemporarily yeah Joe
Biden back during the Clinton
administration was you know trying to
project basically a racist profile so I
mean you know I'm also I would compare
them apples to apples where they were on
their trajectories I think his politics
are just really bad and and and so I
think it's I mean I think he's he's
super problematic it's gonna be
interesting to see if over the course of
a campaign though he his he he doesn't
he doesn't do as well I mean we're gonna
see but what's gonna happen is if these
polling numbers stay up you're gonna see
Harris you're gonna see bat out you're
gonna see Booker you're gonna see all
these people basically run either for
vice president or for a cabinet position
or for you know a higher profile in the
Senate and it's going to very quickly be
a question of Biden versus Bernie and
Warren I think is I think that's very
possible
and
I just yeah and I obviously I hope that
if the dynamic holds as it is now deep
into the election that Warren will back
Bernie yeah I think that is gonna be the
choice she's you're me and he should
make her his running mate you're also
presuming though that Warren doesn't
pick up more from those people who fade
I would and I'm definitely presuming
that I don't I mean I respect and like
Warren but I don't see it I think Bernie
if you want she's moving up in the polls
if you want a progressive candidate its
Bernie's but do you think the people who
are supporting Beto and Kamala and
Booker are doing that because they want
a progressive candidate or do you think
that they want I think that someone I
knew yeah novel is most likely to
frankly I mean I think that probably
Biden frankly I think that pool if your
first choice is in that pool unless
maybe Beto
maybe Beto and maybe Buddha Jets are
swimming in different waters that
involve Sanders and there are I think
Paris and Booker R Biden there are
people I just want a woman and it's
gonna jump to her if Camilla is out of
the race or it's all hypothetical I
think I think I'm just you know look
Bernie too is clearly the progressive
frontrunner and I think it's important I
mean you know I just hope that if that
dynamic holds people coalesce if there's
a major earth satellite say the things
the other way it's just that's not what
it is right now one more thing about
electability sure because okay if there
were strong evidence that one candidate
was much much much more likely to beat
Trump than the other candidates
I'd have to seriously take a look at
that but as of now there's not but if
you want to look ahead to the Future to
the electability in the future I think
there's an argument to be made that
another crappy neoliberal centrist with
politics from the Clinton era that have
not changed would lead to an even more
reactionary Republican winning four
years from now so that's what I would
say to those people who are so concerned
about Trump right that's the actual
argument I've been saying like what
about 2022
what about 2024 this dynamic is
going anywhere and even if it is I mean
God it doesn't even need to be worse
than Trump could just be another
Republican dominate it's like like look
at what's happening in France I mean I
know it's not totally analogous but
people hate they hate McCrone and that
makes olap n victory that much more
likely next time around well I mean we I
mean I think there that's that's a I I'm
partial to that argument I mean I think
but I think that's I think you know
that's a second-order argument that you
know you're not going to sway Alyssa
Milano with that argument let's put it
that well that's a shame clearly a very
influential political mind it is it is a
shame but I mean I think I think
basically what's going you know we're
good what's gonna have to happen
for those of us who don't want Joe Biden
to be the nominee is he's got to get on
the campaign I mean right now they
started out with a very clear agenda to
make him seem like the the the Bigfoot
in this and and the the odd thing is I
think Bernie is perceived as the second
most electable in the in the race it is
also I mean to some extent it is a shame
just broadly speaking that we can't be
talking about you know 250 year old
women frankly in the context of what I
think this country really needs more but
we don't have 250 year old women who are
you know have the politics and then the
stature at this point that I would like
to see but it's gonna be interesting
it's going to be interesting to see if
Biden can maintain that and how the real
question is if that's the calculus how
does how does Bernie make that argument
or any of the other candidates how do
they make the argument that they are
more electable in 2020 than Joe Biden
and I mean I think really what it's
gonna take is that they got to win the
couple of the primaries I mean it's
gonna be organizing and so if you are in
any way distraught by this money's going
to be important obviously to support
your candidate but also getting out and
organizing because I think at the end of
the day that is going to be the the big
driver yeah and don't forget to register
to vote in the primaries by the way most
of time I just I just came across this
yesterday the deadline for New York to
vote in the Democratic primary it's
crazy soon your registration has to be
postmarked by May 31st I believe if you
want to vote in the Democratic primary
you need to be a Democrat a lot of
people don't know that a lot of states
don't have open primaries so definitely
check on that for your state and make
sure you get that in ya get on that we
got a remind we got to remember to talk
about that at the beginning of the show
tomorrow can find that for your state on
head count org head count dad or
backslash deadlines - dates
