[Music]
so folks laura ingraham has some
incredible insight into the move across
the country to end the extolling of
racists and what they represented look
we have some very bad chapters in our
history some of them are ongoing frankly
as a society like like most societies
there are bad chapters in in all these
societies the question is how do you
teach future generations about those bad
chapters do you extol the figures would
you would you want there to be if you
were in Germany a statue that
uncritically praises let's say I don't
know Adolf Eichmann would you would you
want that in Germany I would imagine no
you would not could you have museums
could you have plaques that describe
Eichmann's role in a very dark period of
their society yes of course you don't
want to deny history but you also want
to make sure that your record of history
reflects your understanding of the
mistakes that were made at that time
Laura Ingraham apparently does not
understand that concept or does and
wants to pretend that a concept is silly
cut-and-dried there's a movement
particularly among the young to hate the
past and eradicate anything they find
objectionable or troubling and look
every country all history has its bad
side that has this good size good stuff
bad stuff but this recalls the kind of
destructive mindset of let's say Isis
think about Isis what they did they pull
it pillaged and they wiped away
irreplaceable historical and religious
monuments from Palmyra remember in Syria
simply because they could it's offensive
to them
now no matter what one thinks of the way
this was all treated after the Civil War
where they should built these monuments
or not this happened
okay the Confederacy happened and we owe
it to the future to leave history as it
existed undisturbed continue to debate
it have conversations about it but why
not allow future generations the
opportunity to mark this history process
it and come to their own conclusions put
up another statue commemorating the
slaves who were abused and killed
adjacent to silent Sam but to destroy
instead of engage to defy the law
instead of respect it is no way to honor
the past or the future
or to highlight all the gains America
has made now but all right so so exactly
it's an interesting rhetorical trick
that she's playing here now we know that
Isis destroyed these they destroyed
these statues because of religious
differences not just because they found
it offensive and people aren't getting
rid of these statues simply because
they're offensive
they're getting rid of them because they
tell the wrong story and interpretation
of history these people were not to be
extolled if you want if you're very
concerned about silence Sam and you want
that history to exist then raise money
to create a little mausoleum for silence
Sam put it there and put it in the
context of a memorial that actually
tells history from the perspective that
we now understand it that this was a
very dark period that there were people
who were fighting and we're told you
need to fight because this is about our
sovereign tree sovereignty as opposed to
about our ability to maintain slaves for
economic purposes that really you're not
going to benefit from and if you want to
tell that story you can tell it but the
idea that we don't I mean would Laura
Ingram say this about
some of the hundred-year-old 200 year
old town houses that were destroyed here
in this neighborhood of Brooklyn for a
hotel would she say that of course not
she becomes looking anti gentrification
activist yeah
of course not yep this is absurd this is
absurd where's your check to the Paul
Robeson theater and Fort Greene of
course exactly exactly
I remember when Laura Ingraham had
chained herself to the Strand because
she was afraid that it might get taken
over me at Barnes & Noble the jury's
still out on the Confederacy right
instilled I hate both sides you know
right and the the bottom line is the
problem is that these statues do not
reflect our history they are propaganda
just because they was built doesn't mean
that it should stay there for eternity
without some form of reinterpretation or
frankly just it sends the wrong message
yeah that's a big part of why we study
history right so that we can create sort
of a living concept of what these things
meant to us as a people I mean we she's
not concerned about the the Indian the
Native American villages that some of
these cities are built on I mean it's
absurd it's absurd yeah I think it's a
great way to engage with history to take
down the statues venerating the
confederacy and that i mean in some ways
what you really should be doing is a
video installation of people taking down
the statue and that would really teach
history
