[Music]
go to Dan bond Jeanne no don weed bong
bong dan bong yeah Bob Dylan bond do you
know this guy's really about the First
Amendment shooting up the charts really
yeah he's heavily subsidized this guy
and he did he write this op-ed or did he
is he just talking about it here he is
he's gonna drop a truth bomb on us about
the asylum seekers and that is that our
Asylum rules are far too narrow and we
are sending people who are living lives
of misery away but that somehow is
problematic for him but not in the way
you would think the Roy's idea is gonna
expose mass hypocrisy on the left and
here's why Steve we know now just from
interviews of people on the ground and
from historical results of asylum
seekers that most of the people coming
here are not in fact coming here for
asylum some are but not all we know that
because a lot of people's Asylum
rejection our claims are rejected matter
of fact the overwhelming majority are
most people are coming I just understand
what that logic is all those people who
let's say start playing baseball at the
beginning of the year and say they want
to win the World Series they're not
really cuz they don't all win it yeah
then what are those baseball players up
to mostly these are not honest frankly
well they just want to be subsidized to
play during the year with no intention
of winning that's right when anybody
goes in for a job interview and they say
they want the job interview well we know
they don't really want the job interview
because they don't all get it in fact
the vast majority of people who go into
a job interview don't get the job
interview don't get the job therefore
the numbers are I mean probably more so
than asylum seekers late million I don't
know if it's if it's ten percent but I
mean you go in for one job the the
number of people who we interviewed just
for a job at the majority report who did
not get it suggests that really almost
87 percent of the people who came in for
this job didn't really want it probably
you have to wonder what their motives
were them yeah it's very interesting a
lot of ways one of the ways semster a
lot of hypocrisy economic opportunist
yeah let's hear what they economic
opportunity now how does that lead into
the apocrypha on the left
well the left I'm not talking about all
Democrats I'm talking about the far left
has done nothing over the past 30 or 40
years but bash capitalism as a means for
economic prosperity so you can't have it
both ways either people in countries
that don't practice capitalism are
coming here for capitalism's
opportunities or they're not so when you
say to them well why are they coming oh
they're coming in from Economic
Opportunity why because we're the freest
country on earth then why are you
bashing our economic system this is the
kind of piece that exposes them if you
get them on the record and answer the
roy's right if it's about economic
opportunity Panama's closer and probably
has some opportunities there as well but
the left won't admit that that's why
Steve they constantly focus on all their
coming here for asylum some are most of
them are not wait what III would
challenge I would like to ask every
single one of those people on the Fox
and Friends couch right now do you know
what he was talking about and see what
they've completely pretzel logic they
don't practice capitalism in Mexico
they're apparently Mexico's
non-capitalist
what economic system do they have in
Honduras freedom internationalist around
here
Honduras practice is something that
we're super fond of which is narco
capitalism back right the United States
I don't know what the problem is I like
that people in Honduras and El Salvador
sure but no it's the only free societies
it's Dan bond Geno saying that Panama
has more opportunity than America he
doesn't think America's the best I think
he got confused there because I think
what he meant is they couldn't get
economic opportunity in Panama but
they can get refuge there if they just
want that I do like I like to think I
think he got confused there could be a
summary of danwon she knows career Dan
bongos Dan bongos bongos got confused
brah in fact some of the only people who
have not been forced to migrate to
cities and sometimes the US are the ones
living in the autonomous Sabbat ista
communities at least in Mexico so very
possibly I mean that are not capitalist
so so if I understand what Dan Bunge
knows point is is that we should we what
what is the point like I'm trying to
figure out the point is they want to
come here because capitalism so awesome
two points one they're mostly long but
they only can really try and get asylum
but it's awesome here because we have
capital and the ultra-left
are a bunch of hypocrites yeah because
of one hand they want them all to come
here but they won't admit a little
reason they want to come here is because
of Catholic yeah bung Bungie no saying
they're not leaving because of the
terrible circumstance is worth it from
where they had to leave they're leaving
because they they saw shark tank well I
propose a third I propose a third way
which is we eliminate all regressive
policies aimed at immigrants eliminate
them completely then we implement
socialism in this country and see cuz
presumably they'll all get the hell out
they're all an experiment that's how we
go to Panama let's yeah dokkan let's see
how that works out I will totally take
that bet
because isn't the other the key point
that they have in the back of their mind
that if we do socialism more these
people are gonna come here yeah because
I thought it was that they come here to
leech off of our welfare systems all
over the place all over the place
