[Music]
the Trump administration is sending out
the best that they have to offer to
defend them against the sort of the
latest revelations and you know Michael
Cohen headed to jail and really I mean
at this point if Donald Trump was not in
office they would go and arrest him I
mean that's just the reality and it's
clear that the Southern District of New
York who pressed these charges against
Michael Cohen know that you cannot
indict a sitting president and so I
think they're just gonna go after the
whole family on those narrow charges
that are around the Trump business
dealings but here's Rudy Giuliani fresh
off of what making millions of dollars
from who was it now like some oppressive
regime consulted all across the globe
but particularly he worked with us right
in America no but just recently I feel
like there was an African I can't
remember toriel Ghana I'm not sure ain't
Guinea I'm not sure somebody any there
was a great show on this program about
specifically his work to enhance police
violence in Latin America you can
enhance police violence why wouldn't you
but here's Rudy Giuliani going out God
knows how much money he thinks he's
gonna make or really it's the only way
he gets on television which ups his
value with the other clients I mean
going out and defending Donald Trump may
not ultimately pay him anything cuz
Donald Trump doesn't pay his bills but
what it does do is it signals to tyrants
in third world nations I'm your guy I
mean the amount of money he's probably
made off of that already is i I think
would
blow the doors off of a vault I think we
would all be blown away but here he is
erratically defending Dondre I don't
believe so but again if Roger stone gave
anybody heads-up about WikiLeaks leaks
that's not a crime it would be like
giving them heads up that the times are
gonna print something once the crime is
why this thing is so weird
strange the crime is conspiracy to hack
collusion is not a crime it doesn't
exist I ran that office I hold on for
one second we should I should tell you
this is a compilation of his time on on
ABC's this week collusion is not a crime
there is no crime collusion there is a
crime conspiracy to defraud the United
States by conspiring with other people
to break any one or other laws or you
know whether its disclosure or whatnot
and we've gone over this you can go back
and listen to anything that we've done
with Marcy wheeler she explains that but
go ahead I know what they do you know
how the southern district is run you
know exactly how the southern district
is no I don't know the district says you
can get out of jail if you do this he's
got three years now there's a real
motivation to sing like crazy you've got
to do a lot of singing to get out of the
three years and he will say whatever he
has to say he's changed his story four
or five times
so is the president presidents not under
oath did Donald Trump know that Michael
Kohn was pursuing the Trump Tower in
Moscow into the summer of 2016 according
to the answer that he gave it would have
covered all the way up to November of
covered 11 November 2016 said he had
conversations with him about President I
this they were layer they had said those
conversations stopped in January 2016 I
don't mean the date I mean until you
actually sit down and answer the
questions and you go back and you look
at the papers and you look at the train
you're not gonna know what happened
that's why that's why I was you know
prepare
wait y-you can't ask me about dates when
I haven't sat here and like prepared
which lie I'm going to tell about it let
alone asking somebody who didn't finish
law school about dates exactly it's just
unseemly it's unseemly that remember
when Giuliani was doing mafia cases and
he and they would play Miss Julie with
the law school I'm sorry I know about
them yeah which dates we thought is a
lot of dates a lot of dates on a day how
many would the dates
why he's so up on top of the dates good
good view mr. Giuliana you never
prosecute anybody who lied to federal
officials when he was a US Attorney was
he in the Southern District I know he
was AUSA I can't I can't reveal it
district you in something district the
one that was reading Breitbart like
during the 2016 campaign
no that's the FBI I think the FBI in the
New York FBI office there are multiple
jurisdictions for US attorneys in New
York State because it's big
most most states have maybe one US
Attorney's Office yeah but he rescued us
from all that unlawful dancing so that's
right it'd be too hard on that's right
we there was a lot of victories there
that Rudy Giuliani we you don't see
people cleaning windshields anymore
because of Rudy
