teachers in LA on strike day - I guess
now and this is aerial footage from
yesterday the superintendent school said
there was about 3,500 people a bear
striking this is other reports say
closer to 20 to 30,000 this is a lot of
em they're striking for company Bentleys
and right about like 0.5 here the
cafeteria caviar in the cafeteria - our
work day Honey Crisp apples these are
just I there's I think slightly more
than 3,500 people there as it stands and
this is you know these people are
amazing is they're doing this for all of
us people going out in the rain in Los
Angeles is one of those things you
rarely see woz has lived in LA for maybe
just a year now right after being a
lifelong New Yorker and I don't know I
think he went to Pennsylvania for a year
or something and a couple of weeks ago
he's on Twitter being like it's like
Seattle it's like Seattle like it took
him less than a year to be a week la
person whining about the rain yeah
pretty quickly I think that that ability
to deal with the weather but they
continue to strike you know part of the
story is not just that there is no
dedicated system funding for things like
a nurse in elementary schools or
librarian in in middle schools there's
also a there's a reason for the teachers
to believe based upon the way the moves
that have been made by the
superintendent of schools that there is
going to be an attempt to continue to
privatize and this is a this is a major
problem across the country there is big
money to be made in these privatized
schools and for-profit charters the idea
like look here is the the the the
classic
I mean this is an extremely reliable
explanation for most phenomena that we
see that involve huge amounts of public
money right like we have a huge amount
of money that is publicly administered
in the Social Security system right
there's if people pay in there is no
lockbox per se but there is basically a
line-item that is that for all intents
and purposes cannot add or diminish the
deficit and Wall Street wants their
hands on that money they call it dumb
money they also want that their hands on
that money that is collected for schools
Betsy DeVos is on record as saying I'm
not against public education I'm against
public schools so in other words you
collect the money in taxes and I will
help divert it to private schools in her
case she really wants the money to end
up in parochial schools but they realize
like if some secular schools get the
money that's fine too that's not gonna
hurt us as long as we get enough to fund
our madrasahs we'll be ok oh and I just
saw that uh some defense contractors are
getting into the charter school business
so that's fun
there's a lot of money there there's a
lot of money it's you know private
prisons it's it's all the same thing
wherever there is a a a big pool of
money that is going there's gonna be
this impetus to privatize it and it must
be obviously this these resources must
be protected
