5:02 area code who's this okay this is
Tom from Lexington again Tom from
Lexington
what's on your mind Tom I called you in
a few months ago about Jordan Peterson I
know Michaels writing a book about it I
actually have to write a paper about
Peterson's rhetoric and how cultural
Marxism is not a real thing
oh so that's what I'm working on right
now I got a recommendation for you
CUC philosophy did a good tech down on
YouTube of this that's it a channel
thank ya I already I already subscribe
to them and I subscribe to all you guys
um but the thing I want to talk about is
did you all see to think progress piece
about how Portland cops found guns and
all my people loaded up yeah I have that
right actually this is over the summer
and this is actually from The Oregonian
so Patriot prayer members that's their
group stationed themselves on a downtown
Portland rooftop with a cache of guns
prior to a summer protest city of found
officials announced this for the first
time on Monday which is apparently the
first thing that mayor Ted wheeler
learned about it this is pretty shocking
that the cops obviously didn't share
this with anybody the Portland Police
Bureau discovered individuals have
positioned themselves on a rooftop
parking structure in downtown Portland
with the cash firearms they had the
weapons included long guns they and it
was just a press conference there were
no arrests made because the protesters
had not broken any laws and had licenses
to carry concealed weapons asked why the
public was not told to the incident
sooner chief Danielle outlaw said
hindsight is always perfect hmm they're
out of control this is not the first
story from the you guys needs needs to
follow Corey pine on this yes he reports
this really hard and we did a show on
majority report over a year ago on
murders that took place in Portland with
that all right guy as well and there is
a very long-standing pattern here of the
gentle version would be police
incompetence and I would argue maybe
some sort of complicity in this more
vigilance than that would be I be
vigilant very vigilant this is not
probably nuts that the police department
as a regular practice does not inform
the mayor that there were armed folks
who were not just walking the streets
with there but actually taking a
position on the top of a parking
structure which offense ibly is like
where you would go if you were being a
sniper right I mean you don't have
sometimes tactician to know this it's
pretty nuts yeah and I want to I mean I
am from Kentucky saw an apologize for
Mitch McConnell and the failure
Kentuckians for the rest of this country
but if you google EKU and police
infiltration someone to EKU published a
paper and I could wish I could pull it
up right now but I can't about how white
supremacists have infiltrated police
departments all across the country and
more unfortunate branches and now we're
seeing it play out real time with what
happened in New York and what happened
in Portland yeah I have to say it woman
yes sorry good yeah well I got one more
thing for you Michael but it's on a
different matter but you go ahead I just
look maybe it's I think there's even
something to be said even in this sort
of like who is the ultimate enemy sort
of conversation and obviously
recognizing that centrists and
neoliberal czar a major problem in New
York if you didn't have Cuomo who is the
worst and de Blasio who in some ways is
frankly pretty bad immediately come out
and use their platforms like that I
don't think the NYPD would be going out
and doing this and making sure that that
dynamic New York and that's a perfect
example of why those relative choices
definitely matter matters folks
