[Music]
lastly before we go to Bendixon here is
Donald Trump basically in Minnesota last
night at a rally and you you're familiar
with this it would this uh Coliseum is
all right
oh yeah Target Center it's where the
Timberwolves play and you had a comment
to say about like how many is that seat
probably 20,000 and well and you'll
notice in these clips we play they don't
ever pan up above into the upper deck
and there's another clip floating around
Twitter maybe we'll play it later that
shows that there wasn't people up there
I mean that's the he's not getting the
number of people at the rallies as they
as he used to that's that's quite clear
now maybe his shows just worn off
whatever but it's an indication that
maybe Trump is not as formidable as he
once was but these folks really really
apparently have a problem with refugees
but many years leaders in Washington
brought large numbers of refugees to
your state from Somalia
[Music]
without considering the impact on
schools and communities and taxpayers I
promise you that as president I would
give local communities a greater say in
refugee policy and put in place enhanced
vetting and responsible immigration
control
and I've done that since coming into
office I have reduced refugee
resettlement by 85 percent and as you
know maybe especially in Minnesota
I kept another promise I issued an
executive action making clear that no
refugees will be resettled in any city
or any state without the express written
consent of that city or that state so
speak to you America yeah he sounds a
little tired little strained his voice
meanwhile was also some odd
it could mean absolutely nothing but a
little some odd physicality there I'll
just leave it at that a little bit
meanwhile on Twitter somebody writes
that Trump no refugees will be placed in
any city or state without the explicit
consent of your governor or mayor so ask
your mayor about that and Jacob fry the
mayor of Minneapolis wrote on Twitter
consent given immigrants and refugees
are welcome in Minneapolis good for him
there it is Donald Trump is speaking to
a narrow band of of people I'm not gonna
say all white people that's just the
coincidence that's all we can see in the
the frame although they they really do
plan they really do you know pick and
choose who's gonna stand behind him at
these events just as they do with all
politicians and so there it is this is
what he's going to be running on and
that and apparently you know the the
treasonous folks who are using this
newfangled device called impeachment we
got to take quick
