move to the other story about the
leadership of the Democrats in the house
the coalition of 16 letter signers has
already fallen apart god bless you has
already fallen apart apparently at least
one guy Higgins from New York has
decided that he is going to rescind his
signature on that letter that is
important because the the magic number
was 1515 votes against Pelosi could be
afforded as of now it may be the
Democrats picked up a House seat in Utah
and in I think it was California was the
second one there was two of them
the meal loveseat and then there was a a
second seat that the AP it called or
maybe the AP it called that one
nevertheless there's at least about 15
votes that Nancy Pelosi can afford to
let people take based upon their on
their promise to their voters and all
this has blown up in Seth Moulton face
showing at the very least that Nancy
Pelosi is pretty good at what she does
when it comes to at the very least
twisting arms and getting votes for what
she wants and knowing when she where and
when she can get them Seth Moulton now
has a Seth Moulton problem he was
holding a town hall and Amesbury on the
north shore up near the New Hampshire
line more or less way you would go if it
was a Sunday and you needed to do a
run because of the blue laws in
Massachusetts and he was shoot across
the border
pick up some booze come back party for a
football game let's say Seth Moulton
announcing his opposition to Nancy
Pelosi apparently he didn't check this
out with his constituents
what this using the joining of Democrats
and apparently that constituent was on
to something because he certainly didn't
have the skillset he was backing off the
letter very quickly saying how he didn't
write it there were people there were
other members in the dark hiding out who
were afraid that it was written and then
he goes on to compare Nancy Pelosi to
Margaret Thatcher which I think from an
ideological standpoint is wrong and also
from a historical standpoint than what
he discussed was also wrong and it
didn't seem to do very well politically
with his own constituents
[Music]
she served several terms and then a lot
of change and she said no no mystic with
I said well Primus you don't have those
and she said no it doesn't matter I'm
gonna go to I'm gonna go to the floor
and drag this out I'm gonna twist arms
and I'm gonna get the vote anyway and so
she did that so she went to the floor
and she twisted arms that is the
strangest first off what happened when
Margaret Thatcher is her own party she
didn't have the votes amongst her own
party Nancy Pelosi clearly has the
majority of Democrats in favor of her
even you know prior to the opposition
falling apart to the point where she's
like almost orchestrating the opposition
well you need 218 votes
she had the vast majority of Democratic
votes even if she didn't get to 218
right
Thatcher lost confidence her own party
lost confidence in her in this instance
you're talking about maybe 10 percent of
the Democrats wanting to vote against
her so that analogy was wrong and just
the analogy of like and they got a new
prime minister and everything was fine
I mean it was a pretty dramatic change
Margret Thatcher was ruggle fifth
grade civics lesson it really is I'm
gonna tell I'm gonna do something that
hopefully you won't pick up on how
condescending it is as I tell you this
story my understanding is that sure was
booted because she wasn't pro-europe
enough is that right I like the John
major types that's very possible she
wasn't moving into the 21st century
