CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people then
conference rooms of any of Asia they are
unanimous we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is
Wednesday September 4th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today former
New York Times labor reporter
[Applause]
and author of his latest beaten-down
worked up the past present and future of
American labor Steven greenhouse will be
with us meanwhile in a stunning decision
a North Carolina Superior Court strikes
down gerrymandering and Republicans give
up the ghost in Texas another Texas
Republican House member to retire well
into double digits now folks and in
England
something's going on they are about to
vote on passing a ban on a No Deal
brexit they will know in 15 minutes and
then the Queen if she sends a signal
three hours from right and apparently
worse worse Johnson's wearing a
three-button sport coat then he gets to
be me exactly I know he gets to be
Secretary of the Dutch and then they
roll a big ball of cheese down the hill
and then everyone has teeth meanwhile on
the eve of the CNN climate Town Hall's
Elizabeth Warren adopts J insulates
climate goals Bahamas in ruins
a 60 thousand of the 400,000 who live on
that island are without water or food
durian now not quite the storm it was
but still big heading to the Carolinas
Hong Kong leader withdraws the
extradition bill that sparked protests
but protesters are continuing as they've
only gotten one of five of their demands
and apparently the military doesn't need
all that money they just gave Donald
Trump three point six billion dollars
for his wall and lastly apparently
conversion therapy works if you're
trying to convert back if you're trying
to go 360 as the one of the biggest
conversion therapy proponents in the
country comes out and concedes that he
is in fact yet all this and more on
today's program where they tell me that
business the oh gosh and then get great
news
this program will not be will not be
distributed by the blaze because we are
not a conservative program and there are
only a conservative programs on the
blaze network like steven crowder this
is also the network that launched and
well they merged with the thing that
launched Gavin McGinnis and of course
Tomi Lauren although she got booted
because she was pro-choice if I'm not
mistaken because of small government and
they have a bunch of other conservatives
on there like oh that new guy they have
that conservative dave rubin right so
congratulations to dave rubin dave i
don't want to take anything away from
you because i know that you've worked
hard for this and obviously you I would
imagine through the various Koch
affiliate networks word got out that
David Koch may not have too much longer
to spread horridness competition would
start kicking in through cash gifts and
maybe you heard it was time for you to
move to get a little more aggressive
with the book coming out I just want to
say that I you
I you deserve most of this credit but I
also gotta say that I think you're
deciding to just come out as a
conservative and and watch out for that
steven crowder there because he loves to
make fun of the gays but you're coming
out as a conservative I feel like in
some small way I helped you and I want
you to know that makes me feel good so
congrats to you and if I do say so
myself
congrats to me because I feel like you
know I helped you in some way see your
true essence and there is nothing that
makes us happier here I think we all
basically participate obviously in
helping support true essence there is
nothing that is more gratifying to all
of us here and to see someone come into
their own like you have so it was
supposed to be after 2020 kudos well
that's good I mean good for you and you
know what that means
you guys will sell a ton of books just
especially some large purchases I
imagine yeah and maybe some big plays
both purchasing to you but that's pretty
good no it seems to me that abortion
I've thought about intellectually and
it's wrong right ever both I just seen
oh that was the other thing is that yeah
Dave would you mind sending me a
heads-up on when you're going to
announce that you're fully now
anti-abortion because you've been
pretending a little bit like you've been
walking down this road I would imagine
these negotiations have been going on
for a while that may have been the big
stumbling block or maybe you and Glenn
were not sure actually that the bulk
purchase is gonna work it seems to me
like women should be able to cheat this
whole host birth abortion thing is
really problematic I I just can't
support people who support killing live
people so no I mean except for unless
it's you know except for in
my things okay
but they could be aborted well it's -
this is about the ideas I thought how
can I organize ideas and I need a giant
chalkboard with Ilhan amira in the
middle of it and Glen's got when it was
I said last night he needs a boss he
definitely needs direction and whatever
else he say about Glenn Beck
I think he's able to provide a form of
direction yep
hey folks as you know in fact my
daughter is starting school tomorrow
high school it is a time of great
anxiety for kids and they're concerned
about their appearance what not I mean
it's look adults are too but you don't
you know things like acne are
problematic and one of our sponsors
America's number one acne brand Proactiv
has helped fight at me for almost 25
years and they've introduced their next
generation acne treatment called
Proactiv MD apparently it contains
Dalene which according to my well I
still consider my father-in-law ish
who's a dermatologist that is the one of
the most recommended you know topical
what do they call it retinoid treatment
for mild and moderate acne and
apparently this is the first
prescription-strength retinoid that is
FDA approved for use in treating acne
without a prescription and it works by
affecting the growth of cells decreasing
the acne inflammation they have been at
this for about 25 years old Kelly not
old but formerly Kelly
well not formerly Kelly but Kelly
formerly of the show tells me I'm using
Proactiv on and off since I high school
the formula has improved over the years
the ideas remain the same it is a
program of skincare that gives you short
and long term results it's the best acne
fighting product that doesn't
our prescription it's been that way for
a long time she writes I have sensitive
skin and proactive program has made my
skin smoother and clearer without
causing redness or peeling and this is
the perfect time of the year to start a
program for many people because school
is starting up soon
it only takes weeks to achieve a no
difference in your skin and confidence
makes all the difference it's the best
regimen I've ever used and right now we
have it back to school offer from
Proactiv you can't get anywhere else
with your Proactiv MD or order you're
also going to receive Proactiv on the go
bag which features their t-zone oil
absorber body acne wipes and green tea
moisturizer for free that's close to
$100 value plus get free shipping with a
60 day money back guarantee just go to
Proactiv dot-com / majority that's
Proactiv PR Oh a CT IV dot-com /
majority to make to order and make the
first day school back back-to-school the
best day ever so check that out before
we get to Steven greenhouse this is a
really important story we'll get to Mike
Pence and his evasive nasai in the
program but this is really important as
you know the Supreme Court rejected even
the idea that the Supreme Court could
address partisan gerrymandering and they
did this back in in June in the I think
it's rush oo Roo Cho versus common cause
essentially john roberts said federal
courts can't decide gerrymandering cases
because they're beyond the competence of
federal courts now this is pretty
stunning they said that state courts are
competent to do this but somehow federal
courts are now that's why i'm snickering
in the back roads here like even the
more potentially biased court they can
do it right I mean this is located by
statewide partisan elections exactly
exactly exactly
however a Superior Court is a state
court in Wake County North Carolina
I heard a case common cause versus Louis
and they had you remember the huh feller
files right this is the guy who's
considered the grandfather of
gerrymandering he died his estranged
daughter went to go collect his stuff
found all these hard drives which was
huge in the context of the citizenship
question that came up in the census
because it became clear that he was the
one who promoted the asking that
question who wrote the alibi for the
Department of Justice and for the
Commerce Department Department to use in
getting that question on the in the
census and the Supreme Court struck that
down well what was also in there in this
treasure trove of hard drives was all of
the correspondence in evidence that the
North Carolina Republican Party had
specifically set out to essentially make
it impossible impossible for Democrats
to control the Statehouse to develop a
gerrymander so that Democrats could win
the majority of votes in the state and
still the Republicans would win a super
majority of the seats
that's how dramatic this was the court
issued a something like a 370 page
decision because there was so much data
so these these seats were drawn in 2017
because the Supreme Court had struck
down the earlier version as a racial
gerrymander which they apparently are
competent in in viewing so Republican
law legislators gave ha feller all the
the the the election data said we want
our supermajority figured out so he
created all these we you know we've
heard how this is done right you pack
all the Democrats into one district even
if you have to draw it on a house by
house basis
and then you create more like 55 45
Republicans districts apparently at the
trial experts looked at the maps and
said that ha fellers maps were more
favorable to Republicans than 99.99% of
maps that were generated by an algorithm
using nonpartisan redistricting factors
it was good at his job yeah he was very
good so apparently the Wake County
Superior Court found which consisted of
two Democrats and one Republican found
that the extreme gerrymander violates
three provisions of the North Carolina
Constitution this is where you can get
some remedy if there is a state
constitution that deals with voting and
you have more Democrats than Republicans
sitting on the state Supreme Court's and
and in state courts one it strikes at
the heart of the free elections clause
this is a broad reading but it said that
the clause found that elections must be
conducted freely and honestly to
ascertain fairly truthfully the will of
the people if a majority of people vote
for Democrats and Republicans still win
a super majority of seats you could
argue that this is not a free election
second the court held that the
gerrymandering violates North Carolina's
Equal Protection Clause that seems quite
obvious my vote as a Democrat is worth
not even like two thirds of the vote of
a Republican because of the way the
gerrymander works and they also violate
the guarantees of freedom of speech and
assembly voting for the candidates of
one choice in associating with the
political parties at one choice our core
means of political expression to
diminish people's votes based upon what
party they belong to is an attack on
that free expression it burdens their
speech by making their votes less
effective
the court gave the General Assembly two
weeks to draw a new legislative maps
they're not going to the Supreme Court
and I will give you six reasons why
because six Democrats one Republican on
that state Supreme Court so there you
have it this is going to have a dramatic
impact on North Carolina maybe not well
certainly in this election but in the
years to follow it's going to create a
North Carolina is gonna be a reliably
blue state in tenures reliably I mean
it's it's you know it's purplish now
it's gonna be reliable I mean it's just
the way that it's going and they're not
gonna be able to stop it so good for
that court courts are important folks
state courts federal courts which means
that the people who appoint people to
courts the people who set up the voting
and have control of the voting operates
apparatus in states where they vote for
people on courts this is all very
important not sexy not policy but it's
about power and this dovetails nicely
into the question of unions in
particular not so much labor but the
power of unions largely is statutory and
we will talk to Steven greenhouse about
his book beaten-down worked up the past
present and future of American labor
after we take this break
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome the former New York Times labor
reporter author of his most recent
beaten-down worked up the past present
and future of American labor Steven
greenhouse welcome to the program great
could be here Sam so um I just you know
just by chance today there was a piece
and Axios union's shrink fast in swing
states in particular the percentage US
workers union members fell from 20% in
83 to 10.5% in 2018 Brookings gives a
half-a-dozen reason for the decline I
suspect that you would order them
differently then Brookings did they were
saying it's a manufacturing to service
based economy more people getting
college degrees
the rise of tech deregulation and then
it goes to spread the work a spread of
right-to-work legislation and aggressive
employers who have used things like
tactics delaying union elections your
book gives a history both of sort of the
the rise the fall and then I guess maybe
the hopes of the union movement and in
in in this country and and the power of
labor and in fact you say specifically
American labor in your in your the title
of your book let's just start with this
notion of like the the difference
between labor and unions and at what
point unions became the the the the I
guess the tool for labor to empower
themselves so sometimes you know labor
is interchangeably as unions but in
American history you know remember the
Industrial Revolution late 1800s where
workers faced you oppression you know
sweatshops in the garment industry you
know people in mechanical industries you
know was in arms and legs horrible
exploitation of people who built the
railroads and you know things are pretty
bad
are a lot of industrial workers in the
late 1800 1900 s then 1929 the Harville
in a Great Depression hit and things got
even worse you know quarter of the
workforce was laid off many people lost
their homes so during the New Deal FDR
they said we need to figure out a way to
pep up the economy to put more money in
workers pockets and that might rev up
the economy if workers have more money
to spend so they passed a law called the
nationally Relations Act that created a
federally protected right for workers to
unionize in FDR and the great senator
from New York New York New York state
New York City robert f wagner senior and
i thought that if we made it easy for
the workers to unionize they'll be able
to get a higher pay to get you know
their a higher share of the profits of
their companies and they'll be able to
spend more on cars and washing machines
and and and clothing for their kids and
that will you know have creative work to
recycle that will you know help lift the
nation out of depression and you know
unions grew very fast in the late 1930s
and was very strong during World War Two
and World War two you know there was
this wonderful partnership generally
between business and labor you know that
you know because they realized they were
fighting a common enemy the Nazis the
Axis powers
so unions are really strong in the 1940s
and 50s and 60s and in my book I write
about you know how labor unions very
much helped create the American middle
class the middle class really didn't
exist before the 1950s and it was some
landmark union contracts especially ones
won by Walter Reuther probably the
greatest labor leader of the 20th
century he headed the United Auto
Workers right you know he reached this
you know amazing contract that lifted
workers African flexion paid by 20
percent over five years that created
great pensions that created great health
coverage and that really you know put
labour on the map in a big big way in
the United States okay and and you
dedicate a chapter to ruther and
want to talk about that but let's go
back so we have the Frances Perkins
comes in and as FDR's Secretary of Labor
and if I'm not mistaken she you know
sort of witnessed what had happened at
the Shirtwaist Fire in some fashion or
another and she is less a union
organizer type but but sees the
importance of law as empowering unions
right and and you mentioned this
ultimately culminates in the the the
Labor Relations Act but talk a little
bit about like what happens with
taft-hartley which in in many ways ok
kneecaps unions right in it but they
just don't feel it for it seems like two
decades okay before I talk about it let
me let me put he had some context and
framing you so I wrote this book you
know party because you know workers in
America are really taking on the chin in
many many ways
yes unemployment is low and wages are
finally creeping up but you know we're
the only industrial nation that doesn't
guarantee all workers you know paid
parental leave paid maternity but the
only destination that doesn't guarantee
workers paid vacation you know paid
vacation and the European Union's 28
nations all work as a guaranteed for
weeks paid vacation me and South Korea
are the only two in destinations that
don't guarantee all workers paid sick
paid sick days and you know one of the
main points on my making my book is that
the u.s. suffers from this horrible
auntie worker exceptionalism and that's
partly because worker power is so weak
in the United States compared to other
industrial nations and I in the book I
examine the rise of work of power and
union power in the US and how that
really lifted workers from the sweatshop
stage to being members of a prosperous
middle class and you know and I discuss
certain important chapters in that like
Walter Reuther and how Francis Perkins
the great labor secretary under FDR
helped they discuss you know that the
Cline of labor you know who
globalization and that's
corporate fights against unions and
taft-hartley so taft-hartley so as I
said a few minutes ago exams so unions
grew very strong you know from the late
1930s into the 1940s after the National
Labor Relations Act was passed and and
and Frances Perkins was a labor
secretary played a real role in helping
that get enacted and after that was
passed you know when you know we went
from maybe seven eight nine ten percent
of workers in America when unions to by
nineteen fifty four thirty five percent
were in unions so you know after World
War so Yoon Yun's
and business as I said worked very
closely together during World War two to
defeat the Nazis you know to produce all
these you know war planes and bombs but
you know there were wage freezes
throughout World War Two and after world
war ii you know union members you know
you would you know we're very impatient
for raises and and so there was a record
number of strikes in 1946
you know it's steel strikes where wood
strikes order strikes and they drove out
the public crazy and that helped and as
a result that helped elect a Republican
Congress the tokens were in control of
Congress for the first time since you
know like 1932 and they you know the
Republicans of course don't love unions
and they push very quickly to enact a
very tough anti-union law called the
taft-hartley Act and that you know gave
employers a right to fight against
unionization efforts it enabled
individual states to enact so-called you
know anti-union feed logs that are often
called right-to-work laws that said you
know that with these laws states can say
that workers and unionized workplaces
don't have to pay any dues or fees to
the unions that represent them the
bargain for them that were in wages for
them and the you know he's right to work
laws have really helped weaken unions in
many many states now turning to the very
first point
so about union membership declining and
the key Midwestern stage I make a big
point about this in my book and I see
has been picked up elsewhere I say that
you know one of the main reasons that
Donald Trump was able to win in
Wisconsin Michigan in Pennsylvania was
that union membership I greatly declined
there and and I think we talked about
you know the horrible things like voter
suppression and that certainly existed
in Michigan Wisconsin I think far too a
little attention has been paid to how
the declining union membership has hurt
the Democratic Party had hurt you know
Hillary Clinton Hillary I argue did not
do nearly enough to win over blue-collar
voters but I think also you know the
Republicans really pummeled unions in
Wisconsin with Scott Walker and the law
that really crippled government sector
unions in Wisconsin and the Republican
in Wisconsin really wanted to eviscerate
gut public sector unions because they
saw them as friends of the Democrats and
you know that law far and away was the
main reason that union membership
dropped in Wisconsin and I write my book
that union membership drought in
Wisconsin by over a hundred fifty
thousand by forty three percent in the
past decade by over one hundred fifty
thousand and Trump won Wisconsin by just
twenty two thousand votes so you can
imagine if there's additional hundred
fifteen thousand people we're still in
unions and unions were beating the
bushes and getting them to vote for
Hillary vote Democratic Trump might not
have won Wisconsin
ditto in Michigan union membership in
Michigan fell about 140,000 in the past
decade trampled in Michigan by just
eleven thousand and again Republicans
are very hard michigan to enact laws to
weaken unions there was a right-to-work
law and another law that kind of cut the
knees off the unions representing child
care workers and home care workers a
really cut back their membership and cut
back in paying dues so I probably would
argue somewhat with the bookings
Brookings study you know certainly loss
of manufacturing jobs played a big role
but certainly in with
and the Republican offensive to hobble
 unions played a big big role in
the decline of union membership right I
mean the the manufacturing can have but
there are other jobs that people are
going to that could be unionized if
there wasn't such a hostile statutory
climate toward unionization I mean let's
let's talk a little bit about the this
this notion because that's as far as I
can tell the law that Walker rolled out
in 2000 I guess 11 it was right at the
beginning yeah in fact that sparked all
those protests was essentially you know
one of those model laws that was
developed in something like the American
Legislative Exchange Council and that
Wisconsin was basically you know the the
pilot program for this on some level in
states that had you know Wisconsin had
an incredibly rich and you know what are
the richest union histories in the
country what what let me ask you this
because you know I mean I remember
talking to Grover Norquist just by
chance and it wasn't something I would
recommend to people to do often but in
the early aughts and he was talking
about public sector unions then as being
problematic you know getting pensions
while other people's pensions go away
that type of thing and so this was
clearly one of their agendas and and in
modern times I look at the card check
legislation as the analog except for
when Democrats got into power they
completely forgot about it
so you Grover Norquist you know many
many people are like a very smart guy
a good strategist and I quote him
numerous times in my book where he like
lays out why it would be good for
Republicans and good for people like him
who hate taxes to try to unions
and you know for the Grover Norquist of
the world you know it's great to try to
you know cut public sector unions
because what a public sector unions
they they push for good salaries for
teachers and police officers and
firefighters to make sure that the
salaries are low are adequate that you
know good trained talented dedicated
people will move to those jobs but
Grover doesn't like that because it
might mean higher taxes another thing a
lot of public sector unions do is they
push for an adequate social safety net
they want to protect social security
they want to make sure you know there's
you know that for teachers want to make
sure there's adequate food for kids in
school they wanna make sure food stamps
are adequate they want to make sure that
you know child runs programs are
adequate adequate and and again Grover
Norquist and a lot of you know
conservatives you know want to you know
silence and gut and weaken public sector
unions because they're champions of an
adequate social safety net and so Social
Security for tens of millions of
Americans so you know you know Grover
Norquist the Koch brothers lots of other
billionaires were really cheerleaders
and contributing money to Scott Walker
for him to lead the way in this
experiment of you know chopping off
public sector unions at the knees and
and we in Iowa in 2017 much fanfare
without much attention pass the law you
know just as powerful in shopping of
public sector unions at the knees and
and you know these law is really very
much weak in public sector unions and
that puts the never Democrats because
public trade unions you know you know
knock on doors and make phone calls and
help elect you know and very much
helpful help but like Democrats and you
know III use lying my book that you know
Grover Norquist is famous for saying he
wishes he could shrink government to the
point where he you know he would go down
a bathroom drain and I said he probably
feels the same way about labor unity
which is that labor unions would you
know you know become so small that they
would also go down a bathtub drain and
you know there's been this long long or
you know one of the main points of my
book is this long war both by corporate
America and by you know working
hand-in-hand with the Republican Party
to weaken unions especially government
sector unions and there's a line in my
book Sam that has really been take
stop I say in no other industrial nation
do corporations fight so hard to beat
back indeed cross unions and I have a
very upbeat first third of the book
about the rise of unions and have a you
know ended sweatshops and improve you
know mining safety and and and you know
catapulted millions of workers into the
middle class then I have a somewhat
depressing you know second third of the
book you know I think it's important to
explain you know why unions have grown
weaker and part of this globalization
and offshoring of jobs but a lot of it I
say is that corporate America fights
extremely extremely hard to kill unions
to beat back unions and that's really
hurt the nation you know the percentage
of workers in unions has dropped from
like more than one in three in the 1950s
to around one in ten now and just one in
sixteen and closet sector jobs and I
argue in the book that that is one of
the main reasons we have had decades of
wage stagnation that's one of the main
reasons we've had so much income
inequality and that's one of the main
reasons our government is so screwed up
that you know it rushes to enact you
know a trillion dollars in tax cuts for
corporations and corporations already
have record profits from the stock
market is already at record levels when
it you know does when the Republican
Congress did nothing and Mitch McConnell
Senate continues to do nothing to raise
the federal minimum wage which hasn't
been raised in a decade the longest time
it's ever gone but without it being
increased so Steven we also have
examples of the of the corporate I guess
resent of labour-power I just
interviewed some folks last week about
the auto industry and their
determination to weaken labor which
meant that they changed essentially
their entire supply lines they dispersed
themselves around the country they they
changed the way that they did on-demand
production so that labor had less
ability to shut down the
their supply lines and labor had less
ability to shut down their production
broadly speaking and it ended up
destroying the innovation and the the
the quality of American cars frankly so
the destruction of labor has you know or
the assault on Labor's power it seems to
me has all the effects that you
mentioned and and more that are negative
but here's my question like you you know
you frame in the context of corporate
America and the Republicans basically
started waging a war on on labor via
unions but it also seems to me and at
different times it sort of presents
itself in a different way but we saw it
starting in the 70s when you know that
maybe came out of the desire to reform
the primary process for the Democratic
proper primaries there seemed to be a
also a sort of a failure of Democrats to
engage in this war and like I say that
goes all the way up to the failure of
Democrats to provide when it comes to
card check you know which was basically
allowing people to unionize in a much
easier fashion rather than sort of like
putting a target on their backs for
anti-union activities when you know
there was any inkling that people want
to unionize is there any way for unions
and for labor to revitalize itself I
mean we witnessed something I I devote I
devote the last third of my book to
various models and strategies and
recommendations for how to revive worker
power in America we can I say where the
power unfortunately has fallen to its
lowest level in decades and here are
some models to increase it like the red
red teacher strikes have really been
amazing they've achieved a lot and
they've really excited people about
labor now and I just want to go back to
the auto industry for a second so the
United States is like the only country
the world where you know all these Union
all these companies say well we're going
to escape the unionized area in the
north and move to the inky Union area in
the south and and one of the crate you
know one of the critical things is all
these corporations in America said well
so unionize are going to become
uncompetitive you know it'll you know
render us uncompetitive against
mercedes-benz daimler-benz against BMW
against Volkswagen against Toyota
against Honda you know Daimler Benz GW
BMW they're all unionized in Germany
Honda Toyota they're all humanized in
Japan so like those companies do very
very well even though there's unionized
and in the United States you know I was
a quarter so many times in Europe for
five years I was there European economic
correspondent there were a lot of
stories about Germany and Spain and
Italy France and Scandinavia and Britain
and companies there they work you know
they realize you know they work hand in
hand with unions they rely they may not
like unions but they realize that unions
are legitimate institutions and their
partners they need to work with in the
United States there's this real among
among many many corporations is this
real hatred enmity towards unions they
don't see he means a legitimate very
often they see unions is something that
would stomp on and and wipe out so where
do we go from here how do we rebuild
unions for history of this work of power
you know one of the interesting things
about this Democratic campaigns and is
far more than I've ever seen the
candidates are talking about we need
unions we need to rebuild union power we
need to reverse Labor's decline and I
think part of that is that you know with
all these candidates they're all trying
to attract unions to get an edge up you
know and also they saw how the weakening
of unions in Wisconsin Michigan
Pennsylvania summer in Ohio you know
cause the Democrats to lose there so
they realize it's important to rebuild
unions so you know Bernie Sanders came
out with this vast expansive you know
platform to expand union beto
and and and booty
also came out with pro-union plans you
know Elizabeth Warren has a great plan
on how to improve trade deals so there's
a lot of attention to unions and workers
and I think some of these candidates
realized that one of the reasons the
Democrats lost in 2016 was that Hillary
Clinton the standard bearer did not pay
enough attention to workers especially
blue-collar workers and Donald Trump who
I believe is you know a great conman and
demagogue you know went to Ohio and
Wisconsin and Michigan in Pennsylvania
said I'm you know I'm your blue-collar
guy I'm gonna fight for you I'm gonna
bring back other jobs let me stop
playing closings and that was total BS
but a lot of people believed it a lot of
people attracted to him and I even
interviewed some workers in the Midwest
who said you know what I know this guy
doesn't tell the truth I know he's not
gonna do everything he's promised but at
least Donald Trump is showing that he
cares about workers and I like that and
I think the Democrats see that they have
to try harder to you know attract
blue-collar workers and you're
absolutely right Sam that starting that
80's 90's the Democrats started turning
their backs and blue-collar workers and
increasingly many people say became the
party of the professional class of
lawyers of software engineers of the
walls you have liberal Wall Street folks
of Hollywood celebrities and you know
the Democrats you know I think have too
much you know had too much forgotten
that you know they you know that it's
important to bring blue-collar workers
with you not just blue collar white
South African Americans of blue car
Hispanics a blue-collar asian-americans
that's you know the New Deal coalition
you know was very important for the
Democrat success I think the Democrats
have you know made a mistake in not
trying to keep that coalition together
it sounds like I mean but it's it's a
political one too but it but it seems to
me that there still there's a
legislative one like I mean part of the
reason why you know it's true I think
that Hillary Clinton ignored you
parts of the Mandela the industrial
Midwest but the reality is too is that
she could go in campaign all she wants
to these people it's not going to
increase union density union density is
only going to increase it seems to me by
two different ways and they they need to
go hand in hand it's it it seems to me
one is there needs to be a statutory
framework that makes it easier to
unionize and protects and then the the
other it seems to me there there also
needs to be some reform on the part of
union leadership and I and I say this
sort of like with a broad brush that you
know we feel like we're seeing more of
that in the context of teachers but this
notion let me talk just for a little bit
about this idea of like of managerial
unionism versus social social justice
unionism
sure absolutely so in the last chapter
in book I really do a lot of what you're
suggesting camp
I have recommendations on how to make it
easier to see knives and that you know
companies break the law all the time
in the fire pro union workers to stop
unionization and they can't and their
federal law they can't even be fine they
just have this tiny slap on the wrist
all awesome when they found they're
broken the law all they have to do is
put a little notice on the bulletin
board say we broke the law we promise
not to do it again
so I say you need real signs with real
teeth so corporations don't break the
law and and I say there should also be
card check what is card check and you
know often you know when folks try to
unionize there's a secret ballot
election and if more than you know if
the majority workers vote for a union
then the company has to recognize the
union but during the secret ballot
election you know the campaign it's
three or four months and companies it's
not a level playing so companies have
24/7 access to the workers they show
anti-union videos in the lunchroom and
the break room
they require workers to attend these
hour-long sessions with these ant Union
consultants who tell them that unions
are evil and corrupt and all they want
is their money and they don't accomplish
much and and union
you know the Supreme Court decision that
says companies have a right to even ban
union organizers from setting foot on
company property so the advantage of
card check is that you know and union
organizers once they get the majority of
work at the signed card saying we want a
union that would make it much easier for
workers to unionize without all this you
know this firing all these illegal
activities so I outlined that you know
it would be great if we could its kind
of sorting out some laws making each of
you nice however and and I make this
point very very strong in the book it
you know there's been you know President
Johnson President Carter President
Clinton President Obama four Democratic
presidents all tried enacting
legislation to make it easier to
unionize and every every every time they
were unable to overcome Republican
filibuster in Congress so it's very very
hard to another Union legislation unless
Democrats have at least 60 60 votes and
I say that or or or vote or vote on day
one if they have 51 votes to get rid of
the filibuster well it's a whole issue
right but I say we need to fix our
campaign finance system it's totally
totally totally broken and it's very and
as a result our campaign finance system
usually favors corporations and the rich
and usually tilt against disfavors
workers and you know I cite these
statistics and it blows people's minds I
cite these in my book in the 2015/16
national election cycle corporations
gave 3.4 billion dollars in political
donations and unions gave just 213 what
less than 1/16 as much as corporations
so that's like Congress Russia's the
pass tax breaks for corporations there's
nothing on minimum wage in lobbying
each year corporations spend just under
3 billion dollars a year on lobbying in
Washington where unions spend less than
160 of that just 48 million dollars a
year so things are really broken in the
campaign finance system and lobbying and
I and I argue that if we're to
have a government a system that's fair
to workers and doesn't favor corporation
so much we need more public finance you
mean each some system you know campaign
finance system that levels the playing
field so that you know the koch brothers
and sheldon adelson don't have a million
times voice of a Walmart worker or a new
york city school teacher or a truck
driver or a steel worker I mean your
system is really really broken and
really favors the rich incorporation so
Stephen last oh okay well and on your
point about okay go ahead finish your
point so on your points and I also say I
totally agree as you Sam that Eden
leaders you know too often you know just
see when a union is a business well
we'll handle this expense it's a worker
is this punished for coming in late and
they've lost the passion of unions too
many you know even lost the past
engineer leaders of the 1930s and 40s
that know we were a movement we're
trying to lift millions of workers you
know unions are part of fighting for
social justice unions led the way unions
quite a very big role in the civil
rights struggle people don't realize
that the person who the main person
setting up the great 1963 march on
Washington was a union leader a Phillip
Randolph head of the Brotherhood of
sleeping car porters and and you know I
have a chapter about the Memphis
sanitation workers strike in 1968 which
was really a very difficult struggle but
a landmark victory for civil rights and
labor rights unfortunately it goes at a
terrible cost the Reverend dr. Martin
Luther King was assassinated when he is
in Memphis backing the sanitation
workers but I'd argue that your union
leaders need to you know fight more for
social justice fight more to make clear
that we're about lifting standards for
lands or workers instead of just you
know having on my application that you
know we're just to settle this grievance
and try to get a 1.2 percent raise
rather than 1.1 percent wage so lastly
let me ask you this as a as a
former labor reporter give me your take
on the demise of of Labor reporting in
this country it seems to me that you
know as as unions have gone and you know
the those covering union news in labor
news has gone even as has shrunk even
more so I covered laden with those
matters for the New York Times for 19
years and you know I remember when I
began coming later in 1995 I went to
afl-cio convention the annual convention
in Miami and there were they reporters
from the Washington Post the LA Times
The Wall Street Journal the Boston Globe
the Cleveland Plain Dealer Chicago said
be in the st. Louis Club dispatch
Baltimore Sun and several other papers
they're like 2025 labor reporters and a
my last year at the New York Times 2014
I went to the annual afl-cio convention
in Houston and I and summit for the
Houston Chronicle were the only two
people you know daily newspaper
reporters covering it and and for a
while I'm sad to say I was the last
full-time labor reporter at a daily
newspaper and so there many reasons for
this Sam you know one of it was that you
know in the odds you know newspapers
really got zapped by the internet they
lost a ton of advertising they laid off
the kind of reporters and often the
labor porters were there among the first
to go because lib reporting you know
writing about unions isn't seen as sexy
as running as Beyonce or writing about
the New York Yankees or the other Boston
Celtics LeBron James and I think some
publishers and editors were uneasy about
covering labor they you know they didn't
love unions so there was a real decline
in labor courting you know certainly
going into 2008 2009 2010 then I seen
though somewhat of a rebirth of labor
reporting I know that surprises people I
think part of that was caused by the
Great Recession 2008 2007 to 2009 a lot
of newspapers that were ignoring workers
and knowing labor all of a sudden saw
that
unemployment had boomed a lot of workers
were having a huge problem making ends
meet and so all these people you know
the economic reporter started writing
about worker issue and labor issues and
then we've seen the rise of all these
websites you know slate and box and vice
Huffington Post and a lot of them tilt
somewhat to the left and they realized
that you know a lot of their readers
want to read about labor issues you know
sir so Huffington Post there's a very
good labor reporter Vox is a very good
labor reporter and and so in ways you
know a lot of these websites and the
daily daily newspapers don't have as
many people covering labor but a lot of
the websites now have people come you
know now people covering labor and they
think they do a pretty good job but you
have to know where to look and the big
problem is like on television on radio
there's very very little about really
about about labor and about workers
there isn't nearly enough so you know I
wrote this op-ed for the New York Times
a few weeks ago saying you know we have
the only nation only that's relation
that doesn't have a paid vacation
doesn't have paid maternity leave but we
are only one of two entire nations that
don't pay ticket people are noticed they
think America is great you know the
greatest and and they don't know enough
and I think in schools kids don't learn
enough about you know what labor unions
have accomplished and how workers and
love in many ways have it worse than in
other nations and and one of the main
purposes of my book is like explain to
people who want to know more about labor
who don't know much about labor you know
know about the state of workers today
and how unions have really improved
things for workers over the years and
the challenges facing unions and how we
could rebuild worker power to things
like the fight for 15 and the teacher
strikes and you know these efforts to
unionize Google workers and lyft uber
drivers and lyft drivers well Steven
greenhouse the book is beaten down
worked up the past present and the
future of American labor we're gonna put
a link to that book at majority dot F M
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it okay they could be
here keep up the great work
Kabang there you go a great history of
you know some of the major figures in
labor as well as a sad history of its
demise important to understand very
important to understand in terms of you
know imagining what we can do in the
future and also to understand the
importance of having a genuinely
committed Democratic Party or at least
elements of the Democratic Party
critical mass of the Democratic Party
dedicated to providing because what
we're seeing in terms of unions across
the country or at least in terms of
labor is very encouraging all the
strikes that we saw with teachers in
Nevada
they were threatening to strike they got
a pay raise we still have forty some odd
days out Kentucky miners blocking a
truck I mean it's people are
understanding that they have some power
but you you need to maintain that power
long term you need institutional support
we give that support to corporations as
a government as a society we give it to
them all the time to give it to them in
form of tax breaks and you shouldn't
think of them as tax breaks it's much
easier to understand why there's such a
benefit when you think of it as we give
them services in kind we give them free
services discounted services we all pay
for the services that we get they get a
discount and they pass those savings on
to themselves we allow them removal from
their liability they can be an arm's
length
Wells Fargo for instance Megan McArdle
wrote a universe what is it they what do
you call it what is it not universe
brain galaxy brain no universe Brad
let's just say universe brain universe
prayin piece on how it was just a
coincidence that those five thousand
Wells Fargo's workers were all breaking
the law and it was really just because
there was an overly ambitious executives
they took the easy way out they took the
it's right this was this was you know
Wells Fargo cannot be held responsible
for them saying to their workers be
ambitious here are some goals and then
they're having five thousand of their
workers just be lacking the character
that it takes
it's like Carlo man Gambino goes I think
there's a lot of opportunity at the
docks he doesn't control whether or not
someone sex that's a protection ring
exactly that's exactly the same thing
exactly we have no responsibility to
make sure that we have any controls that
would prevent five thousand of our
workers from putting people into
accounts that they don't own we just we
can't be expected I can't be I can't be
expected to be all responsible for every
single motivational speech I give my
employees but the reason why those Wells
Fargo executives are not in jail is
because they're our liability
protections that are built into
corporations they're our accountability
protections that are built into
corporations there are all sorts of
benefits that our society provides for
corporations both in terms of their
existence oh you want to buy back your
stocks okay we're gonna allow that now
we're gonna allow you to juice the own
value of your own company to manipulate
your stock that'll get you more money
that'll get you more
our corporations do not exist in nature
they do not every single corporation in
this country has a document there are
Articles of Incorporation that have been
filed with the state or with the federal
government and that's why they exist so
we provide certain benefits for
corporations and we should be doing this
for unions because at the end of the day
to the extent that you can't have a free
contract but you can have a fair
contract and that fair contract means
that both parties have to come in there
and they cannot be there cannot be the
type of asymmetry particularly from a
statutory / standpoint that inhibits
one's ability to bargain with the other
and we have seen I keep citing this
interview with the the one of the
authors of wrecked we've seen the length
that US corporations will go to tibbitt
to debilitate Labor's power even if it
means cutting off their own nose to
spite their face or whatever it is
whatever that saying is I don't even
understand what that means cutting off
your own nose to spite your face it
hurts when you cut your nose - but the
point being I just have never been quite
figured that one out but Bob why is the
US car industry destroyed itself because
they wanted to inhibit Labor's power and
frankly there's no one when you think
about the people who will pay the price
for that decision
there is no GM GM is just a protection
to certain individuals who are at the
top who certainly they weren't hurt by
the fact that GM doesn't make the same
quality car as it did 40 years ago
same with Chrysler same with Ford
they're not hurt by it
they still make off like bandits the
people are hurt by it are the
communities and the workers and the the
the American consumer I mean that's the
dynamic that we have that's why we need
statutory reform in addition I mean
first thing we need is a jeté ssin and
labor to understand its own power but
then they need to use that power to get
politicians to provide the institutional
support so that that part of power is
sustainable and can can grow more and
with that said we got to take a quick
break
head into the fun half of the program
ladies and gentlemen we're in we will
have fun half also you can support this
program by becoming a member go to join
the majority of port comm a lot of
people emailed me I just joined to hear
that Hannity interview in the deep
archive from last week what day was that
Brandon do you put that on I think
Monday and then what else Rick Hertzberg
who else Hertzberg was Monday I think
that I had any might have been Thursday
yeah Matt ended up doing what any good
it's good one two what else what else
did you have bright eyes was there oh
yeah he came into studio yeah it was
pretty nuts I mean it was nuts because I
had no idea who he was at the time
really are you oh here's just another
one of uh you know some famous Eddie
Vedder I just found a I found a a mini
DV tape we must have videotaped it when
Eddie Vedder came in to the studio Gary
Hart and we had hi Eddie
all very hot I met so many famous people
during that time it was crazy get out of
my way Eddie here 100 tango you're
really into Yola tango ah that's a big
deal for you yeah well it's a big deal
for me they also they did my wedding
right I mean I was friends with those
guys but they came in and played also
they might be giants played in studio
nice and uh Cowboy Junkies oh cool that
was anyways and then I picked a part of
the very hertzberg one was a Larry elder
and Katrina I was yeah I was at the
convert I was at the Democratic
convention in Hertzberg and I talked
about Barack Obama his speech he had
just given his speech that basically he
was like wait a second this guy could be
President
anyways that's available to our members
the deep archive stuff and maybe what
we'll start doing is maybe putting out
maybe once a week a deep archive pick
four members that might be a fun thing
to do yeah so had to join the majority
of port comm also just coffee co-op fair
trade coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off Steve
greenhouse mentioned the that Scott
Walker law that attacked unions there
were massive protests back in 2011 and
the just coffee people were out there
giving people free coffee because
they're a co-op and they're good people
so check that out also check out our
a.m. quickie we're about to migrate it
to its own feed in the net in the coming
weeks so check it out and lastly don't
forget America's number one brand
proactive
has helped fight acne for over 25 years
and they now have their next generation
acne treatment system called Proactiv MD
it is got the dermatologist recommended
number one retinoid which is used in
treating mild and moderate acne and you
know it's tough it's to you you lead
with your face and it's it's tough if
you're feeling self-conscious about it
but if you order now you will receive
Proactiv zon the Go Bag which features
their t-zone oil absorber body acne
wipes and green tea moisturizer for free
that's close to $100 value
plus you get free shipping with a 60 day
money back guarantee just go to Proactiv
dot-com slash majority that's Proactiv
PR o AC t IV
dot-com slash majority last night I
think yesterday I said tomorrow's
Tuesday oh you did because I forgot that
yesterday I didn't notice but last month
I was - definitely Tuesday what happened
here in the studio partay no we had a
great show
crystal ball joined us we talked about
when you look at the polling numbers why
is it that the overly affluent overly
educated white is really educated we
love the overly educated
actually we do we really do even though
why isn't fashionable class lining up
behind Elizabeth Warren what does that
mean about the election the nature of
her candidacy the strikes in Kentucky
and it's a 1% chance but even if it's
one you should take it what is the
actual way of possibly in that 1%
scenario beating Mitch McConnell then
Artesia a ball Thorpe was here we talked
about jay-z the NFL the Newark water
crisis I mean I don't know if people
know there's really a water crisis in
Newark that is quite parallel to Flint
and we're gonna be seeing more of these
across the country and weird how this
keeps happening it's weird how this
keeps happening both obviously on racial
and class lines and also the fact that a
lot of these pipes were built in New
Deal and huh they haven't been upgraded
and this is about the time they go out
of commission then we had a post-game
dealing with Uruguay brexit a whole
bunch of stuff patreon.com slash T MBS
to get the whole thing Michael Brooks
show on YouTube for patrons today a
message went out with your passcode to
get your tickets to the T MBS live show
November 23rd in Philadelphia with
special guests crystal ball and Emma
biglan come see us
Jamie's out but check out the intifada
patreon.com slash the Intifada
at yeah it's gonna be a good literary
hangover part ii of the pioneers by
James Fenimore Cooper on Saturday quick
break fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset riled up
maybe you should rethink your defensive
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right yes five times five
[Music]
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we could double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
yeah come here not bad use me
 you you I think you belong
thank you for saying that you're a
horrible person
alright gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarian Zout their dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastik I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
Isis evil blur with such No
death to America it's a free speech
issue if you don't like me thank you for
calling into the majority report dem
will be with you shortly we gotta follow
that video welcome back folks it is the
fun half of the program and I was I was
derelict in my duties as host terms of
picking up the phones getting on to the
phone lines I will work my way there but
I am going to open up the IMS we did not
have any Iams yesterday maybe we will
just do iambs
today maybe we should do that once in a
while we'll do just an IM day i don't
know you know we do three hours a day
two and a half hours a day and it it it
never feels like it's enough I mean
maybe it does but to me I always
interesting that we just had a
conversation on labor guys are just
hanging out I'm bringing my bong in here
for you any longer what fames Darwin Sam
I don't know what the hell's going on
over there my down load or the Hannity
interview from last week doesn't
actually have the interview instead it's
a repeat of the Art Spiegelman piece
from earlier in the week I'm not gonna
name names but I suspect water boats are
involved in the screw up right after
Matt had just talked about bringing a
bong in here shape up guys or I'll stop
using my friends log in
Oh to download your show for free if
that's a general thing we'll just reload
the interview that's weird yeah let's do
that
water boat from Kashmir there's so much
happening Kashmir I don't know what to
say but it's much closer to Bosnia than
the West Bank at the moment the only
thing worse is most of the Indian media
which is actively running cover for
fascists now the Indian government is
totally hampering foreign press while
Kashmiri journalists are not allowed to
file stories we've started to disappear
BBC South Asia bureau chief said
yesterday that reporting of Kashmir is
the worst he's seen in her lifetime and
she's reported from Syria Gaza Yemen
Iraq Afghanistan and Libya the most
alarming part Amit Shah BJP z-- Home
Minister and the actual architect of the
Gujarat massacres proudly chestnut last
night last month saying that they are
unstoppable now because they can make
and discredit news at will the news is
what they say it is he actually said
this yes I'm at a loss for words oh and
the gates of foundation awarding Modi
yeah what the well it's a clean India
initiative I just don't understand they
don't care about this stuff and they
never have and frankly what Modi it's
the gate foundation PR amador has had a
very close relationship with Modi they
don't care and it goes back to not
caring I mean you've known what this
guy's about since 2002 the the
atrocities in Gujarat were so bad that
this guy couldn't get a travel visa to
come to the United States because there
was a coalition of progressive Democrats
and then Republicans because some
Christians were massacred as well they
don't care it's just unbelievable to me
like it nobody says like hey we gonna
get any type of PR blowback from this
but I guess I guess I guess the point is
like well we might but we're giving away
in billions of dollars and billions of
dollars later who cares who cares also I
mean you know maybe blowback in some
places that's why these sorts of
decisions shouldn't be left to
individuals who accrue all the capital
from right what's that exactly and not
good Gregory from Oklahoma I got see
cory booker's speak last week he it was
interesting but didn't really talk about
policy or anything he wanted to do I
stood close to the stage he was speaking
at and got a picture with him
cool stuff bul Prague that sounds like
the perfect summation of the entire Cory
Booker campaign actually really talk
about anything that was kind of nice guy
got his cool sure I didn't I I can look
for video but do you hear the thing
where he compared himself to Malcolm X
in New Jersey schools I look for the
quote Malcolm X that's exactly what
Malcolm exported zone he would have
tried to partner with hedge funds mm-hmm
Optimax was predicting Facebook Prague
true story I was at a yellow tank a Yo
La Tengo concert and someone got kicked
out for gently swaying too hard that
wasn't good SMRT chemist cutting your
nose to spite your face comes from the
Viking raiders and nuns the nuns would
cut off their noses to prevent being
raped
oh god that's horrible
I don't quite get that I'm not fully
sure I quite get that either yeah no I
understand that but to see you actually
are the way that that we use that phrase
now is different yeah Yellow Springs
taquerias honor killer filler said
seized by ice deporting pending see
Butler County connection aggressive
Trump supporting County Sheriff Wow
that's horrible
one more I am and then we'll get to some
other stories Brock from VA
2019 s been a wild year first Sam was
talking about snuff films then he said
he doesn't want to sound like a pederast
get him away from libertarianism a SAP
tearing up man he might run I have
spoken of snuff films several times in
my show no one else on this stage has
done that you make an aggressive play
for the libertarian vote the voice mouth
Oh someone did not leave the voicemail
on last night
did you take calls I didn't take calls
last night buddy sorry really
really hmm so you left it on after the
main show buddy I guess that must have
happened good not good much better when
you can blame other people much much
better this was pretty let's let's just
start with this
NBC News thing just get this out of the
way say this in a way that it won't get
demonetised um let's say you had a
societal problem let's just say that
people were going around with whipped
cream pies and they were using them to
fling it people but let's say these were
lethal pies well you could say hey we're
not going to sell these lethal pies
anymore because they're lethal and
they're being used to harm people or you
could say we're gonna come up with a
project that will diminish gravity or
increase gravity and make pies harder to
throw well of course in America we're
gonna choose option B here is an NBC
Nightly News report on the bold new plan
to cut down on on basically what do you
call it like sites of fire lines of fire
in schools sight lines so one of the
ideas behind this curved hallway is to
cut down on the line of sight of an
active shooter and then to further cut
down the line of sight of an active
shooter we installed these wing walls
and it also provides a place for
students to hide behind if there's a
threat down at the other end of the
hallway and this would look like this
eventually there'll be furniture in here
right this is a comfortable place yes
this has been designed
via Learning Corridor this is a learning
space and so there'll be technology
kiosks and places like this
they'll be relaxed seating around
similar to a college Commons area are
you trying to de-emphasize the security
aspect absolutely when the students come
to school I don't want them to have to
worry about security I want them to
worry about learning oh the probable
shooter be inside one of these kiosks as
well well there I was that was part of
Dave Chappelle's new bid he's like every
time you do trainings like this at
school the shooters the back of the room
goes and then where do we congregate
exactly exactly I mean this is it's just
I what amazes me is that the reporter
can just walk down the hall and be like
oh right okay of course
and what about turrets and are you gonna
have some that the reporter isn't like
our - simulation or is the world
actually ending right is this actually
happening this old on Mars Jerry why try
to put me on and then producer my oh my
god
it's my retirement party I mean this is
this is a it's a joke but it's also one
step away from getting like the people
who designed first person shooter levels
like to be really hard for the
first-person shooter to come in and say
oh yeah this is what we do in do level
15 yeah unbelievable
higher control we got the budget for
level 12 yeah would that'll be fine you
know there's a theme coming up I I've
been I've been digging into civil war
lately and and I am homeless John Brown
I am I am I'm quite convinced that you
know more and more that maybe the Union
Army shouldn't have been so hesitant at
the end the sound of salt we can look if
you listen you know if you if you go
back and you and you I'm listening to a
yell professors basically his year-long
lecture on on the civil war and he did
this back in 2006 and 7 which makes it
even that much more poignant because the
way they describe the Confederacy in
terms of before they were actually the
Confederacy when they're talking about
slavery and the way they get like all
defensive like like we're the victims
here and this is about freedom our free
ability to maintain slaves against these
sort of like oh you're so great North it
sounds exactly like conservatives and
here's the thing down on earth back in
two thousand four and five Andrew
Sullivan would we talk about how George
Bush is not conservative but what's
going on is not conservatism yeah you
know it's not in the Burkean tradition
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah and at the time
at the time I remember saying like this
guy is the conservatism he's talking
about is like it's like Latin it exists
people people talk people use it in the
Academy or perhaps in chapels but it
doesn't exist in the real world anymore
it is it is a dead ideology they use the
name it still exists but it's not you
know whatever conservatism was it's not
that what it is in the context of of
today is largely a little bit of greed
or a significant amount of greed I don't
know if you were to tell you like
measured in terms of like being held by
people but it's a certain amount of
greed but it's also just ultimately race
resentment on some level and there's uh
you know something in the water down
there um call me Hebrew John Brown I
mean I'll go I want to recommend though
it's it's not an amazing movie but I'm
fascinated by the history the free state
of Jones which is a Matthew McConaughey
movie but it's it's real oh I mention
that I think yeah is fascinating it was
about um basically a soldier for the
Confederacy who essentially is like you
know the the class dimension of it like
I don't own any land even to begin with
I don't want to be cannon fodder for
landowners here and basically they
created a small they called it the free
state of Jones it was escaped slaves and
Confederate soldiers that left the army
and essentially just wanted to write
like farming cooperatives it was
temporarily I think protected when there
was a northern occupation and then after
that you know a lot of the folks were
murdered and so on but it there's this
other history to it which is fascinating
one quick note on the study that came
out earlier elite resiliency bolstered
southern aristocracy after the Civil War
basically said they all recovered
financially by 1880 right right but the
reason why I raise this is because for
some reason this talking point is now
going around on the right that if there
is a move to rebandage like the ar-15
and you'll recall they were they were
banned from what 98 I think it was until
2004 94 to 2004 in the wake of Ronald
Reagan I think being shot no one had
assault rifles but then the ban ended
and they got pushed out the door now one
of the most popular things and I'll give
you pop up
pop pop and you can you can not not only
can you shoot that dear
you can just keep shooting him and shoot
him and shooting him until his face is
totally blown off you cook him with
bullets yep and you can like Ted Cruz
you can fry a piece of bacon on the
enemy so here is well who should we go
with first let's go with Tucker Carlson
this guy's still around who's his guest
Michael Tracy no I don't think so here
he is
bateau obviously better o'rourke dealing
with now multiple mass shootings murders
in his state one that was specifically
from his hometown has a heightened
sensitivity to guns and here's Tucker
Carlson who is really concerned about
his ability to shoot deer I guess we'll
have to sell them to the government they
will have to sell them to the government
now you will hear propaganda sand you
often do hear propagandists describe
that as a gun buyback but that's
nonsense of course Americans didn't buy
their guns from the government in the
first place they're not buying them back
this is gun confiscation it's nothing
but that it's an attempt to eliminate a
constitutional right that a ruling class
finds inconvenient it won't reduce gun
violence in fact sending armed
authorities door-to-door to seize
people's lawfully owned weapons is
itself a surefire recipe for causing
violence so if you cared about America
and the people who live here you would
not suggest that actually you could
suggest at the very least a voluntary
gun buyback and then one that is uh does
not involve you going door-to-door to
grab people's guns but rather you say
you have a certain amount of time to
bring your gun in or if we see you with
it in public or if you see we're going
to confiscate it but here's the point
and first of all I know all these elites
out there there's no elites at the top
of these
these uh gun manufacturing those guys
are just salt of the earth you know
Wayne LaPierre is a spending habits in
the NRA we are told we are told that you
don't want to take guns away from
law-abiding citizens right these are
good people these are not the people you
want to take guns from but yet we're
also told in the same breath that if the
authorities pass a law that says you've
got to give up your gun that what
they're going to shoot them now these
good people well are they good
law-abiding citizens or not if they're
law-abiding they're gonna give their
guns up if that's the law abiding then
they're criminals and I thought the
whole point was the only law-abiding
people should have guns well if the law
is passed that there's a gun buyback
then guess what you're not law-abiding
if you don't if you don't sell your gun
to the government and of course the view
is back from vacation view is back from
vacation and so I don't know if Megan
McCain spent her vacation practicing her
her self-pity but she does pretty good
here here is uh you know of course she's
so tired of this topic you know why it's
like every time there are multiple mass
shootings where people in the double
digits die we have to talk about it the
view
roading for Republicans you're going to
get nothing done that's basically the
bottom line when it comes to assault
weapon yes
[Applause]
far the most popular gun in America by
far so if you're talking about again I
was just in the middle of nowhere
Wyoming you're talking around going and
taking people's guns away from them
there's gonna be a lot of violence for
them for many years during the ban not
living without guns not living without
the assault weapons that are killing our
children all right what are living with
ours that we look at we live in a very
signal that 20 minutes another place and
we can actually walk in a mall and not
look around and be nervous that
someone's gonna pull out a shotgun like
I feel safe that I can protect myself
and I have guns in my house that all
right welcome back
I'll virtue signaling it's so it's like
could there be anything more material
than the idea of like I don't want to be
shot
why are you Bert you signaling about
children dying okay whatever I guess
it's time for joy to do her virtue
signal about kids dying and whatnot is
Megan McCain I'm not bringing out if she
has children she gonna bring her guns to
school to take her kids they'll take
jello shots is I'm in Shilla damn you
know my father's not McCain you know
what uh I
look you've done enough you know Fanta
Ethan sister had long have you left no
and why is he virtue signalling it's so
virtuous that was a classic virtuous
signal when Joseph McCarthy was
interrupted from having a drink and
getting someone banned from writing
screenplays by some sanctimonious
leftist fruitcake saying have you no
decency in a classic act of virtue
second so it's a salt march Gandhi needs
to walk and pink salt we are chilling
color on the wine
I can't tell Kyle has gotta fix this
because I cannot see they thought we had
a caller on line and it does not appear
that we do let's go to 8 6 3 8 6 3 who's
this hi Sam hi yes who is this it's Jill
from like 1:00 Jill from Lakeland what's
on your mind Jill
first of all apologize I called a couple
weeks ago and I told you about the
Bernie bumper stickers and you know if
you dusted in them and it was helpful
during that clip icon and and I forgot
in the moment about the demonisation
oh don't worry about that video yeah I
just wanted to say I'm sorry but the
other thing I saw Jamie on agitprop and
I just want to say she did a great job
I'm sorry she's not here today to
actually hear that but she didn't
awesome job Melinda and then the last
part is I'll try and be quick about it
but I'm kind of at a in cast I wanted to
talk about left on my call but I didn't
want to take up too much time I am lucky
enough that I recently left my last job
at for a local business and I wanted I'm
trying to search for something I really
want to do and without naming what can
you know exactly who I'm putting up
for I'm kind of at an impasse where I
could go in one direction for the
private sector working for a green
company something I feel very strongly
about or I could work for the public
sectors in law enforcement not as it's
one position but as an administration I
just want to make it different with what
I'm doing so if you were if you had the
same choice what would you do I mean
gosh I want to thank you got a higher
level well I need to know more details
but I mean working for agree like a
company that is like developing green
energy no green isn't clear oh are you
talking about see I see you live in a
place where marijuana is legal now
actually medical marijuana passed the
last election I'm in Lakeland so it's
Florida and then I think recreational is
going to be on the next ballot in 2020
and so if that is something I feel very
strongly about I've had a couple of
relatives that I felt company I mean I
just wanted to know you know what what
job do you think would do better for the
world because I'm in a very lucky
position to to do to be able to choose
where I'm going at the moment and I and
it's not about the money it's just what
I want to do
hi dad I mean I'm not sure that law
enforcement is going to provide any
progress for society I'm not saying it's
a bad thing to pursue and if you were in
a position where you could like reform
it but it doesn't sound like that's what
the position is sounds it's more like
administrative yeah yeah I mean yeah go
provide medicine for people that's
pretty good and then the second point is
just I wanted to give a quick background
my my family is very southern kind of
Democrat so it's their belief is weird
and you'd probably if there's anybody
from Florida it's probably pretty common
down here like where they're socially
kind of liberal economically very
liberal but it's like it's mixed in with
with the old-school conservatism in a
weird way and it's too long to to
explain here but how that helps like
what that eventually was I was born and
growing up I was more kind of like a
conservative thinking person where I you
know I didn't believe in a woman's right
to choose and and all those things
because of where I was raised and
because of shows like yours majority
report secular talk humanist report and
TYT over the last few years has really
helped me flourish and be able to even
spread it to my family some to become
more progressive over time that's where
I've got fellas yeah I've got at least
like three or four people in my family
says they're there at least seriously
considering Warren or Sanders as their
primary vote and I just want to thank
you guys for for being that for well
thank you Jill it you're getting other
people to to to vote more progressive
and to just sort of a more of a
progressive outlook is incredibly
gratifying and that's that's really why
we do it
appreciate the call Jill good luck let
us know keep us updated on what and I
and I think Matt would if you need like
a sample tester oh yeah please I'll get
a peel box set up call from an 8-3 one
area code who's this where you calling
from oh yeah yeah up there is it mean
yeah it is you oh cool thanks for taking
my call with
so I wanted to call it is your God where
you going
hello what is your name and where are
you calling from
Oh my name is a beachy I'm calling from
Sacramento Beach easy of course what's
any money Beach easy
yeah you know other names um so I wanted
to just give a shout out to Michael he
made a couple of points a couple weeks
ago that were you know pretty I think
pretty important about gun control I am
a pretty pro-gun guy but I'm not totally
against all gun control as I mentioned
I'm in California so now I'm just sorry
I'm just a little excited but um as I
mentioned I'm in California so I'm in a
state that's already passed all of the
common-sense gun control laws that
people talk about we have red flag laws
we have an assault weapons ban we have
all that stuff so it's not really
inhibiting my ability to exercise my
rights but Michael made a good point
about gun control laws initially when
they first came around was used to
prevent minorities and other
marginalized groups from owning guns at
all so and that was also the start of
gun control in California with Black
Panthers marching and yeah they passed
the first like open carry ban so I think
that's something that's worth keeping in
mind especially when you look at how gun
control is applied in more restrictive
States white people are less likely to
be like tried and sent to jail for
certain gun crimes then people of color
right right I mean and that's a criminal
criminal justice reform measure but we
also have to say that in open carry
states I would bet that you would find
the incidence of black people being
detained because they had a gun more
often than white people so you know that
there's a problem yeah definitely that
would the problem is greater than the
of gun control and butts that's a
hundred percent true but my my point was
was I mean it was a two-fold point
though because one part of it was that I
I actually part of the reason I spend
less time on this is because I I think
that there needs to be really aggressive
action taken if you want to actually
make a real dent in it and I don't see
anybody putting that type of thing on
the table right now but as the I mean
yes it's part of a bigger problem no
doubt it's part of an entirely racially
biased criminal justice system and as it
stands now these laws especially when
they're more kind of small narrow
targeted laws are deployed an incredibly
you know racialized way I mean that stop
and frisk which was a major thing in New
York City is was an anti-gun program and
it was used to absolutely cause a huge
amount of harm to black and Hispanic
community here so yes I think that does
need to be a part of real analysis
moving forward appreciate the call and
also one more point
one more point I'm not opposed to gun
control at all and if you pass gun laws
that also apply to cops I will
absolutely turn in all my guns become
illegal but living in Sacramento which
is like my very pro-gun Park California
there are a lot of restrictions that I
as just a regular citizen have to abide
by I can't have like a standard assault
rifle I can't have things like 30-round
magazine gun yeah and a few weeks ago
just a few weeks ago they were the cops
were chasing somebody through my
neighborhood and he went into a building
across the street from mine and they
were set up all around with ar-15s and
they are tense with like thirty and
forty round mags and all these weaponry
that supposedly is a weapon war that is
on the street just because the police
have it so I feel like that's another
piece that has to be thrown in there and
when you talk about gun control and you
want to have an honest conversation well
I think people who are elected know I
guess that's next point I got you I mean
I think and I appreciate the call I mean
I think I think
ultimately the justification for police
officers to carry those guns is
diminished as there can't be you know as
they don't have the excuse of like I'm
not going out there when I'm gonna meet
guys with body armor and you know
assault rifles without more firepower I
mean that's the problem with this stuff
all right one more quick phone call for
the time being come from a 978 area code
who's this where you come from either
side is me it is you oh I say my my name
is madam called from Massachusetts Matt
from Massachusetts ah yeah I just wanted
to say first off boss ice second off
free whoaaaa
and then third go Pat's sweet that's a
good call so Phi yeah I just wanted to
talk about so recently recently I just I
took like kind of a hard pivot to the
left so like maybe when the pet within
the past year have been like sort of
radicalized but I've been a history buff
my entire life and like a military
history buff and just something that
kinda have kind of noticed about people
on the left in general well not not even
in general but certain parts of like
left groups is this a version to this
like very like strategy word democracy
yeah no kidding like you know and yep no
go ahead yeah you were saying there's an
aversion to strategy which I think we
would couldn't agree with you more
oh no I know you guys are fantastic on
this and that I love listening to you
guys and you also I think I pulled off
something unique which is sort of like a
coalition of like all the different
types of left I mean you have you know
you know you're a narco calm yes you
have your Democratic Socialist and then
you got your more mainstream kind of
light Democrats but like saw people who
are like I'm not going to participate in
bruges wide democracy because it's like
just a tool and it's like but like a
tool like the upper class but it's like
but you caution nothing to participate
in this democracy and you have that tool
why would you just give that up for
nothing dear I mean and like it actually
affects people on a like a material
level it's like why it's see background
when you don't have to and like just on
like a principled ground it's like you
could help people with this you could
like you know actually effect material
things without like sacrificing your
ideals you know and it just it just kind
of makes me a little bit frustrated yeah
well Matt let me tell you we we've been
doing this iteration of this of this
version of the the majority report for
about nine years maybe eight maybe nine
coming up a nine I think and I would say
that you could in and if I want to say
to someone I need you to listen to all
of this the the nine years of the show
you could wipe away three years by just
your summary of what is problem I think
I think there is I think unfortunately
people conflate statements of ideology
and expression with politics in dealing
with power and I think sometimes you say
it cost them nothing it there is a
psychological cost that's associated
with it which means that you know I mean
look I just
III don't know why people do that you
know you they leave means of achieving
power on the table because they don't
like the idea of having to touch
anything on the table and that's all
well and good but all you're doing then
is just do in color commentary
counterpoint you're both solos right but
Matt appreciate the phone call why were
together at the debate and my responses
to those types of comments is this you
know dude
he I don't know if he's actually stuck
around to hear the Ken Kenny Ken show
hope he has that gentleman should be
involved yeah
all right let's get to it so ok
something's going on apparently in
England right now the I think the
deadline for a brexit October total I
think they want to make sure is that he
will not do a No Deal brexit if they go
to election let me just explain to what
people what what a No Deal brexit is in
is sort of as basic terms as possible it
is basically England leaving the EU
without any type of trade deal or
arrangement as to what will happen and
it is important you know it's I don't
know if the idea is that it gets us more
leverage or less leverage or and by us I
mean the British or if it's like we're
gonna go come hell or high water and
they need us more than we need them or
you know but you need these structures
it's a problem people are worried about
it and it's unclear to me what I just
don't understand it enough to be honest
with what Boris Johnson strategy was but
he seems to have destroyed the the
Conservative Party for the most part I
don't know but it remains to be seen but
they they have a thing called the amq
right this is the ask the PM gives Prime
Minister's Questions right and I got am
on my mind and they got the Prime
Minister a.m. quickie mr. prime minister
Adams let's G hello I do you hate the
south
nice t-prime me anyways am the preamp
you and that's a lot of fun to see Boris
Johnson being
excoriated on the floor of Parliament
let's start with this one and it's not
just in regards to I think the idea is
just that Boris Johnson scene is weak
now and so that there may be a little
bit more willingness to to call him out
I know they do this all the time but
this seems to be pretty dramatic this is
a member of parliament in the House of
Commons 10 Manjeet Singh debts
Dessie I don't know if I'm Jesse he's
from Hull and he's Labour and he's a
labor guy from Hull and here he is
for those who are and and this happens
to Sikhs all around the world and there
was there was actually this week I saw a
video of and I'm not sure it was in
Canada and I don't know exactly what the
context was it seems to be some type of
event and there was a sikh lawmaker
there who was being attacked by a
Canadian guy as if the Sikh was Muslim
and he was attacking Muslims and the
Sikh never this this lawmaker never said
hey buddy I'm a Sikh I'm not a Muslim he
which he certainly could have done you
know but he basically you know sort of
just defended was very you know
protective of Muslim rights two quick
things that yes lawmaker and the brother
of jag meet Singh was the leader of the
NDP so they're committing it and he's
from Slough not whole apologies prod se
was from South Slough not whole but here
is here is deci telling Boris Johnson to
apologize for what's going on in this
country mr. speaker if I decide to wear
a turban
or you decide to wear a cross or he
decides to wear a kippah or a skullcap
or she decides to wear a hijab or a
burka does that mean that it is open
season for right honourable members of
this house to make derogatory and
divisive remarks about our parents for
those of us who from a young age have
had to endure and face up to being
called names such as
or Taliban or coming from bungo bungo
land we can appreciate full well the
hurt and pain felt by already vulnerable
Muslim women when they are described as
looking like bank robbers and letter
boxes
rather than hide behind sham and
whitewash investigations when will the
Prime Minister finally apologized for
his derogatory and racist remark
basic racist remarks mr. speaker which
have led to a spike in hate crime and
given the increasing prevalence of such
incidents within his party when will the
Prime Minister finally order an inquiry
into Islamophobia within the
Conservative Party something which he
and his Chancellor promised on national
television
prime minister mister
mr. speaker
[Applause]
or dare the response from the Prime
Minister will be heard the Prime
Minister Thank You mr. Speaker I just
say to the Honourable gentleman that if
he took the trouble to read the article
in question he would see that it was a
strong liberal defense as he began his
question by saying of everybody's right
to wear whatever they want in this
country and I speak as somebody who's
not only proud to have Muslim ancestors
but to be related to Sikhs such as such
as himself and I'm also proud mr.
speaker to say that under this
government we have the most diverse the
most diverse in the history of this
country we truly reflect we truly
reflect modern Britain we truly yeah
well so I didn't apologize No
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah here is another
moment from the pmq Corbin Jeremy Corbyn
is there talking about the the danger of
a No Deal brexit and that the brexit
negotiations have been basically a sham
now I'm not sure why Boris Johnson are
the Conservatives want a No Deal brexit
maybe because it's just a sort of a
safest thing for them politically I'm
not sure I really don't understand the
dynamics here but here is Jeremy Corbyn
ooh I really fail to see how I can be
accused of undermining negotiations
because no negotiations are taking place
[Applause]
he's been Prime Minister for six weeks
and he promised to get brexit sorted in
six weeks he's presented nothing to
change the previous Prime Minister's
deal which he twice voted against these
negotiations that he talks about are a
sham all he's doing is running down the
clock at the weekend the Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster said food prices
will go up under No Deal will the Prime
Minister publish will the Prime Minister
publish the yellowhammer documents so
that people can see which food prices
will go up and by how much the Duchy of
Lancaster said absolutely no such thing
I can tell him the preparations
preparations for No Deal thanks to his
good offices and thanks to his efforts
are very far advanced but I tell you the
surest way have a turn into week deal is
to undermine this country's ability to
negotiate
which is what he is doing well I was
listening to Glenn Beck on Dave Rubin
though yesterday and apparently the
conservative line on this is that Corbin
is undermining him because they want to
look as if they really do want to know
deal brexit but they really don't want
one but who wants to look like they do
what Boris says like they'll only give
us something if they think we're crazy
enough to do it Glenn Beck specifically
mentioned like you want to look like a
guy with a twitchy eye the madman theory
a lot of afraid negotiation that's the
whole joke we're going to we're going to
blow ourselves up it literally is like
oh it's literally one of those things
like where where the the madman is
holding the guns like oh you think I'm
crazy
haha you think I'm crazy how's this for
crazy and then shoots themselves in
there I mean the idea that they are
staking out a bargaining position of no
deal like what's the leverage what's the
leverage that England has that they want
to be basically this lone Island without
any trade like avenues or platform with
all the countries that are within close
proximity to them well that was the
amazing thing is that they actually had
the best deal imaginable because they
weren't on the Euro right they had all
of the advantage was without any of the
disadvantages of not being able to set
their own money so it was just not very
bright
all right lastly we have one more clip
from the am of PM q here is a would
deprive bittersteel agree hello
Labour MP a Vernon Coker and basically
hands it to Boris Johnson at all I
Minister yesterday boots it out 21 MPs
from his own great party for voting
against a reckless no
deal break see these included very
well-respected members of this house
including a former Chancellor including
Churchill's grandson and the father of
the house presumably on the orders of
his chief of staff given the Prime
Minister himself voted against the
former Prime Minister's deal without
losing the win
no is this not show and demonstrate to
the British public his view of life
namely one rule for him and one rule for
everyone else it's a speaker I'm not
gonna take any lecture from anybody in
the Labour Party about how they run
their body look this is a party well
MP's good hard worker bees are daily
handed out by by anti-semitic
anti-semitic mobs
let's be absolutely if the right on
manager is actually interested in
democracy if he's interested in
democracy then I hope I hope he's been
listening to what I've been saying today
in an anti-democratic way the bill
before the House today would hand over
this country's right to the side how
long to remain in the EU and it would
hand it over to the EU itself that's
what that bill involved if he thinks
that's a good idea then let him submit
it they didn't submit it to the
judgement of the British people in an
election I mean this canard of
anti-semitism is the way that it's been
wielded Republicans are doing it to I
mean to a large extent in this country
to I mean I think there has been some
singularity that has been created in
terms of the right in the world and and
there we see it in Johnson we don't know
what his fate or I mean I I wouldn't
even I can't even begin to guess what's
going on over there frankly I can barely
tell what's going on over here here is
Mike Pence he's in Ireland I'm not sure
what the agenda is there
it's basically for him to maybe show
that he's you know stately and in the
event that something happens to the
president he's definitely got the bona
fides to step in he is staying at a
Trump resort while he's there of course
I didn't know oh gosh and now look do I
know if Trump wants that million dollar
is probably a couple million dollars
that gets paid to that resort for all
the people staying there and take over
maybe I don't five ten million dollars
who knows how much it is - I don't know
dawg Trump it's reported that his Doral
Golf Club is doing horribly because
Donald Trump is odious
and it's hard for people to ignore that
and so they stay away from his places
unless they want something from our
government which is you know I hope
people understand that that's a
problematic dynamic so Mike Pence is
staying at the Trump resort or whatever
it is while he's in Ireland of course
Trump is double dipping here getting
that paid for that and hoping I imagine
that this helps from marketing
perspective so a good for the press I
think this is uh Kostis Robert Costas I
think I can just tell from the voice I
think but I'm not hundred percent sure
about this who is asking Mike Pence a
question about the propriety of of doing
something like this staying at the
resort owned by the President to respond
Democrats have criticized you today for
staying at the Trump property and doun
beg they say your enriching the
president what's your response to that
criticism it's wonderful to be back in
Ireland for many reasons Ireland is so
important to the United States of
America as a trading partner but in so
many ways for more than 30 million
Americans Ireland his family and I'm one
of them
I mean it's deeply humbling for me to be
able to come back to Ireland and have
the opportunity to go to the very
hometown of my mother's grandma I mean
we'll we'll have dinner tonight at a
little pub that I worked at when I was
22 years old when I came over here
shortly after my grandfather passed away
and right across the street is the house
for my great-grandmother ker-rah
she often spoke at the castle that was
out of the window over bedroom and to be
able to be here to be able to reaffirm
our commitment to the Republic of
Ireland to all of our economic ties our
diplomatic ties but at the same time to
have an opportunity to to connect to the
roots of my family I think supports the
relationship between the United States
and Ireland I mean if you think about
you think about the bonds that exist
between the Irish people and the
American people they have much to do
with shared heritage they must agree
with family and that's why it was
important for me before our original
trip plan to at least spend one night in
doing that and and I understand
political attacks by Democrats but if
you have a chance to get to doing beg
you'll find it's a fairly small place
and the opportunity to stay at Trump
national and do beg to accommodate the
unique footprint that comes with our
security detail and other personnel made
it logical we checked it with the State
Department they organized and they're
active and I was a I was pleased to have
the opportunity to return to that family
higher than Tennant it to be able to
stay there and and not just on a
personal level but also to do it do it
in a way that helps me celebrate with
the people of Ireland yeah a lot of gay
guys wave potatoes that you know
to the music in it first
um you know like how like he paused at
first and then he just went into that
and then you could almost see behind his
eyes like I can't believe I figured this
out I can't believe I'm gonna get away
with this and Mike Pence I mean yes he
may be a little bit dim he may be an
incompetent executive based upon his
time as governor where he was really
loved by 60% of the population I think
it sounded like his political career was
coming to an end he's gonna make fires
like yeah yep and but this guy can lie
like you know like I would put him up
with any type of pathological liar thing
about Mike
but I will say anyone is making him a
pathological liar I think it's just that
he has a real concerted purpose when he
lies and but he can lie boy that guy can
really just sit there with a straight
face and and deliver those lines that's
that is quite a talent and all his God
and all our gods and our non gods help
us if he ever gets into a position where
he could be president for God's sakes
it's gonna do stay in Limerick there's I
wanted to go there for one night
good job just stay for one night Mike
because we can bill you for seven
we could build for city don't eat it
that's stupid pub every night come have
a you know a stake on us
I don't watch this show to be honest
with you very often I think maybe I've
caught it once
not by not for any particular reason
son Manoj show on what's it called
Patriot Act on Netflix on Netflix I just
I just don't watch that much TV but this
was a great exchange that he had with
Justin Trudeau I would imagine probably
the last exchange he'll ever have with
Justin Trudeau and I think you know at
any given point when you do these type
of shows you sort of make an assessment
like oK we've reached this is about as
high as I'm gonna get in terms of like
interviewing somebody so this is where I
will I'll make my stand
and of course right now the UN has said
that the US has been complicit perhaps
in war crimes in Yemen Saudi Arabia what
just killed a hundred people of the
other day in a bombing run according to
the Red Cross what's happening in Yemen
is a disgrace and the Senate tried to
stop it Donald Trump overrode the veto I
mean excuse me
vetoed it they could not override the
veto so maybe things would be better in
a place like Canada where you have a
reasonable Prime Minister he's really
will finish the sentence Tim Hortons is
a Canadian institution nice finish the
sentence Kawhi Leonard should should be
very proud of what he accomplished in
this time in Canada I completely
disagree Kawhi Leonard should never
return to Canada because he is a traitor
that's the correct answer
you know people bring American
sentiments on to Canadian politeness
every now and then finish the sentence
Canada will not sell any more weapons to
Saudi Arabia period you said nine months
ago you guys would be examining in yeah
it takes about three months to study for
the LSAT so that's a pretty good
examination time you could you could
announce it right here right now we're
cancelling the deal we take our right
here why don't you take our legal
responsibilities and the breaking of
contracts very seriously in this country
I'm telling you they watch the show but
they really watched I don't know they do
and so they're keeping an eye on you
okay what does that mean and what makes
them so sure is it weird that he tried
to schedule our next interview in
Istanbul that's pretty good
and you know any opportunity that
someone has to put someone in power on
the spot for for policies horrible
policies or policies that they haven't
fulfilled
good for them respect yep all right
lastly we have this as you know
hurricane durian and I don't even think
we I mean have really any sense of the
scope of the the destruction in the
Bahamas I mean its massive like like it
I think there are parts of the Bahamas
that simply don't exist anymore in any
meaningful way they've been so overrun
and the video is very difficult well
here here's Ben Shapiro who you know is
a critic of Donald Trump's he just calls
him as he sees it and of course he's
trying to there was a suggestion by
Donald Trump that perhaps maybe we
should drop a nuke to blow the hurricane
apart to spit and you know there here's
the thing with nuclear weapons or nukes
of any kind when they explode
they spread this thing called radiation
and the tough thing about these sort of
radio radioactive is it isotopes or this
material they don't have like you know
that whole thing with fruit flies they
all had like a half-life David all like
died like they go through their whole
life cycle and like what is it like an
hour and a half or something like that
it's the opposite with the radioactive
material my EMF it takes a long time and
when you have an explosion things fly
out in all sorts of different directions
and then when you have an explosion near
a massive weather a storm it's also
there's gonna be a lot of flinging ben
shapiro is not worried about that
they're talking about this dumbest story
the president Trump wanted to new Couric
aides which by the way I didn't care
whether it does anything it just sounds
cool and what if there are sharks in the
Hurricanes what if it's a sharknado what
then guys have you thought about that
just the anytime you're talking about
nuking a random thing that's not really
gonna hurt anybody I'll admit the
thirteen-year-old Blamey is kind of for
it in any case it's a dumbest story
CNN decided to make it a big story and
then they brought on April Ryan who is
supposedly a reporter um funny this is a
you know he's trying mean this is what
they'll do right they will make fun of
the thing that is so ridiculous to
diminish the insanity of it it's a meta
critical his party fully supports a
chief executive of this country who
wants to blow up a hurricane with
nuclear weapons is that a dumb story is
that something that Americans shouldn't
be aware of this is incidentally I would
also add after the US government called
for programs start allowing nukes in
outer space there's clearly at the top
of our
government a lack of awareness about the
capacity for nuclear weapons or nuclear
materials to harm thousands tens of
thousands hundreds of thousands millions
people and he's pinpointing it's stupid
it's this is immediate this is a media
critique piece that he's doing here well
I mean if if you nuked a hurricane and
presumably that radiation got into the
ocean maybe like washed ashore or
something like that you don't think
people are just gonna sell their house
okay step you later cats stipulate the
whole the entirety of the oceans become
liquefied with the reign of nuclear acid
okay then you would just move you just
flip your beachfront property there now
I'm surprised this is still there but at
the National Atlantic Ocean a graphic a
meteorological or I should say the
Atlantic Ocean a graphic meteorological
laboratory is part of the National
Oceanic Atmospheric Administration there
is a hurricane research division and
they have frequently asked questions and
one of those frequently asked questions
I've just IMed it to you Matt is why
don't we try to destroy tropical
cyclones by nuking them during each
hurricane season there always appears a
suggestion that one should simply use
nuclear weapons to try and destroy the
storms I mean we got them apart from the
fact that this might not even alter the
storm this approach neglects the problem
that released radioactive fallout would
fairly quickly move with the trade winds
to affect land areas and caused
devastating environmental problems
needless to say this is not a good idea
that's I'm saying just move sell your
house now that's just the first
paragraph and then they go on state now
for a more rigorous scientific
explanation in other words we've just
given you the idiot version the main
difficulty with using
explosive to modify hurricanes is the
amount of energy required so in other
words you know even a nuclear weapon
doesn't have the power of these storms
about like an h-bomb but here's now melt
Elijah this is indicative of a president
and an administration and a party that
completely neglect science where you
have a president who is somehow getting
his information from complete whack jobs
whack jobs and maybe we dodged this
bullet but we don't know if we'll dodge
the next and this is just a ridiculous
story tells us nothing about the current
state of affairs Trump derangement
syndrome
at it again yep if Barack Obama wanted
to nuke something you know we'd probably
have done it oh by now calling by 2:01
area code who's this where you calling
from
2 0 1 2 0 1 once I fam it uh ok you hear
it yep
who's this hey Alex from Georgia City
hey what's on your mind um first of all
I just wanted to thank you guys for
helping me commit wage theft every
single day you're welcome and I and I
wanted to talk to you guys well I want
to ask and I don't know if I'm getting a
little bit ahead of myself but you know
it Bernie was to win and this kind of
goes back to what Michaels talking about
about how it's not really about policy
it's more about movement with Bernie and
in order to get things done I wanted to
get your take on what you guys would
would envision if if Sanders did get
elected president would he be able to
pass a lot of the things that he's been
proposing well who controls the Senate
in your scenario
I would you know I would say that if
Bernie if Bernie Winne died which I
would have a feeling that you know maybe
right like let's say like we get full
control of the Senate and the house
I think goodbye okay I think some of his
agenda if you have the Senate I think
that you will get some of his agenda the
house will be fully behind him the the
Senate it's going to be very tricky Joe
Manchin
is going to be the most important guy in
Joe Manchin what's-his-name in Arizona
and cinema in Arizona and you know
presumably you know if I can't remember
his name
Gabby Giffords husband mium the former
astronaut those three will be very
important players you know depending on
who's in Colorado if it's Hickenlooper
it's he's Hickenlooper he's gonna put
himself right in the middle of that
stuff too as opposed to I think Romanoff
would be all would be on board you know
it depends on who those senators are but
we're going to get but we will have
progress we will move towards something
and Bernie might be able to go into a
state like a Colorado let's say and
actually influence the senator there and
I think he'd be much more aggressive
about doing it than Obama was Obama
could have gone to Connecticut and said
Joe Lieberman does not want you to buy
into Medicare at 55 which was floating
around for a while and then he pulled
his he pulled out of it or he could have
gone and headed to where Conrad was Ken
Conrad and said you know he's he's
standing in front of you getting a
public option here so I think he's gonna
get some I don't think he's gonna get
all
that that doesn't mean that four years
later or eight years later we won't get
that we have a much better chance of
getting it
appreciate the cop thank one more call I
think should do it come from a 774 area
code who's this we're going from I Sam
it's Cory from Worcester calling back
again
Cory from Wooster what's on your mind
Cory how's it going so I I kind of
wanted to expand on the quick point that
I was trying to make in the last little
35 second colloquy she ate that extra
five seconds by the way well but so I
recently watched a philosophy Tube video
about climate grief I don't know if you
guys have seen that one but it was
really interesting in the way that the
Christchurch killer and the the recent
El Paso shooting their manifesto both
had elements of you know very deep
concerns about the climate change
situation and and that that was one of
their contentions and you know the acts
of violence because I mean people do
have access to the information that
Bernie has put out about you know
Pentagon reports saying that you know
the increase in global temperatures you
know increases terrorism and this has
kind of like a byproduct of that right
like those ideologies ironically enough
have led to more terrorism and terrorism
over the idea of that which is even more
bizarre to me but it kind of makes sense
but so I mean there's a lot of things
that need to be addressed in all of
these categories but uh as I was trying
to get at because I feel like it gets
stirred over a lot and the narrative
isn't really covered very well about the
correlation between if you had mentioned
they don't like to you know titrate off
of certain meds act right and it can be
dangerous especially with antipsychotics
and SSRIs but sometimes say somebody
couldn't get their prescription filled
or they missed the dose and they
had a adverse reaction to that because
they needed it to maintain and then that
is the moment that they snap and decide
to take all of these ideologies you know
that certain obvious organizations that
like to dog whistle and to fear monger
and you know pit us against one another
sometimes that results actually 90% of
the time since Columbine what almost
every major mass shooting in America has
had in common was that they were on some
form of antidepressant or anti-psychotic
medication and the side of the the just
side effects from taking the meds in
general I work in pharmaceuticals
actually and it really kills me to see
the over prescribing of you know
dangerous medications like opioids but I
don't think that certain you know
antidepressants which get overly
prescribed when they're addressing
symptoms that might not even correlate
to what's actually going on with a
person it's just a really dangerous game
we're playing and there's so many
studies that have been published about
the the connections between gun violence
and prescription well I appreciate the
comments like I don't you know III
definitely think that we need more rigor
in the way that we we deal with these
with these drugs I mean I definitely
think we do which is not to say that
they're not the the the amount of
suffering and misery that they have
alleviated is not as huge but I think
there needs to be more yes I think there
needs to be more rigor in the way that
these things are sold and part of it is
because I mean frankly it's because of
profiteering I mean you know we you know
it's not oh yeah it's not the same it's
not the same but we saw it in the
context of the opioids and you know that
is just a lot more explicit obviously
and now there's hopefully some reckoning
and accounting for that but you know the
what you're talking about is it tougher
dynamic to sort of see in the in the way
that we can see it with all its a vault
deep very multi-layered for sure um it's
just funny because sometimes they'll
click on one of your videos and I'll see
you like eh you know I'll get a Trent
Alex ad like Oh
all these symptoms of your depression
I'm like um okay so this is you know
that's part of the problem obviously
encouraging people to think that you
know get a hypochondriac kind of
mentality about oh maybe I do need that
maybe I should go see a doctor and have
them prescribe me this right but again
it's that's a whole part of the culture
you know it's it's very hard to break
that up without you know great change
and being able to break up some of these
drug companies that you know it's part
of their profit margin and I understand
that but I'm also disgusted by it
because I see you know in deeper ways
you know how they priced out and you
know goes from premiums to co-pays or
deductibles to gaps in coverage to
catastrophic coverage to the point where
people who are on a fixed budget that
are older who have more ailments about
them they can't afford anything yeah
they can't afford food all right course
you have to change I get it I appreciate
the call
Thanks good point yeah thank you what
stir in the house a lot of Massachusetts
representatives all right look I got
five callers on the line I'm gonna just
give you 30 seconds each I'm sorry we've
run out of time but I'm gonna do this
again call from a 605 area code who's
this where you come from
30 seconds security unionize security
workers in Minnesota that have been
locked out of a nuclear plant here so
it's a big labor deal certainly during
labor day week but thanks guys all right
we'll check it out thanks Malik
appreciate the call call from a 503 area
code who's this where you calling from
hey this is Joe in LA how you guys doing
good Joey you got 30 seconds okay I love
you guys I'm a proud Mike sort of
each member of your show just wanted to
let you know that there's a great
podcast called citations needed which is
about
you know just examining and
stuff through US media they had a great
episode about fact-checking the fact
checkers and stuff everyone who listens
to the show should check it out left its
best in the knee
we will leave ray Bowie call them from a
404 area code who's this where you come
from Christian from Atlanta Christian
you got 30 seconds go
Sam I'm really disappointed you know you
call the people like Ruben for debates
but I haven't heard you say anything
about your call-out from creationist cat
it's been a month really hope you're not
a hypocrite when it comes to debating
England and all challengers so when I
hear anything from you about that I'm
sorry your phone is breaking up I gotta
let you go I'm not afraid of creationist
cat I'll go head to head with that cat
soon I didn't realize I was challenged
to a debate by them but I will I will
definitely I'm not afraid come from a
911 7 area code who's this where he come
from you got 30 seconds go hi this is Ed
from Manhattan Ted 30 seconds go
phenomenal alright I want to talk about
the comps on the fact that politicians
should actually earn votes from their
voters as opposed to the moral position
that people should interestingly try to
fight the greater good kind of situation
or choose the lesser evil like this has
to do with the thing that you're talking
about the psychology the harm that it
causes a voter to go ahead and like vote
against their interest especially if
they believe that there's going to be no
meaningful change
if you select from politicians who are
chosen for you who okay I appreciate
that good thanks to the call calling
from an eight-five Oh area code who's
this where you come from
this is Alex G from Florida Alex you got
30 seconds go sure sir hey I love the
a.m. quickie so I'll get to keep this
super quick in the spirit of that
I just wanted to know so conservatives
talk a lot about how comments getting
guns is a tyranny but what I see is a
tyranny is the idea that what we would
decide to do democratically like they
can't accept that they have like their
ideas it seems like they won't organize
death squads and like go after us if we
take away the guns and that seems like
how do we I don't know not
really ridiculous and that's the real
tyranny it looks right that this what's
right against our civil society for
whatever we do one more clicker quickie
Sam I just want to shout out my local
DFA we're organizing a chapter is the
pensacola florida guides if you're in
the area please meet us on September
19th 7:00 p.m. an open book steps from
the industrially ravaged by o2r
reliever a solidarity forever thank you
Sam good job thanks come from me 575
area code you got 30 seconds and we've
got four or five more calls we're gonna
get to hey this was Kade I'm a student
from the technologically ravaged Silicon
Valley and you got 30 seconds go
and I just wanted to underline you know
the extreme cruelty of the medical debt
system from you know a kid's perspective
I grew up poor dad worked construction
so he's the one who got the insurance
mom got sick and now we go 150 K and
debt the only way you get out of that
from a kid's perspective is a college
being nice enough to give you a ton of
money to get out of there and annually
millions of lives are being ruined for
the benefit of Kaiser Permanente and
Blue Cross in the richest country in the
history bad luck shouldn't ruin your
life thank you very much them very well
said great call
great call calling from a to10 area code
you got 30 seconds go hey Cody from San
Antonio I wanted to ask them our crew
real quick when y'all are listening to
the the for students at the straight
Pride Parade yesterday this yellow tee I
recall when that guy says clown world
yeah something to that effect what was
that about I just I just wanted to let
you guys know he's doing some of
blatantly racist and he just
anti-semitic signaling that's been a
right-wing meme that's been around is
start out on reddit there's been a bunch
of subreddits has been banned for it
also on a chain as well but anyways it's
just it's they're trying to say that
Zionists are running the world and
they're trying to refer to them as
clowns you hear a lot of Hong Kong
I heard it on a that guy who was the the
the guy who was with James O'Keefe and
then he read it on YouTube or whatever
he's also one of those guys he's saying
cloud world he said oh now it's junk and
stuff so just wanna let y'all know
whenever they're saying that they are
doing some very anti-semitic signaling
their racist piece of so thank you
have a great day fascinating stuff
thanks Cody it's meant to be like a
nihilist pay pay which I mean seems
redundant calling calling from a nine to
eight area code who's this where you
calling from got three more calls right
go ahead yep got 37 right Brian from
Flagstaff yeah you got 30 seconds go
left and right is just the north and
south of the Civil War I don't know why
anybody's not cluing in on that and yeah
I'm afraid to give up my guns because
they're all collecting their guns down
there and people yeah I can understand
that I'd be a little bit worried too if
my neighbors were all armed to the teeth
sometimes you don't have any choice in
that situation and that's why we need a
some type of gun control so that people
don't even have to make that choice
appreciate the call thanks bye
two more column from a 303 area code
who's this three hours good 303 Sian go
ahead you got 30 seconds who's this this
is Brittany from Denver's okay Brittany
and I just wanted to I was just calling
in to see if ASAP Sammy ever checked out
that new Tyler the Creator album I'm
still working on that
got that right on my list right here
Tyler the Creator
you guys should all check it out it's an
amazing album but I also wanted to say
I'm a big Bernie supporter and I have
had a lot of people asking me about him
lately so that's really exciting we
shall see that's good news appreciate
the call Brittany I think Tyler the
Creator okay we got two more calls
calling from a 4-4-2 area code who's
this where he called from four four two
four four two going once
oh go ahead just me yeah all right well
where you going from this I'm from the
UK
Lisa what's on your mind got 30 seconds
I'm just oh okay just why the Tories are
so into brexit I think person I think
the reason is because the EU are phasing
in some tax avoidance laws that will
make it a lot harder for the very rich
to basically not pay taxes you just and
I think that's a big all right gotta
jump thank you appreciate the call
that's interesting
all right final call the day ladies and
gentlemen called from a 708 area code
who's this where he come from the
military industrial complex because they
don't bring in any source of any war at
all because I know American people
something wrong and with their own eyes
they hear it they stand up and fight
against it and since the left does not
bring it any victims event wars at all
American people to see it the
military-industrial complex can keep
going and thriving what what country
were you from talisman ok wait off the
map
not even on the mess but I think that I
think that if the American people see
and hear the stories of what's happening
overseas so many people's life be spared
but we're not talking about it you know
it's all good and dandy yeah and there's
some two thing and I'm sorry one more
thing one thing up I saw that the York
almost like he attacks Jimmy Dore for a
lot of stuff but Jimmy bar is in a way
he is telling the truth about a lot of
stuff that's happening but in our
political situation we have to
compromise because have not even happy I
would say any percent of the Democratic
Party is super corrupt and we have to
just look away because our preferred
politicians are not corrupt at all and
it's hard for us to call them out
because our politicians want to be well
lazarey
listen Joseph listen here's the problem
with Jimmy Dore right because no no it's
not just that it's that when he says
something that you agree with
he also says something to the effect of
like Hillary Clinton has Parkinson's I
can tell because I'm watching her
stumble and then but it does what it
does Joseph is it makes your point or
his point dubious because the whole
point the whole point of having a
platform is that you are supposed to be
rigorous with what you put out there
even if it's opinions and if he's going
out there saying that he can he can
diagnose that Hillary Clinton has
Parkinson's or that Seth rich there's
already flagging around him being
assassinated by the Clintons or or the
Democrats have the ability to filibuster
when there's no filibuster or on and on
and on it starts to question all the
other statements he makes and it
undercuts his credit
but everything else he had to say I
agree with appreciate the call got a job
that was it nope I'm done I'm literally
getting we're literally doing a second
show right now as I'm recording as they
just got dialed in folks we're out of
time
I'll see you tomorrow
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
