[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday April 29th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today we're
back meanwhile the stonewalling has
begun as the Trump administration won't
testify on anything meanwhile Joe Biden
trips into the 2020 presidential race
and Elizabeth Warren drops a massive
student debt plan and calls for Donald
Trump's impeachment busy week for her
meanwhile Supreme Court here's the
sentence the census citizen question
question get ready for a partisan ruling
meanwhile a federal court strikes down
the Michigan's districts drawn by
Republicans again subject to a SCOTUS
ruling Washington State introduces the
first long-term care benefit just the
beginning on that and we've been gone
for a week Trump still racist 55% of
Americans say they will never vote for
him but a majority are against
impeachment meanwhile workers reach a
tentative deal with stop and shop that's
33,000 striking workers across Rhode
Island Massachusetts and Connecticut
Marco Rubio says russians hacked into
florida's elections in 2016 just in a
couple of counties don't worry about it
pretty sure they didn't change anything
and medicare for all we'll get a hearing
this week as we'll bill bar get another
hearing this week terror attacks in
California leave one shot dead in a
synagogue and a separate attack in
California eight injured in a car attack
seeking to kill Muslims and of course
250 dead 500 injured in Sri Lanka
socialist strengthen hold in Spain Lula
gets an interview in Brazil is first in
prison the NRA is in crisis and lastly
incarceration rates drop in this country
some good news yeah
there you go all that and more on
today's majority report yes we are back
I hope that you enjoyed the interviews
that we ran during the course of the
week don't sleep on those folks we pick
some very good interviews for the week
that we're off because we know that
people love our liveness some meaty
nonfiction
it's a meaty nonfiction I like to think
of the interviews we do on vacation
right it's got a bit more nutritional
value in the long term we'll stay with
you like a probiotic right maybe we
should get the marketing team to work on
some of this I thought that was the
marketing team I was gonna say maybe we
need a new marketing team Brendon has a
very health centric view of the world I
respect it
but do not sleep on those folks go check
them out and as always you can support
this program by becoming a member at
join the majority report during during
vacation we end up we end up losing a
couple of always a couple of members and
and I forgot to pitch it during that
week so if you've been thinking about
becoming a member now is the time to
join head over to join the majority
report comm we have so many plans for
the future and always we always have
plans for the future let's start though
with something that is in the past and
that was Megan McCain on this week ABC's
this week now I know you're asking
yourself wait a second this week is
supposed to be a network news show where
you would get I mean you would either
interview politicians or newsmakers or
someone who really has a strong sense of
what's going on in terms of politics
now I understand Maggie McHugh and
McCain is on the view because the view
is supposed to be about people who don't
know anything about anything
but have opinions about it and that's
fine I mean everybody has an opinion
everybody mm-hmm and it's interesting to
hear people who are not like experts on
stuff but may read into stuff a little
bit shed their share their opinions it's
the view that's the nature of it the
view that's why they call it the view
and so yeah it makes sense
Meghan McCain who is about is not expert
had anything doesn't seem to be you know
I mean I've had I've had a personal
experience with her she seemed perfectly
nice in that narrow context of which we
related but it was it was a trivia style
show have you have I got news for you
I'm a callow you know you know low
threshold and not great at it
I don't I don't judge people that way
I'm just saying that was my assessment
burden and information for this because
she's now on a network new show
pontificating saying some of the
stupidest stuff if it wasn't so really
in many respects offensive it would be
just stupid
here she is pontificating on the the
shooting that took place in a synagogue
I think around the San Diego area in
California where a woman was shot to
death she was jumping in front of the
rabbi actually who was being fired upon
rabbi think lost part of his hand there
was a couple other injuries it was a 19
year old with an ar-15 who spends his
time on 8chan which is like I guess you
know the dark web
they don't pretend it's just about
generally about ideas a lot of those
ideas are white supremacists
anti-semantic and this guy had bragged
about you know he was going to do
something like this and he had done it
timed within six months to the date of
the pittsburgh shooting and was inspired
by the christchurch shooting and here's
megan mccain making what is really an
incredibly offensive point about this
really having to make it about somehow
both sides much more quickly than they
could with christchurch but that is a
real issue yeah and one that I think the
Silicon Valley should have their feet
held to the fire I do think when we're
having conversations about anti-semitism
we should be looking at the most extreme
on both sides and I would bring up
congresswoman Ilhan Omar and some of her
comments that got so much attention and
in my opinion Nancy Pelosi wasn't hard
enough in her response to her you know
trafficking in anti-semitic language
talking about all about the Benjen
Benjamins and how Jewish people had
hypnotized the world so I think when
you're talking about rhetoric and you
want to talk about President Trump and
by the way I agree that he needs to have
his feet holds the fire as well but
we're talking about it on both sides of
the aisle as well okay posit you know
let's just take the low-hanging fruit
here the idea that Elon omar was in any
way inspiring a white supremacist to do
anything is laughable on its face but
Megan McCain also lied about what alon
omar said in that quote she never said
anything about the Jews said that Israel
had hypnotized the Congress insofar as
their ability to even critique it she is
when she'd said all it was all about the
Benjamins it was about literally about
the the lobbyists who were impacting the
Israeli policy within Congress but the
idea that it's both sides are inspiring
the shooting I want to see the shooter
who was inspired by a
Omar I mean it's pathological it's
pathological her Alon Omar whatever you
would call that obsession exciting
fixation and but it's also very I mean
it's also so obviously cynical because
she's using it to advance her career
right like this is what gets her a
speaking spot at AIPAC this is her way
of actually not just being a joke on the
view well so she's actually inciting
again still on Omar in my opinion and
you know actually of course totally
belittling the actual serious issue of
anti-semitism through her disgusting
crusade against her let's let's let's
break this down because we can't know
which is which it's obviously it's our
opinion that she's doing this for any of
the reason now one of them could be
because she sees it as a career ticket
it gives her something interesting to
say because she doesn't have a lot of
interesting things to say this is an
interesting thing to say she's that
person who you go to to say both sides
when a white supremacist kills you know
shoots at Jews so you could say both
sides or it could just be she's really
really not bright and really really
feels like she needs to justify why she
carries water for the conservative
element in this country and it's really
more about her wondering if there is a
if she's aligned with people who may be
problematic or it could be she also has
a problem with Muslims I mean it could
be any of those things and I think we
should just to be fair
note that lack of intelligence is not
mutually exclusive to any of these
answers but it really is what is really
reprehensible in my mind
and I understand it's ABC they're trying
to promote the view and this net but
like honestly like can you really look
yourself in the mirror George
Stephanopoulos and say like we had a
great show today we had Meghan McCain on
to discuss anti-semitism really Wow like
I mean there are undoubtedly some
offspring of politicians who have savvy
about politics
none come to mind frankly but
undoubtedly they exist but mmm she's
just a prominent one unbelievable
meanwhile folks we all want a haven a
place that feels uniquely you with joy
bird you get one-of-a-kind furniture
crafted to your unique taste you can
turn your ideas into reality with
hundreds of styles and options from rich
buttery leather to the plushes velvet
you've ever felt want a sofa in aquatic
blue a loveseat and bubblegum pink if
you can dream it joy bird can make it a
reality
they even have a beautiful selection of
outdoor Stouffer's lounge chairs and
tables plus their free personal design
consultants can help you nail down your
design they also offer a range of kid
and pet friendly upholstery options so
Yorkin creations can stand the test of
time I wish I was aware of joy bird when
we got our couch because there's nothing
like two kids that can't destroy a couch
for you best of all thanks to their 365
home day trial day home trial I should
say 365 day home trial if you don't love
your joy bird you can return it for a
full refund
see how joy bird can help you design
your dream space find your joy today at
joy Bird dot-com slash majority you can
create the furniture that brings you joy
that's joy bird dot-com / majority and
receive an exclusive offer for 25% off
your first order by using the code
majority joy
bird dot-com / majority right around the
corner is a joy bird store yeah that's
right I have spent a lot of time in that
store sitting on different couches going
like mmm see rustle paper while you do
it - I said there was a bill do you take
the ad copy with maybe the right Bob's
Burgers maybe forget into the Bob's
Burgers movie time to get my living
arrangement right now precludes my
ability to buy furniture unilaterally
I'm not gonna go any further into that
but first off you're trying to drink
more water both my kids I took my kids
down to Florida this week I'll get into
that a little bit later it was
exhausting but they were as healthy I
think as they've ever been because I
brought a bunch of liquid ivy with me
liquid Ivy hydrates you two three times
faster and more efficiently than water
alone with an added bonus of vitamin C
b3 b5 b6 and b12 liquid IV is the
fastest-growing wellness brand you can
find them everywhere even a Costco use
liquid IV to fuel tough workouts help
prevent muscle fatigue and promote
healthy post-workout recovery it's a
great alternative to traditional sugary
sports drinks because there's no
artificial flavors or preservatives
it's non-gmo it's vegan free of gluten
free of dairy and soy better yet it
comes in convenient TSA friendly powder
packs that are perfect for travel and
preventing jetlag and attitude and
altitude sickness so we're in the Sun a
lot the kids in Florida and every day I
was like guys drink this 16-ounce thing
of water they will not do it the liquid
IV tastes great they drank it and milah
did not get headaches
Sall didn't I get flush I don't know you
know I don't know how you measure these
things but five days this week the kids
did great they felt mean they felt great
but
I also knew that they were totally
hydrated and then for me there was a lot
of pina coladas at this place that was
that so there's the way I sort of dealt
with that at the bar it was funny
because I went to like sort of a resort
thing to take you know so the kids could
have stuff to do and I was like
literally fighting with other kids in
the Pina Colada line and I had a
specifically say non virgin pina colada
I love liquid IV and I know you will too
right now my listeners get 25% off at
liquid IV calm when you use my code
majority a checkout that's 25% off
anything you order at liquid Ivy's
website just go to liquid IV dot-com
enter my promo code majority that's
liquid IV dot-com promo code majority
don't wait start properly hydrating
today and folks
lastly you spend a third of your life in
your sheets it's about time for a
bedding upgrade named the winner of the
best online bedding category by Good
Housekeeping Brooklyn and has more than
35,000 five-star reviews I will tell you
right now I don't know which number mine
is but one of them is mine this is
because by eliminating the middleman
working directly with manufacturers and
customers Brooklyn and offers luxury
sheets sheets without the luxury markup
and with over 25 colors and patterns
these sheets don't just feel great they
look great too okay so for me I'm
totally in on the Pinstripe that's what
I've decided I'm gonna totally pinstripe
it and I now have the slate the the Navy
I don't know if they offer those anymore
but they also have one that's like a
sort of like a pumpkin color it looks
good looks real good I love it I get the
I've told everybody this before but I
get the I think they call it percale
whatever there's Dave two different
types and you can get the classic sort
of crispy clean cool cotton once that's
the ones I do you don't have to I'm just
saying you're free to choose free to
choose my Brooklyn and sheets are the
best most comfortable sheets I have ever
slept on and now it's time for your
upgrade Brooklyn and dot-com has an
exclusive offer for just my listeners
10% off your first order and free
shipping when you use promo code
majority at Brooklyn in.com Brooklyn and
so confident in their product that all
their sheets comforters and towels come
with a lifetime warranty and I will tell
you something a set of sheets like this
like a good set of cotton sheets they
will last you for 20 years
believe me believe me the only way to
get 10% off your first order and free
shipping is to produce promo code
majority at Brooklyn and calm
that's Brooklyn and BR oh okay Li n en
dot-com promo code majority Brooklyn and
these really are the best sheets ever
okay so a couple of big important things
that took place this week obviously and
I'm gonna hit these three things I want
to talk about Warren's plan I want to
talk about Biden jumping into the race I
want to talk about this ruling in
Michigan about the gerrymandering that's
going on there because that's pretty big
now the NRA is also I should tell you
came out this week is apparently in some
type of crisis and I haven't read into
this fully but there's been some
leadership things and there's a big
story in the in The New Yorker magazine
which we're going to dig into and I'm
going to try and get in touch with the
reporter either talk to them on Ring of
Fire or or have them on here and but the
the long and short of it is the attorney
general's office in New York I think is
starting to investigate them here's the
weird part just so you have some basic
knowledge about this story the NRA is
charted in New York State which is the
last place you would imagine it would be
charted it was chartered I guess
following or I think on the eve of the
Civil War as an organization that was it
was chartered started by I think a
couple of Union generals who were
impressed with the riflemen ship of
people in New York State and want them
to be better and so this association was
set up to train them outside of the
military and so it's in New York State
and so this means they are subject to
investigations from the New York State
Attorney General not good not good and
the thing is they could reach harder in
a different state but they would but
they assets are New York based and
there's like 400 they are like a 400
million dollar 450 million dollar
enterprise and so there are other gun
organizations some which are like you
know more gonna SH than less culture
than the NRA but they don't nearly have
the same funding so this would be a good
malignant force to have not be in the
world anymore so we will we will talk
more about this going forward but I just
wanted to give you this some of those
basic facts so that you know so let's
talk about Joe Biden this guy we didn't
pull that tweet that I saw you know like
I tried to stay off of I tried to stay
off of Twitter over the vacation my
whole plan was to go to like this like
resort e place where they have programs
for the kids and I could put the kids in
and at like 9:00 in the afternoon in the
morning and they're like see you guys at
like 3:30 or 4:00 dad's gonna read a
book and that didn't work didn't get any
reading done I've never had more than
four minutes contiguous minutes of like
solitude and over the course of like 16
hours a day
it was the most exhausting thing we had
a great time I love being with my kids
and that was fun but it was exhausting
so all I could do is like just like to
escape was to look at political Twitter
that was
yeah I need another vacation but so I
see this from and this was I guess this
was like maybe this was just a couple of
days ago maybe was Friday yeah and and I
guess it was at night so we were maybe
traveling at this point and Jen Psaki
who is a mom and she's a vice president
at the Carnegie Carnegie Endowment she's
a CNN contributor
she said we advisers I'm just looking at
her and national security action former
White House comms chief former State
Department spokesperson and this is the
tweet that she had no I don't know if
you're aware of this but there's a lot
of issues that Joe Biden has around
women you know the touchy thing and
getting into people's personal space I
think that's I think that's indicative
of a guy who doesn't feel like he has
any boundaries who was really very
cocksure of himself and that is
something that is you know it helps to
be a white guy who's been in the Senate
for 40 years or whatever it is do you
have that sense like a there's no one's
personal space I don't even have to
contemplate the idea of personal space
and of course you don't think that being
a white guy who's been in the Senate for
40 years is you know it's you know they
say like he is never having to say sorry
it's it's never having to think about
other people right
so it becomes super easy for you to say
oh I'm gonna have my people float that
Stacey Abrams is going to be my VP
candidate because that's gonna help me
that's going to help shore up the
problems I have with women and with
maybe in particularly African American
women because of the whole Anita Hill
thing we'll talk about that in a minute
now if you're if you're a person who has
respect for other people and you
contemplate hey maybe she doesn't want
to be exploited in that way you should
reach out to her and say like hey I'm
contemplating do you mind if you know
well and then we found out later that no
he never had that conversation she was
rather upset about it I think it was
pretty clear from her public
pronouncements you know she didn't say
Joe Biden's an a-hole but she basically
said that was the subtext in my opinion
anyways so Joe Biden has these problems
with women
that's a Nita Hill just what he did with
Stacey Abrams he did the same thing with
Elizabeth Warren actually four years ago
2016 and he knew again that was like I
have a problem with women that's Joe
Biden saying I have a problem with women
I have a problem with my relationship to
the banks and that's why he chose
Elizabeth Warren to float that year
because that gives you the idea of like
wait a second if he's open to Elizabeth
Warren maybe he's not the guy that I
think he is so Jen PASOK I don't know if
she is a surrogate for him I don't know
if she's going to be working in his
calms I don't know I mean in some
circles apparently this type of thing is
like a huge scandal if they haven't
announced that they're working and
they're actually doing this but I'm not
one of those people who thinks that's a
huge scandal but here she is writing
Elizabeth Warren would be a beloved
harvard law professor not a presidential
candidate if Barack Obama and Joe Biden
had not worked with her to make her idea
to form a Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau law now first off she's wrong
because Elizabeth Warren was chosen by
Harry Reid to sit on a special committee
to deal with the would tarp when the
financial crisis stopped and I don't
know if it was called tarp at the time
but to sit on a conic on a committee to
look at the financial crisis well before
Barack Obama was president secondly I
want to see the documents from that
White House if Joe Biden is going to
claim any credit for putting for
choosing Elizabeth Warren Joe Biden who
they used to call senator
from MBNA this is a guy who has been in
the banking industry
no look does that make you a horrible
person well I'm in my opinion yeah not
great but but you know for most people I
don't you know that's fine but Joe Biden
is the reason why the bankruptcy law
does not allow for kids to get out of
student debt or students in bankruptcy
Joe Biden protected the credit card
industry in terms of their protections
from people who couldn't afford to pay
their credit card bills that's just who
Joe Biden is and if he wants to claim
credit for putting Elizabeth Warren on
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
I want to see the documents on that but
lastly a way to believe are we going to
now analyze Joe Biden the only reason
why Joe Biden can even contemplate
running for president a third time after
his massive losses is because Barack
Obama made him vice president I mean is
that gonna be the center of his campaign
is that the way that everybody's going
to assess that Joe Biden would just be
another aged guy in the Senate at this
point maybe you had been challenged by
now Neil Kinnock plagiarist exactly top
line for him Neil clinic Kinnick
plagiarist I mean honestly you would
never you would never hear anybody say
that about Joe Biden even though it's
it's the nothing could be closer to the
truth and of course I mean I'm just just
I mean we know we don't know what
Biden's role I I agree with you I'd love
to see the documentation we do know that
she came to national prominence battling
this grotesque bankruptcy bill oh yeah
yeah that's the that is actually the
real reason that she isn't just a
quote-unquote beloved Harvard professor
because she was a national academic and
activist against this atrocious piece of
legislation that Joe Biden was the prime
markets uh but now what what what what
that tweeter I can't remember name is
again she is doing you'll recall how did
Skye
Brown run against her profesor profesor
profesor profesor okay
she is diminishing what Warren has done
in creating the most durable aggressive
what people consider the best government
agency we have set up in such a way that
the Republicans can unwind it and like
they've tried to unwind just about
everything else and there's a little pat
on the head and they send a woman out to
do this because that least they have the
sensitivity to realize that if they had
a male spokesperson do this they could
never get away with it but but make no
mistake about it it is just as demeaning
misogynist sexist as it would be if a
guy was sent out to do it it's just a
little bit more cynical it really is I
mean stunning I'm surprised that hasn't
gotten a lot more attention a lot more
attention here is Joe Biden talking
about complaining about about the
bankruptcy bill and how to many people
getting a free ride in this thing an
awful lot of people who are discharging
debt who shouldn't he said during a 20
2001 Senate hearing something is up and
that happened when the economy was
booming absolutely booming now I'm not a
real smart fellow maybe but there's
something wrong in other words he's
arguing that when the economy goes up no
one should be going at the bank no one
should be no we also know and he maybe
he didn't care at that time but at least
50% of bankruptcies particularly in 2001
were a function of medical debt which
and maybe you're not a smart fellow
doesn't matter what the economy is doing
if you get hit by a bus it can cost you
and sink you into debt 50% of all
personal bankruptcies
some people well this is a letter from
the same article that Warren wrote in
2005 some people do abuse the bankruptcy
system but the overwhelming majority of
people in bankruptcy are in financial
distress as a result of job loss medical
expense divorce or a combination of
those causes there is not a institution
a system a business an agency a program
that is not abused to some extent I will
cop to this right now at the hotel we
stayed at you give a card and you get a
beach towel okay and I sent my kids up
to go get an extra beach towel and I
told him this tell him dad has the card
so we had four towels so that we could
save seats corruption happens everywhere
but the idea that that's gonna be the
excuse you don't think there's
corruption in the credit card business I
mean give me a break and so when Joe
Biden sends out either his attack dogs
or its friends of his attack dogs or
either paid or just sympathy co
surrogates to go out there and attack
Elizabeth Warren there's a reason why he
does it because he's got a lot of things
to answer for but one of the biggest is
how this guy is married to the banks
married to the credit card companies and
not just in a sort of a a neutral benign
way but in a way that fundamentally
targets American citizens that makes
their lives materially worse that allows
for predatory practices and Elizabeth
Warren knows it and that's why he's got
to get out ahead and say she would be
nothing but a little beloved law
professor if it wasn't for me I mean at
a time when the biggest
institutions in this country we tried to
put the squeeze on millions of
hard-working families there was nobody
to stand up for them I got in that fight
because they didn't have any and Joe
Biden is on the side of the credit card
companies that's it
Joe Biden was on the side of the credit
card she's got the receipts that's the
problem she's got the receipts so I mean
it's an odd choice you would imagine
like Joe Biden's not in Elizabeth
Warren's Lane so why is the first thing
that they're doing when they come out
the gate in terms of attacking anybody
is attacking Elizabeth Warren
they're attacking Elizabeth Warren
because they know that she knows who Joe
Biden really is and so they have to
discredit her and make her seem like an
uppity ungracious you know beloved
beloved which ever call like a male a
beloved like you know it's it's it's
unbelievable how sort of like gendered
that attack was I mean I was I was
really taken aback and I know Joe will
just go like Oh Father forgive me I have
sinned because I called her beloved
right it's a weird I mean I've heard it
I there's gendered it's also and I hope
that I'm in would be bizarre if this is
what they were doing for for obvious
reasons but it's true I have heard that
for four men who are basically like
beloved like very old like a beloved
professor all right I can beloved
grandma like beloved grandpa or grandma
the professor thing also works in terms
of like who you gonna listen to that
egghead over there I was telling you
that I'm the one who screwed you on your
credit card bills or me because Joe is
really posturing as he's really
posturing as like the guy's guy right
like the hard hat Joe hard hat
middle-class Joe
yeah middle class Joe here is uh where
was it where was this where he was
speaking this number three
oh wait oh this is the the announcement
video where did you lean out today all
right let's hear the announcement video
today he is in Pittsburgh talking to
Union guys he is officially kicking off
his campaign at the Teamsters Local 429
in Pittsburgh do you know where he was
Thursday in the unofficial kickoff he
was in Philadelphia at a Comcast
fundraiser now aside from Comcast being
a wretched company there was a longtime
Biden ally they're bundling money a guy
named Stephen Couzens this comes from
ever Eric Levites in New York Mad
Magazine chosen is the chairman of
chosen O'Connor that is a a big law firm
they help people recover from
bankruptcies and medical debts
you know why the Social Service you know
what they don't owe surprising you know
Mike elk over at the payday report the
payday report noted on Wednesday that if
you go to Couzens O'Connor's website
they have a breakdown of what they do
for their clients labor relations and
disputes so in other words you got to
imagine Joe hardhat his best bud
probably protects unions fights on
behalf of unions and oh wait a second
ooh no actually this is weird it's the
opposite KO's and O'Connor represents a
broad spectrum of private and public
sector employers in labor relations and
disputes in other words they fight
against unions for our unionized clients
we handle unfair labor practice
proceedings in grievance arbitration
negotiate individual multi-employer
collective bargaining agreements prepare
for and respond to picket lines strikes
lockouts and other economic campaigns
and work with employers during union
election campaigns ha help them more
effectively establish unions in a
hostile corporate environment right
we also help employers avoid
unionization through positive employee
relations and regain non-union status
when employees indicate they no longer
wish to be union represented so in other
words they're a union busting law firm
Scranton Joe it's great bankruptcy I
want you to lose your life because you
got hit by a car and I hang around with
some of the scummiest law firms on
planet earth but hold on he also likes
to write and script here we go his is
his hairs his campaign video
Charlottesville Virginia is home to the
author of one of the great documents in
human history
we know it by heart we hold these truths
to be self-evident that all men are
created equal endowed by their creator
with certain inalienable rights we've
heard it so often it's almost a cliche
but it's who we are we haven't always
lived up to these ideals Jefferson
himself didn't but we have never before
walked away from them Charlotte soul is
also home to a defining moment for this
nation in the last few years
[Music]
August of 2017 we saw Klansmen and white
supremacists and neo-nazis come out in
the open they're crazed faces
illuminated by tortuous veins and
bulging and burying the fangs of racism
chanting the same anti-semitic vile
heard across Europe and the third
and they were met by a courageous group
of Americans in a violent clash ensue
and a brave young woman lost her life
and that's when we heard the words the
president nine states that stunned the
world and shocked the conscience of this
nation he said there were quote some
very fine people on both sides very fine
people on both sides but those words the
president United States assigned a moral
equivalence between those spreading he
than those of the courage to stand
against it and in that moment I knew the
threat to this nation was unlike any I
had ever seen in my lifetime I wrote at
the time they were in the battle for the
soul of this nation well that's even
more true today we are in the battle for
the soul of this nation I believe
history will look back on four years of
this president and all the embraces as
an aberrant moment in time but if we
give Donald Trump eight years in the
White House he will forever and
fundamentally alter the character this
nation who we are and I cannot stand by
and watch that happen
Oh God I here we go
come on man it's the montage now Ellis
Island but I want to mine I want to
remind Joe Biden that one of the things
that Donald Trump embraces is anti
unionism that Joe Biden apparently has
no problem at least accepting money from
some of the biggest anti-union fighters
in the country one of the things that
that Donald Trump also embraces would be
the harshest type of relationship
between creditors and those in debt in
this country which apparently Joe Biden
has a history of dismissive misogyny you
know acting as if women are simply props
for you in some way like Stacey Abrams
or Elizabeth Warren or frankly Heather
hire Heather hires mom does not
appreciate her child being basically
reduced to Joe Biden's pitch for why he
should be President
of course it's never far from your mind
and your heart did you did former VP
Biden call you about this I got a call
from him yesterday at 4:30 in the
afternoon that was the first time I had
ever spoken to Joe Biden or any anybody
related to his office or anything What
did he say he's I was trying to remember
how the conversation started I remember
we talked a lot about bereavement
because you know he's lost a son and a
wife and daughter and we talked about
how forming a foundation helps you
survive but that's really all the kinds
of things we talked about I think he
said something about it would have
reached out sooner but I wasn't sure how
you would feel and I commented yes I
noticed you didn't mention her name
because you hadn't contacted me so we
sort of acknowledged that that much
you wish that he had mentioned her name
not particularly
it's not about her the issue is about
the hate it's not about Heather
yeah and so what's he calling for your
approval or to make sure that you were
okay I mean what was the upshot of his
call probably to make sure I was okay
apparently there were rumors swirling
that I was devastated and traumatized
and none of those things were true so in
other words Joe Biden is on a tour right
now to make sure he doesn't mess up and
appear as if he was invested in these
questions maybe a little bit more than
he was maybe just a little bit more than
he was I I mean I I happen to think you
know Joe Biden right now I think is
basically at the top of of the the most
of the polls at this point but I have a
feeling a lot of this stuff it's going
to catch up with him
here is a Joe Joe Biden's non-apology to
Anita Hill and apparently Anita Hill
well will read what she said afterwards
you know for as long as I have I don't
know why it took you so long to call her
I wish I had happened earlier well III
tell you what the deal was
I did not since I had publicly
apologized for the way she was treated
I'd publicly said it I publicly had
given four out credit for her or the
contribution she made to change begin to
change this culture in a significant way
that what I didn't want to do him and I
my I didn't want a quote invade her
space I didn't want to get in the
situation where this became and then I
went when I heard all this about the and
it was legitimate expecting a call well
every time the phone rang why we and so
I I spoke to some leading women
advocates on this area and saw someone
newer and I said could you see whether
she take my call yeah and I was grateful
she
took my call you know I think what she
wants you to say is I'm sorry for the
way I treated you not for the way you
were treated I think that might be a
little closer well but but I'm sorry the
way she got treated in terms of I never
heard say it if you go back and look
what I said and didn't say I I don't
think I treated her badly I took honor
opposite what I couldn't figure out how
to do and we still haven't figured it
out yeah how do you stop people from
asking an inflammatory question okay so
there's Joe Biden saying I did nothing
wrong when I knew there was three other
women who would corroborate at least
that type of behavior of being a victim
of that behavior and I did not bring
them in front of the committee I did
nothing wrong
when I let her out there to dangle in
the wind knowing that there was
corroboration I did nothing wrong
everything is in the passive voice this
is a guy who doesn't get it what would
be so bad for him to say what you got to
ask yourself is it just sheer arrogance
this guy's willing to do just about
anything to become president is it just
sheer arrogance or is he afraid that if
he show he apologizes that he's kowtow
too much to the people that he wants to
appeal to it's one of those two things I
don't know which is worse a more narrow
point is as a chair of the committee
wouldn't you've been in as in a position
to as an example like he said he doesn't
know how to stop the famine Tory
statements if you watch that clip of
particularly Arlen Specter just like
terrorizing her and trying to completely
eviscerate her character in life he
wouldn't have been in a position to step
over him and say hey you need to
reorient your life questioning here you
can ask a question you can critique you
can defend your witness but you're just
using a national forget national
platform you're using this hearing to
just
personally attack her and potentially
even endanger her life you can't do that
I mean when he have been in a position
to do even the narrow metric that he
just set for himself
I mean you now you're asking him to to
ignore Senate comedy and well I mean is
that where a criticized woman raids
fellow know that probably was it right
III wouldn't he just set that standard
for me yeah he just said I just what can
I do about those comments my
understanding as chairman of a committee
you can actually do a little bit or you
one of your colleagues starts terror we
could look back on TV and see that you
yeah you may have been like you were
like hey wait a second like even if you
couldn't get them stop like show some
measure of Defense this is disgusting I
object to it all right before we get to
the fine if I want to talk about
Elizabeth Warren's Matt a student debt
plan because this is this is pretty
great and this is a program she goes
even further than than Bernie Sanders I
mean let's be honest here regardless of
there are people out there like I can
understand are nervous about the
government you know actually coming to
the material aid of its citizens I'm not
sure why this would be a concern for
people but it is a lot of us are very
used to people sort of just like you
know whispering that like that's sort of
like a second part of the program you
know some type of notion of fiscal
responsibility which is just really it's
it's a nothing term it doesn't mean
moral hazard moral hazard whatnot but
there are really only two people who are
presenting any type of plans in this
race that are in any way moving things
forward away from what trumpism and
republicanism is I think everybody is on
the same page we should be very strongly
anti Nazis we should be very strongly
anti bigotry
I don't think there
anybody in the the Democratic Party who
wouldn't agree with that statement I
think some are better than others on
things particularly sexism but broadly
speaking the only thing that's left is
who who is thinking about the problems
that Americans face and offering
solutions and really Bernie and Warren
are the only two who are doing it I have
to say that Warren is outstripping
everybody in terms of what she's
proposing both in terms of the scope and
the number of of things that she's
thinking about she has come out with a
plan that not only calls for one free or
a system of free University College in
every state public college they exist
already it's just a matter of funding
them some of them are bigger systems
than others spending on the state and
whatnot but and certainly there were
more or less in existence 35 years ago
40 years ago at least in many states but
what this plan would do is it would
cancel $50,000 in student loan debt for
every person with a household income
under $100,000 and then it's basically
like a sliding scale it would give
substantial debt cancellation to every
person with household income between 100
and 250,000 and anybody making over
$250,000 who would not relieve their
student debt so it would basically
basically take care of 90 to 95 percent
of student debt in this country the
existing student debt which everyone
from like the president of the
homeowners association of America says
it's the greatest inhibition to starter
homes to any economist well I'll tell
you out there it is a huge drag on the
economy just yearly from productive
Productivity standpoint but also from
the perspective of like of innovation of
entrepreneurship of starting small
businesses
and then if you don't even want to look
at it from such lura crass economic
terms people going out and pursuing the
lives that they want to pursue like we
don't get the teachers that we should be
getting because people are afraid of the
debt that they have and they have to go
do something that's gonna make them more
money on a consistent basis and you know
we could talk about any types of
professions or we talked about
entrepreneurship or whatever it is and
it's changing also the nature of why
people go to get an education and here's
the thing it's not working it's not
giving the return on investment in part
because a lot of training has been
offloaded the expensive trainings have
been offloaded by corporations on to
basically the students and their future
workers so it will give debt relief to
about ninety five percent of Americans
who have student loan seventy five
percent it would be entirely forgiven
it would make public two and four-year
institutions tuition for free it would
expand Pell Grant funding to go toward
additional Cod costs like housing
transportation food and books and this
is really big it would cut for-profit
colleges from receiving any federal
funds that includes federal student
loans or military benefits but will do
so much to undermine that whole thing it
will make it disappear overnight they
disappear that's amazing if you know
anything and you can go back to listen
to the interview I did with Tracy cotton
McMillan Highland McMillan cotton
something like 90 to 95 percent of the
for-profit universities get there or
should say something like ninety percent
of the revenue that for-profit
universities get come from
taxpayer-funded student loans but then
these students rarely see a return on
their investment end up dropping out of
the program these programs are geared
towards just holding them through their
second payment which is the largest you
know which which then is the majority of
their student loan payment and that's
when the return on investment in terms
of holding the students starts to drop
for these institutions institutions
businesses and that's why under the
Obama administration when they started
cracking down on the accreditation
companies that would have credit these
these other companies as being colleges
and universities you saw like ITT go out
of business overnight because once the
accreditation which allows you to get a
student loan gets revoked student loans
can't be spent on that University they
go out of business because they're
they're completely funded by the
government in that respect and there's
very very little data and all they do is
collect data at these schools believe me
that shows that there's a significant
return on investment and a lot of these
people who are going to these schools
are basically like 25 to 45 year old
african-american women in addition and
they make the point of saying that the
majority of students who attend
for-profit colleges default within three
to five years after they begin repaying
what they owe the majority of students
within three to five years it would also
create a 50 billion dollar fund for
historically black colleges and
universities and minority serving
institutions and add more money to it
over time why because if you are not
aware and maybe you haven't listened to
this program over the past four or five
years we have had in this country
well after the end of the Civil War I
should remind people at the end of
slavery a government-sponsored also
problems in the private sector obviously
as well but even the government has been
involved in systemically denying black
people the greatest source of
intergenerational wealth through real
estate through home ownership because
loans were backed with covenants that
said he couldn't sell the black people I
mean people didn't have the right to
vote you didn't have civil rights until
1965 that there is less wealth in the
black community and as such there's less
money to be spent on giving back to
universities for endowment so the idea
is shore up the endowments and the
operating budgets of these of these
colleges by the way if you're a white
person and want to go to a HBCU you can
just do that
yes that's true yes because very true
it's available to white people too you
could maybe with the help of this
program get some financial aid from that
University from one of those
historically black colleges provided by
the government now understand you'd
still have financial aid you'd still
have just as many private colleges as
you have now I would contend that you
would see prices begin to flatten I
don't know if they would drop but the
rate of increase would stop because if
people have an option a solid option
that is going to be no cost you're gonna
start to see a lot more low-cost options
- it's going to decrease the pressure
you still may have some Pell grants and
this and that to go to other
universities if you want you still
probably would have college loans that
might be available in some fashion or
another
maybe government loans maybe private
ones I'm not sure if you want to go to a
university that is not free or whatnot
there'll be options now where does the
money come from well we could just print
it but Elizabeth Warren understands that
there are people who are concerned that
we need to have pay force she has a
proposed tax on America's ultra
millionaires and billionaires which
includes the seventy five thousand
wealthiest families in the country
seventy five thousand those making over
fifty million dollars that's nuts
that's nuts
it would put an annual two percent tax
on the wealth about 50 million and a 1%
tax on wealth above 1 billion now I know
I hear everybody bitching now it's like
what are you kidding me I gotta pay a
million dollars a year and I'm left with
only 49 million dollars and wealth as
I'm generating god knows how much money
it's like what's the point I might as
well just go on vacation stop working so
much like I had all of the planned I was
gonna do all that I think the max NBA
contract is something like 35 million a
year I mean it's just I don't even know
why I like this is even the idea that we
don't already do this it's just obscene
the warren campaign estimates this would
raise 2.75 trillion dollars in revenue
over ten years meaning her debt
forgiveness and universal education
would cost less than half of the total
revenue raised and that tax she proposes
is so that she has created a fund to
fund the many proposals that she's
offering the best argument I heard and
best as in the most laughable was like
it's a slap in the face the people
who've paid off their loans
you recall all the people who were upset
during the Great Depression when FDR
supported mortgage payments slop slap in
the face and let this be a slap in the
face for all those in financially
responsible hears suckas here's a slap
in the face when I went to college it
was like 15 grand a year right how about
the slap in the face that's coming to me
when I gotta send my kid to college and
it's 55 grand a year
well me it was 75 thousand dollars to go
to NYU yeah well that believe that yeah
and why he was you know the upper
reaches of that racket I was having this
conversation with somebody and I was
like wait what what woke mile up in a
swell Oh dad what is it you're not going
in why you not just don't god damn
singing I'm already training salt
offense that's what I like I read
somewhere that like you get a fencing
scholar a good obscure one exactly we
got to find something narrow he likes I
relearned he likes pirates fencing and
like Ukranian or something alternatively
Elizabeth Warren becomes president and
she convinces the Senate I mean the
beauty of these proposals and obviously
you know anybody can come up with any
proposals as a presidential candidate
and they can't guarantee delivery but it
certainly enhances the chances that
they'll get the delivery and there's a
lot of political scientific research
actually it shows that a lot that
presidential candidates deliver on most
of their promises and you know we have
seen what a Republican Congress is
willing to bend themselves into a
pretzel to provide for Donald Trump's
you know everybody's going to wear their
underwear on the outside and only white
people can drive you know pronouncements
essentially but this is also
is also in the words of bill Barton
Burton forcing us to dare to something
the imagination and maybe we need a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
actually I was thinking of the whole
time you're explaining that excellent
policy set of how upsetting it was gonna
be for Howard Schultz of course not to
read it like he'll just read the
headlines but that's probably sent him
into his own like emotional lather there
were a couple of days himself I feel
like the one under-examined part about
Biden entering the race is where does
where does Howard Schultz do now Howard
Schultz is going to I think he is this
close to officially saying well look
remember that piece that came out in
Politico a couple of months ago the Wall
Street guys said in that piece they said
the people that are not acceptable to
them are Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren everybody else is doable
I think Schultz is right on the verge of
formally making that I mean that's
obviously what his position yes yes
all right lastly let's just check in on
this Judge Napolitano because obviously
there was and I'm still winding my way
through the Muller report it is quite
clear there's a couple things about the
the Millar thing because obviously there
was we had a little contention here and
we're gonna have Marcy wheeler on
sometimes they coming a week or two as
soon as we just work the scheduling out
to go over what we now know is in the
Mahler report and there's a couple of
things clear obviously nothing has
changed in terms of the way that some
elements of the media some elements of
the Democratic Party you know played
this at least in terms of the the Muller
investigation we still don't know what's
in the intelligence investigation and I
suspect we're going to know more the bar
obviously from an intelligence
accusation is lower than it
is from a criminal investigation but
there was a couple of things that were
quite clear in the wake of the Muller
report one is that there was evidence of
collusion but not enough to substantiate
a conviction there was and by collusion
because there is no criminal definition
of collusion which we have also you know
been aware of for a long time the only
thing that could have been charged would
have been if the Trump campaign actively
worked with Russian government officials
to do what Russian government officials
did in the campaign so if they like
here's a computer that you could use to
go and hack into Florida's election
system oh really thank you bro a little
bit other computers are you guys should
target these Facebook groups that would
have been necessary to prove based upon
the conspiracy charges what what clearly
did happen according to the Muller
report is that the campaign was aware of
what the Russians were doing and the
Russians were aware that the campaign
wanted them to and were willing to do
stuff and it was just one of those
things where it's like two people
realized they have aligned incentives
and we don't need to do anything we just
have the guy go out and say keep doing
it Russia
if you've got those 30,000 emails that
would be good and Russia can say we like
you know what the Trump's the making
deals right we make meat making deals
it's that this is more just like the
sort of the type of corruption that we
rail against every single day like Joe
Biden going to a Comcast you know
lobbyist I mean it's basically that kind
of stuff one would think that as the
head of a presidential campaign
you would say like hey you're a foreign
government you really shouldn't be doing
this as opposed to like keep doing it so
the obstruction charge we also know that
Muller explicitly said we can't charge
anything we can't charge the president
with anything because of the DOJ office
of legal counsel so there is a
constitutional process to deal with
these things
what is that constitutional process well
go read the Constitution it's called
impeachment it's called Congress to look
at it so bill Barr did subvert what
Muller wanted to have happen and
anticipate it would happen which would
be that the obstruction charges would go
to Congress there's obviously a lot more
in the report but those are the big
takeaways in terms of those two issues
the other in terms of the critiques you
know and I'm looking back to the I
wouldn't call what happened with Michael
Tracy in any way enlightening other than
his that it was gonna spend ten minutes
to tell me that he didn't he was Gnostic
about the starting of this investigation
that he thinks is actually like World
War three starting now
but if it was the case that Donald Trump
was specifically acting more you know
belligerent towards Russia than
necessary because of this pressure
because he was reacting to the pressure
from the Muller investigation which he
must have known would completely
exonerate him because he knew that he
didn't do anything
then I guess we would see you know
broader overtures or more peace now
would be breaking out now that it's now
that the public is exonerated him or in
some way the idea that this was a gift
to Donald Trump the Democrats and the
news media gave Donald Trump an
electoral gift is not borne out by any
of the data Donald Trump's favorability
rating
is about as low as it's been the number
of people who have voted vote against
him is about as high as it's been the
number of people thinks he was lying
about Russia and that this report makes
him look bad as about as high as it
could be the idea that this was a gift
to Donald Trump if that's one of your
talking points as to why there should
have been nothing but skepticism around
this investigation I'm sorry
it just doesn't bear out this
investigation has uncovered a tremendous
amount of corruption this investigation
would not have done so likely were not
for the premise in which it was launched
there wouldn't have been a special
prosecutor I mean so it's uncovered a
tremendous amount of corruption it's
also continuing to do so there are many
other investigations that were thrown
out that were basically placed out of
this primary investigation so if this
investigation do not have happened you
would not have found these other
investigations you would not have had
these other ongoing investigations
obviously there were excesses in the
media coverage but largely it seems to
me that and I don't think those
critiques are invalid but it's it really
is like obsessing over the graphics and
the music used for the invasion of Earth
Iraq war that the media is using yeah
disgusting
wrong shouldn't happen part of a bigger
problem a societal disease etc etc but
there was also the war was also highly
problematic and if you start to look
into the substance of this stuff I think
it was always you know sort of
ridiculous to assume that
that the that the Trump campaign had the
facility to help Russia in their
involvement in the campaign whether you
think it had any material impact or not
I mean I guess conceivably we still
don't know why the polling data was
given to a guy with connections to the
Russian government we'll never know
because manna fort lied about that and
we don't know why it was necessary for
manna for to lie and pretend like he was
you know working with the government
when in fact he was feeding information
to the Trump administration we just
don't know but I I don't know and if you
don't believe me why not believe a guy
who would be extremely skeptical as to
whether there was law breaking that took
place and whether you can actually be
charged with obstruction if you can't
prove an underlying crime so when the
president asked his former adviser and
my former colleague at Fox KT McFarland
to write an untruthful letter to the
file knowing the government would
subpoena it that's obstruction of
justice well the president has Corey
Lewandowski his former campaign manager
to get Muller fired that's obstruction
of justice when the president asked his
then White House Counsel to get Muller
fired and then lie about it that's
obstruction of justice when he has done
began to go back to the Special Counsel
and changed his testimony that's
obstruction of justice when he dangled a
pardon in front of Michael Cohen in
order to keep Cohen from testifying
against him that's obstruction of
justice why not charge him because the
Attorney General of the United States
would have blocked such a charge if the
Attorney General of the United States is
of the view that obstruction of justice
can only occur if you're interfering
with a criminal investigation of yours
but that's not what the obstruction
statute says and that's not what law
enforcement police and that's not what
prosecutors do
prosecutors prosecute people who
interfere with government functions
that's what the President did by
obstruction where's this going to end we
don't know but I'm disappointed in the
behavior of the president his job is to
preserve protect and defend the
Constitution of the United States to
uphold and to enforce federal law not to
violate it if he had ordered his aides
to violate federal law to save a human
life or to preserve human freedom he
would at least have a moral defense to
his behavior but ordering them to break
federal law to save him from the
consequences of his own behavior that is
immoral that is criminal that is
defenseless and that is condemnable now
that is Democratic congressman no wait a
sec I'm sorry that is MSNBC host no wait
a second no that is Judge Napolitano on
Fox News and in fact they wouldn't even
let him shoot that in the building
apparently they had to shoot it out in
the street on Sixth Avenue grab the
intern I think I knew who I want to
shoot him
Mallory anticipated Congress looking at
these questions of obstruction in bill
Barr who was picked because he did a 19
page memo describing why obstruction
could not exist in this contact without
even knowing the facts as a matter of
law can't exist because if it's the case
if it's the case and now Trump is
refusing to let any of his people
testify in front of Congress it
basically the argument is basically if
Muller was not allowed to give this to
Congress and the Justice Department says
you cannot indict a sitting president
basically what we have is a situation
where there is ZERO legal accountability
for a sitting
president nobody has ever asserted that
well maybe Nixon but nobody has ever
asserted this in their right mind has
ever asserted this and by by preventing
Congress from looking specifically at
that obstruction case that is the
subtext of the argument now Congress is
going to hopefully continue to
investigate and I hope we get
proceedings I mean look impeachment is a
process right do I think they should
have an impeachment vote anytime soon
no and I think they should continue and
investigate because let the American
public see what really have a sense of
what's going on and see if they come
around on impeachment because you it's a
political process and at the very least
holding them to account by investigating
making this stuff public personally I am
very much in favor of impeach the guy
once he's out of office in 2020 2021 I
would feel much more comfortable about
saving the impeachment hearings for that
but that's a different issue but all
right oh gosh we should go fun half
folks don't forget you can support this
program we usually don't go this long
but you know we were gone for a week
really eight days because it Passover so
you can support the free show by going
to join the majority report calm and as
a way of thank you we give you extra
content every day except for I guess
when we're on vacation guys and you know
in the fun half we do all sorts of fun
things like mock dave rubin or have some
good dave rubin stuff ma louie gohmert
or no actually let me rephrase this talk
about big ideas about dave rubin big
ideas about louis go I'm more interested
in making fun of ideas than people I'm
glad he's getting some career
I think it seems like he's getting
criticism from all the right places I
think he'll like it too as someone who
has fidelity to ideas like cesium
challenge
he thinks do man ideas only no strawman
ideas I think a Dave Ruel but we will
take the fuel man ideas we will take
your phone calls we will read your IMS
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty also just coffee co-op for a
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off you get a
couple of days to get 30% off your
coffee we have now we bought two five
pound bags of majority poor plant so we
may start our own little coffee shop
here join majority report just pennies a
day Michael back from your la
extravaganza yes indeed
are you gonna be doing a show this week
yeah yeah just take a break no uh by the
way la was great thanks to everybody who
came out there good to see you yeah that
was an amazing show thanks for the gifts
thanks for all of the that was it was
amazing we appreciate all of you
tomorrow night dr. maté that al-hasan is
gonna join us to talk about her book and
also the connections between the
uprisings and changes happening in Sudan
and Algeria Joe Biden Pete Budaj edge
you know all sorts of stuff we got a hit
there might be a surprise in studio
guest so you'll find out about that
tomorrow if that indeed is the case
check out the new elicit history of
Deutsche Bank from the Nazis to Donald
Trump Michael Brooks show on YouTube
patreon.com slash T MBS to get the whole
thing Jamie is still on extended
vacation but check out the Intifada
patreon.com slash the Intifada and Matt
with this new home studio yeah I got a
new home studio guys so patreon.com
slash literary hangover to help me pay
for not having a roommate anymore I've
got two new essay or two new episodes
that came out on April 19th looking back
on the Spanish war by George Orwell it
was written in 1943 it kind of talked he
he thinks of the Spanish Civil War as
sort of the
beginning of totalitarianism and sort of
the inability to distinguish what's true
in history so check that out if you're
into the fake news and then for patrons
only I have a new George Orwell reading
series called or Weller and the first
episode of that is up it's called from
as si spilling the Spanish beans which
is with spilling the Spanish beans which
is right after he returned from after
getting shot in the throat by a fascist
in Spain where he talks about how it's
actually the problem with the the
Communists and the liberal democracies
were they were pretending that the
Spanish Civil War was just democracy
against fascism when really there was
like an attempt at a classless society
revolution and so they were it was sort
of like the the problems of the Popular
Front how we talk about how we have to
make amends with people like Jonathan
Chait now and you see what gets erased
when you make those sorts of alliances
so I check that out they trying to
accomplish literary hangover all right
folks
quick break fun half Jamie and I may
have a disagreement yeah you can't just
say whatever you want about people just
cuz you're rich I have an absolute right
to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
yes all right take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some ability
Ria's out there dick whatever vehicle
you want to drive to the library what
you're talking about is jibber jabber
I'm feeling more chill already
Donald Trump can kiss all of our asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to do
some evil
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them we'll be with you
shortly
yes folks we are back ladies and
gentlemen we are back
it is the famous fun half of the program
wherein we do all sorts of fun things
let me just set this up here
okay oh let's let's go to the phones
first or do a couple I am simple do from
bones contagious chameleon watching that
view interview with Biden he seems way
older than Bernie jonathan Armstead i
was stowed stir-crazy while you guys
were out I started on a majority report
theme project Michael Jamal you go on
Spotify have built the Nation of Islam
Obama playlist is the real deal no you
to work old playing just the best anti
yaqoob' and music that fit a Kenyan
Muslim socialist starting with Whitney
on the moon by Gil scott-heron he goes
on to include lesbian it's a whitey on
the moon why do young the moon oh sorry
the KU Ice Cube nads and of course
Lauryn Hill you can find it all by going
to Spotify and searching Nation of Islam
Obama Michael's in the bathroom but we
tell him about that at West Coast
comrade welcome back crew on Meghan
McShane she if she's equivocating white
supremacist shooters with Omar's
comments then she admits that her side
has all the racist bigots and murderers
and the left says mean things one of
these things is not like the other check
out on Spotify the Nation of Islam Obama
playlist that Jonathan IRA said setup
brought from VA knows a lot of
right-wingers saying we're Republic when
people say something undemocratic lately
it seems like people on the right are
trying to prime their base for Oh Polly
supporting voter suppression and trying
to prime their an overriding popular
opinion like they're anticipating people
getting mad at their judges pushing
draconian abortion and labor laws is
this a new phenomenon of you know is
this for a while well they have always
done this they've always said we're a
republic not a democracy and we see we
have multiple examples of a Republican
state leadership overriding referendums
whether it was on the emergency manager
law in Michigan whether it's been
expansion of Medicaid there's winterfell
andreadd franchise foundry
enfranchisement I mean we see this
across the board
they don't want to come out and say we
are anti-democratic so they say well
we're Republic we were not set up in
such a way let's go to the phones
calling from to10 area code who's this
where you come from
good afternoon Sam John from San Antonio
John from San Antonio how are you John
do you enjoy your break yeah definitely
yeah yeah I hope you enjoyed your
vacation oh that's good to have you back
thank you okay so before Trump was
inaugurated in the first few months as
president he talked frequently about the
normalizing and not normalizing Trump
and yet Massa get Masha Gessen on and
Timothy Schneider unchosen talking about
tyranny and authoritarianism Trump has
done unlawful things before and they've
been struck down by the courts he's also
had some surprise rulings like the
Muslim ban and he's probably gonna win
on the census citizenship question you
talked about that earlier right
but his stance on oversight is truly
unprecedented no other president in the
history of our country has refused to
ho-ho hand over oversight documents now
he's told government employees not to
comply with subpoenas a Justice
Department attorney John Goro fuses show
up for disposition concerning the
chumped administration pushed to add a
citizenship question last Tuesday the
former White House personnel security
adviser called Klein skipped the
deposition scheduled as part of the
committee's probe into whether the Trump
administration mishandled the security
process for top officials or the
vacation the Trump administration blew
through another deadline concerning tax
returns the house wants the interview
Stephen Miller about immigration policy
in the White House refused the White
House a lower filed a lawsuit that the
house can subpoenas financial records
from mizar's
Trump's accounting firm now now Barr is
threatening not to comply with House
Oversight on Thursday the reason they're
doing this is they think they can get
away with not complying this is because
Democrats are refusing
to enforce subpoenas by taking people
who won't comply to court and not having
them arrested
the main press is acting like the White
House has the advantage when the truth
is the Democrats have been paralyzed by
fear to not enforce the subpoenas
through the courts political calculation
is unavoidable to some degree but if you
look at Bernie Sanders rise in status
it's because he doesn't rely on
political calculation he expresses an
opinion about his issues that and
persuades the public about them
mainstream Democratic office holders and
most centrist Democratic voters are
captured by political calculation you
see this in people who want to vote for
the person who has the best chance to
beat Trump not on the issues House
Democrats that can't pass a variety of
bills including a bill to raise the
minimum wage to $15 an hour because the
conservative blue dogs who are phrase
they might lose to a Republican despite
the Democrats gaining 40 seats in the
House and of course impeachment and I
don't think that they have the votes for
in the house right now do you agree the
Democrats are over reliant on political
calculation and how does Trump's
contempt for oversight show is most
authoritarian tactic and can you
elaborate on your answer yeah no I I
think I think you're absolutely right
this is this stuff this non-sexy
administrative stuff ignoring subpoenas
not providing Congress with information
that they're that they should have this
is stuff that is going to be this
becomes like in like in in ensconced in
our law like this is the next president
is going to cite these actions as a way
of avoiding oversight it is highly
problematic it is not only do I agree
with your assessment that Democrats are
being too timid in this because they're
afraid of becoming the story because
they're going after Trump but I also
think it's like electoral II a bad
strategy because you need to be
active you need to be proactive they
need to see you do something you need to
put Trump on the spot they should be
they they should be sending out the
sergeant-at-arms basically do arrest
anybody doesn't show up for a subpoena
otherwise they're gonna lose the
subpoena power it is it is a I mean it
is a I don't know that you could call it
authoritarian although it's certainly
like on the on the road to
authoritarianism if you do not have the
checks and balances if Congress does not
have the ability to assess what the
president and the executive branch has
been doing
yeah it's highly problematic and I think
Democrats are doing a crappy job well
they're doing it there they're not doing
a crappy job about talking about it
because it they don't see it as their
job frankly it's a huge mistake and I
would you know who's been writing a
bunch of stuff all about this that
people should follow my Twitter's Geoff
Hauser at the revolving door project
he's been basically ringing this alarm
for a long time they need to be much
more aggressive with investigations and
that and you need to be aggressive about
like seeking this information appreciate
the call John thank you thank you he's
right all right Dave Rubin has been
doing a lot of stuff since we've been
gone and we got to talk about a little
bit do we have the clip of did you pull
the clip of him yeah the one where he
was on the interview in Britain and
Vanna I have that available if we want
okay yeah let's get that - it's
hilarious but there is a his he hears
the truth in real time there's a there's
a YouTube guy is this Tim bond toast is
this the guy who's desi so yep timba on
toasty imba h and then dot on dot toast
i would recommend people go and watch
every one of these chapters essentially
a game Ruben's battle of ideas but this
is a segment from Dave Rubens battle of
ideas part three
and this involves Dave Rubin now look we
played this clip I think last week
before we left about Sam Sam Harris Sam
Harris was talking about Tommy what's
that guy's name Robinson Tommy Robinson
who was well I if I'm not mistaken was
like arrested in Britain for hate speech
he's uh you know how would you describe
him
I in my opinion I would assess him in my
view as a as a far-right my I would say
fascist would be my anti Muslim
particular primarily an anti Muslim
activist and affiliated with you Kip and
others and the English Defence League
which definitely has and also a member
of the British National Party so I mean
extreme far-right and at the very least
we know the British perceive him to have
been what guilty of something that I
believe in citement Simon or something I
think there's something so effect and so
Dave Sam Harris
you know it's talking about like this
guy seems perfectly reasonable to me I
only watched an hour-long video I'm not
from Britain I only watched an hour-long
video of him on on Dave Rubin but he
seemed perfectly rational for an hour as
if like this is a huge accomplishment as
if there isn't a an extraordinary amount
of data and a nanoq data that shows that
what extremists do is attempt to get
into the mainstream and they know they
have to play to a more mainstream
audience and that's the way that they
basically you know create their sales
funnel and Dave Rubin is the sales
funnel list of the funnels when it comes
to basically sending people down and
alright rabbit hole I mean look there is
a dark web and the things that happen on
the dark web are credit card numbers and
social security numbers get sold and
racists hang out child pornography
okay so the intellectual dark whether
it's that they think they're being
ironic
but the fact is is what they are is we
are the we're the ones who basically
genetically mutate the dark web and
bring it out into the open so that
people can see it and follow it back
down to its rabbit hole and this is a
perfect example of it Dave Rubin either
does no work about who he has on his
guests just looks at maybe whether
they're popular within you know all
trite and right-wing circles or he
ignores what he finds so that he doesn't
have to deal with stuff that's
unpalatable because he wants to sell
this to a broader audience here is a
perfect example of it as narrated by
timba on toast
boy is parroting itself Wow well listen
it's powerful stuff and I love doing
this because I think a lot of this it
flips conventional thinking on its head
and whilst was speaking about so tamiya
there's another topic which might have
been of interest today's viewers which
Dave never brought up and that is
Tommy's controversial stance on Jewish
people posit no okay so he's talking
about an interview that he did of this
guy Tommy Shaw de Meyer who is I don't
know he's a YouTube guy what I don't
exactly and so this is going into
Reubens
you know attacks on people for being
anti-semitic good for him there's a lot
of tweets that he's put out there I'm
sure it's been if you updated it with
like the Ilan Omar things she was very
offended but here we go and that is
Tommy's controversial stance on Jewish
people recently Dave is being fiercely
cracking down on anti-semitism on
Twitter dealing out some harsh criticism
for those who he perceives to be
displaying anti-semitic attitudes well
you might say if Dave thinks those
people are bad I can only imagine the
hard-hitting questions he'll have for
someone who has appeared in podcasts
with former Grand Wizard of the KKK
David Duke and denied the Holocaust we
don't have to go back that far doctor do
we can go right now to blame
matter who started it cheers you as a
white man should want to push whites in
America to become to concentrate more on
education because Jews push that to
their people and then they push alcohol
to your people in mind they push drugs
to your people in mind Jews of Finance
and black post-genocide what's happening
Senor genocide now I know what people
are gonna say they're gonna say what way
to meet you can't say that cuz Jews and
the Holocaust and they didn't choose to
be a no yeah they did there were the
Jews they the same thing
they literally could have walked out of
that situation and said we all want to
do it no that ain't what they said for
some reason oh they've never seen closet
I got a I have an idea how about
we just walk out of here let's see
there's it exit side in the other
direction maybe man just leave man but
then we won't be able to apply white and
black people alcohol later oh the
dilemmas we're all gonna gather around
one of us is going to survive and it's
gonna be your job to sell the
and the Whitey's the booze and the pills
so sell the booze and your cousin he's
bookish he like you write a whitey book
about all this the plans in place okay
so this is TJ sada Meyer like a series
of different videos very evocative ideas
provocative ideas you're a big idea I
gotta tell you I need as someone who not
anymore but was willing before the like
mass incitement against her to say that
years before she was a congresswoman she
could have phrased it sweet delicate
more that differently I think this is a
quite a stark contrast to ill on Omar's
ever-ready commitment to say I'm willing
to learn and I keep down anti-semitism
right reasons
although Dave never misses the
opportunity to go to bare knuckles on
Twitter for anti-semitism on the left
when he's in the presence of someone on
the right who explicitly pushes
anti-semitism and Holocaust denial on a
regular basis he avoids the topic
completely
during the hour-long interview Dave
never asks so tamiya a single question
about this Wow there's one more thing
which I want to show you guys that is
that now just contemplate this that's I
mean I don't know maybe those are the
only maybe those two different
interviews he did with David Duke and
that one time on his video he you know
said the Holocaust was basically an
opt-in situation for Jews maybe you know
Dave didn't know about them and did
maybe there was just no way to find that
like I don't even know who TJ Sotomayor
is but of course I'm not inviting him on
the show and you know we don't do
extensive like online research of our
guests now we have four to five times
more guests a week I think than Dave
does one would think that that would
come up in some of your research what do
you think about the Jews but apparently
even though Dave is such a huge fighter
against anti-semitism not that much of
an issue doesn't want to scare anybody I
don't want to get into that big idea
well as Tim bond choice points out later
in the video Dave is self-consciously
having conversations with quote unquote
controversial people but never it does
any sort of look into what is
controversial about these right right
web you can't say this stuff anywhere
else well mind you ask him why why can't
you say that stuff who's preventing you
from going out there and saying on
YouTube like you know Holocaust denial
ISM but it gets even better
I wonder if Dave brought up any other
things that maybe this guy has an issue
with this there's one more thing which I
want to show you before we move on
foreshadowing this interview with Tommy
Soto Maya dave delivers a monologue
about how open-minded conservatives are
compared to the left and highlights
their acceptance of LGBTQ rights do you
know people on the right who are
tolerant of people who were for gay
marriage and who were pro-choice I
actually do plenty of them including
several people who have had on this show
when there is a disagreement
I see way more people on the right
conservatives or libertarians more often
willing to agree to disagree
rather than to defriend or to smear
let's not forget even Donald Trump got a
standing ovation at the Republican
National Convention when he talked about
protecting LGBTQ rights this is ironic
pause is it tuns that was a great
standing ovation that he got transgender
people now barred from the military just
today we had more attacks on transgender
folks rights but as long as you got a as
long as he got a clap for it but going
talked about protecting LGBTQ rights
this is ironic because as it turns out
Dave's conservative guests of that
episode Tommy so tamiya didn't actually
know that dave was gay on a live stream
months after the interview one of so
timaeus fans broke the news to him and
here's how he reacted Stephen said they
hate dave rubin because he's a gay man
with the wrong oh my gosh did you ruin
my day
maybe this guy soda Meyers anti-gay
feelings dinner never came up that was
the first time maybe that people were
aware that he was anti I was very
interested in talking about ideas
I mean Yuri actually really fascinates
me can we talk about that you want to
wash your hand what does that mean what
are you implying about you know it's
really I don't know if we're gonna play
the fuller clip though or basically the
guy was on to like trash the black
family like literally like 1960s style
like conservative tripe nonsense so that
is what Dave's interested in he's not
interested in the Holocaust stuff he's
not interested in the homophobia stuff
but the core brand proposition of
trashing black people I would also add
the CEO he was circling back to Donald
Trump's got an applause for protecting
LGBTQ rights in addition to the
transgender ban in the military trump
administration is planning to roll back
protections for Jan transgender patients
while empowering health care workers to
refuse care based on religious
objections this is according to three
officials with knowledge of the pending
regulations and then this isn't
necessarily included I guess he didn't
get applause for this but the Trump
administration was asked by to pass a UN
resolution to end sexual violence in war
apparently the United States said no
we're not going to do that they passed a
watered down version diluted by the
Trump administration because you don't
want to get overly overly uptight about
sexual violence during war if where does
it end it's a slippery slope it's a
slippery slope you start doing it war
and then all of a sudden you're gonna be
doing domestic and peace civilian life
alright and this is also a fun video can
we get this video of of Dave Rubin he
was in Britain doing his a British tour
and he was asked you know a series of
questions at one point the host of the
program and I'm not sure what the name
of the program was some British guy it
back just low it's that program no
filter and I caramel with the name of
the host is get it go back just a little
bit there I would start right here okay
Dave receiving the truth in real time
yeah this is him being forced to watch
Ana Kasparian on The Young Turks explain
in dish her opinion of Dave Rubin having
had worked with him up close now the
interesting thing about this is both to
watch Dave Rubens face as he's listening
to this stuff and then what I found
really fascinating was his he's refusal
to actually respond to what Kasparian
said he responded to claims that were
not made now we have said in the past
that Dave Rubin receives funding from
the Koch brothers now of course the Koch
brothers don't pay dave rubin directly
they fund a institute in a libertarian
libertarian think tank in what
university is that I can't remember
George Mason George Mason and that
Liberty Institute pays him so
technically speaking the Koch brothers
do not pay him he just gets money from a
Koch supported right-wing libertarian
think-tank
but listen to how he responds to Ana
Kasparian criticism that he left not
because of politics but because he
wanted to make more money not he asked
for more money and was rejected that's
important can I please finally tell the
truth about why he left the Young Turks
he wanted to make a six-figure salary to
host a 30-minute a week show when
everyone here you know because we work
for an independent movie company was
getting paid far less while working 12
hour days
that's why Dave Rubin left the company
and now all of a sudden he's getting
funded by the Koch brothers and all of a
sudden his opinions are very different
he has no political identity he is not
an honest actor he is not an
intellectual he is a fraud that's who
dave rubin is
I wish I knew how she really felt that's
where to begin
you know fraud lazy avaricious you know
immoral you won't eat more money first
off I never asked for you know it's so
silly to even unfortunately to have to
talk about these little nine billion
because I like talking about ideas not
about people I never asked for more
money that's number one
first off she never claimed that he
asked for more money
he's completely making up a different
it's not I didn't want more money he
never asked for more money she never
said he asked for more money he's not
disputing what she said
and this is silly like I don't like to
talk about their having him on as a
profile but this is beneath him to talk
about it we talk about ideas I went
about it was me as the interviewer yeah
and then and now watch as he proceeds to
sort of validate where she was saying
till eat even unfortunately to have to
talk about these little nonsensical
things I cuz I like talking about ideas
not about people I never asked for more
money that's number one I left I told
them I was leaving I left there were no
no gonna go she Asians that's it
actually my my executive producer who I
brought with me they offered to double
his salary if he stayed so together we
would have we would have made more money
if we'd stayed but that is nothing to do
with nothing I would see them no it's
like it's kind of pathetic really
I'm not funded by the Koch brothers I
mean I wish I was funded by the Koch
brothers that would be nice I wouldn't
be wearing H&M underwear I mean it's
like this is this is this is what I'm
talking about it's that sort of endless
hysteria attacking people attacking
motives nobody's interested in that
anymore I really don't think people are
interested in that are you saying this
show is boring yo Dave needs to stop
plagiarizing my impersonation of him
right
I'm putting Dave Rubin on notice to stop
stealing my impression of him for his
talking points it really is like it's
blatant it's incredible he's completely
stealing your stick
he does is do my shtick as himself it's
not us at least do your own stick
impersonation of your stick get your own
personhood oh yeah Jesus crazy come your
own person don't just do the person that
I'm making fun of you being also two
months ago they announced a new
partnership with the Aisne Duran
Institute which among other sorts of
fund raisers has ties to the Koch
brothers yeah but somehow he still can't
even get Uniqlo underwear I was gonna
say like what what like we are very very
specific is underwear that expensive I
mean I mean I just get I just get I
actually I have some Uniqlo I tried to
make the move Uniflow is good but it's
mostly for a loom for me a bit ideas go
to what let's just pure ideas listen all
ideation with that guy right so in the
in the wake of we've now had multiple
shootings in temples synagogues over the
past year if if it if it if it seems to
you like there's more anti-semitism in
the country or at least more actions
that of hate based in anti-semitism you
would be right by any possible measure
statistically speaking there's a been a
huge jump in anti-semitism since Trump
has been elected and but Louie Gohmert
wants you to know that Donald Trump is
in no way responsible because his his
kid married a Jew tragic shooting at the
synagogue you hadn't somebody saying
well blameless violence on the
president's rhetoric you've got the most
pro-israel I mean for heaven's sake he's
got he son-in-law
Jewish this man has done more for Israel
according to Netanyahu than any
president we've ever had and yet they
want to call him anti-semitic again
watch what they say and bigger there's a
good chance they're projecting it's what
they're doing and they're projecting
that on the president look it was the
Democrats were the only people who would
not call out and condemn specifically
any somatic remarks and as a price for
the hmm I love it when the Donald Trump
said that Bibi Netanyahu was basically
King of the Jews right give the Jews you
prime minister the Jews he's the
Jaffee's your president is the Jeff each
other the Jews it is like that's not any
dumber than things Megan McCain says but
no Gomer it's just a bit more of an
obvious Gomer no no Gohmert also knows
that that the support for Israel in the
Republican Party comes much more so from
Christian Zionist yeah in East Texas
right yeah
to the extent that there's any Jews they
do recognize Christ as the Messiah they
are Jews for Jesus which we call them
yeah why didn't you just leave the - why
didn't you just leave outwits
just get that you just walk outside
could put that in the plan that you
won't be able to give the Bulls that the
lights and the blacks Donald Trump is
going out on the campaign trail and that
means and somebody pointed this out like
we hear a lot of like stuff about from
you know reports of him he said this
thing or he said that thing and it's
usually about like he's being he's
talking about the mall I reported this
net but nobody really reports anymore on
the just the cascade of lies that he
tells that are eating up conspiracy
theories that are just eaten up by his
supporters I mean I really
we do think that I mean Donald Trump
could walk out of the White House
tomorrow and you know get on a get on a
rocket and fly into the Sun and we will
still have massive problems that are
indicative of the people who follow
Donald Trump right now and none of
that's gonna happen
he's gonna stay in office if he loses
the election in 2020 he's either going
to go to prison or not assuming he you
know is still alive he's still gonna be
a malignant force in our politics and
that's the best-case scenario yeah right
that's the best-case scenario so here he
is telling a I don't know how many
people are in here twelve thousand ten
thousand oohs auditorium I don't know
how many people are in it in Wisconsin
in Green Bay when the president says
something people believe it I mean
there's people out there who believe it
and they're going to believe and we've
heard it repeated by other Republican
elected officials that Democrats are for
killing born people after the fact if
they don't want their babies the baby is
born the mother meets with the doctor
they take care of the baby they wrap the
baby beautifully and then the doctor and
the mother determined whether or not
they will execute the baby I don't think
so
credible no it's incredible until this
crazy man in Virginia said it nobody
even thought of that right that anyone
even think of that
yeah late term but this is where the
baby is actually born it came out it's
there it's wrapped and that's it there
are children who are born with either in
great pain or with the ability inability
or you know with some grievous bodily
malfunction that is going to either make
their few days on this planet extremely
painful or full of suffering but who
cannot survive that I believe at that
point maybe in some of their their the
there's a decision to like not feed or
to heavily medicate I'm not sure it's
not terribly dissimilar than what we get
with people who are in a vegetative
state Terri Schiavo the idea that there
are summary executions taking place I
mean it's obviously absurd but all those
people in that room believe it because
the president just told them that since
sanity it really is insanity
let's go to the phones calling from a
three three six area code who's this
where you come from North Carolina
Thomas what's on your mind
uh yeah there's a it's an example you
use you mention a coal miner this place
this has to do with the green new deal
okay no line from a while back and I
mean that was a couple months ago but
use the example the last week for your
vacation and the problem that I have
with it is that tonight you know again I
just I can I just say what the it is I
think it's well there's a certain amount
of money that's set aside for retraining
of people who lose their jobs as a
function of the green new deal and that
some of that money is also available to
people who determine that they they
would rather take an early retirement so
[Music]
are you talking about yes yes that's
okay and so the the way you described it
was it seemed like you were a swaging
someone concerned about like
specifically the the phrasing unwilling
to work and what I feel like is the it's
the universality that like you need a
universal program to actually do to
actually get this result if you want
these like displaced workers to get
benefits then you need a a more
universal program then the one I posed
in well I mean I think it gives you that
option
oh okay can you explain the option well
are you talking about when you're saying
not just people who are displaced
because of energy of energy shifts
well yeah what I mean is not a it it
just seems like you're you're saying
that this is supposed to very
specifically right that this is supposed
to be specific to a small group of
people and people who are displaying
that because of the green energy deal as
opposed to just saying you want to give
everybody the option for an earlier
retirement than say 62 that's provided
by Social Security yeah not necessarily
early retirement but Economic Security
and innocence yeah I mean not
necessarily unlike ubi but I'm not a
proponent of like young bucks or
whatever okay I'm not no I'm just trying
to make I'm not sure what the point is
you're trying to make you think that the
green new deal should include a some
type of ubi possibly the the thing the
example that I wanna bring up is uh I
read something about a Stefan Smith who
was in the UK who has lung disease
arthritis wheelchair-bound and tried to
get benefits from the Department of Work
and Pensions and was evidently unable to
to work but was declared fit to work and
and so I it just seems like the whenever
there's well III I get it I get are we
gonna run into I getting just I gotta
jump but I've been I get a jump because
I honestly you're talking about a case
in Britain where someone wanted
disability from the government and they
didn't pay it I mean we have Social
Security disability here I think it's a
it's it's a difficult program to get
into you get rejected multiple times on
many occasions I think people some
people during the recession you know
we're more willing to try and go on
disability some people you know in other
are willing to work with a disability
it's very hard to measure what you know
how much pain should someone have to go
through when they're working at certain
points but if you're talking about
making that program more generous I'm
for that
I mean I I don't I don't know what the
complaint is I think his anxiety is over
is there a means-testing problem with
that policy Oh specifically two jobs
lost I don't think it's means oh yeah it
is it is a function of specifically
dealing with yes I think I think it's
tailored my understanding is and at
least this portion of it and I don't
know there may be another portion that
you know provides job guarantees and
whatnot but I think the idea is
specifically to alleviate the concerns
and there's a fairly narrow subset of
people right who will lose their jobs
because government will shut down their
industry and for those people the ideas
what's the government going to do about
that now it's another separate set of
questions as to okay well what about
people who want to take early retirement
I mean I don't you know you can call
what you want but that's what it is
unless you're talking about just a
universal basic income
I don't think a universal basic income
is going to supplant your need for a job
anyways even if you were to have that so
you know I mean I'm in favor of like
programs where maybe the government
would support 4-day workweeks
but I don't I don't know if there's an
example of a program out there we're
basically willing to support everyone
not working I'm not sure I'm not sure
maybe I misunderstood call them from a
four one zero
area code who's this where you come from
hey this is a Pat from Maryland Pat for
Marilyn what's on your mind um yeah I
just wanted to get your guys thoughts on
the she the people conference that
Bernie was that this weekend and it's
basically I don't know if you saw it but
it didn't like a no animus for women
yeah for women of color and honestly I
thought it was kind of a disaster for
Bernie he he was kind of asked about
white supremacist violence and he
proceeded to talk about $15 minimum wage
so yeah I don't know he just he kind of
seems sometimes that like he seems kind
of unwilling to kind of think of newer
ideas I don't know just wanted to get
your guys thoughts I didn't see it I
mean in general I don't know what you
mean by newer ideas
I mean he's I think his work in terms of
like civil rights is pretty old you know
I mean like literally yeah yeah 50 years
ago he was he was trapping himself
chaining himself you know in a fair
housing fight you know strapping himself
to folks on a picket line you know over
over you know fair housing so I mean I
don't I don't know what you mean by new
ideas I did well I mean I I guess like
what I'm what I mean is like he could
have easily said like like specifically
talking about white supremacist violence
that like you know the FBI could set off
set up like a task force or something
but I mean kind of got dude for that and
I think he really needs to work on and
kind of I don't know I guess better
messaging I guess I don't know I think
this points for you you know you should
go into the I mean $15 minimum wage it's
great and all but feel like you got a I
don't know kind of I don't know what I'm
trying to say but I did watch under that
I did watch some of that and I think you
know I would also spend my friend you
know Bree joy is Bernie's national press
secretary now and they're putting out a
really good podcast called here the
burned and it isn't it's actually like
its policy focused and in interviews and
talks with a lot of people who were
doing things with the campaign in a
variety of different ways obviously it's
pro his campaign but she just did
very good episode on the eraser of his
broader base of support and I I think to
constantly reaffirm that he has a
problem in those answers is a
self-fulfilling prophecy and I also
think to be you know blunt like you know
joy reads one of the moderators she
doesn't like Bernie Sanders yeah and has
been highly publicly like you know so
and there was a moment when he
referenced his you know his college
activism and the audience started to boo
and it's like okay I mean I you know
sure you want to hear something you know
present but at the same time like I
doubt any other candidate would have
gotten booed for referencing that work
and marching with dr. King so I think
you have to look at the specifics of
that forum as well appreciate the call
yeah yeah I agree yeah I got a watch I
mean I it's hard to comment but I think
yes there is my sense is that that from
what I know about that that conference
it was not necessarily home turf and the
idea that you know people are are booing
him for referencing you know 50-year
commitment to this stuff is you got a it
makes you wonder if they're being a
little bit disingenuous without saying
look I think so do you think like I'm
not to jump on the caller but like I am
a little look there's no question that
reconstituting what the Trump
administration has disbanded in terms of
keeping an eye on on on right-wing
terrorism of course but like I don't
really like the idea of an answer for
anything to always be like oh we should
have a new you know give more power to
FBI as an example like I've a bit of an
allergy to that frankly well the DOJ
would shut down no that's what we're
talking about the rest being clear on
the restoration of things like that
absolutely but to just sort of
generically call for I mean well I think
that's what the caller was he Buddha jag
referenced in his you know offhandedly
but he actually referenced some of his
counter and
urgency work in the in the military
being applied to an American context I
think that'll be rather different call
him from a 95 for area code who's this
where you come from Michael from Miami
long time no talk to buddy we're really
we're my home state you have north your
uh mouthful are you down closer to us
Jupiter Oh beautiful writing the same
same SMS a very nice yeah guys hope you
had a good bye well it was pretty decent
for you weather was great weather was
great like I say I did not get the the
rest I had dreamed about but Saul
learned to swim and so that's all I care
about
I'm standing might get some grapefruits
to take back with you otherwise I'll be
happy to sure the submit and ship and
walk to you well I know make sure
they're for the ones this time the guy
that just like went to the supermarket
get was like this here's Orange
California California oranges from dude
you gotta pick them off of the tree man
you got to go to Central Florida to do
that and there's a lot of my clients who
are getting hurt doing that kind of job
and they're getting killed on workers
compensation that's not a story for
another day
anyway nice book well no I was gonna say
the big thing down here is a vote a
hacking story that I guess no you guys
talked about five people to take the
show of halfway it's it's literally
though your kid can you believe they
said that type of thing but I guess it
bears repeating that they basically I
suppose yet the I kind of warned Florida
officials back in 2016 that there was
there was evidence
well improper Russian my understanding
my understanding is the FBI in 2016
warned Florida generally that there is
but they had evidence according to Marco
Rubio they had evidence that the
russians hacked into specific counties
there one in particular and and i think
it's gonna be my county unfortunately
which was probably the one that was
targeted because it's the largest
democratic county what they did is they
didn't go in to change bird tabulation
they went in to mess with voter
registration information allegedly that
that
the guys think it's bothersome is a well
Nelson actually came out talked about it
last year if you remember and he was
essentially written off as being you
know a doddering fool who's kind of a
sore loser which tells me that had Obama
come forward in 2016 and done what we
wanted him to do in terms of publicizing
what was going on with the FBI at that
point in time the same reaction would
have will come forth well that is you
know rod Rosenstein is now going on they
can not figure out a way to counter the
narrative once it's thrown back I'm even
if they have the facts on their side
it's maddening well Rob Rosenstein is
out there now criticizing the Obama
administration for not coming out and
being more forceful but people forget
and Raj Rosen Stein clearly does not
forget but now knows where is his toast
is buttered as it were that Mitch
McConnell basically said if you come out
and announce this I'm gonna make it like
you're politicizing it exactly you know
what so f what well what yep go out
there and this is the same argument I
hear against impeachment we can't do it
because he'll be acquitted by the Senate
we'll use it as a campaign ploy he's
gonna do that anyway right he's gonna do
that anyway
stand up grow a pair do your
constitutional duty and put the son of a
 on trial yep this is what you're
supposed to do you're not supposed to
sit there and play the Fairwinds of the
day this would infuriate so many of us I
I agree total I'm at me on my only
hesitation about actually taking a vote
for impeachment
like I would go right up to the line of
the process and maybe say we're gonna
take the vote in January of twenty you
know 2022 just because I don't want a
situation where you impeach this guy and
then he doesn't get convicted in the
Senate and then he gets reelected I want
well I'm not okay right if you have a
trial good that's when an impeachment is
and the management is a trial you put
evidence in front of you know allegedly
the jury which is supposed to dissent
and we all know this is a bit of a
kangaroo court because it political for
acclivity is involved right but you put
evidence front there everybody sees
what's going on you cross-examine
witnesses you know if they want to take
the Fifth Amendment they can do so at
their own peril you can offer immunity
it's the same as any other criminal
trial okay and then you let the
public at large make a determination and
if that at that point becomes
overwhelming they said that the people
say well you know what he's going to get
reelected because we don't think the
evidence was there or and I've heard
this on your show as well I think you
guys Michael especially has been on
board as saying the Yulin hired Trump
coverage part of me the Russian coverage
was overblown
he's overdone I mean I personally
disagree but this is this is why I like
you guys you're like family members I I
love to death I don't agree with you on
everything but it's good to hear
different points if you articulately
explain my position is I think you need
to investigate this to the hilt and you
need to put the information out there so
people can make a determination on their
own okay
he's gonna get those 37% anyway I don't
know no no you're missing you're missing
my point I'm not worried that he's gonna
benefit electoral II from the
impeachment and I think we should go
through the process what I am afraid of
is his put aside how it impacts is it
reelection who knows maybe he wins by
three votes in Michigan again you know
what I mean and loses by five million
but he wins the electoral college what
I'm worried about is not having
impeachment in your quiver if he gets
reelected so I would take the
proceedings up until the point where you
actually do the vote because you want to
save the vote to actually impeach him
after that election one way or another I
would impeach him after he gets elected
I mean are you lose the reaction once
you know that there's nothing that says
I mean look you have a myriad of
offenses obstruction wise and and
emoluments clause wise right now that to
sit there and compete to this guy from
now until the cows come home you don't
have to do it just once you realize that
right well yeah I mean I just but it's
also like what what do you think the
Democrats if he get if they impeach him
in October of 2000 or whatever it is
August of 2020 and he gets reelected you
think they're gonna go back to that
that's almost a foot on a maggot
attitude exactly Chuck Schumer ability
and we need
that's the but that's my only argument
but that's this more of like a technical
argument I mean honestly like I think
the investigation should start I've you
Pietschmann as a process I say start the
process get the investigation well yes
it has yes yeah not gonna take one now
the one thing you guys touched on which
I totally agree with this federal
judiciary and I don't know if if the
gang agrees but I know I agree with you
on this and the federal judiciary has
been completely corrupted and is now
essentially a mutant version of the
Republican Party because every federal
Society judge and there has been
thousands of them now that are going to
be when a thousand but hundreds are
gonna be you know confirmed thank the
church monkey Chucky's you know I'm
gonna go ahead and let let those guys do
what they wanted to is gonna rue the day
because they will now run to every
federal Society when a judge and they
will sit there and say executive
privilege exists will come up with new
precedent and they are designed to keep
those guys and pout that's the ultimate
firewall and you know you blame for that
I blame for rock obama for that for not
standing up you what boy keep my
name out your mouth there was there was
no why didn't you hold on
well the recess appointments they the
Supreme Court basically decided that he
that was no but they no but but the
Supreme Court no no no the Supreme Court
took away recess appointments the
Supreme Court gotta wait hi yeah the
Supreme Court took away Fredrik points
because it basically said that the the
McConnell's pretend I'm in recess you
know whatever it is we send somebody
over there for like a half an hour or
something I was legit and so he couldn't
do recess appointments it basically
neutered the recess appointments the
thing I do blame Obama for no but but
the thing I do blame Obama for is they
were very very slow in nominating people
it's true there was a lot of obstruction
they just did not put the focus on it on
day one the way they should have and
they were
very very very very slow very slow
people were saying this
contemporaneously too so this is not a
you know a retroactive criticism this is
not Monday morning quarterbacking this
is Sunday afternoon quarterbacking
people said it at the time he's doing
this too slowly they're doing an
incompetent job of this and and it goes
to my biggest complaint you know Michael
I've been making this complaint for for
for for over a decade the left broadly
speaking does not understand and
appreciate the importance of the
judiciary the federal judiciary in
particular but but you are my my friend
I breathe they don't they don't and the
problem not institutionally not in terms
of the voters not in terms of the
politicians nobody nobody because Erica
concept to understand on unless you
actually have cases which are being
adjudicated now people are starting to
figure it out everybody and their mother
in these red wig and red states are now
passing abortion restrictive abortion
policies why is that why do you think
they're doing that they're setting up
because they want to run into The
Supremes of course everybody understands
that and whether they loses dca levels
in material the bigger problem is you
have other decisions like like for
instance the contempt of Congress which
were now looking at you can't imagine
you can't think of a situation when a
president would voluntarily ignore and
direct his staff not to comply with
congressional subpoenas they impeach
Nixon that's the third count of the
article impeachment against him yep it
would be inconceivable that anybody
would want to do that but they're doing
it because they're gonna try to play a
hometown game and get themselves
unfavorable ground get enough of a
decision so that they can somehow carve
out some kind of unique judicial history
you were the first one on that or you
were one of the first ones on that I I
appreciate that but it's just it's
incredibly frustrating look before you
guys go I'm just curious what is your
thoughts regarding Obama's circular
firing squad comments whether we're made
in Europe over I don't know if you're on
vacation when that took place I I have a
feeling I know where you're gonna go on
this but I'd like to hear what you have
to say I mean I you know with all due
respect to Obama there is no indication
that this guy has any expertise when it
comes to getting Democrat
selected if it's not him
Brooke mm with reverse cocktails yeah it
really is and so I mean I you know I
seems like a nice guy but I just don't
understand and I I think he would be
very helpful for him to go out and
campaign to a certain extent but he
won't endorse Biden cuz he's gonna play
his cards close to the vest well I'm
saying the general in the general in the
general election he should be out there
campaign but but you know if he wants to
go back and think about electing a
Democrat here's an idea
jettison the TPP don't put Hillary
Clinton having to you know deal with
that that hurt her that hurt her
campaign quite a bit ya know there's a
hundred other problems too but I'm just
saying you know Barack Obama can't
control what Hillary Clinton says but he
can control the context in which you
know as president what what he makes her
you know what he subjects her to that's
a that's a big issue that would have
been one thing that he could have
personally done let me talk about you
know a firing squad he he basically
loaded up people's weapons you know in
that respect Democratic candidates as
being somehow injurious to their
candidacy simply because they're being
made by other Democratic candidates
that's just not the way it works right
he doesn't understand he doesn't
understand the realities of how the
political give-and-take go that's why he
was such a crappy negotiator use a
paralytic republicanism that somehow the
other side is operating in good faith
when in fact it was obvious long into
his presidency that they weren't and he
still operates that way you know they're
not gonna like us because you know we're
tending to take shots at one of them no
we're not you're pointing out legitimate
policy differences there's nothing wrong
with that doesn't get that I know I
don't understand why I listen again this
is one of those things where it's like
is Barack Obama
my dents about that I don't think so I
think Barack Obama has an agenda Howard
thank your pick
I'm not a cowardly or dead no there's a
third option there's a third option
those are his politics yes in the
decimal way the best way to get politics
that maintain the status quo is to say
we shouldn't be debating about stuff and
that way you don't have to make it seem
like you have any politics like I have
no listen I mean look if there's a you
know if the status quo is what the one
that you want we're in the status quo we
have in this country is that powerful
interests end up getting what they want
that money has more power in our
democracy than it should but certainly
more power than not having money if your
politics are such that you like that you
don't have to come out and say I I like
that you just say we need to just calm
down and not rock the boat
and not have this internal debate that
that's what you do that's what and and
that is why we always hear that supposed
well it also I'm just let me just add
really quickly and also if it would the
problem I have with it because I think
that there is some value to thinking
strategically and being less sort of at
each other's throats in certain
circumstances but it never goes the
other way I mean if if Obama was really
holding to this I'm an elder statesman
and we need to defeat the Republicans
and we need to have this grand coalition
blah blah blah he would have released a
press release when that New York Times
piece came out about the Democrats you
know converging to try to stop Bernie
and he would say this is also
unacceptable we can't do things like
this it's always it's always any service
of his wing like Sam was saying so it's
disingenuous have you ever had
professors of yours who were bright guys
but once you put him out in the real
world they were incapable of functioning
they were just brilliant theoreticians
but they could not function in the
practical reality once confronted I
think that's who he is I
you know what I don't do those things
because he was reticent or holding the
money interest which i think is true by
the way I think you didn't know what to
do hey I really think neutralized and
afraid and didn't know what to do so we
did nothing
hey but I just I just find that hard to
believe
I mean this guy this is a smart guy who
through his life never ran anything in
his life
Sammy go back and read the stuff I like
him too I voted for him twice but he
never ran anything but did felon what
you want watch watch the watch the
interview watch here I got a random
reference for you though but I think
this ends this this conversation several
years ago aged Olmert was at the 42nd
Street why or whatever it is and the guy
the moderator said it is Obama naive to
deal with Iran and he go looks at me
because I've known a lot of presidents
and this is first black president he
might be wrong but he's not naive yeah
this is not a naive guy no no he's not
you're giving him too much credit you
could say that he doesn't have like you
know but his you know the agencies all
worked perfectly fine I don't think that
what he lacked was managerial skill I
think that he best fundamentally of
mother fundamentally I think
fundamentally he accepted the worldview
of a you know a powerful moneyed
interests bankers right like he let this
guy Froman who ended up being his trade
guy who was at Citigroup at the time
essentially pick his cabinet he this is
a guy this is a guy who came from
nothing who worked his way through
Harvard into Harvard Law to the head of
the be the first black Harvard Law
Review this is not a guy who's naive who
doesn't understand the different
interests around the room I just happen
to think that he's the type of guy who
also believed that all the people around
him deserve to be there maybe in the
same way that he was and that's a way
that you know human reflected upon
himself all day this a guy great I think
there's there's academic success book
dude I was I was but it's not academic
he also was a commute listen I know what
he was in Chicago politics be able to
get our ball review than it is to be
able to go ahead and run them you know
negotiate in such ways that Michael
Michael my brother it's a different it's
a different listen it's a different
skill set to become on Law Review if
you're a white guy then it is a black
guy at Harvard I can assure differently
they're magnanimous to the degree
they're open how was it the Barack Obama
was the first guy he wasn't deserving no
no I'm not saying that he was I'm not
talking about deserving I'm saying that
to operate in that world as a black man
there is a skill set that you need to
have that you don't have if you're white
give me a horse trading understanding
other positions learning how to take the
meeting or really knowing knowing who
know like knowing how to to get along to
move upward and that always worked for
him and I think that's what he brought
into the White House and I think he
never was in a position of like of
questions of questioning like the irony
is is that what he did not have was the
fierce urgency of now that is that is
the one thing he actually did not have
it was the the fierce the the semi
fierce urgency of like you know within
the next week soon soon work on it
appreciate the call Michael all right
bye Mike I always a pleasure my name out
your mouth appreciate don't ever talk
about my law school record again I tell
you I just think that like to to talk
about Barack Obama as a bookish sort of
like that is not him hey I'm just
reading books over here I just don't
think that captures the essence of him
well there were gonna be nice guys were
tix I don't think that they were
sinister I think just like his worldview
I mean I'll tell you this why don't we
have a book rated clapping I've been
crushing it yeah books yeah crushing the
books maybe we have a book rated Club we
could solve our problems together I
think Obama is actually launching a book
club now and is good Harry's bring over
Mitch McConnell get out book read club
we can read team rivals together this is
a good catch by our friends over at ey
they hire people it doesn't get as much
attention as it probably should but they
do some Kent clippin Stein and a couple
of the guys in that like TYT
investigates division they do some some
serious reporting not just like the
pontificating that we do here and one of
them came out of this town hall which I
did not see with with maiya Pete America
loves mayors and then they they don't go
very far in you know like remember
America's mayor but I don't know if this
is a big deal yet but it could be so
there's a controversy about when Budig
egde was a was mayor and he fired a
african-american police chief and there
was a lot of it's unclear to me it was
like secret tapes involved that people
had done of the of this of this
Commissioner it son guy I don't even
know what the what the controversy was
to be honestly I got to read into it but
one thing that came out though is
looking for this now so somebody asked
him about it at the at the town hall and
Budaj
basically well had this to say about
that that controversy thing on there
that we need to be concerned about the
reason I demoted the chief was that I
found out that he was the subject of a
criminal investigation not from him but
from the FBI and it made it very hard
for me to trust him as one of my own
appointees it was frustrating and
painful too though he was the first
african-american chief in our city's
history and one of the reasons I had
asked him to serve in the first place in
my administration was a great track
record in community policing which is a
huge priority for us because we're a
racially diverse community and speaking
of things you learn along the way and in
particular lessons I learned the
hardway as a mayor one of the things I
realized was that while I was absorbed
in just making sure that we weren't
trippin on any land mines related to
laws about what you can and can't record
I was frankly a little bit slow to
understand just how much anguish
underlay the community's response to
this because for people in the community
it wasn't just about whether we were
right or wrong to be concerned about the
federal wiretap Act it was about whether
communities of color could trust that
police departments had their best
interests at heart
and the more I learned about that the
more I realized that lifting the veil of
mistrust between communities of color
and our Police Department had to be one
of my top priorities as mayor all right
so that's that that's you know that's
good rhetoric but apparently what
happened is that there were tapes that
were made of white police officers and
I'm not sure exactly who was responsible
for the tapes it could have been the FBI
I'm not sure I haven't I haven't I can't
seem to find that but there were tapes
being made that showed some of these
white police officers were pretty racist
and when they came out Budaj it appears
sided with those officers in demoting
the the chief Darryl Boykins Boykins
ultimately went on to sue saying that he
was wrongfully demoted due to his race
and won a settlement for 50 grand
so apparently TYT reached out to his
lawyer this guy Tom Dixon to ask is it
the case that Boykins was the subject of
an FBI investigation and according to
the lawyer who it's unclear why would
have any reason to lie at this point the
answer is no now it's I think highly
unlikely that the FBI would be
investigating this guy and would have
told
Budaj about it but not the guy and his
lawyer that he was the subject of
investigation in fact it turns out that
according to the lawyer that quote
Darrel was never a subject he was fully
cooperating witness to a taping system
that had been in place for the prior two
administrations so apparently this
taping system of taping the the cops was
already been in there for you know well
before this guy's term and some of it
came out that there was some racial
issues with some of these officers and
it looks like booted judge demoted the
chief as the fall guy wait black chief
demoted to protect racism in a police
department and then blamed with fake FBI
investigation get may appeared on the
phone this is a great guy I like it's
done this is a great American alright
folks we don't know there's gonna be
more to this story and it's good that he
come he can you know like Buddha Buddha
judge I understand like why he's doing
okay in the polls right now because he
answered that question pretty well right
unless he lied and that comes out that
he lied but we'll see all right that's
it we have four calls right now folks
I'm sorry let's take this let's do this
I just want to know what people have to
hold on anymore but I do want to do this
last that's it I think we're done for
video today but let's take a couple IMS
and then we'll get out of here glass of
water would love to hear your thoughts
about China's IP theft also for Michael
could you talk about Adam Conover's
appearance on JRE Joe Rogan experience
no sorry but I don't know Adam Conover I
don't know I don't really have any
thoughts on China's IP theft I mean
that's a pretty broad topic so I know
Sam was pissed about it I can't I heard
about Chinese IP death didn't ruin my
vacation
I can't criticize because I have
illegally downloaded programs on my
computer
I mean I think I don't even like the
idea of intellectual property I think we
we have we have overly protective patent
regime and copyright regime in this
country I would like to reform that
first before I worry about what well
before I worry about China there was a
great piece you know the jacking off
Avengers whatever the latest adventures
movie there was a great piece of the
Jacobin about how you needed to
basically recreate the Internet as a
commons in order to stop the global
cyber war essentially so that would be
worth looking at
jay-j cool hi Sam if you were nominated
for the Supreme Court would you turn it
down just wondering why Judge nappy
would burn his best opportunity lastly
would you guys mind speculating whether
Jaime will support Biden in the
primaries class back life I can tell you
that Jaime probably will not support
Biden in the primaries I don't know what
judge nap is doing it donald drumpf
love watching megan mccain clips it
makes me feel so smart even if I have to
change my briefs afterward for laughing
so hard also is she carbo-loading to
bulk okay one night lemon stand I'm so
damn disgusted with Sam Michael Tracy
came on to discuss an apology owed to
the majority port audience for Cedars
dedicating almost one-half of 1% of Mr
episodes over two year period to talking
with marcy wheeler about an
investigation into the president's the
United States possibly being cahoots
with a foreign power during this
interview Sita promised Tracy
point-blank that an apology would be
forthcoming for petrol 'mentally
mentioning Maxine Waters in the time
Tracy exposed the overwhelming
physicality with which the strapping
seventy or a year old congresswoman had
touched the blogger's arm something
which in Tracy's own words fell only
just short of extreme violence
now considering Michael Tracy proclaimed
to have tweets in which it would shed a
clarifying light on the context to make
it plain cedar was in the wrong further
said he'd provide this crucial context
to Sam in the very near term
considering Sam agreed to apologize once
those exonerating tweets verified
Tracy's claim
okay uh yeah I can't even get through
whether it was good but john-boy have
you seen Michael Tracy's Twitter lately
is Muller the only thing he focuses on I
saw Donald Trump jr. the count that
shows you what tweets Donald Trump jr.
and Houston the like and he's like a
Michael J tingle important to spend time
on the Stephanopoulos trick but also
take a moment to observe how the times
covered Trump's claim that a woman and
her doctor' deliver a baby and then
decide whether or not to execute the
child no fact check at a rally on
Saturday in Green Bay with Trump revived
in an inaccurate refrain about doctors
executing oh my god
this all gives me a flashback to in 2011
over the summer I was a fact-checker in
London and a lot of the fact checks were
about the Euro skepticism and like are
they gonna make us like not be able to
have curved bananas and stuff like that
and then brags had happened so revived
an inaccurate refrain about doctors
executing babies I this is what I say to
my kids it's time for that good old
inaccurate refrain now kids super
limited inaccurate refrain look at me
you better not be telling me some type
of inaccurate refrain I don't want any
of that revival of inaccurate refrains
around this house Wow but they just want
the thing is is that what The Times is
also trying to do is they're trying not
to put on airs
there's want to talk like normal people
it's really true the way Ruben steps all
over Michaels bit reminds me the time
Joe Cocker appeared on SNL with Belushi
doing his Joe Cocker bit it was actually
a little uncomfortable at the time
exactly Jedrek wha
gel come Jack means - welcome back but
for Jews
[Laughter]
still makes slightly more sense actually
deadbeat dad is him I wonder if Joe
Biden's gonna try and float the idea of
anita hill as his VP pick ask Anita Hill
did he talk to you about it no I like
Justin yeah I told Obama just stay out
of it for the frame oh yeah yeah no I
would even take it even if he asked for
award oh no way
brave o matic when the free half runs as
long as it did today it's a real slap in
the face for those of us who pay to hear
the fun half also did you know that door
left TYT yeah i heard that it really
doesn't make a huge difference to me
personally I mean I don't think it's
gonna change what Jimmy does in any way
which you know I have my problems with
but you know Godspeed ein Rand Paul Ryan
I'm getting a degree in engineering at
the University of Manitoba and I pay
five thousand a year for tuition before
awards and bursaries I cannot even
comprehend paying 75 grand a year for
school unreal
Smoot Court Glenn Greenwald said the
motor report obliterated the theory that
Trump is beholden to Putin please answer
that claim I I don't know that that's
the case I mean it obliterated the
theory that Trump the Trump campaign
coordinated with Russia in their
interference in the election I don't
even know if the idea that I mean if
Trump felt beholden to Putin because all
Trump cares about is his own personal
business dealings and was trying to get
a 300 million dollar hotel built in
Moscow and knows that nothing like that
could happen without Putin's sign-off
does he feel beholden aye I mean I guess
it depends on
what you what you define is beholden I
mean if if Michael wants a raise from me
disease he beholden to me no but is he
gonna you know do stuff like show up at
work you know more this is a strong case
huh but you know I so I don't know I I
don't and that's I don't think the the
molar report obliterated anything
frankly depressive regressive how can we
see your post coital seen sounds pretty
sexy I don't know that you can it was a
pilot leaf sage
can you imagine either of the Obama
girls demanding public respect and
validation in the way that megan mccain
does no no could you imagine the
reaction honestly can't even see a bee
huntsman doing it right so i can't even
get to the point right
can you imagine if black women acted
with that kind of entitlement while
constantly invoking their fathers name
come to think of it silver spoon Sasha
Obama sounds like a great character
that's where I was going my father
Barack Obama I know a little bit about
Saudi Arabia my dad knows the Saudi
royal families so they're kind of close
to us yeah I think you and I just very
scary to me that people are demonizing
it's super easy to sit here and judge
like we shouldn't bomb Yemen but you
have no idea what it looks like from the
Saudi court yeah maybe if you lived in
the Saudi Court you would understand so
like Prince Bandar is Megan McCain
Lockett Trump
Bush daughters
well Matt I didn't mean to Oh Michael it
was great to meet you in LA Matt I
didn't mean to meet you because you look
busy at the bar didn't want to interrupt
but Wow
breaking girlfriend
dude can we get a show fire Matt is
there something you want to talk about
from LA I mean I had the girlfriend when
I went out there too
[Music]
it's now just available for public all
right three more of these when we get
out of here Brad hominem Sam my
conservative friends said that student
debt is 44% of the federal government's
assets getting rid of all of it will
crash the nation what can I say to that
this her plan calls for I mean if you
really consider if he's really concerned
about that her plan calls for raising
taxes on the millionaires and
billionaires with over twenty five
million dollars worth of twenty five or
thirty million dollars worth of wealth
seventy five thousand families and it
will more than cover the cost it will
double cover the cost because she's got
other plans
Sam's tinder profile hey girl
swipe left for the redacted report or
swipe and see how little evidence there
is of obstruction between you me and
just us well that's pretty good just us
yeah and the final I am of the day Sam
went to a Bernie kickoff event in Denver
this weekend there was no one home at
the address given to us by bernie's
website thought it might be just a blip
and then I saw a number of people
posting on Facebook that it happened in
other cities dirty tricks are already
starting I don't know what that's about
but we'll look into someone doing fake
Bernie events
[Music]
all right folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
