I just want to just finish up our
conversation from the last segment
because we got a little rushed there in
terms of this north and thing in in
Virginia and and I just want to add this
like you know it's sort of a fascinating
I I was around in 1984 I was in I was
entering college I think at that time
and you know I was from the Northeast
the idea of dressing up in blackface or
we're in a clans robe I mean I guess I
can imagine context is where you would
do this but I don't think it I don't
think it meant black I don't think
blackface meant like I it wouldn't have
occurred to me like this is I don't know
if it was just a function of me or just
in general like I don't know that it
occurred to people in you know in in the
North as much that blackface was a even
a thing and I to be honest it's very
hard for me to remember but I guess the
point is this was a long time ago and I
my sense is and and you know I think I
said the same thing about Brett
Kavanaugh for that matter
it was the reaction in the current
moment it was the response in the
current moment that led me to believe
there was a problem with what they did
30 years ago right like if Northam had
come out even without having you know
preempted this but had come out and said
look it wasn't me
right but I did submit it because I
thought it was funny and over the years
I've come to understand why that's not
funny
why that is racist and I have tried to
live my life in such a way and certainly
through my public service in a way that
I understand why there was something
wrong with that and and I have on you
know and I have learned lessons that I
have tried to put into practice and I've
tried to be a better person in this way
in that way in this way and I think
frankly you know
if he had come out and made even like
the effort to do that I don't think it
would had to have done it perfectly I
think that this would have been a much
different story right now but he didn't
seem to even like get it 25 years later
no and he gave one of the worst press
conferences ever given by a politician
in trying to explain it it was bizarre
it was it showed that he is just you
know completely politically inept and
totally lacking really in understanding
what the problem is I mean if that means
obvious I mean his wife seemed more
clued in to what they were grappling
with than he did it was terrible and you
know he had come out the day before he
gave that press conference you know and
apologized and said you know it was a
terrible thing and then tried to act
like he hadn't done anything the next
day I mean you can't do that that's
that's just it nobody believes him at
that point so it has been handled very
very badly and in fact by contrast the
Attorney General hearing his speech that
he gave I think it was on Wednesday in
the explaining how his you know costume
that he wore he said they all went as
rappers to some party when he was 19
years old was much more of the type of
speech that you're describing someone
sort of explaining that they understand
now what was wrong about it and that
they get it and that this was you know
that at the time that you know he was
young and you know has regrets etc etc
it was oh it was a well done speech I
don't know if it will save him or not I
mean this is everything's are so
inflamed at this point that I'm not sure
anything that any of these people can be
that their careers will continue in
Virginia politics I just don't know but
yeah I mean I don't know this is not
going to be the last time that this sort
of thing comes up apparently
I mean I understood that the the me2
stuff was going that's best bipartisan
it's going to hit both parties it's
going to hit hits it's hitting men
across all you know aspects of our
society that's that that's not specific
to
a particular you know political group
but this blackface thing kind of I
didn't I am about the age of these
people and I do not remember now granted
I wasn't in the South so maybe we
weren't doing this sort of minstrel show
thing but really it just was not common
now I'm not saying that somebody
couldn't have gone to up to a Halloween
party dressed as a black person that's
probably something that happened at a
party that I said I don't remember it's
party but but this seems kind of almost
fetish like right I mean we're yes I
mean how common could it have been that
that people were dressing up as black
people it seems like something they
really kind of got into down there in
Virginia and they were doing this a lot
and so I find that very very interesting
and it's you know this sort of is
shedding a light on something that needs
to have a light shouldn't now Virginia
is a place where we are spending a lot
of time dealing with racial issues I
mean Charlottesville yeah that's
Virginia right and that's where we had
the big Nazi you know torch party down
there back in 2017 so you know this is
going to hit the Democratic Party as
well as the Republican Party and you
know maybe it's a time it did I mean I
you know I don't know how to how to deal
with the fact that people behave this
way when they were young but you know
they did and there are there are
ramifications for that absolutely and I
guess we'll have a better sense of it
and people should keep in mind this
people don't remember George Allen but
he was gonna be president right I mean
he was macaca he was gonna be he was
gonna be the presidential candidate and
I think believe it was 2008 right and
but macaca he said macaca and that the
rest was history it basically destroyed
his career all right look we got to take
a break here in in in just a minute
but we have some other things to talk
about in terms of the Democrats
obviously so more candidates jump into
the race this week
and we expect some to jump in in the
next couple of days and we also have
this sort of what I find fascinating in
terms of the Democratic Party right now
is this battle about Medicare for all it
just seems to have I don't wanna say
exploded this week but there was a lot
of very telling moments we saw a couple
of candidates back off sort of create
some wiggle room for themselves in terms
of Medicare for all we saw reports that
Nancy Pelosi is one of her top aides was
giving a speech to insurance folks
saying we're not gonna push for Medicare
for all and this is why this is gonna be
a big issue I think amongst the
Democratic Party and it's fascinating to
see how this is shaping up in a
different way than it did in 2007 when
we saw a similar a similar dynamic
around what ultimately came of the ACA
and the public option I want to take a
quick break when we come back let's talk
about that and we also got to mention
the latest uh Donald Trump investigation
this one's coming out of the Southern
District of New York
we'll be right back I'm Sam cedar this
is ring of fire radio
