as part of this campaign that Donald
Trump is running and you know you it's
not hard to see to find reports that
Republican Congress people particularly
ones in trouble are upset that Donald
Trump has made this election about him
so much and they can't escape this and
one of the things Trump has done is made
this about the media here he is I mean
this is almost nonsensical in a way but
here is and the amazing thing is I've
seen reports I think I was just reading
someone's Twitter thread who went out
interview people to last rally and they
were all saying similar things like the
media is mistreating Donald Trump
they've got to treat him they've got to
give him encouragement to be the best he
can be instead of covering him so
critically exactly right and here is
Donald Trump on his way to West Virginia
for a rally over the weekend is that
over the weekend or is this today over
the weekend Friday saying that the real
problem in terms of violence in this
country is of course because of the fake
news no no you know what you're creating
violence by your questions you know you
are creating you and also a lot of the
reporters are creating violence by not
writing the truth the fake news is
creating violence and you know what the
people that support Trump and the people
that support us which is a lot of people
most people many people those people
know what a story is true and they know
what a story is all's and I'll tell you
what if the media would write correctly
and write accurately and write fairly
you'd have a lot less violence in the
country
what kind of Hampshire College
is that you're creating violence with
that question the question is creating
violence the questions creating violence
that question is literally when that
question is literally violates my plate
and the entire White House is a safe
space all that's missing is the hand
clap emojis God right this is uh Steve
minuchin they're snapping fingers pretty
nuts magic mile check so Donald Trump
can be out there and saying that the
media is causing violence I mean this is
the rhythm of far we've gotten from the
days where they would say that it was
like the violent TV shows that are
creating violence now it's reporters
asking questions I remember back at a
time when it was bad boys too that
created violence now it's CNN honestly
like on one hand you have to ask
yourself like what the like
theoretically the the mass shooter who
killed 11 people in a synagogue just so
angry about the tone of the questions at
the White House press pool that he went
out and murdered 11 people I don't
forget that it's Trump so not only would
Trump say that but then he'd also say
that the people to synagogue agreed with
him thank you the press was so they
treated Sarah Huckabee so terribly we
got shot there you go
and that's what everybody's saying you
put fake news in people's mailboxes just
look what's coming to yours
all right well meanwhile with that said
Donald Trump claims that the questions
that the media asks are creating the
violence that may not be creating
violence but I suspect that Donald Trump
referring to the media as public enemy
number one is going to create violence I
mean look we already have a situation
where the Mogga bomber sent bombs to the
New York Times - did one go to the post
there was a couple media outlets that
gotta go CNN got one
and if you've never seen a grown man and
buy a grown man I mean like this guy I
would say minimum in his 40s minimum
have you've never seen a grown man get
completely agitated by a news company
you will this will be enlightening to
you this is down in Florida at a
disentis rally and CNN is covering that
rally
and then this guy nearly has an aneurysm
the important thing about this clip is
that he looks like Steve Martin he does
looks exactly
if the jerk part - he becomes a
Republican the maggot said father of the
bride but I just he is I mean he looks
like he's like a manager of like a
retail outlet in that in that mall or
something and he is just extremely
agitated about CNN because they suck he
is super mad like I can understand
seeing guys like that at you know a
basketball game or a baseball game where
you actually think in your mind I could
distract this guy's he's taking a foul
shot or I could distract this picture or
this hitter for one second and maybe I
could add call myself throw impact the
the outcome of the game but if you're
the CNN camera guy and that guy is 25
feet away from you yelling like he's
going to give himself an aneurysm that
CNN sucks the only thing you're thinking
is I'm done for the day after
and in this video I don't have to do
anything else that's my job for the day
I just got this crazy guy
to be fair I do this in front of the
National Review offices but well that's
right
that's right you do that has anyone
checked on Steve Martin lately our
strikes and our sucks Buckley was a
pedophile we're gonna head into the head
into the fun
