so let me just ask you this about you
know you you you had a piece that went a
little bit viral in terms of louis c.k
and you know I am I wouldn't say I'm a
close friend but I'm I'm a friend of
Louie's I see him maybe once or twice a
year and I'm curious at your perspective
on this like the other day Sarah
Silverman came out I guess arguably in
his defense on the Howard Stern Show and
said that he had consensually
masturbated in front of her multiple
times just any more recent thoughts well
I mean most of most of what I thought
about Louie and that situation is in the
clip you know people can find that on on
YouTube I did a set at the cellar and I
actually did that set and I should tell
people who were aren't aware the cellar
is where Louie has now done I guess two
spots that he dropped in and did he
didn't address his his situation but he
he basically just tried out new material
yeah yeah so he returned to the cellar
and then there was an article in The New
York Times saying that he was back on a
Tuesday I believe and I was at the
cellar that night that Tuesday that The
Times article came out and I was just
coincidentally happened to be there that
that whole week so it was kind of on my
mind on a lot of comics mind it was in
the news a lot that he had returned
after nine months of being away and kind
of just did a drop-in and and you know
went on stage so yeah I I spoke about it
on stage and you know like I said the
set kind of covers how how I feel about
it you know the main thing that I
thought was that it wasn't being given
the gravity that it deserved to kind of
just show up to work unannounced and
just do a drop in you know like I felt
as though
you know when his the last thing he said
was I'm gonna go away and I'm gonna
listen and I'm gonna you know reflect on
this how every phrased it and then to
kind of just show up and bump other
comedians you know and also I just felt
as though casual I mean the idea of it
being casual when you come back
nothing's changed yeah right but
nothing's changed I can still just show
up unannounced and and you know like
dictate the terms of my return
like with there's you know to me I found
it curious that there's no discussion on
the part of the club the club just has
the same policy like Annie yeah whenever
you want to whenever you want you could
have come back the day after you could
have come back the week after so yeah
and I certainly wasn't alone maybe I was
alone in voicing it onstage or publicly
but in my conversations with comedians
there was a lot of kind of concern about
about him coming back like that and and
also the club received a lot of heat for
it you know the problem that I had two
was that the people that were receiving
heat were essentially everyone but Louie
you know cuz he kind of just dropped in
dropped out and then everyone else was
left to kind of speak for him you know
and that's the way we should probably
explain this a little bit because I
think some of like the the the the gaps
it is traditional at comedy clubs that
people love of Louis stature and not
even I mean Louis had you know it's a
fairly unique you know in the
stratosphere I mean there's you know
maybe maybe a half a dozen dozen
comedians who are you know in his sort
of level and there's and even in
comedians who are you know sort of like
the next level below can stop in in a
comedy club at any time and basically
get up in the next slot unless it's like
a serious you know unless like the the
headliners on right like during the
weekday it's it's a free-for-all
that happens all the time you get you
know and yeah the celebrity drop in is
kind of a standard in fact that's a big
part of the comedy sellers allure and
their reputation is that you never know
who's going to stop in at any moment and
people literally never know like it
literally is you know it would have been
you know pre his his his controversy he
could show up at any time and people
would be like psyched that he's there
and so the comedy club nobody at the
comedy club there had been no policy
nobody anticipated that he wouldn't have
had a more official return and and I
think that is like the part that I think
people are just not aware of they're
they're debating whether or not it's
fair for him to stay away or this and
that but it's also sort of like the
mechanism like because there's a lot of
people I would imagine at the door like
what are we supposed to do exactly right
yeah yeah yeah I think it put a lot of
people in kind of a difficult position
where they had to make snap judgments it
really shouldn't be on the the comedian
who's emceeing that night or even the
the person who's managing the club that
night I think you know it's even tough
to put it on the owner in some way
because of the nature of these of that
relationship well I don't I don't know
that it is that tough I mean you know
it's part of owning a business and it's
part of you know you have to make a lot
of decisions right so yeah so I think
you know I'm and I'm friends with Nome
and I voiced my concerns to him both in
person and and through email and again
to his credit you know I go on the stage
at the cellar and I and I say whatever I
want which is which is again why you
know I think part of what made that clip
the dynamic of what made the clip
interesting was that I was saying it on
stage at the cellar so you know
but I don't think you can paint it with
one brush and also you know the thing
that I was saying in the in the clip is
it was more of a macro discussion about
the me - movement about misogyny
patriarchy powerful men acting without
consequence I talked about Cosby I
talked about Trump and I talked about
Louie because unfortunately he made
himself part of that macro discussion
right well folks can go to Ted Alexandro
dot-com and you can pay what you want
right is that the what are you doing
with the senior class oh no not with
this one this one
my last two specials are pay what you
want there on my on my website this one
I released through all things comedy
which is Bill burr and Al madrigals
company comedian owned company and to
this point they've been a podcast
network they have Bill burrs podcast and
things like 50 others but this is the
first special that they're distributing
and this is kind of their first foray
into that terrain so yeah you can get it
at ATC specials calm and there's a
there's an option to buy it there's an
option to stream it but it's on ATC
specials calm
