[Music]
so a major climate report from 13
agencies was recently dropped in fact it
was dropped on Friday the day after
Thanksgiving when everybody's paying
attention to the news just a little bit
of highlights here I should tell you 13
agencies 13 federal agencies report this
is a congressionally mandated report
there has been four of them since 2000
the last one came in 2014 it's the
National Climate Assessment supplication
or I should say report it is overseen by
the u.s. global change research program
the report stretches over 1,000 pages so
my understanding is that conservatives
will discount it because they want all
reports under the pit under 10 pages the
arthurs authors argue remember these are
13 federal agencies the global warming
is quote transforming where and how we
live and presents growing challenges to
human health and quality of life the
economy and the natural systems that
support us they conclude humans must act
aggressively to adapt to current impacts
in mitigate future catastrophes quote to
avoid substantial damages to the US
economy environment and human health as
in well-being over the coming decades I
don't know how much of this is involves
what we can expect internationally and
the implications of what will happen
internationally and what will happen to
national security because of that for
specifically in terms of what happens
overseas hundreds of scientists and
federal officials who spent months
working on the detailed document were
frustrated but not surprised that the
administration chose to release
sit on the day after Thanksgiving
several people involved in the report
said it's really release originally had
been planned for early December
but then the administration's officials
decided on Black Friday here is Rick
Santorum on CNN just absolutely giddy at
the notion that this dire report from 13
federal agencies was underreported
President Trump appears to be at odds
with his own administration over their
new report warning about the effects of
climate change did we mention that the
administration released the report on
Friday of a holiday weekend let's talk
about that Rick Santorum is nodding his
head then good for them all right well
at least you guys are transparent about
it well I mean this is a report
generated by people who are in the
bureaucracy this these are not Trump
appointees I mean this this reports been
generated for it meaning they're
non-political well know that I think the
point that Donald Trump make is is true
which is look uh
if there is no climate change we'd have
a lot of scientists looking for work the
reality is that that a lot of these
scientists are driven by the money that
they receive and of course they don't
receive money from corporations and
Exxon and the like why because they're
not allowed to because it's tainted but
they can receive it from people who have
who support their agenda and that's what
these are all federal agencies they
received money from the government but I
love this is the point that he's making
I guess right that Trump makes continue
this is just stunning
and that's what and and that I believe
is what's really going on here no one
doubts that the climate is changing no
one doubts that the question is how much
this man contribute number one and
number two what can man do to actually
change it and those are the two big
issues which really don't talk about
right that's all that people are talking
about Republicans that was a cool though
like every single part of the
conversation is the second part well and
the fact of the matter is that they the
reason why
we don't hear people deny that the the
the globe is warming is because it's not
six years ago when all the Republicans
completely denied it
I think Inhofe is probably still denying
Inhofe is still saying it's it's it's a
complete hoax and so isn't and so isn't
Rush Limbaugh in fact frankly so isn't
the president when he tweets out that
it's cold so much for global warming
makes you think but I mean it is pretty
stunning and it's also I mean and I
appreciate the the fact that CNN I I
mean presumably they did a report on it
and they're looking for other ways to
talk about the report and this is one of
them that it's being completely
subjugated by the Trump administration I
just don't know how a rick santorum can
look into the mirror well i know how he
does it he just says that god wanted me
to lie today on CNN and i did and I've
done my job and then he calls Foster
Friess and says I did my job
please send more money really if it's
about money
people protesting that you know for
instance his house like they did Tucker
Carlson's would probably drive up his
leverage when he goes to ask how much
money he you know should make for going
on to continue to deny climate change
and I love the idea that Rick Santorum
thinks that science there's just not
enough science to be done out there
scientists I figured out all the
important stuff and now they're just
messing around there's a limit change if
climate change didn't exist all these
climate scientists wouldn't have
anything to do just be like reporting on
the climate and saying I did research
and it's the same as it was yesterday no
openings at the Weather Channel
I meant they'll misunderstand they gotta
keep the scientists do you really think
Rick sent or obfuscation it's just it's
just impressive to me like just the the
depth that people will sink with such a
big smile on their face
