[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar it
is Friday December 7th 2018 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we have
rod casting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today it's
casual Friday also my sister's birthday
happy birthday Betsy and joining us to
celebrate my sister's birthday and the
end of the week David daen will be in
studio also on the program today
bill Barr a smarter jeff sessions to be
nominated to the Attorney General of the
United States of America White House
chief of sociopath
John Kelly to be resigning soon Michigan
Republicans assault democracy Wisconsin
style and North Carolina's ninth
congressional district election fraud
case boils over meanwhile two big Muller
filings to drop later today one on mana
fort one on Cohen
mate Ellis stuff may not and Trump to
nominate a former Fox and Friends host
to be the UN Ambassador Senate confirms
a new head to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau who has zero
experience with consumers or Financial
Protection and probably bureaus for that
matter fu Paul LePage says judge
Medicaid expansion will go forward I'm
not sure the judge said exactly those
words yep
more on the postal report and Joe
Manchin creeping closer to becoming the
minority leader on energy and the face
of Democratic fight against climate
change
lastly the biggest questions for the new
house to be answered today arguably on
this version of the majority report yes
ladies and gentlemen it is casual Friday
it is also my sister's birthday once
again happy birthday Betsy
David daen is in studio with us we'll be
with you in just a moment we it's very
exciting to have you in studio and we
said we haven't quite figured out well
hello David oh hello
yeah how are you make you didn't know if
I was ready to come on yet no your oh no
you're ready okay um hey I don't know
David if you remember Rex Tillerson I do
yeah he was the former Secretary of
State people are very excited that he he
came out in public - I don't think he
properly maligned Donald Trump but he
did it and that you know that's sort of
like Jean Jean teal way here he is with
Bob Schaffer
of CBS News Bob Schieffer obviously he
loves these he's also from Texas but
he's a big I know he has a very good
relationship it seems like with anybody
who has oil and the bushes he was good
friends with and here he is it's unclear
to me like what event it is I don't know
some some local I'm sure it has to do
with you know get-rich-quick scheme type
of suit situation down there but here's
a bob schieffer and Rex Tillerson
talking about Donald Trump
you described Donald Trump well most of
you probably know know some of this but
I had never met Donald Trump until the
day he asked me to be Secretary of State
acts on his so in other words you know I
can't be held responsible for anything
that I did I claimed I have total
plausible deniability right like he I
mean no one knew who Donald Trump was
right until at least after the
inauguration right I mean really you had
no heat the guy's sprung it on us
it was completely you know it was such a
kindly man from the TV of course as Joe
and mica said like he always used to be
in on the joke and now but let's hear
Rex Tillerson continued to try and
whitewash his culpability in this
disaster be Secretary of State he acts
on his instincts in some respects that
looks like impulsiveness but it's not
his intent to act on impulse I think he
really is trying less challenging for me
coming from the disciplined highly
process-oriented Exxon Mobil Corporation
to go to work for a man who is pretty
undisciplined doesn't doesn't like to
read doesn't read briefing reports
doesn't doesn't like to get into the
details of a lot of things but rather
just kind of says look this is what I
believe in other words he just makes
stuff up and he doesn't want
to be impulsive but he doesn't have
control of his impulses so he is
impulsive right that is definitionally
that that's impulsive acting without
intention is in fact yeah I think on
invoke you know who also strikes me is
not quite as bright as we might have
given him credit for respiration to be
fair i I never met him no I never heard
him until just now until I can't say
can't say whether he's a complete idiot
judged him in any weighted way of
calling somebody an effing can
anybody remember the pseudonym he was
using oh oh yeah no I just remembered I
can't remember it no I don't I can't
remember it either Wow was it his main
break down with Trump though Wayne
tracker was Wayne a tracker that's right
wait now where was he using that suit it
was he like I saw it was sock puppet
going into hotels because they were his
teeny boppers were after him why was he
using a pseudonym I can't remember what
it was he was the one who got really
upset with Trump's address to the Boy
Scouts which was right a little
questionable to talk about like you know
yeah hot tub parties on with the Boy
Scouts but this guy could all be yours
he used Wayne trekker to discuss climate
and emails oh yeah of course there you
go III can't wait for that lawsuit Oh
folks today one of our sponsors is
Skillshare and the first 500 people who
go to sk l dot s h / majority and like
we said now you probably down it's like
498 after we talk about on the show with
david dan right now headed right over to
sk l dot s h / majority are gonna get
two whole months of totally free access
to skill shares entire library super
quality online courses and tutorials
scale shares a vibrant online learning
community offers courses on everything
from design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
and everything in between their skill
chef courses for everyone you'll have no
problem fine
courses that's going to be useful for
you both in your personal and your
professional life whether you want to
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
to do something excuse me
totally new skills share has you covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop you name it I'm
gonna make a note of that I've been
checking out their course like I said I
went through the the knife cutting one
cuz I wanted to learn you know like well
there's there's actually like you cut
against the grain on certain things and
the taste of food changes on how you cut
it and and how it cooks as to what
juices comes out yeah it also just looks
impressive when you're using a knife
right yes you got a you get a go slow
well you know you know the Sam's got to
impress somebody yeah I got to impress
people with my knife skills also I I
took that Google Analytics course but as
soon as I just saw Photoshop that's the
next one I think I'm gonna do get some
photoshop skills going you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to sk l dot s H slash majority
just think of everything you'll have at
your fingertips for two whole months I
feel like you could probably go through
every single video David based upon your
wing up right now radio guests again
that's sk l dot s H slash majority we've
got a link in the podcast description a
link on the YouTube check it out also
reminder 2018 has been a difficult year
for human rights but have you ever
wondered how rights abuses are
documented around the world you probably
have with the sheer volume of global
crises we're seeing from civilian
casualties in Syria to ethnic cleansing
in Miramar to the caging of children on
u.s. borders it's critical that we
exposed the truth in order to defend the
rights of all and bring those
responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that they
are independent nonprofit organization
known for their accurate fact-finding
impartial reporting and targeted
advocacy often and
partnership with local activists in
human rights groups they accept no money
from any government they rely on the
support of informed dedicated people
just like you
so if human rights are important to you
visit HRW org slash majority to make a
donation and support it's vital work
around the world when you do not only is
your gift tax deductible
it'll be matched dollar-for-dollar until
2019 that means your donation will go
twice as far to advance justice and
defend the basic dignity of people who
need it most
again that's HR w org slash majority
last night we had charity night for our
this we do for one night of Chanukah
kids don't get a present they can divide
up their the cash they would have gotten
amongst charities mmm a chair W the
Human Rights Watch was one of those did
a couple others boxman we did the
Pacific immigration center should we now
do every year but that's a different
story
so David all right let's get to to this
week in review there's a couple of
things let's talk about the the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau because I
know that's in your wheelhouse I want to
get obviously to what's going on in
Michigan and well Michigan and in
Wisconsin we spoke to Ari Berman earlier
in the week and things have simply
progressed that on the same trajectory
but we'll get that in a moment let's
talk about the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau because this was up
until about two years ago considered by
many to be one of the most successful
agencies I don't know if in the history
of the US government but but certainly
in modern times and because because of
the way that it was financed right I
mean and and personally tell us why yeah
I mean you mentioned the financing and
then and the point of that is that it
was not financed through congressional
appropriations so it couldn't be you
couldn't have the money spigot turned
off it was it was funded through the
federal reserve which guaranteed
it's its resources I think more so the
reason that CFPB has been successful is
because of sort of the way the agency
was imagined this is an agency with a
mission that is entirely and singularly
to protect consumers previously these
laws that it has jurisdiction and
oversight over were put into agencies
that had other missions safety and
soundness of the banks things like that
and they were sort of at cross-purposes
with this mission of you know making
sure consumers are getting a fair shake
on these very important financial
transactions it's really designed that
way on some level right that's sort of
like a like a mitigating like built-in
right like the the critique is built in
to the rights of the product so you're
weighing that you know those two
missions and and and usually it comes
out on the side of the the group with
the most money right was power and
influence this was distributed
differently and was also staffed
differently I mean as you recall for the
first year Elizabeth Warren was the
person who stood up this agency and she
built the organizational chart she
created the ways in which the priorities
were were made for this agency
she staffed the agency at the very
beginning a lot of those people are you
know we're still there through the first
term of Richard Cordray who was sort of
the hand-picked director and so all of
those things I think came together it
was seen as a new agency it was it was
vibrant it brought people in who had a
public service mission so there were a
lot of reasons why there were you know
it was set up for success and it was
successful to a degree I mean I don't
want to overstate it there were some
things I think that CFPB did where they
they kind of kept their powder dry I
pulled two punches a little bit and
rulemaking but generally a successful
agency until last Thanksgiving when rich
Cordray left to unsuccessfully run for
nervo I'll and Mick Mulvaney who was
moonlighting
he was interactor of he was the White
House budget director who would come in
three days a week to screw up the CFPB
much easier when you're screwing
something up it's much easier to be a
short-timer
three days we can be like you know nine
to three banker yeah exactly go out on
the golf course after you destroy this
agency steel I mean on some level I mean
I don't want to go off on a tangent here
but on some level that is the entire
sort of conservative project right if
you get into government destroy it and
it's you it's so hard to be incompetent
at being incompetent like I mean if
you're not quite though because I
actually actually heard from some people
that Mulvaney I mean we talked about
Kathy crane injure she's the woman who
was confirmed yesterday and how she has
no consumer protection experience
whatsoever and that's absolutely true
but it's not like Mulvaney did right I
mean he was he was a congressman he had
no executive agency experience before
this he was a budget director that's a
very different thing than consumer
financial protection I'm not sure he was
even on the Financial Services Committee
in Congress he was certainly a critic of
CFPB but that was mainly because of you
know who was coming right his office so
he actually did not know the mechanisms
by which he could particularly on
rulemaking how he could undo those rules
so he would say to people in the office
hey I want to get rid of this payday
rule maybe like alright and then they
just kind of wouldn't do it so on
rulemaking it had he has not been quite
as successful where mauvais me was very
successful is in enforcement right and
you know the Washington Post this week
put out a pretty long article showing
that enforcement was down 75% it took
several months for any enforcement
actions to be brought by the agency and
you know there's this thing that the
Washington Post attributed to
people at the agency but I wrote it six
months earlier called the mill veiny
discount and the Mulvaney discount is
these various enforcement actions where
there would just be a reduction in the
penalty that's the easiest thing to do
right you guys that comes on your desk
and it's like sign off on this three
hundred million dollar penalty and you
go you know what drop this down to 25 oh
yeah exactly and that's exactly what was
done uh on up till today you know I was
there an algorithm or it was a teacher's
picked a number he liked you know I mean
literally the percent reduction
literally they would say in the
enforcement documents that well
initially we wanted six million but the
we don't feel like this company that
ripped off people has the ability to pay
that so we're gonna drop it to two
hundred thousand I mean that's almost
verbatim in in some of these documents
going on up to yesterday you know the
day that crane injure gets confirmed
CFPB did an enforcement action against
State Farm Bank the insurance company
but they also have a bank and it was
about credit reporting errors they would
report to credit reporting agencies
incorrect information about customers
well that's not a big deal for you to
get a reduced credit score right so much
for the house or the car that you wanted
or the loan fraud to help your kid go to
school or whatever it is so they
reported this incorrect information
never corrected it
we're delayed in in actually getting
that information out and finally
reversing it ruin credit scores and the
enforcement action and I'm not being
hyperbolic this was the enforcement
action promised not to do it again it
was zero dollar you have to do that in
writing or they just and writing that
compliance you know there's compliance
around not doing it again zero dollars
in fines zero dollars in restitution to
these people who have their credit
scores and and that was the enforcement
so you know I mean there's a sense that
oak Rangers coming and she has no
experience
variants she's gonna ruin the agents
ruin it from what I mean you know Vania
is already well really they do seem to
have a scheme to do this but but let me
just also interject the you from your
perspective right there's no punishment
for that agency but I think libertarian
philosophy tells us right that of course
consumers will stop going to that agency
because they did this to still go out of
a firm bet they will go out of business
right so you'll never see State Farm
commercials any right State Farm before
that a business because why would people
a you know why would anybody use them if
they're doing its the discipline of the
market oh yeah you're talking exactly
exactly so I should just add I'm being
facetious
there was a so crane injure gets
confirmed yes
she obviously thanks to Susan Collins
woefully unqualified a 52-49 decision so
all Democrats voted against this and
only and I guess Thom Tillis was absent
yesterday for some reason or another
which means it was fifty forty nine so
any one of the Republicans could have
voted the other way and she would not
have because even if Mike Pence came
down to vote right 50-49 it wouldn't
have met I mean if Tillis is gone he's
gonna break a tie right okay okay so if
it was forty nine fifty right nomination
fails now there is a sense that it's not
necessarily a good thing that croninger
has been confirmed but consider the
alternative so Mulvaney's there in an
interim capacity this is a five-year
term and it's independent of who is in
the White House so the Krannert is
nominated is confirmed today December
2018 she it has a five-year term will be
there till December 2023 which means the
regardless of you know whoever gets
becomes president in 2020
that's so depressed crane injure is
allowed to be that now she's you know
there is a
possibility to do a for-cause removal of
the CFPB directly it's not doing your
job obviously never been done before
because it's a you know a new agency but
you know that's an option you know if
you have a president warren maybe maybe
she tries to do something like that but
it's a little dicey I mean you don't
know if that's going to happen so but at
the very least but but president
democrat who might win in 2020
will have the opportunity to appoint
someone as opposed to if this had gone
five years well but think about the
alternative so think about what if they
you know the courts decide well no you
can't this isn't a cause you can't fire
them so right now krei injures their
till December 2023 if they voted her
down and Mulvaney just stays there and
and does the the lack of enforcement
he's doing and they don't fill it until
the end of trumps turn then it's five
you know it's another couple years out
right so there was a school of thought
that
yeah let's confirm this person as quick
as we can to get her out of there right
it almost would have been better to do
this a year ago because you just want to
get it over as quickly as possible
instead of that's a school of thought
but you know I mean you can you can see
it both ways okay let's just before we
move on to a different topic Mick
Mulvaney is saying that according to the
Charter essentially of this agency yeah
that it's name is not really the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau it
is the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection
yes now this is sort this is nuts
so he wants to change it to reflect the
real name which is going to require all
of these companies financial entities
that file with the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to refile with the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
right and at a cost of somewhere around
300 million dollars there was it just to
be clear there was a CFPB report that
was put out to say what is the effect of
the name change
on the agency which obviously has lots
of forms and and write and things and
you know moving the the B number from
the beginning of the end what's amazing
about this is that he's literally taking
consumers and not putting them first I
mean that's literally what he's doing by
doing that so so they did this report to
show you know how much is this going to
cost the agency and then how much is it
gonna cost the firm's who then have to
do all these changes in their databases
changes in their compliance forms and
things like that and yes what they
showed is that it would cost the agency
19 million dollars just to change the
name and it would cost regulated firms
regulated by the agency up to three
hundred million dollars and the purpose
of this is to show how bad this agency
is right like that it's making people
it's causing unnecessary what you it'd
there's a sense that that's the point
like it the point is the cost 300
million dollars to show how how silly it
is but it there's also just this like
bizarre like well actually what I found
is that the they've been naming it wrong
these stupid liberals have named it
wrong this entire time it's just bizarre
but but I mean I think the idea Mick
Mulvaney is Mick is not his name
Mick is a nickname his name is John
Michael Mulvaney and he's saying this is
ridiculous that we're not using the
statutory real name but it's not it's
not he's not doing this out of like some
type of OCD he's doing this because they
want to further create animosity towards
the agency and create an argument that
this is an agency that's out of control
and it's bad etc etc I mean this is sort
of like it seems to me equivalent to the
the way that a Republican Congress deals
with the postal office right it's like
you have no control over what you're
doing we're going to impose upon you
certain obligations you're gonna have to
pay out you're gonna have to fully fund
your pensions system in your health care
system for a seventy five year horizon
to pay for postal workers retirement
for postal workers aren't even born yet
right it has to be fully paid there's no
other entity maybe in the world that it
that that that imposes that requirement
on themselves or is imposed in it and it
doesn't give the Postal Service an
ability to to deal with it it's just a
way to inhibit and kneecapped them
there's a somewhat alternate point in
that mauvais knees argument has been
that CFPB is out of control
they have gone well beyond their
statutory objectives nobody's reading
the statutory language said me
John Michael Mulaney and they have they
have overreached beyond the legislative
intent so what he's really saying is you
have so ignored the legislative intent
of this agency that you did you're not
even naming it right see here in this in
this language that you've never read
that it's wrong that the irony is that
the dodd-frank act refers to the bureau
of consumer financial protection and
also refers to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau in different parts of
the statute so there's CFPB sometimes
and there's B CFP as well so you know
under Mulvaney standard he could not
sort of for example the agency is called
CFPB in the context of putting the
director on the board of the FDIC so
under what Mulvaney's saying if it's
called the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection
he couldn't be on the FDIC board right
so if you're gonna be that literal right
exactly all right well let's talk about
the postal office because it was a
postal report put out this is where
we're hitting all of the the stuff that
most boring stuff it's not most well
madrier but I mean this stuff is is
hugely relevant and it people can't get
this information anywhere else though
the only way they could do is read your
tumblr and my understanding is that's
going away because of the cournot thing
so
I will not use eggplant emoji let's just
say that what's happened what tumblr has
a new rule about getting rid of adult
content and basically all the stuff
remaining on tumblr right exactly and
David Dan's basically home for his
Clearing House of his of his of his
reported P side links well II know I
mean they've been tumblers been flagging
things like you know Taylor Swift
sitting on the chair like we don't know
we don't know this rice could violate
our exam here there was a flag on the
postal report you're into that right
right yeah no totally all right well
let's so let's talk about the postal
report and then we'll get to what's
going on Michigan in Wisconsin and a
little bit I also want to talk about
it's happening in the house but the
postal report came out who commissioned
the report what would the purpose this
was a trump executive order so Trump put
an executive order to start a task force
on the future of the US Postal Service
which has been losing money for a
variety of different reasons we'll go
into you mention one of them that's the
biggest one is refunding reasons yes I
mean what but for that they would they
would be still you know on the road to
profitability if not profitable but you
know I mean you know email has degraded
bill the Postal Service to continue so
this was a task force to determine and
now a lot of people saw it in the
context of Trump going after Amazon
saying they were cheating the postal
service that they were under paying for
package delivery through the Parcel Post
program and so this was a task force
designed to create recommendations for
the Postal Service it was seen at the
time as sort of a stalking horse for
privatization which we've seen around
the world at several postal services
they've privatized their their agencies
I would say in the u.s. the Postal
Service is a partially privatized agency
it does not get any money from the US
government outside of very some very
miniscule things for government postage
it is it has a board that's appointed by
the
President and confirmed by the Senate
but they kind of have independence with
some statutory restrictions but they
kind of independent government
governance and so the question don't get
tax payer money zero dollars it's all
and so the question was you know was
this task force gonna recommend
privatization completely and it didn't
actually recommend privatization but it
recommended something I think much worse
really and that is the degrading of the
universal service obligation now what is
the universal service obligation that
means neither sleet nor snow nor dead of
night will keep us more appointed rounds
it means that everyone in the country
every residence every business no matter
where you are no matter how much it
costs to get there gets mail the the
farthest reaches of Alaska the most
rural area in South Dakota or wherever
you're gonna get your mail and you're
gonna get it six times a week and you're
gonna get a standard rate for letters
from any part of the country to another
standard rate for four packages and
things like that that's the universal
service obligation and what the report
said is that we need to redefine the
universal service obligation they would
be my favorite universes which don't
include all of the universities they're
much easier to manage yes that's right
and they're you know there's some
contradictions in the report because the
report says that the one thing we don't
want to do is hurt rural Americans who
rely on the postal service especially
because the digital divide is still
right pretty large but in practice all
of the things that it wants to do which
is they they want to sort of define
essential services
so like person-to-person correspondence
bill paying government mail transport of
pharmaceuticals for some reasons in
there
those things would be essential services
that would still be universal everything
else like commercial packages like from
Amazon would be in essential and then
subject to increased rates and also
potentially subject to discontinuance of
delivery the the term they use is
exiting the business line so they could
certain packages are like I'm not going
to middle of Alaska with that packet you
can't do it in the postal service so
that would be and and who would that
fall on right it would fall on rural of
course because it's gonna be most
expensive to go to a rural customers and
this is really fun competition would
start yes exactly competition would
start kicking in and they would then you
would see just already buy more people
not goat already UPS and FedEx don't
deliver to certain places there's if
FedEx has a thing called a delivery eros
area surcharge where if it's a hard to
get area they add money to to deliver to
that particular locality so that's what
you would see a two tiered system
basically and it's a that is that I mean
that is among other issues that is one
of the fundamental problems with
privatization of the Postal Service is
that it is simply not profitable to do
and and I don't know if you've seen any
numbers to this effect but there is
probably 10 to 15 percent maybe more of
what the post office does that almost
cannot be profitable well you cannot
have delivery service to the far gist
regions of the the country and make it
profitable and when you're thinking
about that you have to think in terms of
what is the Postal Service for is it for
making money for itself and for the
United States or is it - as it says in
the statute bind the nation together
write it the the whole point is to you
know give everybody the ability to
acquire information conduct commerce no
matter where you live no matter who you
are no discrimination against any member
of society you can use the post service
now you know in the 1800's it was much
more
you know much more vital part of
communication this is why you know
magazines and and and and newspapers
have a reduced rate of delivery relative
to the other other parts of packages and
and mail but you know even today
particularly in these rural areas it's
it's incredibly important to have
reliable mail service and if you're
saying to an area particularly because
they don't have the same broad band of
that's the internet because now all of a
sudden this sort of the the the digital
divide adds to if you were to diminish
postal service the the the divide that
exists in terms of information because
of the digital divide becomes that much
even steeper like in in disparate so
while this didn't call for privatization
it embraces the logic of private right
the logic of we have to turn a profit we
have to cover our costs on everything
that we do every little business line
that we that we engage if a Democratic
president ever called for a report like
this I mean a report like this was
produced during a democratic
administration first off I would be
upset because it's fundamentally
contrary to some of the the points of
having a Democrat in office but the New
York Times would be writing about how
the coastal elites
think that the Heartland people in rural
people are not worth expending any money
on this would be this would be a huge
like we would hear this in the Senate
this would be the war on Christmas right
it would be we're on rural people but
because he comes out of the Trump
administration right nothing and by the
way I mean it goes further than just not
delivering certain packages it says that
it should be easier to close post
offices and where are those post office
is going to be closed there are 31
thousand locations in rural areas where
it's unprofitable it talks about slowing
down the speed of processing mail in
places where it's on
profitable so maybe you can get your
mail in a roar area but it'll be once a
week instead of going back to the Pony
Express yeah and desert anti-future
and then it talks about raising you know
how can how can we make the Postal
Service cover its costs
you know revenue enhancement options and
it talks about like hunting licenses and
fishing licenses you can well sell at
the post office but it it specifically
says no banking yes it specifically says
it expanding a quote here expanding into
sectors where the USPS does not have a
comparative advantage or where balance
sheet risk might arise such as postal
banking should not be pursued now for
folks who who are new to this show
if you would listen to this show in like
twenty fourteen or fifteen you would
have heard probably more about postal
banking than in any other medium that
existed except for print it is why your
audience was cut in half
exaggerating that area exactly and had
Hillary Clinton won this would have been
all postal banking all the time but I
just briefly remind people why this
would be such a great idea right so in
the United States there are significant
amounts of people who have little or no
access to banking services either they
don't they don't have the ability to get
a bank account at all or they have one
but they also use all these alternative
sources like pawn shops or payday
lenders or whatever and those services
charge extortionate rates the average is
something like I think it was twenty
five hundred dollars a year in interest
and fees on these alternative financial
services for the average family and
these are families making $25,000 years
it's like 10% of their total income just
on fees for conducting you know being
part of the
financial system in a modern economy if
you're not part of the financial system
right get a job or rent a car I mean
there's so many things you can't do so
the idea would be to go back to
something we had in from 1911 to 1967
where the post office provided a postal
savings account that anyone could access
that would give you the ability to have
an ATM card that would give you the
ability to conduct financial
transactions and it would be a way to
promote financial inclusion which is
squarely within the mission of the US
Postal Service to bind the nation
together so this would not only help a
little bit on the Postal Service's
finances you can you could charge vastly
less for you know lending services or
things like that in terms of interests
so families would save 80% 90% in fees
and interest but the Postal Service make
a little bit of money and more important
promote Financial Inclusion after
Medicare for all that's my number two
that's number two a my my bucket list
but this task force said no can't do
that well but this task force just as I
mean it's just gonna be operative during
the Trump years right I mean
theoretically right right I mean the
logic of it I think is gonna endure to a
certain extent I hope so all right well
let's talk about the house the two
things I want to talk about what where
are we on the the and I think it was one
of your buddies over at the intercept
Ryan grim who wrote about progressives
getting on to you know getting 40% oh
you wrote that yeah oh sorry I'm sorry
in doubt just just assume it you know
it's you but dinner okay
so you wrote this piece where the
Democrat the Progressive Caucus and we
spoke about on the show couple years ago
okay what's the latest on that anything
new okay so just ALCS going for the
that's what it was rym Ryan wrote about
right about that okay so yeah the latest
is that
the Progressive Caucus as we talked
about made a deal with Nancy Pelosi they
used their power because Pelosi needs
almost every Democrat to vote for her on
the floor of the house on January 3rd in
order to become Speaker have you heard
anything to the effect that she doesn't
have that well I haven't heard
definitively that she does have 218 no
coats but I think she's moving in that
direction but at the time a few weeks
ago it was a little bit less clear and
she needed to you know sort of give give
members who were weary you know little
chits right and one of them that the
Progressive Caucus secured was
proportional representation on these
so-called money committees and what are
the money committees Ways and Means
which does Tax Policy Energy and
Commerce which does health care and
climate change and host of other things
financial services which obviously does
Banking and Housing Policy and
appropriations which is all the money
and where it is that where it goes and
in the various parts of the government
those committees all have less than 40%
representation for the Progressive
Caucus the Progressive Caucus is around
40% of the entire Democratic caucus so
there was a deficiency there and and the
co-chairs of the caucus mark Pocan and
prim millage I appalled said we we want
to up that we they were running into a
problem and the problem was that they
couldn't find as many people as they
needed to get onto these committees the
newer members were they just kind of
didn't know the importance of these
committees in the piece there was a
quote from Alex Lawson who said to me
progressives come to Congress to change
the world and new Democrats and centrist
come to Congress to get on the Ways and
Means Committee right like they're very
hyper targeting a cultural almost a
cultural almost predisposition against
these exactly so the progressives have
75% of the Judiciary Committee that's
like kind of where they hang outs like
cliques at the you know the tables and
lunch so and then with existing them
the problem was that they have their own
committees and these exclusive
committees are supposed to be things
that you can't also serve on a different
committee on so if you're always means
you shouldn't you're not allowed
necessarily to serve on another
committee and there's a certain dynamic
here that is similar to what we're
seeing in the in the Senate regarding
joe Manchin's ascension to the tomb
energy Energy Commission sort of the the
ranking minority really the the minority
leader on that on that committee and
that that seems like it's going to
happen that's a separate issue but the
dynamic is similar in so far as you need
people to come in and either give up
seniority on another committee right and
come in to another committee where they
wouldn't necessarily have to start at
the ground floor yeah and so all this
seniority and you know the Congress runs
on seniority you want a sub committee
chairmanship you want a committee
chairmanship you got to put it in the
time and if I'm fighting for climate
change let's say I want to be on that
Energy Committee right yeah well it well
but if I'm fighting for
I want to be on the Energy Committee
well I guess maybe there you want to be
on the natural resources you're in the
armed services you know if you're you're
in the Foreign Affairs this is tied to
what their constituency wants would they
perceive their constituent we want so
that what their brand is and what it's
easier for them to brand themselves or
where they're getting funding and
whatnot and on some level there's a
certain amount of reeducation that has
to happen for the House members and how
they can communicate their constituents
and say like hey this is important it
has value to you right I'm on this
committee right and so was it it was you
know there were some difficulty I think
it's sort of moving through one thing
that happens so Barbara Lee lost this
this leadership race against Hakeem
Jeffries look at Mike Alesi Democrat
chair so Nancy Pelosi gives barbara Lee
a seat on the what is called the
steering and Policy Committee and she
actually opened a third
for a third co-chair there are already
two chair co-chairs that she made a
third co-chair for barbara Lee so she's
taking power away from those other two
existing ones and giving it to barbara
Lee what is this rosa DeLauro and Eric's
wah wah who are like loyalists to Pelosi
what does that committee do it makes the
committee assignments it recommends the
members and where they go that builds
the seating chart
for what members go and what committees
so this is giving a progressive icon who
all the the progressives are many of
them at least supported the the ability
to have a seat at the table to build out
back committees so that's important the
second thing is this AOC thing so Ryan
wrote about this
Alexandra Kazmir Cortes was linked to a
couple different committees but now
she's zeroed in on the Ways and Means
Committee the Kotak striding committee
now there's this weird custom that
someone from New York City has to be on
the Ways and Means Committee I don't
know where it came from I don't know why
it is but a member representing New York
City must be on the Ways and Means
Committee previously the member from New
York City that served on that committee
was Joe Crowley
so AOC is making the argument well
that's my spot I beat him I want that
seat there's another member who is
angling for it and that's Tom Suozzi
who is part of Queens and then Long
Island yeah yeah more Long Island much
more like a piece of Queens but much
more long on Queens is Long Island let's
be honest well part of the part of the
city yeah between part of it yeah I know
but the technicality on a technicality
he is he represents New York City at
some level so he's also gunning for that
seat so it's it's the choices between
AOC it's almost the perfect was sort of
like metaphor microcosm for all of it
right right in terms of the Democratic
Party Hakeem Jeffries and barbara Lee
was up there too as far as a microcosm
yeah I I think so I mean but that is
in that instance it's you know their
fellow members voting for them and some
doing it under the auspices of
misinformation that was put out there by
Joe Crowley about was the idea that
farmers well yeah I mean you you wrote
about I did not Ryan wrote about that
apparently he yeah Joe Crowley told a
significant number of members of the
caucus that barbara Lee had contributed
to a OSC's campaign in the primary well
I think he just said she contributed and
then people drew their own conclusion
and they were like well where I'm not
gonna vote for leadership who's goes
willing to use their leadership power to
take out incumbents right because and
everybody is self interesting so the
truth was that she did it after she won
the primary like Steny Hoyer like it
just like everybody else like everybody
else did it's like all the bad parts of
Leninism and none of the good part she
did call Joe Crowley a white devil that
was wait I said that was that on the
floor yeah I mean that is and and you
get the sense that Pelosi was not happy
with with with the way that that vote
turned out well I mean it is interesting
that she then felt the need to
compensate but that that is also caucus
management absolutely because it was a
it was a close race but she wouldn't
have done the same thing with Hakeem
Jeffries I don't know maybe she would
have I don't know I don't get that sense
maybe she would have but I but I think
that like she knew there was there there
the Hakeem Jeffries vote I think caused
her more problems than it would have if
Liam wanted and I think that's fair
that's my sense but and briefly let's
just talk about for a moment the Joe
Manchin how effed up is that what is
wrong with Chuck Schumer well is it is
it is it Chuck Schumer I mean so it's
the bailey's the as we said this whole
thing runs on seniority the Congress
on seniority and so the the
precipitating events Cantwell right so
Cantwell is taking over a different
committee right I'm not sure which
committee but she wants to take over a
different committee and that opens up a
spot on this energy committee and there
are three members who are on the
committee who have seniority over
mansion but they all already chair their
own ranking member on their own
committees so Wyden already is ranking
member on the Finance Committee Bernie
Sanders and you could only be ranking
member on one committee that's correct
Bernie Sanders already on the budget
committee Stabenow already on
agriculture so you ticked them off and
the next one on the list is mansion
right and yes
environmentalists are apoplectic about
this at first I think there was a lot of
there at least on you know anti Bernie
Twitter there there was a lot of blame
for Bernie well because the Politico
wrote this was a Politico or somebody
wrote this piece that framed it as if it
was Bernie Sanders fault Rahm as opposed
to but from my perspective look first
off common sense leadership here's why
it's Schumer's here's why it's Schumer's
problem okay
because schumer is the leader of the
senate right at least the Democrats in
the Senate and the idea that you are
going to kneecap the Democrats by just a
rhetorical standpoint on climate change
like you're going to put one of the
biggest advocates for coal short of
Mitch McConnell on this committee who
incidentally is not just you know I
don't even give him credit for being an
earnest supporter of coal I think he's
just bought and I'm actually just super
corrupt yeah exactly I don't I mean
would be deep in my bones who is really
just about tell you what Jenks it with
him a Jake I do I always it but
the question on Yemen is still the best
piece of spin I've ever seen in my life
I mean he's like why were you one of
four Democrats is another Yemen vote a
year ago like why we want to afford them
Kretz that voted not to suspend arm
sales to Saudi Arabia and he's like you
know what Jencks I think that we could
do a lot more to monitor the civilian
casualties over there if we're
participating in it I don't trust the
Europeans to have the same kind of
oversight now let's see what when you're
riding shotgun you could tell what
you've run over know it exactly he's
literally he's like I think it's
civilian casualties more like killing
innocent children's what's more like yes
I'm looking I mean so you see say well
what what consumer do about well I think
years we can do you I'm looking at at
man chilling like a David damn literally
has like I have the actual list of
literally million mansions committee
assignments all right
so mansion sits on Appropriations you're
not going to be able to kick out someone
in pro provisions and give him that he's
on intelligence
he's on Veterans Affairs so I I'm not
sure exactly at the moment who is the
ranking member on Veterans Affairs used
to be Sanders I don't know right is now
but you could work a compromise yeah and
say tell you what Joe you get veterans
you've got tons of veterans in West
Virginia we will give you the ranking
membership of the Veterans Affairs
Committee there's a high profile
assignment a lot of bipartisanship
that'll that'll help you back home and
will give somebody else the Energy
Committee that's that's what a majority
leader would do exactly that's a what
Chuck
that's Hermione has a real good jus
negotiating tactic but I see a lot of I
think this is my point but he doesn't
he's not gonna give him no choice no way
too much money to raise what learners
there's plenty of money for him to raise
there but the thing is is that Sandra I
mean that Schumer can also like he can
say here's the cares the carrot and I
have a stick because we don't need you
Joe we're in them we're in the minority
now by for well you know like you're
deserting us no longer has the power
that it did you know well to be fair
he's gotta you gotta think about when
there's a 50/50 split and the vice
presidents
O'Rourke or whoever is casting the
deciding vote in two years I mean you
know it's not that easy no you know
leader of the Senate caucus but there is
a way you just given Veterans Affairs
yes and or you go to someone else you
know some others you know senator and
say look look if you want to be in the
mind if you want to be in the majority
we're gonna have to do things that are
going to help the brand it is gonna be
very problematic to go out there
particularly with a lot of young people
who are going to you know the next
presidential nominee whoever it is is
going to be out there talking about the
urgency of climate change and we're
gonna look to the Senate and we're gonna
have a guy who literally is a cold like
like just like shoveling coal money not
all jump on Sanders but he's the natural
guy who you would say give it up for the
team unless unless you're Sanders and
you're thinking there's a 50/50 chance
I'm not gonna be here but I'm not gonna
but if you're running on I think I don't
think it's gonna be majorly problematic
for him in any way but you know the guy
this week did a two-hour you know a
streaming thing on the green new deal if
there's any way in which he can be
someone who say I'm gonna step up and
I'm gonna take over this committee
because I'm gonna run on climate change
in 2020 he doesn't know he's gonna run
yet that's the problem you know and also
what's happened you know they didn't run
I think I think he's almost definitely
gonna run but I think this is a
coordinated attack is they've attained
as with other Pro well we're gonna get
to that but know what's going I think I
think the fact that he won't take this
is indicative that he doesn't know yet
that he's gonna run he may end up
running he may end up not but I don't
think he knows right now because if he
did you know it's a bet money what would
you go with though if I bet money at
this point I would think I would think
now really in the wake of like you know
what happened with Elizabeth Warren DNA
yeah that I think I think from a
political standpoint the the meth the
take away from that was like
she's not staffed properly her political
team is not is not you know up to up to
par and I think from Sanders perspective
it's like if he thought that she could
win I think he would step it out he
would sit it out but I think honestly
and so I but I don't think he knows
enough because I think if he did know
then he would do that maybe and get by
Schumer another two years another he
would do it if he did if he did know
necessarily cuz I don't know that Bernie
thinks that way in terms of like I think
he likes being uh first of all I like to
think he likes being ranking member of
the budget community even though it's
it's it's not that important the
committee in the grand scheme of things
but he gets to talk about every part of
the budget which means he gets talked
about all of his domestic policy at once
so that's number one and I just think
you know he's not we D like that this is
this is a weird issue right right about
seniority and things like that and it's
just sort of popped up so you know maybe
maybe he will come around and and do
that but I ultimately I think Schumer is
the one who needs to forge the
compromise do you know who the Bailey's
are yes the Bailey's would compromise
the bailius dude a right we got to get
to the belly and tell them to get
Schumer off his ass don't get to the
bums it's not gonna happen and you are
Bailey's like clean air i meant to act
erratically I don't know I haven't
talked to them that's a special
connection missus Bailey's a little bit
on the fence I think I mrs. Bailey
Bailey likes compromise I did literally
read of several years ago cuz I did I
wanted to do more Bailey's background
research to make fun of Chuck Schumer
and he's at a Chinese restaurant and one
of the things he's like the Bailey's
don't want small cause the Bailey's like
SUVs I know that wasn't a positive
Bailey's owned an entire Irish cream
industry no no no their middle-class
Massapequa Bailey's they they don't they
Meyers to the arch they don't hate black
people but
I want to prove that my reach out to the
yes to call them I don't anyway let's
negotiate
no president you want any more judges
confirm the Irish in the juice were
always good friends down on the yeah
he's all I meant to ask you at the
beginning of today's episode because I
feel obligated to now are you part of
this cabal trying to push better
O'Rourke out of out of contention in the
primary no no comment no no not at all
there's the Perry Mason music what is
the cabal oh that is what I would say
cabal was on a plane yes what is cabal
I'm not oh I see plausible deniability I
was on a plane actually the first don't
large the first attack until a men near
we rally at dawn apparently Elizabeth
bruenig wrote a piece that that
highlighted that bait O'Rourke had you
know it's taken not some not great votes
but also was involved in working on a a
pretty predatory real-estate business I
think in Texas and it was also like but
I have to say I mean I I liked it was a
great piece but it was also like the
piece that someone like me would echo in
the sense that I like betta overworked I
hope he runs for Senate in Texas I don't
hate the guy it's just it's ludicrous
that people are talking about him as a
contender and if you're on the left you
have serious policy disagreements with
him I would add one addendum and I know
we've made this point before any
conversation that's talking about a
candidate that lost as a potential
presidential candidate why is stacey
abrams not at the top of this list in
fact I would suggest I mean we've talked
about the pool of voters that were
disenfranchised could have made up the
margin she lost by I feel comfortable
calling it a stolen race she did an
incredibly impressive job and I think
especially because the people who were
sort of the be
just sort of promoters of this beta
thing or the pseudo will performative
people that are always gonna go on
burning off of like fake identity issues
it's very bizarre that they aren't
embracing Stacy Abrams there's an
incredibly impressive person who should
be in I would say VP frankly I mean I
wonder if I mean if it's a function of
Stacy Abrams not that's I mean look
people are talking about beta O'Rourke
about this way because they're being
encouraged to write I mean it's not like
he's sitting there like I never never
even occurred to me know when people
start talking about him as a potential
candidate it's because during the course
of his campaign you know a couple of
people said you're very charismatic and
he raised thirty million dollars hodo
which is a tremendous sum for a can't
you know for a somewhat quixotic
campaign theoretically and and he's
promoting it I don't know that Stacy
Abrams is out there I think some of it
is organic though I do I don't think
it's all I I think especially in social
media when people sort of pontificate
about these things I think some of it is
just wait let me ask a couple things
here you know and I I just can't wait
for the left to eat itself throughout
this entire primary right I'm really
excited for where this goes but it's no
accident that Duval Patrick decided not
to run this week because of the Zack
Carter know it has nothing exactly says
everything to do with the Obama world
saying you're out we're gonna clear
they're gonna look bad I don't know I
mean not clear the field but we really
always aim better art we're backing
better right we're not backing you and
III think that played a major role
because as you recall there was a lot of
talk about Obama world backing develop
out of all paths yes and suddenly he
decides I'm not running this week it was
pretty early well let me put it this way
I my sense would be that the the the
message that they got from the Obama
world and that piece that came out the
timing is yet no incident piece was part
of it I think well no no but wait a
second you're missing my point you know
I know and also his there's real issues
in terms of like yes that's true but
family but often the way these things
work okay is different parts of that
world have different jobs to do right
one comes in and says look this is not a
Zack Carter as part of Obama no I'm not
saying that Zack Carter's nor was he nor
is he affected by anyone who is who
would be part of the Obama world saying
hey you better write this piece no no
but you write the piece because you have
the information and the information
starts flowing and it starts getting out
there and you know I think the timing
was interesting I was but but I don't I
don't have exact rights what Zack wants
right no of course of course but but but
you know how this works with with
spokespeople and communications people
they say who's gonna be good to write
this piece and they live it I don't I
just don't feel like anyone who would be
in that position would that Zack Carter
would be the person they would go to III
don't know that that was I mean I don't
know if Zack on the phone I don't know I
don't ask him do you also know about the
very sad like real thing when he was
first governor of Massachusetts how he
almost resigned because of his wife
having some very serious like anxiety
and depression issues
no I didn't they've written and spoken
about it publicly so I actually also
think his sense of this the toll that
this could take on my family like I know
that that's like a time like a glancing
I don't read that total BS in his case
no I think there's all these factors I
think I think there's all these factors
all right but but here's let's get back
to a moment for for bado because look I
know you're on the fence here but let me
let me just bring in Chris Matthews okay
to tell you what you need to do here is
Chris man here we go
this is it really is sort of this is
we're gonna look back on this in 16
months from now like like with fond is
this like real impact
remember the blow-up is look at Veda
warrants remember the beta Wars of late
2018 here we go and we the Democratic
Party have not given them an alternative
let's start my presidential party
because I'm already thinking about 2002
a CNBC's reporting that Democratic
congressman better or roark of Texas
team has been fielding calls from senior
operatives who worked on President
Barack Obama's campaign in the pivotal
states of Iowa and New Hampshire as
speculation continues about a potential
presidential run by beto in 2021
columnist and the wife's voice is
already questioned where the Democratic
rising star the Roberto Rock is far
enough left for the party Elizabeth
writes we still have time to pick a
politician with a bold clear
distinctively progressive a agenda and
an articulate vision beyond something
better than this the literal translation
of hope changed campaigning betters a
lot like Obama true it's perhaps time
for left-leaning Democrats to Royce that
may not be a good thing peter unger mace
by this here's a guy that has electoral
power people like him he's got charisma
like Obama and he had somebody on though
I guess on the left saying he's not left
enough well there's a explain that
there's an amazing wonderful blue-collar
philosopher who once said naivete and
children is often charming in adults
it's stupid that's political stupidity
so that person to write about antipathy
towards Wall Street oil and gas welfare
reform those are all major issues that
we need a president to deal with not to
simply scorn them and discard them and
second I think betos in an incredible
position not necessarily about the
presidency but he's captured energy and
one of the failings of the Obama the
campaign and Oh 8 was that after we won
we never had a call to service and I
think Beto and his team are figuring out
where do you take all that get people in
the act that was positive I don't know
who that was but I have a feeling it
doesn't feel like he's I got that these
fingers on the place
in New Jersey really hey you wanna be
the waitress Matthew shows by the way so
Trump beat Clinton in Texas by nine
points
Beto comes within was it two three
Trump lost by two points nationally
Democrats won in 2018 by eight points
writes the same swing it's the same
spread there's the exact same spread
he did not outperform he performed
exactly as well as everybody else right
exactly yeah but he's so inspiring not
like that boring Obama guy well you know
what I noticed about those posters do
you see it what that's an exact those
bado posters are identical to Obama's
posters into the vivo photo no no for
yes the the Senate poster is I have one
of those from from 2004 it's up in your
room it is love your but it is above my
bed I look at it every time you see we
move over here and I take out this part
of the be it's Beto it's very similar
like just that big lettering up there at
the top of the the sign but all right
well dudes are more sound here yeah
let's keep playing it I don't know who
this guy is
yeah Morgan strategy somebody call in in
the act up don't we go to ask you on
this it seems to me that if the
Democratic Party sets us a standard you
must be Bernie know there was a about
socialist I'm not knocking it but if
that's the political goal line you're
setting up if this person isn't for
so-called Medicare for everybody all
life if they're not for free tuition pay
back here but not for all these social
programs that they're not for a big role
for the government the economy then
they're not Democrats if that's the
standard you're gonna knock out a lot of
candidates well let's look at this
though the dance deposit hold on let me
just say this I think that Elizabeth
breunig sitting atop of where she sits
choosing who gets to be Democrats is
wrong
I don't know who gave her this power but
I mean it should anybody have that power
probably I don't even think that she if
that's the standard you're gonna knock
out a lot of candidates well let's look
at this though the DNC itself was
against Bernie Sanders and they set
parameters to make sure that he would
not get enough support and not have the
support he needed and let's go back to
super-delegates and all of that so I do
think the establishment and the
Democratic Party will not allow someone
to progressive to get back in about the
voters so now here's you've got to get
to the suburban middle-class blue-collar
voters and they need to start thinking
about that Obama trunk flip those guys
the Westchester County folks who just go
over to the the car factory out in
Westchester County make a half million a
year and they drive upstate to work what
is who are the suburban blue class
middle class blue-collar workers like as
he grabbed his machia there are six
highly highly influenced oh we know
they're in this this panel right now
there's no family it's it's the Bailey's
all right you've got to get to the
suburban middle-class blue-collar voters
and they need to start thinking about
that Obama Trump flip that happened in
2016 that again flipped in 2018 if you
do not focus on that which they're
moderate swing voters to I would vote
for a Joe Biden not a beta how do you
get the people in the industrial states
who flipped from Oh from Trump to the
Democratic candidates for prep for
senator and governor in Michigan
Wisconsin Pennsylvania the hole I know I
totally agree it's like she's only
talking about the primary which is one
thing but it's let's move on to the
general you know these two say back in
the 60s II November doesn't count the
hard left would say as long as we win
the primaries it doesn't matter George
McGovern but that mentality is out there
Peter it's out there now I just saw
paper today govern x2 much like Obama
that's a problem 100,000 yeah okay yeah
the the it is well but this is gonna be
McGovern right this is this is
generational I mean this is what has
been problematic with the Democrats for
a long time is that the baby boomers
still hold because of the size of their
of their generation still hold too much
sway over essentially the the convention
of the the common wisdom the
conventional wisdom and you know the
idea that you can draw any parallels now
between George McGovern and anybody in
like like there's no it is well I need
to draw a parallel with George McGovern
you have to find a candidate who is
broadly seen on the anti-war left who
was hated by unions right who is that
can't parallel today with with reason to
right he was the one who cut the union's
power out from under them and picking
who um I mean is a little bit more
complicated
unions were strongly Pro war at that
point George Meany himself he tried he
was so pro-labor he tried so hard to get
the unions on his side and they just
told us correct yeah I mean I it's not
it know what he was anti as the unions
were we're strong winds bad was he his
reaction to it led him to later in his
career do like antique art check
propaganda which is it's an interesting
comparison right because the things that
sank McGovern back then were very very
different from the things that the
centrists are saying would sink Bernie
right now right a lot of things that
sunk will govern with the socially
conservative unions were things that
every Democrat supports now things known
as identity politics right minority
rights gay marriage drug laws anti-war
etc whereas uh and their economic
policies were actually very much in line
with his and now it's economically how
does the asset abortion yeah now it's
economics policies that they're saying
are to to left so it's like
a bad comparison as long as Bernie
doesn't pick a vice presidential nominee
who was treated for clinical depression
I think right now we should also say
that that I think part of the animosity
came from the the commission that
McGovern co-chaired - that that changed
the way that our our primaries ran -
actually created primaries as opposed to
a backroom where unions had a tremendous
amount of power in basically picking who
the nominee was about totally bummed I
really thought that Chris Matthews was
gonna develop a crush on AOC and I
totally lost it I mean this is the
problem with oligarchies but what this
is what's what's what's fascinating to
me well I guess it's not that
fascinating to me I mean the idea like
is it a resonant well I mean I should
know better at this point like it should
be completely boring to me oh you
actually would expect better than that
no it's just I don't believe like you
know like the idea that they the there
are folks who are willing to already
sort of like who think they're playing
this poorly is my point is the the the
forces that want a bado are playing this
poorly because they are polarizing too
early it you see it like it is way too
early to sort of like complain about
about the idea that there are people who
are pointing to Beddoes record and
saying hey these are this is problematic
what you should be doing as you push
back on his record you should be
building him instead I'll help them you
know there's there's one vote that I've
seen put out there that are work vote of
some financial deregulation vote that
that bill never became law that the the
the the vote that is being pointed to is
something that was just one of the many
deregulatory measures the House passed
that that never got through the Senate
the one that did the deregulatory Bank
bill the one big bipartisan Bank
deregulation bill this year better voted
against it so just do that instead of
you presuming you're cabal
they're scared they're scared man I I
think actually it but D it surprising to
me too because I think there's actually
a lot of people like me who obviously
will support Bernie over Beto because
we're left but like I have no particular
intimacy or hostility to him at all and
there fast-tracking that what I'm saying
yeah right from a strategy standpoint
right this is not the time where you you
set this up you set up this this because
it's not going to be helpful you know
like it you know it's not it certainly
wasn't helpful during the 2016 primaries
and he in in and those forces are not as
well situated as they were then
and so it's a big mistake for though
betos a better candidate it's a big
mistake but my point is yes but my point
is you don't want to make this about the
so-called Bernie bro versus beta they're
doing it more Julia then comment for
others I mean Elizabeth burning said
already she said it were already at that
time where I think I forget how she I
mean there was a couple of other things
but she's like we're already at that
time where I'm a white male magically
right like like we're not even like in
the friggin election cycle yet and all
this garbage my my biggest problem was
with Maloney and bado sort of coming in
I think he endorsed Maloney in the New
York at AG race if I remember correctly
Sean Patrick Malone yes although that's
trash and that hurts it makes me nervous
yeah as to what like something like all
that low-key stuff what's making what
makes me nervous is that the it's still
2018 on the calendar right already I
don't I I think like they're escalating
i I mean I think like near attend and
escalated this in a useless silly way do
we put up that's what you put it back up
put it back up I mean well
I understand but but somebody should
somebody there should be somebody in
that world is illegal fighting the 2016
crime but I felt like that stuff it sort
of had nope
have you been on well and near at Manon
is on the front lines of the 20s use the
law war of 2016
yeah she may be it's like it's like when
Andrew Jackson in 1814 was still
fighting that battle of the war of 1812
like it's just still fighting the war of
2016 I know it she's like one of the
people in the hills and Japan and I
heard 1975 they fire the guys in a cave
yeah except that guy would still like be
running at the positions in a position
of power that's the problem
well maybe running propaganda exactly if
I may maybe it's time for the hard left
to flex its muscles a little bit and
remind the people in the political class
that uh and in the ruling class that the
Elizabeth breunig option the Bernie
option that is a nice option people are
angry and if we don't get what we want
in the electoral sphere or even if we do
we're gonna have some widespread unrest
outside of it well yeah I don't think
that's gonna happen on Twitter I don't
think that's a place for that no
certainly not but you know maybe have a
wildcat strike or to put the fear of God
in them I only always a week that's
probably not going to happen
yeah I mean I I just it's just what
we're but what we're talking about here
has nothing to do with people who would
do a wildcat strike it has only to do
with like what the political class is
doing I mean this is a people yes talk
about this Bank that was you know doing
bad credit report reporting on thousands
of people and you know policy I mean I
just have to say like I would say like
and I'm Pro Bernie whatever but isn't it
really clear that I mean if specifically
the issues you're talking about I mean I
think Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren
are definitely the only candidates that
I would absolutely trust on I think
sherrod Brown is always around like that
sherrod Brown but those three Merkley I
think it's pretty easy not running you
know not heard he's running that would
be interesting trying to Merkley has
talked about running a weave 34 to my
count Democrats that have talked about
running in a serious way they're still
three for Trey Bernie as this like hard
left socialist this extremist and like
the furthest left option that exists
when in fact he is a very moderate
compromiser as far as I'm concerned what
we saw but I think it's not I think you
have that within the context of American
politics
Bernie Sanders is to the left of any
candidate who people think actually has
a chance of winning the nomination but
the things he's proposing are not
actually socialism they're just common
sense social democratic policies that
every other country in the developed
world has the more they can make him
look crazy
the more they drag that yeah I feel like
that we need a tall happy my shot
because the play of the smart ones and
it this is difference between Obama and
Clinton people it's really subtle Obama
people get oh we should pretend to be
closer to that right Clinton people are
less that's crazy it he's white yeah
we're listening yeah the go bomb people
like oh that's a really good point right
we're for like Universal Medicare well
that's this is what this is what I find
okay so this is what I find so strange
about what's going on now and maybe it's
just rogue you know sort of clintonites
we were just mad about Bernie and mad
about certain people that's there but
the point that you're making is that the
Obama people are going to dress bateau
up as if he's like I'm like practically
a younger Bernie they're gonna set him
to the wildcat strike on his skateboard
right exactly and and and I think and I
think I think you know to the extent
that near attend and had a point about
people being worried I think there is a
worry on the left
that people are going to project on
Tibet Oh positions and a philosophy that
he doesn't necessarily have I'm looking
forward to work getting his band
together for a remake of fight song they
don't even speak that into existence and
toriel campaign you heard a lot of like
look he's not as progressive as he
appears and he's a tea but he's he's
from Texas and you know he's you know
and and the you know there is a lot of
sense on the left that Obama lot of
people projected stuff onto Obama that
was not there that people did not
realize that he was not an ideologue I
haven't fallen into that trap again well
well I mean what do you mean well I mean
I feel like what you're saying that that
he's sort of a blank slate yeah and been
people what's happening now is I think
you're getting people to say like look
don't project right and you know yeah I
don't hate that oh but that's just my
stick like I actually kind of like him
but I just want to be very clear that
this guy is not if you're if you're
interested in a progressive candidate
this is not your pick if he yeah if he
becomes the eventual nominee I wanted
his liabilities to be known and
articulated as bright on the left yeah
exactly like what does it say about the
Democratic Party that they even need to
have a progressive caucus in the first
place like isn't the party supposed to
be progressive that's a cold well yeah I
mean it's a big party I mean it's yeah I
mean I don't know what else I would say
that you know when thinking about the
role of the left in in you know this
this next cycle it might be wiser rather
than staking out a position of
supporting one candidate above all else
wiser to support
certain issues and demand that every
candidate moved towards got well sir
quickly institutions definitely put us
in a better position after the election
should a Democrat be elected to continue
that absolutely that's what the Bernie
people are doing but people keep
accusing us with a greater disability
that's what the green nude but but the
point is the you you're I mean if you
analyze that statement the Bernie people
are doing this people who support Bernie
support him not because my point is like
let's look at what a se is doing on the
green new deal she is she has said we
need this this particular committee
because we have this crisis out there
and we need to build legislation for it
and we need to go around through every
member of Congress now no matter who
they are or who supported them whatever
and said are you gonna support this this
green New Deal Commission and she's got
like 20 of them already in the space
before she's a congressman this big
though but weak yes who to support it
and and that seems to be that's for me
to be the organizing principle that's
different on the languor president's
okay no it isn't it's saying literally
we have one we have ten candidates here
are you going to support this is what
was done on health care in in and and
without as much participation on the
left and so we got the health care we
got it was what was done on you you
build consensus and and and you say that
that this is a threshold issue but there
are two the only two roadblocks to that
or I mean first of all I think you mean
of course generically and generally
that's true and then it's like okay I'm
generic and but no no I mean it's true
it's of course you're right but I think
that like okay so the thing that I keep
hitting with Bernie is like no one is on
the near him on those consensus issues
on foreign policies that matters to me
what your position on Brazil is what
your permit position on Yemen or the
Iran deal is or Israel it matters to me
I don't think it's so that's number one
he's still far ahead of the rest of them
and then number two I think you have to
decide at some point like do you real
trust somebody's you know of those
relative choices I trust Bernie just
even in terms of who he'll appoint to
oversee Wall Street as a mat as an
example or Warren I trust her to far
more than I do trust a cory booker is by
the way what warren did in 2016 was
create this this idea of personnel as
policy right and she pinned down that's
great
clinton on on who she was already to a
point that's gran and tried to
disqualify certain people who were in
clinton's orbit for appointments so i
mean there are ways to go about this
that aren't just but it's a personality
driven yes i didn't say anything about
personality no but no but no but but but
the idea is that instead of well i think
what would what david is suggesting is
instead of starting with the person and
assessing their issues you come up with
an issue set and you push those issues
and you let people fall in line and then
you start to assess okay
have they adopted this position do I
trust them now you're also talking like
we may have 9 months 12 months 14 months
to make these people say over and over
and over in public it's such a way
that's like doesn't matter if you trust
them or not like they're there you know
right there you know some obviously are
within a certain zone but the idea being
that why the the what makes what they
what the the Nira tendons are doing now
a mistake is they are people they are
forcing people to pick candidates much
earlier than they should yeah the short
circuit in that whole process you're
showing circuiting that whole process I
can assure you that can happen on Bernie
Sanders comes out and he goes I want
most little mints in the West Bank and
Lula should be in jail and privatized
Social Security I will not continue to
support he bernie sanders i mean i think
that like of course i actually think a
lot of people especially that was the
sort of distinguishing marker of
Bernie's campaign was actually people
being more policy oriented and I
understand that people per I get that
people worried there's personality cults
around everybody I get it but that's a
first of all it that applies just as
easily a Hillary Clinton or Beto but if
you're really seriously talking about
policy there's major difference this
year and there is also a background of
credibility that people have and other
people don't have I mean this is not
that really it seems pretty obvious yeah
and it's not just about their platform
at the moment right like we've heard
everything before we've heard so much
progressive talk from so many people
from you know Bill Clinton to Obama like
I want to see what they've done in the
past and Bernie has been bashing away at
this stuff for decades
like we knows where he we know where he
stands versus you know if like a Hillary
type candidate came out and said oh yeah
Medicare for all is a great idea and
then you look at what they've done in
the past like people might not dress
them I mean it's true I mean I but that
said people definitely changed based
upon the the situation I mean I think
Bernie's probably softer on guns than he
was five ten years ago yeah well yeah
you're they're really I mean I know it's
not your issue but that's not what we're
talking about
therefore talking about a dynamic yeah
they're foreclosing on the I'd like the
of the availability to make better a
better candidate over all this right by
short-circuiting all this immediately
because it's not right Matthew's his
complaint wasn't that people are
cultists about Bernie it was that
they're doing purity tests around issues
like Medicare for everybody right stuff
right right
well he's stopping this process and
that's what all these people are doing
right I mean that's why you got to focus
on the on the on the issue and not make
it associated with personnel at this
point but there's gonna be a certain
point when you're like okay I know the
ideas were out twenty nine yeah the idea
in 2018-2019 work it's not to start to
apply the test it is to create the test
sure and then if the test is created
then people are in a position to be to
fail it or succeed in that extent Craig
about holding directions of course let's
talk about this Ramon because this is
this is a great interview Chris Hayes I
know you're on like five minutes okay
good this is we will this will be the
last time I'll have before let's we
mentioned North Carolina
even Kris Kobach apparently now is
recognizing there could be something
wrong with the election in North
Carolina or Democrats do 9th district
yeah and this came so Chris Hayes had on
his program I guess was last night
the North Carolina Republican executive
director this is Dallas Woodhouse is he
late Woodhouse's brother or something
like that or no no no no different guy
well there is like two brothers but no
that's Brad Woodhouse ok ok so who are
the wood houses so the like a brother
team that is our different size yeah
it's a good size goodbye all right well
anyway so Chris Hayes had on last night
the North Carolina Republican executive
director and remember the Republican
Party in North Carolina has basically I
don't know what the numbers are hundreds
of hundred thousand some odd have kept
people off the voting rolls have
depressed
voter turnout all ostensibly based upon
voter fraud and this is the only real
case that they've ever found and this is
not voted for it is electoral fraud here
is a Hayes you'll want to cite something
you said in the days after election
where you said in a phone call we are
trying to keep Democrats from stealing
the congressional race from Mark Harris
now that's obviously incredibly loaded
charge that you made do you want to
apologize for that or take that back
we're just changed in well no because
that made that call to donors of the
North Carolina Republican Party which
you're not one of I feel sure but if you
would like to be where 1506 Hillsborough
Street and Raleigh North Carolina no but
I think this you your your position was
this is a sort of made-up scandal and
the Democrats are out to try to steal
this out from under our noses we won 905
votes there they're refusing concede
that proved to be wrong right I mean you
get out of your skis there was actual a
pair
the criminal activity okay what I would
say is is you know there are a lot of
different things going on here the
ground is shifting under our feet you
know I don't think you can excuse the
Democrats on the State Board of
Elections that all of a sudden dropped
this on our lap after no election
protest was filed after mr. macreedy
conceded the election after no recount
was called for and after all of the
local boards of Elections certified the
race we have never seen that wait a
second though wait and sir if I can just
if I could just finish this one point
and at the same time the state is
engaged in a very difficult negotiation
and fight over the control of the Board
of Elections that I know and so and so
the Board of Elections that's walking
out the door simply comes out and says
they're not gonna certify and at that
time really don't say why okay I mean of
course let's put that to this is imagine
this guy going like you didn't find that
the money was missing from the bank
until they gotten away in the Gatto a
car and they'd already crossed the
bridge and paid their toll and then all
of a sudden they gonna come back I'll
call it lilly Ledbetter what I mean that
that I what that is exactly what the
court said in the lilly Ledbetter okay
Lilly Ledbetter was a woman who was
discriminated against on pay for 20
years yep and she found out about it
years later and said I want my back pay
I was doing the same job at this other
guy and he was making all this more
money than me and the court said well
you didn't find out about it in time so
we're not gonna do anything and they
then Congress had to change the law yeah
so so timeliness is a thing but I don't
know that it's a thing in this context
when there's obviously fraud yeah well
when a Board of Elections did not
certify the rate that's the point right
certifications must be like we have
cleared the deck of all the potential
like rampant fraud that could have
existed and oh we found some before the
certification like it's one thing to say
like okay you serve you two years and
then you know three years from now
hey wait a second there was some or even
when there a sitting congressman I think
that the statute of limitations has not
run out if when they have the race has
not been certified that's the whole
point of the certification his arguments
were sort of well I was lying to my
donors not everybody I like that and I
almost do my job yeah man what do you
want and want to give me some money I'm
a propagandist
right I mean what do you bear shits in
the woods I don't know what to tell you
that's how you talk to donors I don't
know what you want from me I'm will by
Alex Jones pills Chris the hell you
think well David Dan it has been a real
honor and pleasure to have you in studio
always to be good in new cedar
auditorium no go yes and the massive
yeah you can see that we actually got
some fans the rafters or balcony but
David thank you much for coming on I
hope most everyone I think who listens
this program has purchased your book
chain of title very good and good to
hear they can find you where do you like
to send people to your tumblr or sure so
David and tumblr in your tiny letter and
don't be one tiny letter comm slash
David Dan is my bi-weekly to twice a
week newsletter that's only twice a week
usually twice a week that includes links
to everything I write about you know
there's a little bit more theory going
around on this program there you don't
actually exist well you're just the guy
they send in are you saying I'm a crisis
actor
I mean look I've noticed you had my love
I noticed you had headset on the whole
time you've been here that's true you
could be just somebody's like I'm a
replicant one other cell I'm saying
there could be a guy in a van down the
street you know listening to the show or
feeding you information as part of the
team about CFPB they're all they're all
typing where's like this cyrano de
bergerac situation
suave personable handsome face of a
shady collective exactly Saros funded
like traveling van out there with like
14 reporters the communications van and
they're just the guy they send out to
actually front it we're gonna see David
like a cop we're gonna see him in the
IBM Watson commercial they found Dane
it's the show I can do my normal
accident this is like the Bourne
Identity
[Laughter]
alright folks we're gonna take a break
ahead into the fun half a reminder it is
your support that makes this show
possible you become a member of this
program by going to join the majority
report calm it is your membership that
keeps this show humming along folks I've
got some good news and I've got some bad
news
the good news is you still have maybe a
week or two to buy tickets to the
Brooklyn pod fest when I said that when
I said you may have a week or two I'm
gonna show you what Brendan did like
this that he did one of those where he
shook his head back and forth and it's
like I wouldn't promise that we are now
down below what one quarter of the seats
left a little bit less a little bit less
if you want to purchase a ticket to see
the majority report live on January 13th
at the Bell House you need to do so very
very quickly ladies and gentlemen you
can head over to majority dot F M you
will get details there pick up your
tickets also there's been some confusion
for the next couple of like the next
week or so you can purchase just coffee
co-op coffee for 30% off you do not need
to use a coupon code majority you do not
need to do that they're having a special
promo 30% off this is the time where you
go there and you buy the majority report
blend because you've never tried it
before you want to see if it's as good
as we've been saying it is
because it is free shipping 30% off by a
five-pound bag if you're smart unless
you're like one of those people like I
have to have my coffee like it can
credibly fresh hmm I can't have a
five-pound bag or if you own a store
there there you go
boom so check that out Michael February
first Bell house Michael Brooks show
tickets were at the halfway point and
with February first coming around the
bend so get those tickets quickly as
well Michael Brooks show on patreon
patreon comm / T MBS to get everything
our YouTube channel and iTunes
thanks who is on this week this past
week Mike Racine was on very funny
comedian we did a lot of Dave Rubin
impressions he has a great dave rubin it
doesn't really he really legit dave
rubin impression he caught it he said
he's a South Park cow yeah you'd need to
do him like a South Park yeah that's
interesting
did you see the ideas he nailed it we
had a great time George HW orge HW bad
was the title and next week Matt Taibbi
in studio oh I should also say Jamie
will talk about the Intifada but I want
to just do this in the fun half of the
program I am holding a mug I think I
have an idea who gave it to me for
Hanukkah I guess it was a Chanukah mug
it says ask the moms and then a tiny
majority dot F M right there so Ronald
Reagan I think it was responsible for
this but I think he's already got these
up at his redirected like seamless page
or whatever I don't know what a
Threadless or whatever it is I get it
but yeah he said it was on the way and I
was a little bit worried and he was like
don't worry it's practical I know that
you need a practical gift and
so Jamie what's happening on the anti
father yes so this week on the Intifada
out now Sean and I recap our magical
trip to Mexico including our visit to
the autonomous Zapatista community of
event ich we talked about the that's
very nice the amazing experience we had
there and the beautiful way they govern
their society along horizontal list
principles also this weekend we are
recording an episode with Justin Akers
Chacon author of a book called radicals
in the barrio
Megan ista socialists Wobblies and
communists in the mexican-american
working class and it was partially
inspired by the bad take that Angela
Nagel published that made everyone mad a
couple weeks ago but it's something I'd
been meaning to do for a while Stephanie
waited to Michael went to the bathroom
before he said that Matt tonight finally
me and my friend Chris are going to talk
about democracy and change I know we're
going to talk about James Buchanan and
if he's sort of like a libertarian
Machiavelli or if he's a libertarian
Forrest Gump Wow nice all right all
right quick break
oh wait have we started on Brendan are
we on pandora yet yeah folks if you ever
well we're on Pandora if you want to
check out if you have Pandora check out
the majority report I think we just one
of the one of the early invitees onto
Pandora
it's just us and NPR and some of the
other little ticket of them some of the
little players I think we could be one
of the few independent news podcasts on
Pandora show them mercy see NPR do a
show on you know postal banking as like
the most exciting part of the episode I
mean the people I've talked to that I've
worked at NPR are all jealous of the
type of content we get to do here so is
that right mm-hmm
well alright quick break head into the
fun half we'll be right back
[Music]
hey have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whippin like
he's the boss I am NOT your employer you
know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you you
nervous a little bit upset you riled up
yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you're idiots
we're just going to get rid of you
alright
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's a
win-win oh yeah now listen to me two
three four five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
eight
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow he's the ultimate math nerd don't
you see why don't you engage with your
left one one ball everybody's taking
their dumb juice today come on Sammy
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seats with a woman I'm hoping that more
moves to my repertoire all I have is the
dip in the swirl fine we can double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
 you you all right gonna take a
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lastic I'm
feeling more chill already hood Donald
Trump can kiss all of our asses hey Sam
hey Andy you guys ready to do some evil
Shitler what such an idiot
No
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly we are back I mean I was just
saying and I want to get into this again
but the we're looking at a similar
dynamic in the Democratic primary as we
saw on the Republican primary to some
extent the difference between a
Republican primary in a Democratic
primary is that you can monetize being
in a Republican primary a lot more than
you can in a Democratic primary
so you get people like Newt Gingrich or
you know I can't remember now the 666
guy Herman Cain Herman Cain and a whole
slew of people who can monetize these
things or you know you know and there's
still I think the dynamic of like I'm a
governor and I'm not very popular in my
state and I'm gonna run and then I'm
gonna get energy secretary or something
like that you raise your profile you you
you you Bart or something off but the
bar to entry drops with when you show
dramatically when you get above like
eight or nine candidates who are gonna
throw in because you're not it's
impossible for you to be the loser like
no one no one talks about the people who
didn't beat Donald Trump except for
maybe you know Jeb Bush
they both flamed I think Jeb Bush and
Scott Walker because they both flamed
out so spectacularly it did have an
effect on them but yeah besides that
yeah
but Jeb does this is an all-or-nothing
yeah I mean he was almost out of
politics anyways Scott Walker I think
you know he could have won reelection
right I mean you know it was close race
and that's what has done him in more is
that that Donald Trump won I mean you
know had Hillary Clinton won it might
have been a different situation for
Scott Walker but when there's that many
people in it there is no loser
in the way that like Clinton lost in
2008 and John Edwards lost in 2008
because they were the three Biggie's
Martin O'Malley
right yeah I mean you know that was
pretty disastrous I hope it's like the
dynamic of the Republican primary in
that it's a bunch of establishment
boring people getting owned by a
loudmouth outsider the the problem is is
that when Bernie is on the stage with 12
other people or 15 other people and only
has a small amount of time to speak
because you you know the message it's
gonna be easier for other people to hide
the ball could you imagine though if
Bernie was using like Trump style
insults on all the Democrats yeah
totally awesome but it won't work for
because Democrats suck but that would be
great right what was the one we came up
with the yesterday about what was it for
who Bernie believe Hillary shittin
everybody
Hillary this is this is gonna be
the dynamic that's why I like Pharaoh
Africa has has a good shot they battle
you off you know what of twenty people
he's gonna have a good shot because it's
really gonna be like what you're gonna
be defined in an era of you get you go
on stage for these debates let's say and
you're gonna get six seven minutes
I'm talking of I mean I think you're
totally mean I think that that's
compelling on the other hands a bunch of
centrist and then one presumably Bernie
but say it's Warren like one candidate
that has any type of actual left
position stands out in a cluster I'm
saying if you know I understand they can
hide the ball in the bay yeah I get it I
get it I understand but I'm saying even
more broadly like you know not just with
debates just the whole dynamic of a race
where the left has an opportunity to
coalesce under one clear candidate who
is better than a whole glut of Joe Biden
bata Aurora yeah but that you have
because of Bernie but like I think you
know well Joe bar know what you mean I'm
saying like people like Joe Biden
supporters are like it's gonna be
obvious everybody's gonna cluster around
Joe Biden I know I think I think plenty
of people might bust around Joe Biden
but I'm saying the people know no but
people are gonna be fighting for a
certain part of the real estate yes in
the center relative to the left if that
if it emerges like well but I don't
think that that you're you're assuming
it's gonna break down on ideological
girl I'm not such a possibility I just
be pure identity stuff well it's not
just identity stuff it's gonna come down
on things like resume it's gonna come
down on like I've been there before
or I can I can beat the it's just
campaign capacity and resume then Jill
Biden is gonna be the nominee well
that's what I'm saying that's totally
possible well and I think Joe Biden is
is that second mic on I'm getting like
an echo or something I don't know why it
was doing that I'm just scared that a
Bernie and Warren would split the
progressive vote and I don't think the
center I think only one of them is gonna
run a doubt they're both I'm afraid
they're both gonna run it's gonna be a
total show I think that's possible
that they both run wow I don't know that
they would be in for very long but it
you know took their toes do my toes I
don't
I mean I just don't I honestly don't
think warrant as much legs as I see this
happening I see it very clearly and I
hope that I'm wrong but like everyone's
gonna fall the Democrats are gonna feel
really good about Elizabeth Warren
because she's like a compromise between
all the Hillary people who want a woman
and all the Bernie people who want a
progressive and then she's gonna lose
very badly to trump
well she's not yet the nomination Wow
all right let's go to let's go to a two
one zero
area code who's this where you're
calling from good afternoon Sam it's
John from San Antonio hello John from
San Antonio just the man we wanted to
hear are you gonna weigh in on this
conversation or are we going to
blissfully not talk about 2020 right now
sorry we got hooked into that well
actually I was been surprised pleasantly
surprised yeah let me go ahead and open
up with I mean I got some bait Oh talk
if you want to hear it that I mean I
it's not my first priority so the only
the only race in question now is the
House of Representative in North
Carolina's ninth and I'm gonna talk
about my most flippable district list I
called in in November 5th if he works
earlier I was talking about how the top
18 races will very likely to flip you
were skeptical the next week I went over
some races and you seemed a little bit
more accepting in the end I got the
first 31 races right and 41 out of the
top 46 or it could be 45 they call a new
election flipped so I didn't lift my
final numbers on Twitter but I missed 16
out of 435 or 434 they have a new
election and which is 96% correct so I'm
gonna talk I'm gonna be taking down 96
percent are you rounding up John yeah
it's actually a little bit higher it's
actually a 97 point yes yeah so I mean
I'm giving this right okay so I'm going
to be taken down that 10 tweet and
putting up a medicare-for-all tweet
thread with Massachusetts at Amherst
Professor Robert Pollin featuring the
conversation at the Sanders Institute
Pollan put out the most extensive
peer-reviewed study that had been
praised by top medical economists from
the most prestigious universities in
America the top loan most people are
talking about is the 5.1 trillion that
was that the study could be saved over a
10-year period on Monday that called in
to talk about the differences that
Poland has with the funding mechanism
and how it compares with the fund the
funding in the Bernie Sanders white
paper that came out in September 17 the
main differences his opponent put 23.7%
3.75 percent tax on the non-essential
purchases and Bernie has a 4.0 Medicare
tax on each of working household the
current rate being taking out out of
every working person paycheck 1.45 a
YouTube commenter described our
conversation or saying sales taxes are
regressive duh but I wasn't trying to be
simplistic I do feel that we need to
fight against the national sales tax and
we would hurt the most vulnerable and
seniors after my call Michael mentioned
what items would be considered
necessities exceptions from taxations
and their food beverages consumed at
home housing and utilities education and
nonprofits the researchers include that
a 3.75 income tax credit for families
currently insured by Medicaid and I also
think that that is my personal opinion
that's so shampoo toilet paper and other
hygiene products should also be included
as well as diapers another caller was
talking about how doctors would be
affected and how this is was going to be
one of the big concerns you know
considering musician physicians in a
year and Europe may considerably less
than American doctors and then no one
wants to take a pay cut and which is a
really important factor a polling lays
out the case Medicare for all will
increase overall demand by 12% for
health care services however this
increased demand for services should not
create significant shortages in the
supply of health care provides even in
the short run this is
Merilee because medicare for all
physicians will be able to talk may have
sustainable substantial rather reduce
the amount of time they have to spend on
administration of course spawning lis
increased their billable hours the
increase in the billable hours will be
an average of roughly compensate
physicians having to accept uniform
Medicare payments because Medicare based
payments are lower than those paid by
private insurance companies but higher
than those paid to Medicaid and so the
physicians that will benefit the most
from Medicare for all are general
practitioners and emergency room doctors
and and the ones that will be affected
the most will be the specialists certain
specialists by cardiologists so do you
want to comment on any event if you want
to give me tell you that I think I think
my sense is is that people notice their
payroll taxes a little bit less than
they do people deductions seem to be a
little bit easier to accept than
actually shelling out more and if you if
you if you if you do it by sales tax
there is an incentive for the stores you
know for the retail outlets to make it
clear that they're not charging it right
like you get your verizon bill and
there's like 14 different like this is
the surcharge for this and this is
surcharge for that and it's called
that's the cost of doing business right
like I don't you know send out like it
this is a you know this is the rent
you're paying from my office you know
would the if we were to do I don't know
the billing of our podcast itemized
pocket yeah but the so I I mean I I tend
to in in addition to the aggressiveness
of even a non-essential you know sales
tax but everything else I mean I think I
think that's the case that you're gonna
see specialist some of the top in the
field they're gonna they're gonna
they're gonna take a pay cut to a
certain extent they'll probably also
stay outside the system on some level
and just some amount of
we'll just service the ultra-rich but
they're essentially doing that now
anyways I mean to a large extent and so
you know I think yeah I mean all that
everything else tracks but well look at
what happened to me I'm sorry go ahead
what they were saying at the ascenders
Institute is that they're really pushing
that there will be no there will be no
private insurance I mean they're all of
like the you know rose and Amaro and you
know what Bernie says you know in this
white paper and also in the Pollan
report that essentially there will not
be any and they talk about that pretty
extensively and in many panels that you
know this is what's gone wrong in Europe
is that they've gone away from
single-payer and gone towards you know
this kind of hybrid and this is also
what the who's the guy that Joshua the
guy who writes for the nation that he
interviewed last year I'm talking about
yeah and in and so you know and you can
see see it in like in the Swiss the
Swiss model and also in the Dutch model
which you know have the highest levels
of GDP they were they're really saying
no there will be no outside you know
this will be covered and so I mean we'll
see how that you know yeah I was very
surprised if there wasn't an option just
from a political standpoint the Swiss
were never entirely governmental to
begin with as far as I understand I
actually think I mean I think France and
UK are and they've been injecting all
sorts of private providers into NHS
going back to Blair
but the Netherlands and I think the
Swiss have the closest to like Obamacare
it's much better but that has the most
market activity all right John
appreciate the cup phone call okay right
Nick thank you soon well I think I know
who this is
he was that over 97 percent i I didn't
want to say anything but I think it's
closer than 95
point-six but whatever I'm not gonna
Ronald Reagan is this you come from a
509 area code hey here's my wife my wife
sir this is Reagan thank you for the cup
is it from you this is the hi how are
you
I know it's for me she doesn't really
know who you are you just are you just
proving here that you're you know
whatever it is that you're doing and
you're your so-called office is actually
you're actually just listening to the
computer he's nodding aggressively yeah
could you imagine you're sitting in
Ronald Reagan's office and you're like
waiting to see like if the you can be
protected from like the machinery of the
American terrorist bureaucracy of
immigrants you just hear through the
door John from San Antonio impression
yeah it's yours or or or if I imagine
always imagine Ronald Reagan being like
this to is uh his climb my tree in the
middle of a consultation right now
hold on don't mean to I gotta take those
don't mean to hold up so what's on your
mind thank you very much for the mug I
love it it's great it's I love the the
size and the heft of it it's it's great
past the moms
that's the moms thanks I know I know you
don't usually talk about true crime but
have you heard about this guy Sam little
who was arrested he's a 78 year old man
he was arrested at a homeless shelter
and he's he's confessed to over 90
murders oh Jesus maybe making him
perhaps the most you know the most Pro
the word is totally but he's killed a
lot of people prolific yeah serial
killer and maybe in history writers in
Texas is that where he is yeah
yeah and I was reading some of the
details actually of you know what
happened and everything in and it
reminded me a lot of what the DNC did to
Bernie actually really do tell ya they
just seemed like really you just seem
different it's like a different than in
degree but not kind you know I mean
you're suggesting it's like instead of
killing 90 people maybe they killed like
like nine right right that's pretty much
it all right have a good one
I appreciate the call I could just
Ronald Reagan's wife just going like
have we seriously been waiting here for
an hour for you to do that yeah that's a
disturbing story
I guess I'm seeing over that that's
really up a guy killing a lot of
people yeah I I love mafia stuff but I
hate serial killer stuff yeah I avoid it
- yeah calling from a two four zero area
code who's this where you come from
dammit thank you yes it is
who is this this is beautiful Maryland
are you know from Maryland how are you
what's going on so would you rather talk
about the postal service or the 2020
primary postal service and everyone else
would go 2020 primer so I work for the
Postal Service for quite a few years
actually her diagnosis earlier was
actually spot-on as to the reasons for
the financial difficulties it stems
almost exclusively or primarily from
them the requirement to pre-fund all of
the you know the retirement all that
stuff in advance but I mean the attempt
is
promote that slow undo the postal
service begins all the way back and you
know 1970 or so when it had to strike
and then postal reorganization Act of
1971 which basically is when it moved
from the Department of the post office
essentially a federal agency to volcán
service and I think at the time that was
under I guess Richard Nixon I think I
think sort of what they were hoping with
that you know they would do this
reorganization and the Postal Service
wouldn't be able to sustain itself
simply on sales of stamps or whatever
and then in and then it could quickly
move to privatize and I think they
weren't really counting on how efficient
the Postal Service actually is alright
interesting
but yeah yes that's true and so I mean
so that's basically you know this is one
of those things wouldn't have been
trying to sabotage the postal service
for many many many years and but yes
your diagnosis that's pretty much how
much bottle and I expect probably more
of the same type of stuff to come
throughout I'm no longer with them I
want a different agency now but yeah
well you know it's also another reason I
mean postal banking in and of itself I
think would be is is a great idea but
it's also you know absolutely once you
lock that in its look at me the post
office is your locks it takes care of
the funding take not just takes care of
the funding question it takes care of
the institutional integrity question
like you can't mess with it now it's
just doing too much for too many people
and and there's just too many people who
are invested in it and and I think to a
certain extent that this is another
example in some respects of how
universality ends up being a you know
sort of like the best form of insurance
of the integrity of the system it's just
like you know because they can come back
with this report but they're gonna be
hurting rural people
that you know the people most inclined
to to cut this our most dependent on
rural people for their for their votes
and there's really no there's really not
a lot they can do I mean there's a lot
they can do to undercut it and they can
they can hurt morale and whatnot but uh
this is the Postal Service the US Postal
Service is like you know when people
talk about do you want the government to
run something and it is let's be clear
it is it is it is self funding at least
you know to the extent that MIDI you
know maybe not necessarily running a
profit but it would certainly be self
funding if they didn't have this
requirement that was imposed by a
Republican Congress on their way out the
door in 2006 I think it was and this is
a perfect example of how you want the
government to run something because
they're doing stuff that a business
would not do that would not make sense
for a business to do and they're doing
it because job one is not profits job
one is provide service and and so and
that's why they do stuff that is
unprofitable but that's not the measure
of what government service does and so
appreciate the call by the way what
about postal postal banking by the way
was one of the major issues in the
collective bargaining negotiations a
couple years back the major the four
major unions in the Postal Service
bargained their national agreements
every four years and that was one of the
issues brought up at the bargaining
table was that the unions put forward as
an idea for the for the Postal Service
to be to be able to generate more
revenue and become more profitable as
opposed to you know trying to cut
salaries and benefits
so that was one of the arguments they
brought to the bargaining table against
management several years back was the
whole postal banking thing but um it
didn't fly at that time yeah all right
appreciate coffee no you know why they
have four unions inside the Postal
Service instead of one
why I would imagine there are letter
carriers there probably maybe you people
who drive trucks you know different
issues fly chain yeah
come from four seven eight area code
who's this where you come from little
Sam this is Jeff in Georgia how are you
Jeff in Georgia
what's on your mind Jeff real clear one
tell you I don't know if it came up at
all that was Peter breaker you folks
arrested about that days the chief White
House correspondent for the New York
Times nobody know yes yes it was
definitely not Peter Emerson was he
during Emerson Oh Peter Emerson is just
some dude like a you know a democratic
consultant which means he's not even the
most popular Peter Emerson no he's not
even like he's not even the most popular
Peter Emerson in politics as I write now
and that's more it's almost like the
people they'll be ters that appear on
hardball frequently yeah I tried to do
my work for you and I failed
he's a founding partner of Cape a
company that provides political and
public policy expertise strategic
communicate I wonder who his clients all
right I mean that's basically what comes
down oh and he's an Aquanaut but he does
that you know you seem like the kind of
guy with a sort of animal charisma and
sexual energy as a podcast host that's
Leslie doesn't sound like to me Sam
right no of course not
of course not Leslie mate I did say some
kind of theory that did do my homework
or a bit better an old little say a few
words about promise he talked about
promises made by liberals for
as political social reforms I mean I
almost I agree with you
we should definitely be making them to
hold those promises but you know III
really think that liberals as a
historical is a storable synthase
reform-minded institutionalists often
members and supporters of ruling class
so throughout history there been times
when they've promised social and
political performs even good ones ones
that people call adequate
contemporaneously and did and through
either duplicity or incompetence or
circumstance each one of which has
happened many times when they haven't
delivered one two things always happens
either extreme state-based repression or
revolution and in the United States
we're not trying for a left-wing
revolutionary to conquer a revolution
it's going to be a right-wing
authoritarian one and so I really do
think agency in America belongs in the
hands of liberals you need to get on
board with universalized
socialized programs or the game is up
because there's no one to come save us
there's no empire to come invade us and
liberate us right if we go down it's
over yeah well these people have the
illusion that the center can hold and we
can continue the way we have been going
without something calamitous happening
and that's just not true
yeah I mean I think I mean I think that
assessment I I don't I mean it's hard
look it's hard to it's hard to prove
that I think but it's certainly a
legitimate potential the other argument
for these programs is that they're
better and but the question then becomes
either ways like how does the left like
is it going to be
hoo-wee convincing right like the those
establishment figures are not going to
become convinced
I don't think on some level the there
has to be more from on the left it's
sort of create that environment I mean
so you know when Jamie says wildcat
strikes I mean I don't know we're gonna
go from from where we are now to wildcat
strikes but there are no shortcuts it's
not gonna happen overnight no right
there are no shortcuts and it's but my
point is is that you know when I was
talking to those teacher Union folk over
the summer there was a lot of them who
are like I am reevaluate
failure to use strikes as a you know
that we were we were too parsimonious in
our use of those and so there's a
distinction right there not to cut in
but just what you're pointing to like
and you see this very clearly in the UK
with how people and labor respond to
korban in the sense that there are
sudden you know whatever there's
variance in politics and that's fine
people have some different ideas but
there's definitely people in labour who
are like they came of age politically in
the 80s and 90s and they thought a
certain type of agenda was impossible
and now they see that it's possible
they're actually pretty happy because
they really do have some pretty
genuinely labor oriented left politics
and then there's like the Blair rights
who are really center-right just that's
their politics and I think that you know
a lot of that's getting mushed together
right now and these arguments with
because I think it's I think that I want
to definitely show centrist or whatever
that no guys I think this is the right
thing to do I think it's the winning
thing to do and I think we could build
coalitions around it but I think there
are other people who are they don't have
the same policy set they're willing to
just be relentlessly cynical and trying
to undermine it and so we have to
disaggregate who we're dealing with
right yeah right I mean perfect example
right you saw street graffiti in France
during the election that said McCrone
2017 equals lepen 28:23 did I get that
right 2022 when the French election is
anyway
seeing that happen right now like he did
not provide stability he did not solve
the problems using technocratic
liberalism he provoked a huge backlash
much of which is gonna come from the
right in a terrifying way right I know
yeah and I just also think that it it
doesn't they Alexa died it's you know
you can fight against all you want but
inevitably it's gonna come down to you
like people who are for birdie versus
everyone else even if we're for birdie
because he embraces these socialist
policy what if he doesn't run a quote
unquote around socialist boy if he if he
doesn't run then whoever inherits his
mantle with that thing who's a little
inevitably pretty hard for sherrod Brown
or Elizabeth Warren over the other pics
of a house with you I think sherrod
Brown I'm not sure shared brown really
wants to be president but I think he's a
strong contender teas doing it I mean if
somebody is just gonna be a legitimate
progressive liberal that is still a
significant upgrade that I would work
hard right right but I think that's the
the point to then with like you know
making it about a couple of issues but
on the other hand like I think Bernie
like a cory booker's proposal on baby
bonds is amazing that's one of the most
impressive innovative policies that I've
seen but I fundamentally like I will
vote for him if he's a nominee but
there's a higher barrier attribute cory
booker look I know his career I know his
donors I know what his politics are I'm
extremely skeptical yes but that's
that's it that's an example of why of
what of what Dane was saying was that
like you're learjet you're assessing
though his policy is like I like that
policy but it shouldn't be that way it
should be pick a couple of major
policies that you're bringing the entire
array of no I again at that point but my
point is is that cory booker has art I
mean actually I it's funny cuz I think
what's what I would sort of missed me
with Danes point is I think that's
actually already happens on things that
we've been working for like
medicare-for-all all of the main
contenders right now except I guess for
Biden have
come out and co-sponsored Bernie's bill
so we're already in the phase of
actually having to look at who do I
really believe based off of their donors
based off of their alliances based off
their voting histories they're actually
gonna do this so I mean we can of course
it's dialectic you have to do both but
the idea of pretending that this is just
some type of like yeah we're all at an
equal starting point and we can assert
these policies and see where everybody
goes without evaluating where people are
coming from politically I think it's
just naive yeah who they get their money
from it's incredibly predictive because
that's who they're beholden doesn't ever
I was just about to say if for some
reason Bernie doesn't run then the
inheritor of his mantle that will be the
clearest way to tell who that is he was
funding them the the one that adopts his
fundraising bottle and utilizes his
based in the same kinds of ways but I
hope you're right about that because
Obama got a ton of small that's a real
ornate but he also got the most from
Wall Street and I think that especially
if you're in you're in a very specific
cohort like Jamie and I frankly like
early mid 30s and you but you actually
experienced Obama I think that that's
actually a very good lesson in like that
that was do you get that in the in the
image in the primary did he get more
Wall Street than than Clinton did I
don't I know he did get a lot in the
primary I don't know I don't know me but
I well honestly beginning he got a huge
amount of hedge fund in Wall Street from
the beginning and I think that you know
and for what it's worth you could I'll
say it like a look at Elizabeth Warren
if we're talking about people say like I
have problems with her but she's got
skin in the game to show that she went
up against some of the most powerful
people in the entire political process
and was on the other side of them when
it was unpopular not easy and genuinely
adversarial and that is a demonstration
and you can't just replicate that just
because you endorse a policy set thanks
for college epidemic oh man you keep
talking in peasant like I've heard
it from so many people that you know the
best way to
implement progressive change social
democracy even move us closer to real
socialism is to work through the
Democratic Party and realign it at least
as part of your strategy you know that's
what the DSA does they have an inside
outside strategy and and if we're gonna
do that and if we want to really make
the democratic party a progressive party
a Labour Party a party for the working
class we can't have a coalition with
Wall Street and with people who
represent Wall Street because our
interests are never going to align yeah
III agree with it come from a 906 area
code who's this where you calling from
hello hello Nick from Michigan Nick from
Michigan what's on your mind well first
off I just wanted to you know I wanted
to call in and thank you guys for you
know helping to expand my knowledge of
left-wing and socialist politics I
happen to be a socialist myself and I
actually ran for local office this year
during election I lost but I got 23
percent of the vote in my village so
that's actually a pretty big win
considering it's a very red district
down good good for you now Jack
Bergman's district oh yeah yeah well
anyway the other day i was listening to
Michaels show and he had on professor
Richard wolf who was talking about al
qussair and you know the impact of
ideology on our on our capitalist system
and that got me that got me thinking
so I was wondering do you guys see the
right wing's focus on their defense of
cultural norms such as gender race
religion or their demands for political
civility as a natural reaction on the
part of our capitalist system to
maintain conditions for the replication
of its social institutions because the
Left represents a change in or a
reinterpretation
American social ideology and therefore a
change in the conditions under which
these institutions exist and is this
another contradiction within capitalism
in that in order to maintain these
social institutions it must maintain
public trust and control over the
ideology yet it undermines that trust in
its pursuit of profit and expose it
exposes its own ideological hypocrisy
for example private private prison
corporations profiting from the media's
fear-mongering are using it as an excuse
to build what are essentially
concentration camps well at the same
time you know that that sort of thing
contradicts the American social ideology
of being a nation of immigrants and
causes cognitive dissonance within our
population well yeah I mean I the the
quick answer is yeah I think so for the
most part you know look the I don't know
I I mean maybe at one level it is there
are you know yeah I mean maybe at the
top level when you get talked about the
think tanks they fundamentally
understand that the emancipation of
people across across our society and in
making our society more egalitarian in
terms of you know putting aside
economics but just in terms of like
cultural values and the the merit
associated with with with with skill
sets and predispositions of different
people and life experiences of different
people fundamentally undermines the
existing power structure it's not clear
to me that you couldn't still maintain
capitalism minoo with with that with
those older institutions following but
there's certainly more of a threat to it
right
as you're bringing your you're bringing
in a different set of values and in you
one would be correct in in in being
worried about it and it may look right I
don't know if it's a coincidence that
Medicare you know gets passed around the
same time in our history as the Civil
Rights Act I mean I don't I've never you
know read anybody who's who's like
theorized that but but but one it's not
hard to imagine that as more people get
invited into you know the the power
structure as it as the power structure
becomes more diverse that other ideas
and expectations of what government
should do you know change although those
weren't I think right I think the
balance is like I think it's like how
specifically do you define it as like
counterculture or not counterculture or
like I'm I'm of the of the school that
you take these these movements for
essentially civil rights across the
board and you like assert them inside
and are like counter hegemonic to them
versus trying to say you're like trying
to completely uproot and disregard them
so like you know if you look at things
like civil rights and even like Michael
Harrington writing about the other
America at that time that came out in
the early sixties right wasn't that part
of the impetus behind like the war on
poverty and things like that the
rhetoric and the politics of it was we
need this country and it's discourses
and it's hegemonic ideas about democracy
and about opportunity which we all know
are hypocritical and didn't live it in
any way up to its verbage but we
actually need it to we're gonna like
force it to and so those movements were
not like they were positing like an
enlargement and a redefinition not like
a sort of disregarding of those things
and I think that that's a good all men
are created equal things yeah okay so
really let's do that and
I think that's where you know right and
that's where like the Gramsci and ideas
to me are a little bit more interesting
than Altis there but if you make all men
created equal and regardless of what the
rhetoric has been if you actually do
that all people are created equal you
it's I hate to say it zero-sum and
someone is going to be losing power and
even if they're just losing it in a
cultural sense put aside for a moment
economics even if they're just losing it
in a cultural sense once you have it in
a cultural sense really values right
because the statement like all people
are created equal
could be used to support something very
conservative and meritocratic and say
well you know some people have more than
others because everyone's created equal
and some people work harder than other
people do right originally was I guess
hop Euler democracy affects how we
interpret these things right and I guess
also I've guess if I understand your
question correctly which I don't know if
I am which I'm I'm trying to speak to I
think those are good points
I'm just trying I think the point I'd
have for you is I think that there are
some things that are and by the way I
think there are things of capitalism
facilitates that are desirable in
certain instances right like for sure
but I don't think that some movements of
social come patreon.com slash TPMS
desirable aspect of capitalism I think
though that like there are definitely
some like social means of social
progress that come along with capitalism
that are good things but they don't pose
any type of fundamental threat to
capitalism in any way shape or form yeah
I think that so I think that's like know
like like like marriage equality do I
support it is it absolutely essential
absolutely no question is that something
that's gonna threaten the market system
not at all well here's the thing when
you when you sever class politics from
what we now know is quote-unquote
identity politics you can have a
progressive identity politics without
having a progressive class politics now
everyone in this room knows
that you cannot actually help the
majority of women minorities etc without
redistributed programs economically but
I mean I think is the question about the
difference between the right and left
wing approaches to these issues because
questions the question was as far as I
know was our Conservatives right to be
afraid of social change as a threat to
capitalism and I think you know like let
me put this way it depends on what kind
yes but I also think it certainly
doesn't care if you're gay I know it
well and it certainly it's it seems to
be to be more of a defense of social
institutions which are themselves a part
of our capitalist system say for example
the war on Christmas sort of thing or
the the war on religion and I guess in a
broader sense if you want to include the
struggles of you know homosexual people
and and LGBTQ and all that I don't think
in today's phase of capitalism that's
true for the ruling class honestly I
look in valley Wall Street in a way to
capitalism doesn't care about those no
one can profit no use for overt racism
anymore and overt sexism as long as they
can still benefit from the fact that we
have a permanently racialized underclass
women get paid less than men those
things are still enshrined so why would
they care about I'm not convinced that
marriage equality doesn't in some way
erode some of the the underpinnings of
of capitalism how insofar as it's going
to have an impact it's going to weaken
the power of other institutions that I
think maintain capitalism in our society
anything it opens up way more
opportunities for capitalism and markets
well that may be the case in terms of
like you know short term
but I think in terms of like the the
idea of religion becoming weekend I
think is is you think religion probably
change yeah capitalism is totally
junking religion across the globe
capitalism in lethally happen so often
yeah but in late-stage capitalism right
now as it's common it's done a very good
job I mean the religious people I know
are capitalists though but me not into
it's not a driver of like global
capitalism I mean I think you know the I
I think you know Donald Trump got into
office in the context of this country
because of refill religious affiliations
right I mean that is the case I mean and
i i I mean I think that it's I don't
think that there is that that capitalism
helps religion necessarily at all but I
think religion is definitely when you
have a structure in a system that has a
a specific hierarchy and can be called
upon to support its called upon to
support it seems to me far more
effectively capitalism knowledge then
they rival most powerful religious
institution in the world like if you
just have to pick one as an institution
not a religion what's the most powerful
probably the Catholic Church right
listen to what the Pope says about
capitalism and market policies and how
that is nothing to do with anything that
happens even in Catholic majority
countries it's totally disregarded yeah
but I don't that's not what I'm I'm not
that that doesn't I mean I don't know
these people disregard the story of
Jesus and the money changers yeah
exactly that doesn't that doesn't mean
it's a question of like what is
capitalism use what does capitalism you
know use to promulgate
but by that same token I mean Liberation
Theology religion can be used for
anything far more successfully used by
capitalists not necessarily I mean we
would not have passion see in this
country if it weren't for white
Catholics that's true but in today's
world the Catholic Church even
conservative religious institutions are
opposed to and sometimes we would be
aligned with capitalist I'm aligned with
capitalists who want Saudi Arabia to
move out of gender or apartheid
well Catholicism isn't the most most
powerful institution of religion in this
country I think in this country and
globally I'm just saying I don't
there are plenty in today's moment
there's a huge amount of conflict where
a religious sensibility you could run up
against market logic and market logic is
always going to win and I about social
progress right and whether or not social
it the social insofar as it can be
divorced from the economic is a kind of
progress that's going to undermine the
capitalist system I think it's a bit
like the tail wagging the dog like I'm
not a 100% a materialist reductionist
like some Marxists out there I think
it's more of a dialectic than that there
is some give-and-take between the two
but it generally speaking stuff like
religion and the social sphere is the
second-order thing that follows based
upon who's got the material power in the
world you know right uh uh yeah but
that's not necessarily I think really
positive of the idea that that the more
egalitarian our institutions become the
the more it weakens capitalism those are
not I mean that's that's the the point
I mean libertarians sure thought the
expansion of voting rights was going to
spell troubles for capitalism like this
is demonstrable that's not what we're
talking about but it but it does right
capitalism and democracy use
contradiction that's why capitalism to
capture the the political sphere I think
there's a difference it's because of the
spread of democracy yeah yeah I think
he's trying to fake to reckon with the
with why certain formations of
capitalism or neoliberal capitalism like
I don't know Obama centrism can deal
with equality for gay people trans
people women etc you know nominal
equality within the system and why more
right-wing formations can't write a
candid full Kingdom what Obama's exactly
can Obama's brand fully deal with it or
can it just appear to deal with those
and address those issues i I don't think
I don't think like Obama's capitalism
could do like persist under a world
where you leveled wealth to make a
distinction between I guess what I'm
saying is I think cuz I would put things
like voting rights in the democracy
category which to me automatically
implicates the things you're talking
about Matt but I would say like as an
example like I don't know that like but
people getting the right to vote in the
south and voting for a completely
different economic agenda has a as a
much more one-to-one relationship than
people getting marriage equality right
very what about but no but they're you
know I don't think I think no I think
they're indicative of that I'm not
saying they're they're indicative of
emancipatory getting a place within the
existing system exactly a seat at the
table
you know implications of certain social
like what we there's various and except
on television could be as an example a
great form of social and cultural
progress does not have the same at all
implications for how we design an
economy as I mean in the South getting
notice in its it may be the case I mean
that's a stretch to I think that when we
look back on if we're in a position in
30 years or 40 years of a far more
socialist anxiety in America okay
because I don't know the I can't track
the emancipatory
politics in other countries but in
America we will see marriage equality as
part of a decline of existing
institutions that supported that were
the pillars of capitalism in this
country and and I think this Torah Klee
yes and and I think voting rights are
certainly that's exactly that's how we
started off by saying that Medicare or I
seniors on Medicare in the Civil Rights
Act you know took place you know around
the same time because as you bring more
people into the system and give them
more power and more rights which is what
marriage equality is right it's a
wholesome radical queer activists who
were opposed to anyone doing activism
around marriage equality because that
was just going to bring this
historically marginalized class of
people like some certain representatives
like the most well-to-do among them into
a system that supports in 2004 it was a
massive massive tool for for the Bush to
get reelected and that tool is gone and
it was replaced in some respects by not
something terribly different an open
seat on the Supreme Court and you know
that brought trumpet I mean so well
though the left and right wings of
neoliberalism weaponized identity in
different ways I agree and but I'm
saying that the I'm addressing the
question of does social change and
emancipatory politics putting aside for
a moment economics threaten capitalism
our conservatives right to get to feel
it and I think the answer is yes I mean
I think it always don't you think I mean
just the last you do it okay well you
shouldn't always be worried you're gonna
get hit by a bus if you run across the
street but in general yes it's a fear
you should have and like I think one
really important thing that needs to
happen is these struggles need to be
connected back to one another you know
class politics identity politics to the
to the you know route car
of the inequalities in our system I
appreciate the call next street don't
worry about buses like I think there's I
think there's actually you should worry
about bus though I think there's
something to when like reactionaries
throughout time have been like called
people agitating for like women's
liberation or like black civil rights to
call them communists I think they're I
don't think they're completely mistaken
about that I think they actually do send
something very deep about the welfare
state was completely racialized
know the difference between like just
like and this is something Adolph read
writes about just okay and this is where
it's like we can't equate all of these
things like in the like last couple of
decades there being some very necessary
and positive and usually important like
cultural advances in terms of what's on
some of them I could even sip okay like
marriage equality set that aside maybe
but like at the same time that there has
been some major broadening of cultural
agreements around rights for certain
groups of people and even just like what
is civically acceptable which is of
course been blown up by Trump there's
still a massive increase in inequality
including some very racialized
inequality so even by the time you get
to Reagan like you look at the
literature schools are getting right
back into like resegregate in levels of
pre-civil rights and on a policy level
it's actually moving in all the wrong
directions even as on a cultural level
there's a broader like you know what we
do need to have more like black sitcom
actors we do need to and which by the
way those things are super important I'm
not saying it help for that social
reproduction absolutely it's not an
either/or but it's very important to not
falsely equate that just because those
trends are moving the right direction
that they're working on the core
economic levels that's the point yeah I
am I the way I view it is like you get
those things out of the way because they
need to be dealt with and then it frees
you up to focus on more than Africa
focusing I don't think you're strong but
I think they're I think it's a little
bit of a bank shot but to to to
go through III I mean I agree with what
Matt is saying in terms of you do those
things because they're the right thing
to do I
they would not be the first we all are
oh you pull out of a quiver - you know
undermine capitalism in some way
although I think it's it's probably
somewhat essential I mean you're not
going to get I mean well maybe that's
not true I mean basically socialistic we
had do I think this is where I do agree
with Jamie though there is absolutely a
politics that says you do not have to
deal with those core issues as long as
certain areas of cultural replication
and reproduction are represented and
produced as an example a friend of mine
who works in aids and activism related
to LGBTQ teens he did say he said after
we accomplished marriage equality there
was a massive drop-off in terms of donor
support and interest and those issues
specifically of homelessness in that
community right that's what I'm pointing
to I mean two things the enemy of our
enemy is not necessarily a friend right
just because Republicans oppose marriage
equality doesn't mean that marriage
equality is going to be an economically
progressive force in the world
and two there's there's not a one-to-one
comparison with most of these things
they are connected but like it's not a
straight line like we can't just assume
that social progress is going to
continue because that's the way it
happens I mean we saw why Mar Germany
was extremely socially progressive
people were able to be queer in public
and then you know you saw what happened
with the rise of Hitler not that much
long not that long later and it's not
exclusive to capitalist formations
either like unfortunately the early
Soviet Union was also very socially
progressive Alexandra : tie was in
charge of basically the entire social
sphere women and gay people had rights
in the early 1900s that they don't even
have in some places now and then
he'll back with his regressive version
of communism so I guess what I'm trying
to say is they are connected but not
it's not given you know right all right
we got to start wrapping stuff up here
but I want to this is uh this kelly
craft on CBS at CBC I should say this is
number five some of you may find this a
little bit disturbing I imagine if you
were in Canada and you were watching
this I mean I think they've seen some of
this before right have we seen this
already
isn't this old this new this is new I
think she is the American ambassador to
Canada and I think I've seen her say
this before but um her husband well well
that's uh that's the that's the chaser
right guess what industries he's
involved in well let's see let's see if
we can gain it from her expressions
let's see she is on CBC and sent to
terrify Canada I believe there are signs
that there but both on both sides that
are accurate I think that both sides
have you know they have their own
results from their studies and I
appreciate and I respect both sides of
the science I both sides of the science
are accurate the side that says man is
not contributing to climate change in
the side that says the man is
contributing out there both sides are
accurate what's that I have cancer you
don't but one cancer says I don't I'm
happy just I don't need a third opinion
says I'm gonna just I'm gonna hang out
with those two opinions and I'm gonna
just see what happens but in this
instance in this little play lit that
I've done where one doctor tells me I
have cancer and the other one doesn't my
my husband is a makes a ton of money off
of
me not having cancer for whatever reason
there in this case the the new
ambassador to Canada from the United
States husband is a coal billionaire of
course
so maybe the worst type of billionaire I
don't know that could be it's up there
that's a it's up there I mean I think if
you I think like the opiate the Sackler
is pretty bad to actual vampires yeah I
mean it it's arguable as you could just
put in like Chapo like you could just
say like they're just like cartel heads
hey there yes were there worse you're
right because like I were some level
like you know they are they people by
the street drugs there there's there
they're assuming some measure of risk
yeah that's the truth right and and the
thing is even with Cole like you could
make an argument that like look don't
lean it's turn on the lights we need to
turn on the lights and we only had this
is what we had for a long time and you
know it was one of those things where
it's like you know yeah I shouldn't have
you know the desert but the real problem
is I have like the whole pie I think the
Sackler is pretty close and maybe you
could say like oh we're the ones who
developed like cluster bombs did you say
the Sackler have been moving to African
markets did you see was there they are a
personification of capital this is
pretty funny Mehdi Hasan was on Seth
Meyers program last night and he is on
the AJ al Jazeera it's not the stream
right and here is making observation
about how the US press treats its
politicians it said something about
competition I think but but uh what are
the differences that you've seen and how
the UK press and the u.s. press deals
with power it's a very good question and
I think you guys it's definitely there's
a cultural issue you guys had your read
Ellucian War of Independence you kick
the Brits out and yet weirdly you're
more deferential to power I would argue
them we are you know the president walks
into the East Room of the White House
and the White House press corps stands
up which I find British journalist for
all their sins would not stand up if the
Prime Minister comes into the room
they'd be lucky to even pay attention
sometimes you guys have this thing where
it's kind of Banana Republic
esque where you allow your politicians
to have their job titles for life so
remember in 2012 it was Governor Romney
Governor Romney got governor of what his
backyard he hadn't been governor of
Massachusetts for five years secretary
Albright Secretary Clinton mayor
Giuliani ambassador Bolton if anyone
here lost their job they wouldn't get to
keep the title the next day why do you
do that why'd you do that with your
politicians it's true I mean I was like
you know the Brits have the monarchy and
so it lets a little air out of the tires
this is sort of our you know wanting
part of that like we hadn't have Dukes
so we call him governor and we don't
have you know sirs or you know knights
and and kings and queens and we're even
protected by the First Amendment over
here who's actually you know someone
somebody asked me if if I had watched
the it was as a former in-law ask me if
I had watched the the George Herbert
Walker Bush
funeral and I was like nah I didn't and
he thought it was cuz it was about
Bush's politics and I was like yeah no I
didn't I'm not a fan of his politics but
I'm also like what like what like he's
in a mausoleum and like why do I I don't
I don't like I'm not gonna watch that I
don't it's no I show up to some people's
funerals that I don't know I'd show up
to Noam Chomsky's funeral well no I
would show I'm not saying I shunned the
idea of funerals but like just because
he was a president it's not like I'm
stopping everything I did if I really
like the guy I might do it but it's the
the implication of like a former
presidents died we we got to shut those
shuttler religion I'm gonna shut the
gotta get over that
like the idea of Calais Sam Noam Chomsky
was great but whatever yeah he's in the
ground it doesn't make to me cut errands
to run all we are is got everything run
I'm gonna test out the spring of my new
Casper mattress alright lastly there's
Donald Trump announcing the exciting
news that spill bar a smarter Jeff
Sessions will be nominated to the
Attorney General spot this is gonna take
months so we'll see I imagine this guy
will get confirmed ultimately and he's
also going to appoint Heather Nauert
said I would pronounce her name now it
UN ambassador she doesn't have a I think
most of her experience in government has
come from the Trump administration but
she was a former Fox News personality so
there's that so I'll be going to Kansas
City will be traveling to Missouri I'm
making a speech on law enforcement very
important subject I want to confirm that
bill gar one of the most respected
jurists in the country highly respected
lawyer former attorney general under the
Bush administration a terrific man a
terrific person a brilliant man I did
not know him for until recently when I
went through the process of looking at
people and he was my first choice from
day one respected by Republicans and
respected by Democrats he will be
nominated for the United States Attorney
General
and hopefully that process will go very
quickly and I think it will go very
quickly and I've seen very good things
about him even over the last day or so
when people thought that it might be
bill bar so bill bar will be nominated
for the United States Attorney General
position I think he will serve with
great distinction I also want to inform
you that Heather now heard somebody that
we know very well has done a great job
at the as working with Mike Pompeo and
Lance over at the State Department
Heather now it will be nominated she's
going to work with nikki Haley to
replace Nikki at the United Nations
she'll be ambassador to the United
Nations she's very talented very smart
very quick and I think she's going to be
respected by all so Heather now it will
be nominated for the ambassador to the
United Nations
you know what strikes me now like when
this guy it's like there's a quality of
like he's walking out and he's just
wearing his underwear and he's
pretending that he's fully clothed like
he's just like why even why why are we
even going through why can't he just
come out and go bill Barr Heather Nauert
I'll see you guys later
well he's still talking like he's on a
reality show yes he still thinks there
are people I mean I guess he knows that
he's performing to his 30 or 40% 45% of
people and that they still need a show
he doesn't name well no he doesn't
though right like no he kind of tells on
himself when he's like I didn't know him
until very recently it really like
moments like that where he's really
trying hard to come off as being sort of
sane or when I think he's the most like
not saying like even a year from now I'm
worried about what he's gonna be like in
a way it's I mean I'm not sympathetic
but it's kind of the most human because
those are the moments for your like on
some level he's a narcissistic sociopath
but he doesn't know what he's done old
man who's losing his ability to well he
doesn't want to be impulsive
hahaha buddy yes
alright folks sorry we got callers on
the on the phone can't get to you it's
already now the witching hour ladies and
gentlemen of 3:00 p.m. I guess time has
flown by
once again the it feels that way for the
entire week time flies when you're
talking about dialectics indeed we will
see you Monday
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
