[Music]
here's someone else who I think is
having just a little bit of trouble of
dealing with certain realities and there
are now it appears to be greater calls
not quite institutional but greater
calls within the Democratic Party for
various candidates who clearly have not
caught fire and don't look to be
catching fire in the presidential
elections to maybe go back to their home
states and at the very least run in the
Senate and the very least poll resources
why whether it's Colorado or Texas a
couple other states the idea of a
formidable candidate jumping into the
race now is going to pull a lot of
resources from Republicans and capturing
the Senate is hugely important it's
going to be very difficult to do it's
unlikely but it's not impossible but
here's Beto trying to respond and we're
in 2.0 now territory right or are we in
two point five territory we're past 2.0
where it could be a two point five we
could be a 3.0 soon beto 3.0 where he is
talking about why it it appears he
hasn't caught fire but sometimes
appearances can be deceptive it's just
he used the wrong example look there is
a lot of time before the Iowa caucus
we've never been guided by a poll before
if you were to look at the Texas Senate
race the first couple months after we
were in no poll was going to say that we
were
to win that when I first ran for for
Congress in 2012 against an incumbent
and against some very long odds no poll
at any point said that we were going to
win and yep yet we did and if I well
here's the problem with that of course
he didn't win the Senate race
so those polls were accurate but he also
entered into the Senate race two years
before the election right I mean the
general election and he's only now what
are we six six months out less from the
Iowa caucus here is better O'Rourke in
Knoxville Iowa being introduced by a
local Democrat from Dave Wagle calls him
quote a blank slate waiting to be filled
by our hopes and dreams man we solved
text you know I really try
to keep it together here this has been
very humiliating it is not gone
according to my delusions of grandeur
and when you say what is subtext and
make it text it has a tendency to look
make certain people look very badly
oh the further this goes the more I want
to just eat bait oh if you want to come
over and cry a little bit and listen to
the cure with me my door is always open
I'm saying I can't get over the fact
that this is a mixed metaphor a blank
slate waiting to be filled you don't
feel it's going to like it it's just
gonna drip on the sides you shouldn t be
like a bucket waiting to be filled by
our hopes and dreams or a blank slate
willing to be drawn upon or projected or
you know and if we can just use
placeholder text for the actual text
that we use in our introductions we can
save a lot of time we could have we
don't give Dave Weigel the opportunity
to humiliate me that way which would be
great this wasn't what I envy
when I was on vanity fair a couple of
months ago here's what I want to say no
introduction you do it you do it in your
head think of what you want that's the
way my introduction goes in your head
okay so Who am I you tell me in fact
that's how we're gonna get everyone
involved in this what a call on you and
you're gonna tell me who I am I was
never that I did not think this was
gonna happen I go to the Senate running
the Senate buddy running the Senate
can't don't like him better than people
judge run in the Senate yeah run for the
Senate bro sorry I honestly like I read
a week oh I read that Vanity Fair piece
I was like I really want to like this
guy but when you get to the issue part
it was always sort of like whoa we're
still working on that
I read that Vanity Fair piece and I
thought wow what an
he's gonna be crying like a baby in my
arms in no time I was born to do this to
nationally humiliate myself and then be
comforted by a left-wing podcast host
that was the purpose of this campaign
joke mama knows California has
