Nadira more with Sam's Peeta the destiny
of America is always safer in the hands
of the people than in
the conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday July 9 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today
Sarah reco co-author of outside money in
school board elections the
nationalization of education politics
also on the program today
[Applause]
Epstein could implicate Trump officials
and naturally Dems in full retreat
meanwhile bill Barr says Donald Trump
can add a citizenship question to the
census if he wants to felix seder
supposedly set to testify behind closed
doors to the intelligence community
today and Tom Styer decides to waste one
hundred billion dollars meanwhile
another billionaire candidate Ross Perot
dies
Democrats set to subpoena Kushner and
sessions and more and then probably do
nothing
the Fifth Circuit to hear a case which
could end the ACA Democrats literally
walking away from the offer to see
Donald Trump's tax returns and a federal
judge quashes the rule requiring drug
prices on TV meanwhile the hotly
contested surrogate if you will
dem fight and the Queens da race heads
to what will be a laborious hand recount
and Pennsylvania goes after reformer
prosecutor Larry Krasner's powers all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen just an incredibly
frustrating day already I'm already
super irritated and if that's coming
across a little bit we could turn the
fan down in here it's a little bit a
little bit loud but that's all so it's
running in parallel with the grinding
noise that is in the back of my brain
right now when I see the just utter
they're you know over the past six
months I think one could at various
times make reasonable arguments that the
Democrats have a strategy that favors
the 2020 elections over a lot of things
that they should be doing I thought my
feeling would be that that would be at
least a somewhat rational argument to
make I think it's not
a particularly strong one but it's
becoming apparent that there is to the
extent that there is any strategy here
it seems to be basically let's just go
away and hope that Donald Trump and
Republicans are bad enough that people
vote against them like let's not even
forget offering some type of other
vision there in some respects they're
doing that the democrats have passed 55
pieces of legislation they're going to
pass a $15 an hour minimum wage every
single piece of this these pieces of
these legislation die before they get to
the threshold of the Senate because
Mitch McConnell knows there's no reason
for him to even hold a vote on these
things in fact it would be stupid for
him to hold a vote on these things why
go on the record as being against them
two or three weeks ago Cheri Bustos the
head of the d-triple-c presumably one of
the key architects of this strategy was
bemoaning the fact that voters don't
seem to be paying attention to anything
they're doing and of course when you
make that assessment right what they say
there's like you know awareness of the
problem is 50% of the solution
apparently it's about 5% of the solution
because the democrats seem to be and by
the democrats I'm talking about the
leadership of the Democratic Party in
the form of Chuck Schumer and Nancy
Pelosi and maybe it's more chuck
schumer's fault
may I I mean it's it's hard to make that
argument when you see that not only are
they not pursuing impeachment they are
not pursue
the low-hanging fruit of just basic
oversight
they're not even pursuing rhetorical
oversight yesterday Andrew Cuomo signed
a bill that allowed for the Ways and
Means Committee as dictated by the
chairman of that committee to see the
taxes of any individual at wants in New
York State in other words if you want to
see Donald Trump's state taxes you can
see them you won't have the federal
taxes but it's going to give you a very
good notion of what's in there
broadly speaking and Richard Neil
response was no thank you
he waited months to file a lawsuit to
get them out of a federal court after
minuchin said no waited months to ask
and then waited to file the lawsuit and
then when given the basically given the
taxes he said that I know it's in that
envelope not gonna open it when the
Miami Herald does a story that
implicates Alex Acosta and then is
subsequently found to have basically
broken the law Alex Acosta as a US
attorney in the way that he made a
sweetheart plea deal for a guy who's
running basically a child prostitution
ring one would think that as the sitting
Secretary of Labor the Democrats might
say hey that's a bad guy you're a bad
guy for letting a pedophile to seemingly
walk away and also letting off his
co-conspirators who apparently had to
serve no time
remember he served time in a County Jail
I imagine if you're a billionaire you
can make county jail pretty pretty cush
and I think you got to go out six days a
week
yeah he's able to work every day and I
imagine that must have been some hard
work he was doing at his home office and
when asked yesterday do you have any
comments regarding Alex Acosta of
Democrats including Chuck Schumer who is
the leader of the Senate who opposed
Acosta
now that Jeffrey Epstein has been
indicted in by the feds in New York are
you going to say anything about it no
that might draw attention to him in some
fashion here's the question when bill
bar tells Donald Trump you can go and
put and change this question on the
census even after the Supreme Court has
said you cannot and if Donald Trump does
it what are the Democrats gonna do how
do you let this stand how do you let
like what is left this is a real problem
because they seem to be hell-bent I mean
there's one thing with like okay the
circumstance is six months ago it looks
like we shouldn't impeach it we
shouldn't impeach the mall report comes
out it doesn't bill Barr did a great job
of spinning this thing beforehand we
shouldn't impeach oh they're completely
obstructing every single reasonable
asked for us to fulfill our oversight
function we shouldn't impeach Oh the
Secretary of Labor was involved in some
type of large cover-up that could very
well implicate the president
incidentally we may take some time to go
into this but you all remember there was
a woman who filed a lawsuit against
Donald Trump in California claiming that
she was sexually assaulted by him in
Epstein's house shiri filed in New York
in the run-up to the election and then
was supposedly intimidated away but she
names people who apparently are also
named in the epstein scandal now maybe
she did some research and she's
absolutely crazy and decided to do this
that's I mean I suppose stranger things
have happened but Occam's razor would
suggest that maybe actually there's a
problem here maybe there were
co-conspirators involved and where are
the Democrats on this we're just we're
not even it's not even a question of
being on the sidelines they're leaving
the stadium they're leaving the state
they seem to want to go into a different
time zone completely backing into this
stuff looking at what they're doing
seeing it's not working and then doing
absolutely nothing about it absolutely
nothing okay at what threshold I mean it
really is honestly as if they've dug in
so much now that there is nothing that
this administration could do that would
cause them to exercise oversight
in a meaningful way they have apparently
this concept of oversight overreach what
it's based upon I have no idea because
we had was it seven different
investigations into Benghazi maybe it's
more I don't know millions upon millions
of dollars when was the last time a
Republican said the words Benghazi the
only thing that came out of Benghazi of
all of it there were 10 10 different
unique investigations into what happened
in Benghazi can anybody remember what
the inciting incident was in this it was
there was an attack on what turned out
to be well was theoretically a the
embassy annex in Benghazi the first
assessment of this attack was that it
was a part of a protest that was going
on in the Arab world to a video that had
been released about Mohammed this was
going on and above if I recall on that
day in seven or eight different
locations some places where these places
were overrun where embassies were people
broke through some of the the compounds
I remember this distinctly because I
think I was doing I was hosting Chris
Hayes's weekend program that and I
remember the graphic of the different
like little dots on there and when this
was indicated when was happening and
because the State Department thought it
was part of the video they didn't send
people and I think it's also quite
possible that it was see
i√§ affiliated that there may have been a
weapons cache their cachet and so they
weren't so the government wasn't the US
government wasn't fully transparent
about what the was why that place may
have been attacked
regardless ten different investigations
one material thing came out of these
investigations one material thing that
Hillary Clinton had a private email
server which as you know ended up
implicating the 2016 election depending
on who you talk to
significantly or quite significantly
that is what the Comey letter was all
about so and recall if you if you can
find a single person who said they voted
against Republicans in 2016 or 2018
because of the Benghazi overreach I
would like to meet that person if you
could find anybody the most partisan
Democrat who will list the Benghazi
oversight overreach as the top five
reasons why they don't like Republicans
today without any prompting I will send
you uh I don't know sticker or I know
what do we get over there I see some
bolts I don't know go outs of books it's
not a book
don't sign them there you go but I need
I know don't rig it the point being that
what the Democrats are doing are
completely is completely without any
foundation in the real world and it it
is a total failure of leadership it's
not even a skittish leadership it's not
even a terribly lacking in imagination
strategy it's just complete and utter AB
education of any role in our government
it is both political malfeasance and
just governmental malfeasance like you
need to serve your role as oversight it
just so happens that there's probably a
huge boon politically involved in that
but nothing I mean it's it's stunning
well that was very inspiring can I ask
you a question however Sam do we have a
moment or do you need to riff more well
go ahead we're gonna continue tell me
how to do my job have you talked to
anybody recently about their experience
with Invisalign treatments I have not
you have not have you well I could tell
you that there were a lot of good common
sense middle-class Americans who aren't
obsessed with partisan warfare or child
sex trafficking or whatever go as I did
your head who are quite upset they think
they're gonna have a hassle-free path to
a perfect smile I'm not getting that
return that's the kind of common sense
everyday American thing that we're gonna
continue to work out of the Senate and
if you don't like that and you leftist
partisan extremist broadcast and there's
nothing I could do to help you oh I'm
sorry my wife said the other one Carolee
there's a parking space by the Brooklyn
Public Library's she doesn't like going
to honestly like okay you know and then
I meant even talking about Tom Steyer
yet it's like I that's too much to take
on it one no kidding like honestly like
all I can think if it's like I just want
to take a hammer over there and just
like I just pound it on my hand till
this feeling goes away this is something
that he so you're literally millions of
places the guy could put his money more
effectively Tom Steyer oh yeah yeah no
no no I mean I will get into that later
folks let me just try and regain my
composure here by telling you about
kaptara
this is this is one of those to support
this is what I would call a kaptara
moment for me this is when I start to
scroll through their huge assortment of
reviews on different business software
and contemplate what other business
could I go into that will not make me
this angry as you know whether you're
trying to get a sweet deal on something
or you're looking for a restaurant
whatever it is you go to a review site
right well why should be looking for a
the right software for your business be
any different you can read thousands of
real software reviews and find the right
software at your business for your
business at kaptara
dot-com slash majority where that exists
for I don't 700 specific categories of
business software and then gives reviews
for them so there's 700 I know how many
different ones are each one but I mean
like thousands of pieces of software
that are reviewed 850 thousand reviews
of products from real software users
from project management to email
marketing has everything you need to
make an informed decision fast millions
of people use kaptara each month to find
the right tools for their business I'm
just gonna I'm gonna scroll through I'm
gonna go bakery software maybe I could
go and own a bakery though thank you mom
more calm
god damn it where are the croissants
that's good self insight right there
there you go exactly
claims processing software class
registration software clinical trial
management software I'm just in the C's
let me scroll down to the FS financial
reporting software financial risk
software fire department software
fitness software fleet maintenance
software foodservice distribution
forestry software I think that would be
actually good for me go and work in some
type of Forestry Service
gamification software gamification
software hmm maybe we could do that with
government software GPS tracking
software gradebook software scroll all
the way down here to double use
warehouse management website builder
Wireless expense management software
workforce management worship software
you go there and just basically looking
for a new job just go there and decide
by looking at all the different software
you can visit kaptara comm slash
majority for free today to find the
tools to make an informed software
decision for your business kaptara
dot-com slash majority that's kaptara CA
p te r r a.com slash majority kaptara
software selection totally simplified
alright we didn't even get to that story
of this this guy do we have time for it
or no okay we're gonna go take a quick
break and talk to Sarah Rec out on how
money is influencing school board
elections so that's fascinating Tom
Steyer yeah NASA raisings Hospital
politics honestly we right back
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program associate
professor in the Department of Political
Science at Michigan State University
awarded a fellowship from the Radcliffe
Institute for Advanced Study in
2018-2019 and co-author with Geoffrey
Hennig at Rebekah Jake Jacobson of
outside money and school board elections
the nationalization of education
politics Sarah cow welcome to the
program thanks very much for having me
so just you you looked at five cities is
that right to to do this study yes
that's right okay I tell us the five
cities the five cities are Denver Los
Angeles New Orleans Indianapolis and
Bridgeport Connecticut and and and why
why those cities so we were interested
in understanding the something we'd been
reading about in the news a bit that
there were big donors that lived out of
state who were giving money to school
board candidates which seemed unusual
given what we know about school board
elections being kind of low-profile
backburner events not not a big
presidential or congressional election
and so we wanted to understand it deeply
to look at the full scope of campaign
contributions in these elections look at
the candidate so we pick five cities
where we knew there had been some news
coverage of this phenomenon this is out
of a potential set of cases of about 43
mostly larger localities where we were
able to identify media coverage on the
type of activity but then we went really
deep to to get a picture of what was
what was going on and when did you start
this project and what was the what was
the what were the years in which you
were looking at the data sets I guess
sure so the data that we gathered covers
election cycles from 2008 to 2014 across
the five cities and that includes all
the campaign
we could possibly get our hands on
everything that was reported in campaign
finance reports so this doesn't just
include money that goes to candidates
but includes money to independent
expenditure committees and PAC what you
know has gone on more recently where 501
C 4 s have become a bigger factor in
some campaigns was not as much of an
issue during the time period we were
looking at that tends to be less
transparent money but we gathered Union
contributions various types of reform
organizations money from individuals and
then we all totally had more than
18-thousand campaign contributions in
our data set from that time period and
when did you start this when did this
research start and end not when it
covered but when did you actually when
did the three of you oh when did we
conduct the research exactly so the book
just came out this spring and we
conducted most of the research roughly
and the like would be about 2016 2017
timeframe so but prior to that we
started collecting the data earlier and
then we were interviewing candidates we
wrote up an article and then and then we
wrote the book so our interviews were
also a big part of that process
interviewing candidates in all five of
the cities that were part of the study
so when you start in 2008 in terms of
what you're looking at is the phenomena
that you're that you're that you're
finding here is it has it begun is it
where is it in the sort of the the
course of its life I guess yeah so in
2008 there was very little going on and
that that was sort of helpful for us to
get a sense of a change in Indianapolis
is a particularly striking case of this
where you look back at their mm you know
the the earliest election we have in our
data for them and there's it would be
what I think people would think of as a
typical school board election not a lot
of money
a most of it being contributed from
local people who live in Indianapolis or
surrounding communities and then that
changes quite a bit especially by the
time you get to 2012 and Indianapolis
much higher sums raised by candidates
much more expensive and these donors who
live outside of the state of Indiana who
are contributing money really the only
city in our cases that you might say
always had expensive school board
elections with Los Angeles and that's
not that surprising Los Angeles is the
second largest school district in the
country the School Board districts that
candidates run in are larger than
congressional districts it's a huge and
expensive media market so it's a
different kind of beast compared to the
other four where you can really see a
change that that kind of comes after
about 2010 or 2011 when the money starts
to grow quite a bit okay and I want to
talk about that comparison between the
sort of the smaller towns in LA in terms
of this context but but but in a bit so
so tell us like who are when this new
money's coming in during really over the
course of the first term of the Obama
administration I guess mm-hmm right and
presumably this money doesn't just show
up somebody decides like oh I'm gonna
I'm going to contribute to you know some
random School Board races this cycle
there has to be sort of there's an ideas
there's organizations right there's the
you know we start to generate targets so
who are the donors that are giving this
money that are developing through this
time and how much do you know about
their do their process in assessing who
they're gonna contribute to right so and
one interesting example just to feature
one individual is John Arnold he is
based in Houston he's a billionaire
he made his money in energy investing
started out at Enron we can't started a
hedge fund focus on energy in our data
set we have a total of sixty three
thousand four hundred dollars in school
board contributions from John Arnold
that went to candidates and committees
in school board elections in Denver Los
Angeles and New Orleans
of course he lives in Texas right so he
doesn't live in any of the states or
cities in our study so what else do we
know about John Arnold well John Arnold
along with his wife Laura Arnold
they've started a philanthropy part of
their philanthropic work has focused on
education and so he has in addition to
his finance career has been involved as
an education philanthropist and so what
we did once we identified a group of
people like John Arnold which we the way
we defined them with people who had
given at least a thousand dollars in a
single election cycle which may not
sound like a lot but in school board
elections that actually is quite a bit
can I just stop you there give us a
sense of how much that is I mean
relatively speaking because when I hear
you tell me a billionaire gave sixty
three thousand dollars that's literally
like me going out and I'm gonna buy a
sandwich today I'm gonna instead of just
my hard-boiled egg for lunch I'm gonna
I'm gonna buy a full-on sandwich maybe
even less actually I mean but but but to
the recipient like what is like in a
typical race I guess for the school
board in all these places how much money
is generally spent right so there's
there's been some studies of the one
from based on elections from 2010 you
have a study showing that less than
three percent of candidates for school
board report spending more than twenty
five thousand dollars so we're talking
about elections where your total
fundraising take could be thousands of
dollars or tens of thousands of dollars
but
certainly not hundreds of thousands of
dollars and so what we get with these
large donors is that even though to them
absolutely as a billionaire this is not
a huge amount of money at all right but
for the campaign's that they're giving
to so for instance the 132 people we
identifies these large out-of-state
national donors there are 132 of them
out of more than 8,000 individual donors
in our data set and those 132 people
gave 18 percent of the funds that went
to the candidates who were basically we
also looked at the candidates positions
they were overwhelmingly lined with like
educational reform sort of tart Pro
charter school and the like in local
elections they also gave the 51 percent
of the funds that went to reform a line
to pack an independent expenditure
committee so where their influences
really outsize is in these independent
expenditure committee type groups I
think what partly explains that is the
fact that candidates tend to be more
subject to campaign finance limitations
in the local elections whereas these
other groups can raise unlimited funds
you can write a really large check I see
so it's really it's all relative
whenever we're talking about from the
candidates perspective because because
they're capped anyways so if you get
somebody to give you a thousand dollars
in a race in I don't I don't know in
Bridgeport Connecticut too to be on the
school board you've done 10% of your
fundraising essentially right I mean
that's basically what it comes down to
yeah I mean you can you you raise you
know for and and I it's important to add
something from the candidates
perspective here that we learn here from
the interviews and some of the kind of
more case study work is that in in large
part they're not directly seeking these
contributions they don't know these
billionaires so instead what's going
on is there's more of an intermediary
role with with some groups that we
haven't talked about yet like Democrats
for education reform stand for children
that put kind of on the radar of of
people like John Arnold the fact that
there's an interesting school board race
in Denver and these are some candidates
aligned with the kinds of policy
positions that these wealthy folks would
would probably support so the candidates
themselves are kind of I mean we had
some funny quotes from candidates where
they kind of said wow I I didn't know
that you know Reed Hastings uh you know
who's like CEO of Netflix is going to
write me a check that was interesting so
and they haven't you know there's no
personal contact really to speak of
between the billionaire donors in the in
the local candidate so really what we're
talking about is you have billionaires
sitting from a distance with these
intermediaries these organizations that
are looking to push corporate reform in
education including charters and we'll
talk a little bit more about the
implications of this basically saying
give us some fertilizer we know which
candidates we're basically going to
we're just going to provide them with
fertilizer and they're their opponents
will not have that fertilizer and that's
what will tip the scales here this isn't
a question where you have to go in and
buy a candidate the candidates already
exist we're just we have isolated which
ones are in favor of corporatized
you know corporate reform of all that
agenda and which ones are not and we're
just going to put our thumbs on the
scale is basically what the calculation
is yeah so the intermediary groups are
the ones who play they're more of the
role in identifying the candidates it's
important to point out the some of the
other money that's part of this in a
couple of ways I mean first of all we do
show that in these in these five cities
the the candidates whose positions align
more with education reform with charter
schools or teacher evaluation and
things of that nature basically we
looked at positions that kind of aligned
with the race to the top program of the
Obama administration as our index for
reform policies and they they out they
raise more money and but they also raise
more money locally so there was kind of
an interesting thing going on here of
not just the outside national money
really raising how much spending was
going on in these elections but it also
activated local donors some of those
donors also being kind of the more elite
or business aligned groups in within
those specific cities and then we also
have teacher union money in these cities
which varies a great deal so in Los
Angeles there's quite a bit more teacher
union money but in other places like New
Orleans where you know we have a whole
long story
post Katrina there and a very weak
situation for teachers unions so not
very much Union money there so we look
at the variation in that and the
relative level of spending of each of
these groups across the city I want to
ask you know to what extent that money
ended up translating into into victories
I guess but before I do in terms of that
dynamic between the local and national
money were you able to determine how
much of that local money was motivated
by the national money insofar as if I am
with the local you know I I'm a local
guy and but I've I have a similar
mentality to the corporate reformers I
don't like unions I I think there should
be more private schools I think we you
know too much money for public education
I'm pissed about my tax dollars going
into my property tax whatever it is that
can motivate me to contribute but also
seeing that a candidate that I may
support has already raised X number of
dollars or is able to throw
a fundraiser that they couldn't have but
for the National dollars that come in
that may enhance my willingness to give
was there any way to sort of measure
that dynamic like oh yeah I mean you're
asking a great question sort of these
things you know coming from the
perspective of a social scientist you
wish you could disentangle all this all
the possible causal factors here I mean
because we observe a lot of a lot of
things going on that could possibly
explain this so one thing we find is
that these candidates tend to get more
the candidates raising the outside money
are also having more professionalized
campaigns so they're able to hire
consultants they might not otherwise or
fundraising professionals so absolutely
you would expect that that could go
along with a more effective local
fundraising operation you're also
looking at competition right so my
potential opponent is raising money I
raise more money the opponent raises my
right these things interact with one
another in a competitive election and
there's just the basic issue of how low
profile school board elections
traditionally have been and in many
cases were in the in the very cities we
look at I'd say with the big you know
with LA being more exceptional but in an
Indianapolis or Bridgeport you're
talking about elections where we
couldn't even find news coverage on some
of the electoral cycles at the early
part of our of our timeframe I mean
that's how low profile these were very
low voter turnout I mean kind of
pathetic from the standpoint of what you
would like to see in you know a more
vibrant local democracy and so simply
making the fact that people are aware
there's a school board election going on
the names of the candidates things of
that nature right money does help fuel
that process of attention on an election
and so that that would also go with that
outcome can you were you able to
determine
beyond the the sheer dollars that were
raised by these donors like what was
could you assess how many more people
got elected like what Inc outcome it
actually had on the elections so we
looked at the outcomes so the reform
backed candidates in our cities one two
and a half times more often than they
lost so they had a pretty high rate of
success the Union back candidates were
50/50 and alongside that though is the
fact that the you you had more money
going to reform back to candidates so
kind of more there was lower efficiency
for the reform dollars if that makes
sense right they there was more reform
money that gots wound up being spent on
candidates who actually lost their
elections and unions were somewhat more
efficient and how they distributed their
money even though they have a lower kind
of success rate of the candidates that
doesn't really tell you that doesn't
really tell you that much other than I
mean it's quite Pallas money that we can
bet on you know a candidate that has
only 30 percent chance of odds of
winning as opposed to just reserve all
our money for candidates that have a 60%
chance of winning yeah and and I mean
there's all kinds of questions to ask
here about strategy and I mean unions
tend to have more of the kind of local
knowledge on the ground about candidates
and so in other words two and a half
times to have two and a half times of a
a cohort win their elections as a
function of that they're receiving a
specific type of money that's a
significant oh yeah a huge absolutely
and I mean we've seen you know we've
seen sort of the school board's in a
couple of these cities Los Angeles and
Denver being the most prominent
kind of become more solidly with a with
a slate of candidates to at least in the
eyes of the people who endorse them
which would have been considered
pro-reform I would part of the part I
mean we can talk more about this but
part of our our findings in our book and
from interviewing the candidates is that
there's a little bit of a difference
between the way the national groups try
to label everyone as Pro pro-reform or
pro Union or what have you and then the
way the candidates at the local level
describe their positions which can be
more nuanced and so I think some of the
polarization in these elections is
actually coming from this national
pressure and the to say that the school
board suddenly flipped to Pro reform or
something I don't think is an accurate
statement of what polit what kind of
policymaking is actually going on in
these boards but so okay well let's
let's talk about what what the what
these Pro reforms so-called reform
outfits were looking to to get when they
you know in obviously it's not just we
want the people I mean I don't want to
get to sort of like cynical or granule
Arab out this but I'm sure some of these
organizations all they concerned about
was they win the elections and they can
go back and get more money from these
billionaires but putting that aside
there is obviously an agenda that they
have we want more charters we want
voters we want and you know you can tell
me what what their agenda items were and
then to see how much of an actual impact
it had in changing policy on the ground
mm-hmm
yeah so charter schools are probably the
most key issue that we see across the
districts and in particularly so if you
look at Los Angeles and Denver there's
been you know law a long ongoing
expansion of charter schools in those
cities but in its
like why focus on a local school board
election these are also cities where the
local school board is it plays the most
powerful role in authorizing charter
schools right so the the locus of
decision-making is with the local school
board so why this might not happen in
other places is in like in a state other
states Michigan being one of them you
have other entities authorizing charter
schools and so it wouldn't make sense to
put all your eggs into the basket of a
local school board election because
that's not really where the
decision-making happens in Michigan it's
it's it's the state essentially that
that universities yeah so that's part of
what's happening here is the EO you see
this happening in some of the places
where the local school board plays that
really important role in charter school
authorization and then you have and can
I just I'm sorry
I just yeah I presume that you could
write another book about what's
happening on the state level I mean in
those states where you that there's a
that these same entities that are you
know sort of providing the the conduit
to this money and to the right
candidates there are probably also have
a plan for places like Michigan or
Massachusetts or wherever it is right I
mean yeah you can talk to me in a few
months I'm working with a colleague
Leslie finger at a paper on state
election okay all right I mean just so
that people understand that this is a
this is a big project and so so give us
a sense of in these these these school
boards like did they they got it they
they got their money's worth it seems or
at least you know I don't know if a
billionaire really says like oh I wasted
thirty thousand dollars maybe they do I
don't know but the to the extent that
they got two and a half times more
candidates elected
than those who didn't receive the
funding did they did they get similar
type of results in terms of policy and
what what did that look like so this is
where I think the story gets gets
complicated or where I would I would say
you've got to look at the specific cases
to kind of see it play out so they'll
give a few examples so one example is
Bridgeport which we haven't really
talked about small sedan are in our
study
first of all Bridgeport was less the
story about charter schools and more an
issue about mayoral control of the
schools so our kind of reform coalition
there was trying to get mayoral control
of the schools and there was a ballot
initiative on this in that case the
reform side lost and what you had there
was basically it after that there the
high spending and elections really
dropped off it kind of fizzled away okay
so there's one example another example
is New Orleans where you've had a fair
amount of money comin especially the
2012 election and their renewal is denn
who is very involved in in reform there
and starting in yo new schools for New
Orleans organization and in in that case
we're especially with a weak Union
situation they kind of spent a lot of
money in 2012 and have kind of been able
to just hold on to that coalition
without having to kind of compete a lot
so in a place where your your your money
is the main money that that can do kind
of sustain itself and then I want to
focus on Los Angeles which is just I
think a lot
murky er when you look at the long term
story there so what's going on in Los
Angeles if you go back to say 2009 was a
situation where the school board was
seen as not entirely sort of Pro charter
or per reform and there were a series of
candidates who raised money especially
to run a
Steve Zimmer who was a member of the
school board who was not seen as being
as proach harder and so they had people
who were considered Pro charter who were
supposed to try to defeat him but lost
and but during that time period the Los
Angeles school board was continuously
authorizing charter schools and if you
look year after year after year the
number of charter schools in LA Unified
is growing right even in the context of
a school board that maybe Eli Broad
would not have concealed one of the
billionaires one of the people who is
giving a lot of money would have not
considered it to be a pro-reform board
but they're authorizing charter schools
right this agenda moving along so then
what happens is in 2017 you have the
most expensive school board election
ever in Los Angeles and a board is
elected that is viewed to be okay now we
have a pro-reform majority on this board
here we go elected Steve Zimmer loses
here we are well then what happens this
you know just a few months ago Los
Angeles teachers went on strike and
shortly after the strike partly is a
condition in resolving this rate the
school board actually it was a symbolic
vote but votes on a charter school
moratorium and this theoretically Pro
charter reform board passed this
symbolic charter school moratorium so in
that regard it's not clear to me that
saying a board is or isn't ProAm adora t
reform is not really it's not really
getting you enough information about
what's going on in local politics both
in the sense that unions have other
sources of power
besides you know money and elections and
that a lot of these reforms like
authorizing charter schools can proceed
even when there are people on the board
who are not as fully embracing charter
schools as maybe the the billionaire
donors you know are trying to - you know
the kinds of people
they are tending to support in these
elections so it's it's it's I guess the
the the bottom line is is that to the
extent that you can out you can
influence the outcome of this from the
outside they've been able to do that but
but it's not necessarily a one-to-one
relationship no not at all and a nice I
see you know it's both on the one hand
it's it might be more influential in a
situation where the local whether it's
Union or other local bases or power are
just weaker but on the other hand it's a
long game right politics is a long game
it's not just won and lost in elections
and so to the degree we're talking about
campaign money as one focus yes it's
it's it's it can be a 1 potential factor
in deciding who gets on the board but
have the kinds of decisions those people
end up making and the kinds of political
calculus they have to have in the
response to a teacher strike or other
you know a budget crisis or other things
that might emerge they can make
different kinds of decisions right and
those donors are gone right they're not
paying attention you know so much
anymore so I think what we we've tried
to emphasize is the fact that local
governing is definitely more than these
elections and so so you know as we wrap
it up what what is the what is the
lesson here is I mean and and you know
one of them clearly and just so happens
today
Tom Styer decided to jump into the race
as president and he's committed
supposedly a hundred million dollars own
money one of the things that seems
pretty clear is that if Tom Styer wanted
to turn every single school board
election in this country he probably
could on some level if he was willing to
expend that money among other races I
would imagine but what what is the what
what ultimately happens here we
you know because it sort of feels like
the national fight over education reform
in some ways has either been resolved or
is in route to being resolved like you
have the the Gates Foundation which I
guess it was a year maybe less than a
year ago in December basically announced
through their rand study that hey we
made a mistake we were wrong we
shouldn't have spent all that money and
you have folks like Arne Duncan now and
and that sort of that whole regime that
brought race to the top to the fore
seems largely discredited the National
teachers unions anyways seem to sort of
be a lot more sensitive to getting in on
the ground floor of these campaigns so
that they can avoid another such debacle
what what's your sense of that and sort
of like the the long term sort of
lessons that come out of what you found
sure so just to speak to kind of the the
interaction between the money we see in
these elections and national politics
the Larr the most of the large national
donors that we looked at were we looked
at their federal giving also the
majority were Democrats and so it does
speak to that that kind of what has
especially you know looking at the Obama
administration era a division within the
Democratic Party about about educational
reform and yes that's clearly gone on
the back burner
during the Trump administration and with
with Betsy Durvasa Secretary of
Education I don't believe that it's gone
away right so I don't I don't believe
that the that the the same individuals
have changed their position on charter
schools for instance but they are
staying quiet right they they have
definitely maybe have other priorities
related to national politics that are
that is causing them to keep their
charter positions on the back burner for
the time being and you know we'll have
to wait to see what happens
amongst the Democratic presidential
candidates in the end these varied
factions in the Democratic Party going
forward as far as sort of billionaires
and politics absolutely these these kind
of local elections kind of are low
hanging fruit because they're they're
such low dollar elections traditionally
and so you know to the degree interested
individuals were to think hi could spend
a lot of money and become you know what
you know it's your money goes a lot
farther in these races than it would in
a congressional election or certainly
than a presidential election and so
that's kind of an interesting dynamic
here and something we were we were
really able to observe going on in these
races is how how much money from a very
small number of people became a very
large proportion of the resources being
spent and then finally I think another
take-home message is just on the one
hand there's that right there sort of
the potential low-hanging fruit for very
wealthy people if they were to think
local elections were where they wanted
to have influence on the flip side
though for the sort of you have someone
who cares about local school politics
and maybe is concerned about about what
outside money entails is you know we
could all do better to pay more
attention to our local elections so
you're part of what makes this
low-hanging fruit is the fact that these
elections are low-profile
there's so little media coverage there's
so little attention there's such low
voter turnout and frankly that's because
people aren't paying attention to them
and so we could all do a bit better by
by making it something that is a focus
important decisions are being made by
these school boards but a lot of people
are so focused on the national level
that we lose track of these elections
Sarah cow the book is outside money in
school board elections the
nationalization of edgy
politics look forward to that piece on
the states thank you so much for your
time today thanks for having me all
right folks we're gonna take a quick
break
heading to the fun half well let's do
this thing the let's do this this that
clip that we were gonna play at the top
of the show we didn't get to because I
get so annoyed but I mean just that
speaking of annoyed Tom Steyer I mean I
don't know where he is on education I
can't imagine it's well I have no idea
but what this guy could do with a
hundred million dollars my god
but we will talk more about that later
meanwhile Fox News wants you to know
that just because Donald Trump is not
trying to cut Social Security at the
moment that that day will come and that
it's super important for them to
continue to remind their their viewers
that Social Security is is gonna go
bankrupt even though it's not and that
the 401k plans the fact that they're a
failed experiment not that relevant how
do you deal with these realities how do
you how do you basically try and make
people feel comfortable with the notion
that it may be difficult for them to
retire offer solutions or there's may be
another way well retirement inching
closer to becoming a thing in the past
for a lot of Americans in fact a recent
poll finds nearly one in four people
don't expect to ever leave the workforce
this as the number of people working
multiple jobs also spiking so why are so
many people financially unfit to call it
quits well it's up for debate so let's
ask Trend Micro CIO Donald lustin you
know these kind of polls are already
always around right
the bank rate does some things and other
folks but it's always a alarming 32
percent of people say they over there
retire before age 65 which might be
unrealistic but 23 percent said never
it's that worrisome for you Donald I
doesn't worry me personally I I guess
I'm one of those people who plans never
to retire I mean I I kind of tell you
what do people do when they retire you
know how do you spend a day I mean it is
bowling that interesting is fishing that
interesting I mean I happen to love my
work why do I want to stop it you know
it's not like it hurts why would I stop
it this is great what a great country
where we have the opportunity to keep
working what a miracle where our lives
are long enough and we're healthy enough
and mentally alert enough so that we
don't have to retire like generations
before us this is a great blessing you
should embrace it
what's amazing is they are literally
showing b-roll alongside this guy of
just about every job that you could have
where you'd actually literally does hurt
right like hey I'm working construction
I got news for you your body gives out
in construction you if you can make it
to 65 after a lifetime of construction
then you are super super lucky
especially if you have all your fingers
well your fingers but I mean never mind
workplace injuries mask knees is just as
brutal waiting tables working in Factor
every single piece of b-roll or things
that were absolutely visited they should
have gotten b-roll of people getting
taken in a town car to a TV hit people
sitting on their ass at a hedge fund
people getting a massive check from the
Koch brothers their assistants people
yelling at their assistants to type
faster as they dictate a 9r and a
masturbatory fantasy this is I mean
honestly though this is the sort of the
the perfect example of the last refuge
right where they got like the question
is why why are so many people worried
about the you know or or or you know why
can't we
we managed to have perfect retirement
and this guy responds with why can't we
have why would we want it let's think
outside of the box yeah exactly
folks you don't need it you just don't
need it look at me I'm doing great
why would you need to rhyme on TV right
now why would you want to not wait
tables when you're 85 think about it oh
my gosh and yes identity I've listed a
couple of activities that are really fun
and rewarding to people let me add a few
others who wants to spend more time with
their family families are a burden my
ex-wife's a total as an example ah
this is a luskin's john galt this guy
does like a these ads on fox and who is
he's going to get let you into the
secret here played a little bit of this
why is Iran's great novel Atlas Shrugged
a best-seller today more than half a
century after it was written it's
because our real world today is just
like the fictional future that ran for
saw in Atlas Shrugged it's a time of
crisis and decay but it's also a world
of innovation and achievement it's a
world of heroes and villains driven by
very different philosophies we wrote I
am John Galt to tell their stories we
look at the heroic innovators who are
building our world and show that they're
doing it just like the heroes of iron
rands novels they're using her
philosophy of capitalism reason
objective reality and self-interest who
is John Galt meet John Allison the
mild-mannered southerner created one of
America's greatest banking empires he
did it with iron philosophy by getting
every one of his tens of thousands of
employees to read Atlas Shrugged and
live by its code in the great financial
crisis of 2008 individual his bank was
about the only one that didn't need a
government bailout but the government
forced Allison to take tarp money anyway
Johnson wiped away just like John Galt
did there's so many other Rand heroes in
our midst there's Bill Gates like the
former CEO
president of the cato institute and III
i would love we should look in can you
just can I love the individualistic
focus of forcing all of your employees
to read a cult book and guess what super
individualistic you don't need to we
don't need to contribute to your 401 K
cuz you don't want to retire anyways
guys that's what you gonna do the world
is very similar to the time of John Galt
in the sense that there's in addition to
pillaging and destroying the country
CEOs still need to have some delusional
Russian author with no writing capacity
tell them that they're like Che Guevara
really got pretty sank they need to be
flattered on top of everything else
that's that is the incredible thing
about iron Rand it's like the actual
economics of it makes sense if you are
an oligarch but the heroism of it shows
that all of them secretly want to think
of themselves as swashbuckling
revolutionary that's the
not-so-secret reactionary you know why
it's so funny I mean that's the whole
notion of like the IDW and the fair the
free-market Fonzie I mean all of it all
of it free market funds folks reminder
kaptara is the leading free totally free
online resource to help you find the
best software solution for your business
with over five eight hundred and fifty
thousand reviews products from real
software users more than seven hundred
specific categories of software it has
everything you need to make an informed
decision fast visit kaptara comm slash
majority today for free to make an
informed software decision for your
business today that's kaptara CA p te RR
a.com slash majority kaptara software
selection simplified reminder you can
support this program by going to join
the majority report com
it's your support that makes this
possible where you're launching tomorrow
the a.m. quickie it will be in your
majority report feed you don't have to
do anything other than listen to it
so just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off
today is Tuesday tonight is Tuesday
night that means the Michael Brooke show
indeed tonight
we're talking about Hong Kong we are
talking about how Standing Rock movement
turned into a push for local and
state-owned banks then we have an
activist who's joining us from the
occupied Western Sahara which Morocco's
occupation basically that's the only
sort of legally recognised occupation in
the world besides Israel's occupation of
Palestine obviously then Emma viglance
in studio and we're gonna have to
revisit the yang gang we're gonna have
the definitive Marianne Williamson
debate talk about Iran a whole bunch of
other stuff Michael Brooks show tonight
live at 7 patreon.com slash T MBS and
the host of this is Hell which is a
legendary Chicago leftist radio show and
now podcast is gonna be in joining us at
the Chicago live show August 24th at
Lincoln Hall so get your tickets we'll
see you there oh I've listened to his
program many times I mean he's pretty
impressive guys better one of the
original people in this whole space or
yeah I just have Chuck join us that's
exciting
Matt what's happening on literary
hangover yeah we discussed the sort of
meeting point between the Keynesian
reformists and the Marxist
revolutionaries but going through record
bregman utopia for realists we talked
about how he trashed tucker carlson and
davos and also steven pinker so check
that out folks all right see you in the
fun app alright folks six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you in
the fun
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the alpha males are just wanna degrade
the white man alpha males are back back
I take all of the alpha males are back
back back
I am a total can we bring back DJ Tanner
yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ den well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough food will
break Hawkinson I'm the alpha male like
almost says what what watch watch watch
watch
[Music]
a lot of back
the back
back
[Music]
all lives
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked
alpha males are
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 day to meet
you boy I have an expensive oil the
alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price we
around here let's
start off with this because this is
pretty funny because I don't think that
I've seen anyone more ill suited to be a
television commentator or a or even a
YouTube commentator who has more like
seems to be one of the guys who you
would imagine would be you know youth
tossing around the term snowflake but in
fact is I mean sometimes I think people
hate what's inside them so much that
they project that hatred outward in such
an overblown way and of course this is
I'm not a psychiatrist I mean this is a
complete lay person's opinion and I'm
also not a financial expert so I don't
know if Dan bond Geno was the reason why
NRA TV collapsed I have no way of
knowing that none of us do
none of us could there's a lemon and
lime budget yeah I mean I don't know
it's also possible that you know it
appears at least from the reporting that
the NRA was in some ways just sort of a
slush fund for a lot of people that's
what I would appear from the reporting I
don't know but that's the way it would
appear and that's often in my experience
personal experience that when you have
sort of a fraudulent enterprise
sometimes the least qualified people get
hired for jobs and that's how maybe
someone like someone like a Dan bond
Geno could get a role there even though
they were ill suited for it because of
their disposition now what I'm talking
about is
apparently there was a story where some
guy was at a Starbucks he didn't feel
comfortable because it was a bunch of
cops in there I don't know that seems a
little overblown to me I guess I or I
can understand why you might feel that
but like you know you have to do you
leave unless unless any of you know
everybody's got a right to be in the the
in the the Starbucks as it were I guess
if you don't like it leave it is one of
those stories that are just like you
know every day there's always something
where some people are acting you know in
a way that seems a little bit silly to
you if you're on the right you blow that
up into a national emergency and that's
what's happened here Laura Ingraham
because there's no there's not enough
news going around but there she brings
this guy on to talk about it and then
Dan bond Gino comes on and talk about
not feeling safe reacting with emotion
yeah but I think I was looking at some
of the data and that was one of the
things I was thinking to myself the
police aren't average according to
reports kill about a thousand people a
year since since about 2015 it's been in
the 900s nine 90s in some cases the
majority of them are actually white men
so I can understand if this is a white
guy maybe him feeling a little
uncomfortable that your answer to this
Starbucks thing is some police are
killing people no I'm just no I'm just
saying that I can understand why that
person may have felt uncomfortable
that's what I'm saying she has left a
flat former police officer it's just
it's so the data Jonathan says that
people are I mean Jonathan is that it's
kind of his calm but he said the data
indicates that people are rightly
concerned is that for one second now
this this Democratic strategist is
simply commenting on the fact that you
know this white guy in the Starbucks
felt uptight about the cops he's just
explaining why someone might feel
uptight about the cops yeah you know I
you know I can understand it I guess I
just don't think that the Starbucks has
an obligation to tell the cops to leave
but Dan bond Geno seems to be having a
breakdown but you won
your feets having a breakdown about this
or about other things that are going on
with his career or something I don't
know good police officer it's just it's
so the data Jonathan says things that
people are I mean Jonathan is a it's
kind of his calm but he said the data
indicates that people are rightly
concerned is that I don't really care if
he's calm but he just said was so dumb
that I'm stunned he said it on national
television are facts done a police
officer the worst day of a police
officers life I was there I'm pretty
sure Jonathan wasn't the worst day of
your life is it use of force incident
number one Laura because god forbid you
have to use force you think that's funny
John it's like a cop talking seconds Dan
we're gonna hard break ten seconds
secondly you're probably gonna get sued
and lose your livelihood after you
unfortunately had to use force against
another human being it's John it's earth
beat it
now I'll tell you something if Dan bond
Gino is reflective of a typical cop
that's and guess what that's matter if
you just prove the case that's why the
guy should feel uncomfortable yeah Dan
bond Gino goes from the zero to sixty
this is a guy who can't keep his
composure on a TV set what would happen
if he was actually in some type of
situation where someone's life was on
the line this guy like say for instance
he's a Secret Service agent as a Secret
Service agent getting himself a latte
your argument or a prostitute to carta
haina
that's just saying just wow I have
expected Benji Bunn Gina to tell him to
show him his hands Yeah right
exactly it's under your pocket started
Wow yeah the table Laura Ingram had to
basically try and calm him down with
like we only got ten seconds left I
wonder if that was one of those quick
hooks but man was poor Dan bongos at
least he's recovered better than grant
stench field I don't even know who that
is
he's the other NRA TV guy there's a lot
of talent there
come from a seven one six area code
who's this where you calling from
I bring my Buffalo New York what's in
your mind I just kind of want to talk
about a couple issues that I I had like
a blue-collar worker you know I kind
there's some issues that Democrats the
progressive platform has like I'm all
for all you know the Medicare for all
and whatnot and you know the free
college but the thing that more that has
me concerned especially for someone like
you know so my follow people like me is
especially like you know in the mid
watts and whatnot is like the gun
control and not that I don't support it
personally you know what I mean so your
your concern that gun control policies
alienate do you think that the
Democratic proposals on gun control have
changed in any material way from let's
say 2012 to now not exactly you know
growing quite a bit like people I talk
to you know excite bounced around from
terminals I'm a truck driver you know I
can like out in Ohio and Kentucky and
whatnot like a lot of you know on there
like they support Bernie Sanders like
I'm not a big burn supporter but what
has them nervous about it though is like
are they to come after their you know
maybe they have an ar-15 or ever you
know what I mean right and do you think
that this do you get the sense that
they're their fear comes from looking at
the Democratic platforms or do you think
that their fear comes from what they
have been told by let's say the NRA
that's what I'm not entirely sure
I mean they're really I mean besides you
know the debates like I know um
what's-his-name the one that just
dropped out on Erik fall or was Erik
fall wall so well yeah yeah I know he
was really rambling about that during
the debates ago I thought I didn't want
to talk about what gun control that was
yeah that was the guy's whole platform I
mean look I think I think I guess my
point is this is that I think Democrats
have lost already
the people they're going to lose because
of any type of gun control positions and
I think that to walk away from any type
of gun control positions would end up
costing them more votes at this point
than they would gain and so I mean I I
understand what you're saying I think
maybe the to the extent that there's any
pickups that can be made amongst those
people I think it would have to come
from the fact that like we have policies
that are going to help you and impact
your life in a positive way and you're
gonna have to make a choice a party that
would if they could and they probably
can't because of the Supreme Court take
away your ar-15 lets you continue to
have your your shotgun or or your rifle
but you're going to get health care for
free at the point of service or if you
you're a truck worker if your truck
driver we're going to make sure that you
have a better opportunity to make
benefits for your retirement this whole
thing where they don't control what
deliveries you've got to make but call
you a contractor they're stealing wage
from you that mean there's a there's a
boat good like no I'm a car hauler so I
pick up at the Lordstown Ohio plant all
the time I'm you my company I work for
as a terminal over there and that
turtles actually look at the clothes
down to and you know a lot of those
drivers there I hear a lot of anti-trump
you know rudder going on over there but
I'm just not sure where they're actually
in a turn though you know I mean because
there's a lot of because you know like
people they are you know I mean we're
union workers so a lot of them are you
know very like fiscally you know liberal
and but you know being from the Midwest
and whatnot they're still kind of
they're still very socially conservative
you and I mean yeah I mean I think ya
know I get I get you I mean I just don't
know that those people necessarily
there's a lot of I mean look you go
fishing where the fish are and I just
don't know that there's a lot of fish
there for Democrats to be honest with
you I mean I think I think maybe you
know there can be a better job at trying
to convince them that their material
benefits are gonna make their life
better than you know the threat that
comes from the idea that women may be
more empowered or that you know
different people who look differently
than them may be empowered or or whatnot
but that I just don't know ladies my
point is is that like look you have as a
candidate you you you cannot please all
the people and so you have to make a
choice you have to make a choice and to
to try and dial back on social issues to
attract people that otherwise that
that's the reason why they're not voting
for you um you know assumes that you can
do that without alienating the people
who vote for you now
and I'm not convinced that you can do
that frankly exactly well here's where
you start you tell them about the
majority report app and I know a lot of
these guys you know will get 4G or LTE
in their trucks and you have them listen
to the show every day it's live it's
we're killing two and a half hours of
them well alright well I appreciate you
know last lectures like well I wasn't
really into politics not only not only
have I gotten into politics now I'd
match to my dad who you know more or
less refused to participate in
government you know and now my daddy is
even donating to Bernie Sanders now so
sweet you know voice like yours and Kyle
kolinsky and whatnot that you know they
can really add a lot of people to the
base that you know people used to you
know not have any outreach to because
all this corporate media you know yeah
well tell them tell your buddies you
know just give us one week they listen
to us for one week I think they'll be
hooked appreciate the call alright drive
safely right we'll we'll cut out Kyle :
skis name and post right yeah I mark
course also we'll cut that out this out
as well yeah I know if we're gonna cut
out the instruction to cut out there
alright so let's start again
three two one great call let's just I
just I just need it like like I need a
pallet Clint I'm so mad about Tom Steyer
but let's talk about Jesse Watters too
now let's just get this up here because
yesterday we played a clip
Fox News in where were they they were
they in in the UK France oh they were in
France okay they are in France at a bar
and they were covering I guess expats
watching the u.s. women's team win the
World Cup
and people started breaking out with
like F Trump F Trump F Trump and then
apparently the clip went on we didn't
see the rest of that clip where they
interviewed one or two of the people
there who just explicitly like Trump is
horrible well you go vote Democrats
whatever it was and this is we mentioned
this that the the largely speaking the
women's soccer team has been very
outspoken in their disdain for Donald
Trump and they have they said we're not
interested in coming to the White House
and then the White House pretended like
they hadn't invited them and they are
trying to use their platform to push for
pay parity they want to get paid the
same as the men's soccer team and
they're using this obviously as a
metaphor for you know women in society
broadly and Jesse Watters has a
different measure for whether you should
get equal pay it's not just you're doing
the same job or you're putting in as
much time or you're doing it just as
well that's not no dude Jesse Watters
will explain to you no matter what the
sport but the President does have a
point there if you look at the World Cup
men's revenue it's in the billions and
they split up the pot it's a much bigger
pot Women's World Cup revenue much much
smaller and they have a smaller pot to
divide up with but the distinction is is
that the US Soccer Federation the women
do actually make more revenue and they
get paid less so that's their lawyers
fault they negotiated a horrible deal
and they need to renegotiate
immediately the point is though is that
the women are not helping their case by
their behavior if you go out and you
disparage the president you act in
unpatriotic ways and then complain about
not getting paid equally well what do
you think's going to happen people are
going to watch I don't think get out
talk to as many people this weekend you
said I love soccer I'm not watching the
u.s. women because I didn't like what
they said that means the ad revenue
comes down that means their overall
revenue comes down and they can't divvy
up the same amount of money many people
many many I wonder I wonder if Jesse
Watters knows that many people who who
are inclined to watch women's soccer and
also don't don't necessarily agree I
aren't right-wingers like do you really
think that Jesse Watters has any friends
though who are not exactly like Jesse
Watters no I was answering the first
question yes I love the idea that you
need to be patriotic to get equal pay my
I ma look I haven't watched any of the
World Cup this season but I I because
you don't like them disparaging Trump
because it's offensive I mean look no
matter who the president is even if I
have strong disagreements you respect
the office god dammit but I think nobody
I haven't seen i I think I mean
especially outside of it there is a
Brooklyn bubble so there's always people
here that pretend they care about soccer
and it's somewhat annoying but I would
say anecdotally that this year this team
is way more in the American culture than
in previous well I Got News for you I
did not know I think it's a fourth win I
had no idea
neither died no idea no I was aware of
one other win this I think it's Brandi
Chastain I remember being a boy and
seeing that and just yeah Sports Bra
that was a big event but I know I think
that they're doing quite well yeah I
would bet that actually they're there at
peak popularity I would have thought to
go on Google Trends and just find that
out if people are more interested in
them because they're speaking out I mean
let's face it there is probably more of
a market for any sports franchise that
is willing to dump on Donald Trump it
certainly hasn't hurt the Golden State
Warriors as an example or most of the
Patriot team or any NBA team really just
do the list it's really untoward to do
it as a woman though I think showing
respect to the president hasn't done
Tiger Woods any favors for instance yeah
exactly
I wish Jesse had thrown to his female
co-host and get their thoughts on pay
equity whatever yeah whatever
so this is a good sign I don't know if
it goes far enough with Elizabeth Warren
in terms of the question of Israel and
Palestine but it's headed in a better
direction she has recently I think
taking on a staffer from if not now when
which is a fairly progressive Jewish
organization in fighting for Palestinian
rights but this moment is good had at
least you know trajectory wise good for
Elizabeth Warren I think she's still
significantly behind Bernie on this
question in particular and maybe more
broadly in terms of foreign policy but
yes it's better than a no and then this
in this exchange here she is
if not now members in New Hampshire
approached
Elizabeth Warren yesterday
really love it if you also push the
Israeli government to end occupation yes
excellent thank you nice to see you
[Music]
I'm not convinced that wasn't that was
not just by chance that gets out there
there was I am headed to Netroots nation
tomorrow we're gonna be broadcasting
their live Thursday and Friday you'll
recall last year at Netroots nation Cory
Booker was somebody came out with
somebody hit hold up a sign I can't
remember what it said was it a BDS yeah
well I think it was a BDS sign and he
had to disavow it after the fact I don't
think that that's what that moment was I
just have to say I don't think we
actually covered it but I mean they're
what Sanders was approached by the same
group and actually held a Jew's against
the occupation sign you know look when
it comes to foreign policy if that's
something you're considering they're
there again it's not even just that it's
not even a question of a better it's
just a difference in kind and I think
like you know I think it is worth
dredging up what Warren said about the
assault on Gaza in 2014 which again was
I always say it was so brutal that Joe
Scarborough criticized Israel shelling
you in school right and she defended it
unequivocally she said at the time she
said I think we're gonna just have to
agree to disagree on this one and went
on to talk about Hamas but and it's not
only that it's like Sanders actually
condemned the killing of nonviolent
protesters in Gaza several months ago
and I just think if you combine that
with the Iran vote the only senator to
vote against Iran sanctions in 2017 and
the Yemen work as well as the
willingness to vote against defense
budgets which she's voted for every
single defense increase probably because
of Raytheon again I just think that
components not debatable
it's nice to see it's nice to see
there's not yet I don't think there's a
base in terms of where they're both are
on foreign policy it's just to the
extent that I would like to see frankly
every Democratic presidential candidate
trend in the right to rise
sure that is a good sign I think Harris
and Booker and my guess would be Biden
right now or the Gillibrand to the
extent she's relevant are the outliers
in terms of even moving rhetorically um
and it's good to see I mean you know
it'll be interesting to see if if
weren't taking a step in one direction
will force the others to go in that
direction too cuz I don't think that
they are terribly moved by where Bernie
is at it but I think yes he's head and
shoulders above it is an apple almost an
apples an orange oranges type of I'm
seeing someone sent me a screen cap
Thank You TMDs discord and I guess this
is showing me a Google Trends from July
2009 to well that's actually excuse me
that's July 2018
anyways very strong increases for
women's soccer there you go son go boom
here's an exchange with Andrew yang and
Meghan McCain and we're Pro yang than
this one well yes with Meghan McCain
come on it's Meghan McCain worst person
on earth oh we just had a little bit of
a crash there maybe that's why much
energy here let's go into a let's pick
up
phone call called from a 2:06 area code
who's this where he come from
hi Priya what's on your mind I was just
calling because um there's a show plant
some time I was just calling about kind
of a select ability argument but
everyone's kind of putting forward in
the in the primary and um it's kind of
what a couple circles matter the first
thing that I was wondering if Bernie
kind of be much more out front about
being a Democratic Socialist and then
having that be like the defining way
that the media refers to him and often
not using the Democratic parts or just
saying socialist if that's hurting him
because in the 2016 race it was more of
an outsider race so you know having him
not identify strictly as a Democrat
might have been more helpful and then
also just not knowing as much about him
having him not have such a defined
profile so you just have such a you know
unified attack on that aspect of his
candidacy so I was wondering if you
thought that that might be hurrying him
as opposed to just saying independent
because I feel like a lot of you know
and then identifying certain policies as
democratic socialist policies but saying
he himself is that like as a candidate
do you think that that could be hurting
him at all because I was speaking to
someone who's more of a centrist leaning
and they were saying well you know
America's just not ready for a socialist
and I feel like that could be hurting
him I love it all right I'll give you my
opinion on that and and and I felt this
when he gave his speech about democratic
socialism personally I have always
avoided labeling myself as anything
because I have you know other than being
of the left you know it has become more
important it seems to people over the
past couple of years really the past two
or three years then in the past
personally from a rhetorical standpoint
I don't
see the value in it it ends up being and
I think broadly speaking whenever I have
pitched anything to anybody or tried to
convince them of anything tried to sell
them anything I will avoid things that I
have to explain and sell them on that
are subsidiary to the actual product
that I want to sell so to me my opinion
is that he would have been far better
off rather than trying to explain to the
country sell to the country the concept
of Democratic Socialist making it more
about the policies of these supports
that I think are that much more
beneficial to people I do think though
that you know you you talk about his
sort of honesty and his brand that I I
just think as a practical matter he's
been identified with those politics his
entire public career it would not be
realistic and it would not look I'm not
trying to run away from using that
terminology I'm saying well I mean he
didn't use it as much during the 2016
race actually I mean I don't know about
that he actually did use it quite a bit
ensue thought 2016 but I think the
argument was was that just as he needed
to talk more about his biography he
needed to articulate where he was coming
from and if everybody else is gonna use
the term to find it for him himself
which is kind of like the other
component of this conversation which is
that doing well which is the other
reality which is that you know
Hickenlooper will be called a socialist
if he's the nominees he might as well
exact a fine what it means when you're
different but this is which is
completing that's very different I'm
very different then then it's very
because it's one thing to have someone
say you're a socialist and you say well
if socialist means that I'm in favor of
everyone having health care at the point
of service and it's free fine that's
basically what he did in that speech
know that if socialist leaving the New
Deal and it means that X Y & Z no no
that's welded who asked him that
question
he's been asked that question in every
single interview I've seen he went out
there to defined democratic socialism
and I'm saying why why why not make it
about the policies you're offering
but I'm saying cuz Isis core brand well
I mean it's just an escape Michael and I
disagree on this he thinks it's helpful
to go out there and lead with that easy
Democratic Socialist I think it just
confuses people I think you'd have to
make an address okay clear where you're
coming from since I'm primarily sorry
how many people do you think heard that
address I have no idea how many people
are those not many that's irrelevant so
I think it confuses people and that's my
experience is that I think people I mean
to the extent that people have said to
me I don't want to vote for Bernie
Sanders it is because they will say that
as opposed to I'm against X Y or Z
policies and so I think that if I am
aware of those people politically who've
actually said that like Democrats but
Lane Street Democrats I don't know what
does that mean Democrats who I think
would probably agree with at least half
of its policy prescription okay well
yeah I mean I've never heard anybody in
that pool say that I mean half that's
that's not that much I'm just saying
half that's like a totally different
political profile it probably wouldn't
be your first choice well so but that's
okay
Michael hood disagrees right yeah so I
guess I'm more in line with Sam but I
actually have another thing is terms
electability argument I was getting like
pulse after policy Wi-Fi didn't wasn't
like a great can be just I said Biden's
were gonna fight in and it's just gonna
be an issue you know that's how I feel
about him as a candidate but but my and
you know the same Center is kind of you
know just typical Democrat like more
institutional Democrat he believed in
all of Bernie's policies but he has more
of a kind of institutional mindset in
terms of who could get elected and so my
main argument that for what some reason
broke through damn I don't know even if
it's really that compelling but for some
reason it was is that why is Barack
Obama
coming out more like is it like I know
he's he's not one to like you know tip
the scale so to speak in favour of Biden
but like does it look like he really
thinks Biden is electable because we
know the problems he thought with
Hillary and I think he kind of has has
kind of spoken to that a little bit not
too explicitly but at least hinted at
that about what he saw problems in
Hillary's campaign and like everyone now
is saying that we see a lot of
similarity problems with fine campaign
and so yeah he gave him his list
basically like that big master list but
especially with busing being this big
issue and Barack Obama and his
relationship with people of color being
like Biden's main selling point with the
Democratic base why when he's getting
into it with caramel is he not it is is
there not at least some surrogate like
interaction or surrogates like look
kinda advocacy for Biden on that term I
don't know I might I know pre I think I
think I think listen if you found that
effective then yes it's effective I mean
you know that's the bottom line I don't
know I don't know if I have not seen any
reporting that says that the Obama
people are mad at Biden there's some
people who hang out like you could say I
like maybe those pod save America guys
are a little bit Biden skeptical which
might be helpful because you could say
that those are Trump you know those are
Obama people and if it works with people
like that yes and I would all seems like
thanks ago and I would also say I would
also say that the other argument if you
if you have to engage with folks at this
point in terms of Biden's electability
is the more people get to know bide and
the more of a problem it's going to be
that was what the case was you know the
two times that he ran before and and on
some level you're gonna need some real
differentiating factor between Trump and
Biden and just yeah I I you know I I
think saying that Biden's the more risk
choice is gonna be helpful I think
there's a clip above Trump already going
around saying making fun I mean it's a
vintage Trump clip he's like he says he
doesn't want the endorsement I think he
wants the endorsement but it's very
strange ey dorsum I mean yeah he's gonna
do tons of work with that yes with Biden
his entire candidacy is based on like
hugging Obama and Obama has seen like
Trump's election is like kind of a
personal insult with like a you know
like it's a terrible reflection of the
country after having Obama to be
electing Trump is so you think if he's
if he's gonna endorse a candidate who is
running primarily on you know returning
to the Obama legacy restoring that kind
of to seem a third term Obama you think
that if he sought Biden was electable he
I mean he's the most effective
campaigner out there he's gonna win the
Democratic base easily he doesn't even
need to personally go out there he just
has Michelle go out and go on a few
energy yeah I mean I'd mentioned
something and every fact female vote
will be with Biden I think well I think
three are largely I think my guess would
be this if Obama Obama probably has a
couple of scenarios as to when he would
endorse Biden and I suspect that they
require Biden to win at least Iowa at
least Iowa or New Hampshire I suspect
that if he wins both Iowa and New
Hampshire we will hear from Obama before
South Carolina I I think that's pot but
I think if Biden doesn't win both of
those he will wait you're on your own
for the first two white boy but we'll
see I don't know this is just a complete
that's complete completely conjecture
appreciate the clam objection that's
what we call it total Sam jek sure oh so
okay let's talk about Andrew yang here
he's on the view and you know part of
the problem with and I don't know how
early we're gonna start the
but you know she go one of the hosts who
I like I guess to the extent that I like
interview hos I don't watch it very much
sunny what's her face and she says you
know are you for universal health care
everybody's for universal health care
that just means everybody has you know
well the point is nobody knows what it
means
Delaney's says he's for it it could mean
anything I think the Republicans are for
universal care like access for everybody
remark in the emergency room right and
nevertheless all his answers are either
fine or you know general enough
nonspecific enough to answer he was
asked about impeachment he says he needs
to hear from the Muller investigation
room Muller's testimony mother's not
going to testify for anything that's not
in the report and the report is enough
there's a lot of other reasons to
impeach Donald Trump but he sort of like
says well I get a wait to hear that and
then it's an you know up to Congress
which yes of course it is no one on the
stage thought that you were a congress
person they were asking you as your
opinion as a presidential candidate
where you have some influence
theoretically in a platform and that's
mean you're on the view right but he
goes on to have a proposal and Meghan
McCain she just can't wrap her head
around it she got to find something to
have a problem with she's in the middle
of contract negotiations closing the
wealth gap especially when it comes to
the african-american community
reparations a part of that well Martin
Luther King championed a dividend for
all Americans I think that's where we
should start a thousand dollars a month
for every American and in reparations a
whole separate issue because that
thousand audited n doesn't address the
historical legacy of slavery
why should rich white people get $10,000
a month well the great thing is that
will remind them that they're still an
American but but in Alaska
but in Alaska they have a dividend no
one at this table needs $9,000 a month
but in Alaska they have a veteran's on
the street and a chance which you can
usually that's what he means how is it
remind you in America yeah doesn't it's
not just about what you do for yourself
it's what you do for other folks in
Alaska they give a dividend to everyone
in Alaska from the petroleum fund one to
two thousand dollars a year and it D
politicizes it it D stigmatizes it it's
just everyone gets it and so there's no
like oh you get it I don't write
immigration now just say that the
obviously the the best thing about the
ubi is that it's a universal program and
that it does theoretically D politicize
it and of course it has support on the
left and right the problem is is that
the the support for it on the left and
the right is different and that
difference actually is it's part of the
reason why what he said to Dave Rubin
was so problematic now I know Dave Rubin
asked him the question he didn't offer
it and he was saying it I guess to
appeal to Dave Rubin but he said it I
don't know you know he said that
eventually he thinks it's going to get
rid of other aspects of our six hundred
billion dollar social safety net and I
know I know that people can choose to
opt out if their particular benefits are
less than a thousand dollars a month
some instances they are of course it's
going to for the same reason why the ubi
is universal and becomes politically
less politically radioactive the more
you pull people out of these programs
and leave the most vulnerable in them
who require more than a thousand dollars
a month because of their disability
because of whatever it is that they're
that that places them in SSI
which can involve mental health it can
involve a whole host of different things
there those programs become more
vulnerable to politics because there's
less people in there they obviously
become more expensive per capita right
of individuals unless you start to cut
back on these on the administration of
it so that that's where the the issues
with the ubi has rolled out and it's
part of the reason why the right
elements of the right Milton Friedman
was hoping for a ubi because it would
begin to dispose of that stuff but this
is not I'm not here to criticize Andrew
Yang's ubi policy even though I guess I
just did his not Universal ubi policy
but here is here is where he gets it in
with the Megan McCain who just can't
handle any of this I'm the son of
immigrants myself I think we need to
create a path to citizenship over the
long term so you also have some unusual
and I would say unorthodox stances as
well
you came out against circumcision
correct well you know I think parents
need to educate themselves a
confirmation is you know my wife and I
obviously made a certain determination
but it should be in the hands of parents
in the hands of what that is joy that is
Joy's way of saying that was a dumb
question Megan but I know right now
you're sensitive so I'm not going to
make fun of you for it well they tried
to they try to do yeah they tried to um
you also believe in free marriage
counseling yeah but the data shows that
if you grow up in two-parent household
certain outcomes are more likely and so
from a societal perspective it makes
perfect sense to try and keep couples
together if they want to stay together
so would that just be like a social
worker for every couple in America cause
it can you imagine being unable to sort
of wrap your head around the idea of
free couples counseling as opposed to
mandated couples counseling yeah geez
like sitting
they're going I'll actually done some
research on this and I'm just I'm blown
away how is it possible to provide free
couples counseling
now there's one way that you could
assess this how would it be possible to
provide free counseling how is it
possible to provide free medical care I
can imagine them oh yeah sure the OL
insurance I like so first because you're
insulting my uncle joe lieberman with
regards to circumcision and such and now
everybody's supposed to get marriage
counseling by the federal government
that's like that's like aldous huxley or
whatever
imagine obviously like sitting there
with her team of advisers that she must
have that are around her the ones who
are talking about well you know we've
read in the papers like join her team
Meghan's really on the last straw there
whatever you mean like an agent and like
some like bizarre husband that she no
doubt terrorized don't you think her
husband or her agent could say oh yeah
that's probably just they mandated in
the health insurance I think her husband
is more likely joy's a no I'm
sorry honey I have to lose mine for my
go back because I just loved like the
complete like sense of like confusion
that she has like free couples Council
what would the ethnic background of this
counsellor be would they be Asian as
well I'm just gonna ask that question
mission is you know my wife and I
obviously made a certain determination
but it should be in the hands of parents
in the hands of what they try to do yeah
they try to UM you also believe in free
marriage counseling yeah but the data
shows that if you grow up in two-parent
household certain outcomes are more
likely and so from a societal
perspective it makes perfect sense to
try and keep couples together if they
want to stay together so would that just
be like a social worker for every couple
in America well it'd be like a marriage
counseling
you know stipend essentially where it's
like if you decide to seek marriage
counseling then they can just go and get
paid by my version of marriage
counseling is drinking Jack Daniels
shootin some guns and hanging out so
it works no just like going to arrange
so I'm just saying like this universal a
peg for every hole is always my problem
with the left right now there is not if
every American is different every
American does things in different ways
so I would say I I don't know you also
believe in staffing a way posit buzzing
so she thinks that it's mandated cuts
state-appointed wait I don't want to set
with an Asian man who doesn't
circumcised this kid talking about my
problems with my husband all right thank
you if that makes me like a leper
or Lepley per the show then like so be
it
 you joy also her talking about her
dealing with her most intimate personal
problems with a gun is like a little
yeah yeah as long as my husband and I
drink enough we stay together old guns
as long as my husband that I wouldn't
have married gotten married to accept
Trump's win in the election just put me
in a tizzy that's now I thought there
was gonna be like a nuclear war and such
now I know that actually things are
basically fine my touch my trust fund is
not even gonna be touched and people are
really rude and my father I might not
even stay married but now this gross
Asian man wants to come and force there
to be foreskin and marriage and joyous
here drunk
you know she prepared the guns and
whiskey line oh yeah sounded like a wait
a second what if this is not mandatory
that sounded just too stupid in front of
the mirror exactly and I love the
audience reaction to it which was just
like weird I mean if you say that's the
way that you go and have fun but don't
you have marriage problems like a
conservatives immune to having problems
in their marriage and actually having to
communicate about it you're forgetting
about the importance of Jesus Christ oh
yeah that's right hey Sam maybe and
Rianne could help to you version of
marriage counseling is drinking Jack
Daniels shooting some guns and hanging
out so like my version of it works
no just like going to arrange so I'm
just saying like this universal
for every hole is always my problem with
the left right now there is not if every
American is different every American
does things in different ways so I would
say I don't know you also believe in
staffing a White House psychologist
[Applause]
dignitize mental health issues in this
country generally and so if we have a
psychology in the White House I thought
was a good idea before the current
administration do you think that you're
capable of even doing such a thing you
know what it doesn't even matter
aang is good here he's exactly right
should be DC stigma that's right
also sitcom idea Andrew yang as a
marriage counselor mandated by the state
andrew yang is not president Bernie
Sanders is president and part of a
sweeping health care bill there is it's
only mandatory and I Domino and Meghan
McCain's case Andrew yang does the
treatment they're locked in the middle
the woods with no alcohol let the
therapy commence there you go I would
love to watch that show they forget
sitcom let's make it a reality show
going to the IMS CT leftist Ct Mike the
media headlines indicate a feud between
Nancy Pelosi and AOC another house house
freshman about their vote against the
border bill Pelosi good friend Rosa
delaurio voted against law - is this
another contrived narrative by the media
or something more complicated I I would
imagine it's both
on some level I I don't understand why
Pelosi would do this I mean if she
doesn't have this see the sophistication
to know that Maureen Dowd is going to
try and stoke this type of fire then you
know she hasn't learned anything in her
decades-long decades of of being a
congresswoman so I don't know I think
there's something to it but I don't know
how important it is other than it being
indicative of a larger problem
that the Democratic leadership has
brought from Virginia after Epstein got
his initial money the source of the rest
of his money seems to be very vague yes
there is there is a well yesterday they
found tape supposedly that said young
blank with blank which suggests that
it's a young blank with another person
yeah these were CDs inside a safe
and there has been some speculation that
perhaps he has blackmail material on
people there's also been a lot of
confusion and questioning as to where
this guy made his money he was a hedge
fund guy as you know hedge funders get
two two and twenty or two and for up to
two and forty which is two percent of
all the money they manage plus twenty
two percent sometimes thirty percent
sometimes forty percent of the gains
that they make and you should also know
that because of the carried interest
loophole the interest that they pay on
that is less than you pay on your wages
here just thought you should know that
you're in the wrong business but his
money came out of seemingly out of
nowhere and there is conjecture and
speculation that in the process of his
trafficking and essentially pimping
girls to co-conspirators that he may
have also been in a position to leverage
what he had just done to get maybe some
other billionaires there were people who
were not you know he was not a
billionaire at this time
to say like hey let me manage your money
and you know the whole two-and-twenty
let's call it more like five and thirty
or ten and thirty and if you do enough
of those well then you've got a billion
dollars but people don't know I suspect
we will hear more about this as time
goes on
Smoot Court Ezra Klein had it's great to
our conversation with Rod Dreher oh he
was the rod dryer was the like the
crunch crunchy conservative or something
like that
rod very reasonably and extended Lee
explained his ideas that being gay or
trans is unnatural and illegal immigrant
children have overrun public schools I'm
going to give these some real thought
it's not like Ezra challenged anything
rod said in a meaningful way okay I was
gonna say I wouldn't expect that
conversation to be very good Wow
dryers gross JB guest suggests and Tom
Steyer what his views on education does
he want to implement a wealth tax is the
concept of retirement outdated perhaps
he could grant endowments to
pro-impeachment podcast I mean all right
let's just go through this like I feel
like we could actually do a 24-hour
marathon where all we do is talk about
the different things that Tom Styer
could do with that hundred million
dollars that would not only be more
positive than running for president we
could dedicate like 18 hours to what he
could earn maybe 22 hours to what he
could do that would be more positive
with that hundred million dollars just
using every one of his platforms if you
know a planks on his platform if he puts
it you should be tweeting that I just
want really quickly you should be
tweeting it in a respectful way at the
campaign account i I didn't add him but
you can I said look give Andrew Gilliam
twenty million dollars in Florida I mean
he should be inundated there is
literally millions of more positive
things he could do yes and then I would
take the other two hours of that 24 hour
marathon to talk about how detrimental
his
spending a hundred million dollars in
this campaign is going to be just in
terms of like the negative impacts I
don't know if he thinks he's doing a
message campaign or if he thinks he's
gonna win but there's no point in his
message and he's got no business being
president but this guy could go in and
turn two maybe three states legislatures
with a hundred million dollars he could
he could possibly win the Senate back
for Democrats with a hundred million
dollars he could start a campaign to get
the next president the United States if
he's a Democrat or she's a Democrat to
stack the Supreme Court I mean there's
so many things that he could do with a
hundred million dollars to promote
fighting climate change that would be
you know this is just a classic case of
either a guy who is just so unbelievably
narcissistic that he cannot see
literally like beyond his own nose or a
guy who is so narcissistic that he's
surrounded with people who can't see
beyond their own wallet here is Tom
introducing himself to America as a
presidential candidate we're not going
to get through the whole thing because
it's it's frankly like it is it's
exhausting it's a perfectly non
offensive television ad that would cause
no one to do anything other than note
that they had just watched it and I
don't even know that that effect would
last more than like 20 minutes Tom Styer
one of the most influential activists in
Democrat
party politics is the founder and
president of next-gen America I think
what people believe is that the system
has left them I think people believe
that the corporation's have bought the
democracy closet the moment they do that
Dutch angle that side angle is when you
know that this is all just about it's
just about like people consultants
lining their pockets
spreading the cash around to other
people who will give them jobs in the
future this this that's the dead
giveaway right there patients have
bought the democracy that the
politicians don't care about or respect
them don't put them first are not
working for them but are actually
working for the people who have rigged
the system really what we're doing is
trying to make democracy work by pushing
power down to the people California
voters are getting a chance to do what
California lawmakers fail to do rob 50
states got a lot of support at the polls
the old company sponsored a new ballot
initiative to halt California's new law
I was born in 1957 I grew up right in
the middle of the civil rights
revolution and the Vietnam War the
underlying injustice in America was
coming under attack my father graduated
from Yale Law School at 21 started being
a lawyer then he went into the Navy
because of Pearl Harbor and then at the
end of the war they sent him over to be
assistant to the chief prosecutor
remember I think my father looked at
being in the service or being at
Nuremberg is like you have your duty you
do my parents were very uncompromising
about doing the right thing Dyer and his
wife the worth an estimated billion and
a half dollars they pledged to give
after their fortune its charity we
signed the giving pledge which is a
promise to give away half of your wealth
while you're alive to good causes we
have a society that's very unequal and
it's really important for people to
understand
that this society is connected if this
is a banana republic with a few very
very rich people and everybody else
living in misery that's a failure the
lawyers have basically gotten the
Supreme Court to say that corporations
are people and therefore they have all
the rights in the Constitution given to
people now obviously corporations don't
have hearts or souls or futures they
don't have children they have a short
timeframe and they really care about
just making money if you give them the
unlimited ability to participate in
politics it will skew everything because
they only care about profits you know
you look at climate change that is
people who are saying we'd rather make
money than save the world that's an
amazing statement and it's happening
today and they're politicians supporting
I mean I think eighty-two thousand
people died last year of drug overdoses
if you think about the drug companies
the banks screwing people on their
mortgages it's thousands of people doing
what they're paid to do almost every
single major intractable problem at the
back of it you see you know like listen
so I endorsed Bernie Sanders well
exactly like why wouldn't you go out and
the you know how does he not find a
candidate who is not saying that in this
campaign like why does it have to be him
and why does he it should look he can
spend his money any way he wants but it
will be detrimental to getting rid of
Donald Trump hi this is Tom sty is dead
I always insisted on doing right as you
said in that ad and this campaign is
wrong yeah the one that matters is me
I'm the only one that matters exactly do
you see how you sound like him even
though you hate him so much Tom this is
your father it's a very selfish and
reckless move we all want to be the Top
Gun and
for president but his other more
constructive things to do its thank you
we still do Seder up here exactly she's
it's really just enraging it's just
enraging this guy could be a hero
it could be a multiple hero he could be
he could be protecting Larry Krasner
from having his power stripped away he's
a district attorney he'd be flipping
state houses he could be coming up with
a strategy for fighting gerrymandering
he could also just be investing in
electing progressives to the house he
could run isn't isn't there a Senate
seat opening up in California I'm even
willing to give him a friggin Senate
seat at some bits it is insane
delusional north and it's even more you
know it's even more infuriating is that
for somebody who's just like very
existence as a billionaire should not be
as a billionaire not as a person
obviously but as a billionaire he does
seem like the nice type yeah and it's
even black Natalie I mean look say what
she will somebody pointing this out
plenty of people in pointing me out you
know the Koch brothers I mean my god
these total sociopaths who strategically
deploy their money well to be fair one
of them I can't remember it was Charles
or David ran for bottom a libertarian -
yeah anyway they were out of his system
right and he's like okay now I know what
I just got to do I just got a I don't
need to be the guy I just need to be the
the money son in 1980 one of the Koch
brothers ran for president as his old
while you're at home it why do they come
out and say a hundred hundred million
you got a billion when she dropped 200
million you cheap bastard like honestly
like you're to you like this is the
thing I don't I don't believe we're in
that deep of course listen I know it's a
crisis but I'm not going to spend one
fifth of my of my fortune that's gonna
leave me with only 800 billion a hundred
eight hundred million dollars and I
promise to give
400 that away okay now we're in fear now
we're now all of a sudden want to make a
Mitt Romney all of a sudden here's our
just came to Milly I mean just look at
this barn that I'm in good pop it up
here this barn is barring copping look
at this bar in here this barn I'm in
where we shop this okay rest stop this
barn I know look okay I have this barn
redone and that was like eight hundred
fifty thousand dollars so now I'm down
to three ninety-nine in terms of million
and they're my boat like there's a ton
of stuff two hundred no ID I'll tell you
what I'm gonna do 105 million Tom this
is your mother
this is the wrong thing to do your
father always insisted the right thing
and this is wrong
you can help that very nice man Eric
Holder helped with the district
districting efforts Tom sit either you
here and I'm not sure if this is a cure
but I thought I heard something about he
was trying to decide if you should run
and his wife didn't want him to run do
you hear anything about this no okay
well listen my wife Tom the way well you
know I I am suspect of all of it you
know the story that wife doesn't want
one like yeah my listen my family
doesn't want me to do this but I've got
to do it yeah I exact my wife really
didn't want that to happen right she
foresaw that I was gonna make a complete
 of myself the krishna paco do
you think there are concentration camps
we don't know about yet i think it's
conceivable that there are facilities
that that are there that certainly
they're ones that haven't been sort of i
think toward i think i'm not exactly
sure how that happens actually to be
honest with you dole inc people need to
wait the brainwashing of my dad in which
sam appears it could glass people out of
complacency so frightening i think i
interviewed the woman who did that - did
we do it on this show a real fire ring
of fire
[Music]
algorithmic raise basing unfair
algorithm I was so excited for an mr
quickie this morning I looked and looked
and pop up a majority reports YouTube
channel when I couldn't find out is
broke down almost settle for some stale
Morning Joe because I was so thirsty for
a fresh cup of hot cedar Pelosi is
Pelosi is Pelosi is alt is alright alt
right
closest who worried we should be who
worried should we be about the Senate no
Senate equals no Medicare for all that
we have multiple seats that we have to
win Colorado not just an economy oh girl
fight can you clip the Ronald Reagan
call from Monday you guys covered a lot
of good stuff quickly in that call let's
get clipped it how we did okay wooden
computers did you guys see the YouTube
show some more news deep dive on why Ben
Shapiro shouldn't be taken seriously
it's very wrong and everyone should
watch it's so good yeah I think I
started to dig into that
Jay Jay cool have you guys seen the
drama between Trump and the UK
ambassador to the u.s. of course anyone
would be crazy not to describe the Trump
administration in similar terms but it's
pretty funny Trump basically confirms
every single accusation in his response
did you hear about this there was a leak
I have a cable from a British diplomat
back to Downing Street I think and it
said yeah these guys unfit completely
disarray it's been symbolic and there's
no indication it will change yes I think
he was actually the British ambassador
to Washington I mean it's not just like
a diplomat like the ambassador complete
excrement show Ronald a phony is
watching the British politicians have to
say like of course we disagree Ronald
Reagan one of the best ways people can
help in our current political climate is
to share this show with family and
friends it might sound corny but my wife
and I have started listening to the show
together in the afternoon we call it our
afternoon delight
can't wait for the morning
ah
can't wait for the morning quickie going
to real nice things up for us sometimes
we don't have time for that
slow afternoon build up to the fun half
something quick and to the point is
definitely my style
Dave Reubens one star preview one star
all preview what do you mean I have to
be awake for 3 a.m. for this ya know I
love it keep up the great work you guys
spare a thought for the poor Ozzy's that
are down drowning in neoliberal policy
hoping our shitty apartments don't fall
on us while these ATS use
Australian taxpayers money to build
stuff like pipelines for sand
yes sand at least the rising number of
homeless will have nice beaches to enjoy
but the last thing you see I've tried to
leave Yelp reviews for the company that
used to clip cement for the foundation
of this building or the Yelp page I've
been blocked by days so I can't ask
should I try instead maybe you guys
could ask me alright I can't quite
follow so that Rocky Mountain radical I
have been a carpenter for 18 years and
I've known less than a handful of trades
people missing digits the most memorable
a guy who lost part of a finger ripping
paint sticks and a table saw it's the
table saws that'll do it and I've always
been told like whenever you can use a
jigsaw on-site as opposed to a what do
you call it circular saw my dad's got
one of those table saws that has the
thing where it senses if your thumb hits
the blade and it sends a break that
automatically slams the circular saw
really I didn't even know they had that
yeah they they sample it by putting a
hot dog into it and it actually just
stops the blade before it cuts too much
how I can pull something up wow I didn't
know my table saw I have a plastic thing
on top and I'm just super super super
careful
my dad severed two of his fingers almost
entirely with a butter knife trying to
cut frozen hotdogs with a butter how do
you do that I cut my finger on a deli
slicer I had a job
at a like about a meter me counter at
like a supermarket coming right out Oh
Union was it a union job no small coming
right up mr. cacopoulos
listening just right we're going to use
a salty wet conductive ball beef Frank
hold it just like it was my thumb you
got to be kidding me
let's see that is amazing that really I
mean that's a it didn't even study it
ever happen
Wow is that oh is that because of
electricity electricity electric
conductivity Oh like a touchscreen
that's awesome that sounds like an
expensive saw yeah you treated himself
with that some others did I now have a
new goal yeah exactly
keep Sam's fingers I now am in love with
a with my I have a gay I think it's a
five or six inch blade circular saw and
I that that is my new favorite tool L
see if Bongo gets that angry over calmly
presented facts just imagine how scary
and probably violent of a police officer
he must have been a Secret Service agent
and then the Secret Service accepted him
which says concerning things about the
secret services standards teacher Lauren
hey Sam great interview today for anyone
interested I want to recommend the
documentary backpack full of cash it's
very really revealing when it comes to
charters and why people are so willing
to dump money into pro charter board
candidates zero gravitas
Sam a big project on the left is trying
to activate non-voters the collar was
absolutely right they're talking about
banning assault weapons absolutely
pushes people otherwise drawn in by left
economic policy I don't see the
Democrats losing votes to Republicans by
not pushing this issue well I mean I
think the idea is it's going to come up
I think that I think that there is a
[Music]
I don't think that there's many
candidates who lead with that Eric's
wall well sounded like he did but in the
main I don't think there's many
candidates that leave with it because
for most voters I think it's probably
lower on the list of things that
motivate their vote you may have 80% of
the population who are in favor of gun
control but the 20 percent who are not
are far more vote more often on that
issue that's the the point and so not
making it the focus of your campaign is
different from changing your policies on
it I think and I think there's something
to be said about not leading with that
because I just from electoral standpoint
I don't know why you need to I don't
know how that it helps you I just don't
think it gets you any votes I wouldn't I
wouldn't back off it because I think it
can lose you votes in that instance all
right let's take one more phone call and
then we've got a lot of people have been
hanging on for a long time on here I'm
sorry folks a lot of people on for 80
minutes almost what what happened
I figure this out here just bear with me
come from a 3:1 for area code who's this
where you come from you are the final
call or the day hello Sam it's good to
talk to you again I really enjoyed our
previous interview and I wanted to take
this opportunity to demonstrate on my
platform as you know ever not everyone
knows my history I do not often talk
about it because I am focused on winning
this campaign but what you may not know
wait a second definitely my passion my
root chakra Sam yet ya know the last
college I have no idea who he was who is
he trying to do I have no clue
that was a tough deal tough call from
the five-one-six-- area code who's this
where you come from oh yeah that's you
are you trying to do an impression of
somebody no energy I can't hear you
gotta talk into your whatever device
you're using well my phone are you using
do you talk to other people with this
phone yeah you can't hear me okay now I
can whatever you were doing before don't
do do what you just did when you said
yeah you can't hear me good the comedy
bet is the comedy bet you do in a comedy
bit talk into the microphone
I wish um um
so I heard I heard you on Destiny's
Channel yeah saying that you are saying
that you don't get to do what you want
to do on your show like I guess you're
beholding to the news cycle or whatever
right oh well no I did Express I mean
that's a little bit of an exaggeration
but
the idea of doing a No yeah exactly
so Michael the idea of doing in the
talked about a once a week shampooer
game right now I don't want to talk
about it but the idea of doing a once
will show doing it once a week show is
is obviously appealing
I mean shows now they do once a week
maybe they do you know they they produce
you on one it's yeah it gives you a lot
more time to to prep you get to
videogames and touch people all day test
James flood - what's that
I'd be yeah all right well thank you I
appreciate that I just want to ask
Michael yeah favorite song I just Matic
we don't have types of it's alright I
like that is a great example of try less
you'll have more success yeah barely
speaking the microphone barely speaking
to the phone and ask a vaguely obnoxious
question
alright here's about an interview post
people at c66 more AIIMS in her bangs
I suggest Democrats advocate for
bringing back the so-called assault
weapons ban advocate for common-sense
background checks potentially advertised
strictly voluntarily substantial federal
gun buyback aside from that let's
Institute Bernie's American will find
that gun violence will plummet
democratic socialism confuses Sam Bernie
Sanders confuses Sam Sam please don't
speak for everyone to let Priya have her
second question sorry I was totally
angered by Sam's response to the prior
phone call forgive latest message Pablo
I had a dream where Russell Brand was
driving Michael and I through some
strange seats and he was supposed to be
Portugal Russell Brand can't drive
sounds good this is my fourth dream but
Michael I love him
a ragin Workers Party
Christian majority report taking a page
from the Camel cigarettes playbook by
offering a seven-day challenge for ood
Milky Way why not treat guns the same
way we treat vehicles register every
weapon competency well I know I agree
with this prime hey Sam and I was
listening to Kyle and you should spread
the framing I was listening to Kyle and
you should spread the framing on
medicare-for-all
you would eliminate your private tax for
health care premiums deductibles co-pays
and pay a public tax so that way your
taxes won't increase but actually
decrease from moving your private health
care tax to a public tax thank you and
left his best what's that you should
follow you should file copy saying that
Sam
we've been saying that I am err yeah
that was the point oh I don't know if he
was saying that we were saying this in
Kyle's reading that Kyle saying this and
you should take a page out of his book
oh hi Jen Tempe is part of the Phoenix
metropolitan area remember that Phoenix
cops did to the family of four year old
who took a Barbie from a dollar store we
do yeah and the final I am of the day
[Music]
secret identity politics the thing Jesse
Watters said was possibly the least true
thing I've ever heard
see you well Michael be here tomorrow
we'll be live from Netroots on Thursday
and Friday bye-bye
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made oh
the option will get paid
[Music]
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
