there there are two components to your
argument about prosecuting Donald Trump
to the full extent of the law and I
would imagine this also goes for anyone
else who is found to have breached the
the law in the course of operating in
the Trump administration the two major
components are just simply what is best
for democracy and also what is also a
there's a political argument in terms of
those people who oppose Republicans and
what they tend to do when they're in
office but before we get to that let's
just sort of quickly dispense with the
notion I mean as Donald Trump done
things that ultimately he will be
subject to prosecution for I mean you
know putting aside for a moment the
question as to whether a sitting
president can be indicted at one point
he will not be president and in in in
what do you anticipate he will be
prosecutable for at a minimum there's
some mundane issues but legally
significant such as the ways he violated
tax law of both New York State and the
federal government with respect to
running the Trump Foundation as
basically just a way to take in tax
money and avoid taxes on it
he pretty clearly violated a series of
campaign finance laws with the payouts
to women than he did in conjunction with
Michael Cohen he's essentially an
unindicted co-conspirator in cases to
which Michael Cohen has pled guilty so
this is like a much better argument than
you normally get to make about somebody
when there hasn't been a prosecution
because most people are not unindicted
co-conspirators or individual number one
as in his technical case but I think
that he has engaged in money laundering
the Financial Crimes enforcement network
has previously fined him on a civil
basis
for money-laundering at the Trump casino
at the Trump casinos in Atlantic City I
think there's probably going to be
evidence that he did money laundering
injunction with Russian oligarchs even
separate from the robber Moeller
investigation and any number of tax
issues that were developed by the New
York Times massive investigation into
tax crimes by Trump and his siblings
some of which the statute of limitations
has led out which is basically a
get-out-of-jail-free card if prosecutors
don't find crimes quickly enough for
individuals so he may well be clear of
most of those criminal obligations but
not necessarily all of them okay so and
and we don't even have to really raise
robert Muller's name largely speaking
when we talk about those things that
he's prosecutable for today we could
maybe you know reconvene in six months
and have another list of things and I
would imagine it's also possible that
once he's out of office that then people
start digging around and what what went
on during this administration there may
be another host of things but but you
have outlined a fairly sufficient dance
card of of prosecutable offenses so
let's talk about and I want to circle
back at one point to the question of how
does he been able to get away with this
but before we get there the idea that he
has gotten away with this stuff up to
this point is in some respects the
foundation for your argument that from a
perspective of democracy and maintaining
some stability within our society it is
essential that we prosecute Donald Trump
why so we need in order to be a country
that has ruled under a shared law law
that applies to all of us it has to be
the case that if people break the law
they are treated the same way obviously
that's not often been the case in
American history it's
an aspiration so you know in apartheid
South even after the Civil War and did
formal slavery obviously it would be
insane to say that America had full
equality under the law in 1950 it very
much did not but the fact that there was
an aspiration and a sense that the
country was moving toward more equality
under the law meant that we were getting
better and people had some faith in an
American Dream and in the idea that
America might become a country in which
we were all treated under law the same
in the tendency while imperfect was to
get better through probably the you know
the 1970s maybe into the 1980s people
can quibble about the exact time at
which things started to go sideways but
I would argue that in recent decades
America has become less equal under the
law
your odds of going to jail if you commit
a crime as a powerful person have gone
down precipitously even as mass
incarceration is an enormous blight on
our country and I think that that tears
at the fabric of our country it tears at
the notion that we're all in this
together if you think about the rhetoric
of dr. Martin Luther King jr. a lot of
it was about making America live up to
its aspirations
you know referencing the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution as
having set forth ideals that the country
maybe hadn't lived up to but was could
move toward and I think that the ability
to have these sort of shared aspirations
these shared ideals these shared
principles that's something that we
could move towards is has been on the
decline and we're potentially reaching
sort of a breaking point at which people
are thoroughly cynical and I think it's
very hard to be a nation if we're
unrelentless Lee if we're relentlessly
cynical we need some face and I think
that's why we need to really stop this
trend toward powerful people getting
away with whatever they can and we
should say that there is there's I mean
plenty of
of of data to support your thesis that
you know we are living in a time where
there is an incredible amount of
disillusion with all the institutions
that of the major institutions of our
society I mean across the board and
questioning are you know like I say
every institution and the leaders there
and and and so to what extent do you
think as we look back on on these last I
don't know four or five decades you you
know you say it's difficult to put a
time on it but I mean it does fall
around a time where the president United
States committed a series of crimes and
never has the president right as the
president committed crimes as the
president and des was never held to
account by the time Richard Nixon died
you know he he it was a major
Reformation project and you know he was
hailed as a as a great statesman in in
some quarters I mean what are the
implications of that and then we'll take
a break and follow that trajectory
through the years because there's
there's almost like we saw that story
play out multiple times over the next
couple of decades yeah in 1974 Gerald
Ford who had not even been elected as
vice president but ascended after
Richard Nixon's vice president was
forced to resign in disgrace and then
Nixon was forced to resign in disgrace
and basically one step ahead of the
impeachment cloud cloud right after him
and third pardoned Nixon and at the time
it was very unpopular because it people
had expectations that the president
would be held accountable but relatively
quickly Ford got credit from the
establishment for having helped us move
beyond what's with let's look forward
let's not look to the past and that's
part of why gel Ford
most came from way behind to win the
1976 election is that the kind of
original sin of the Ford administration
which was that he pardoned an obvious
criminal and Richard Nixon was sort of
forgiven so within a couple years you
started seeing this trend develop and
then you had the iran-contra affair in
which Ronald Reagan and most of the
senior members of his foreign policy
team committed pretty blatant crimes and
yet Oliver North got to testifying
because he looked good in a uniform
basically god people were fawning over
oliver north and there were all sorts of
impediments put in place to for warrants
walsh the former republican federal
judge who was pursuing reagan and his
team of criminals and then that led to
george HW bush in conjunction with his
then attorney general bill Barr who you
might recall is the person being
nominated to be Trump's
get-out-of-jail-free card right now
Ocean Bar pardoned a series of people
including Caspar Weinberger
to basically make sure that Bush and the
other senior members of the Reagan
administration were not held to account
for iran-contra and it's basically just
been downhill ever since
all right Jeff Jeff let's take a break
there because we have another a more
recent example of this type of get out
of free jail card ISM if you will in the
in the last decade but we will talk
about that on the other side I'm Sam
cedar this is a ring of fire radio we'll
be right back
