[Music]
is a little preview of what July 4th
it's gonna look like this year in
Washington DC
like I say hoping for massive
thunderstorms rain clouds apparently all
the VIP tickets were given to the RNC
none to the DNC because this is about
America should have one way to take a
winner-take-all let the American people
decide and frankly I don't think there
should have been tickets given to
anybody how about there are no VIP seats
it's not for the people the people want
to see me here is some of those millions
of dollars that the parks department is
spending to ship in tanks where is this
here is this downtown Washington in the
yeah
18-wheeler they got to put him on the
back 18 wheelers there you go there's
the tank wow that's super exciting it's
it's great here's another one good
look at that tank roll by on that
18-wheeler honk the hood oh thank you
for that and here is old man Dobbs
talking about how exciting it is to have
some real military hardware for once I
love this idea of the presidents and I
just got to tell you I've been hoping
for this for a very long time we're
going to have us a little different 4th
of July celebration in the nation's
capitol I'd love to see it in every
community in the country but we start
with m1a ones tanks and strikers all
part of the president's July 4th
celebration that he's been planning for
America it's called the salute to
America event it'll be in Washington DC
of course and it will have fireworks a
speech from the president and now tanks
and Bradley's and strikers and all sorts
of fancy military vehicles to just kind
of spice things up the DC Council oh
they were so concerned about potential
damage that would be caused by those
armored vehicles the Pentagon will not
have de static the static displays of
the tanks we don't know what that means
but there will also be demonstrations
above from the Navy's Blue Angels flight
squadron the US Army Band back to the
ground now and the Marine Corps silent
drill team 8th and I it will surely be
fun patriotic and a glorious celebration
of our nation its founding and oh yes
our military which belongs in every
every Independence Day celebration in my
opinion I can't find the uber always um
thing on my whatever happened to that
all right take that off at one point but
there it is getting all jazzed up for
the Supreme Leader's observing the
troops there are vote vets apparently
he's going down there with thousands of
John McCain t-shirts to boo the
president
so I appreciate John McCain being
leveraged for good for once go down
there and basically upset the president
meanwhile lastly we should talk about
this
so Nike was gonna come out with some
Betsy Ross sneakers which in which they
were going to use the the flag that
Betsy Ross sewed 13 stars the the
colonial flag right is that what we call
it and when they announced it ki Colin
Kaepernick was like you're aware that
that those 13 stars are used by like
sort of so-called Patriot militias and
white nationalist groups and Nike was
like oh we were like scone Teleca Colin
just does everything for Nike now we
weren't and so Nike decides not to roll
it out probably a good idea but not if
you're on Fox Business News because look
this is what Donald Trump wanted for
re-election anyway so if he can bring
this back you won't have to hit so hard
on the immigration thing gotta ask you
about Colin Kaepernick and and I'm gonna
spend time sure no sure Nike doesn't
care because I'm a fat old man but I'm
gonna find every Nike piece of equipment
I haven't burn it this weekend I'm gonna
go find New Balance or somebody else
that makes American products and it's
proud of American American flag pause
that comes with head Ron's nails it no
one cares what this fat old man cares
about I hope your throws his back out
we're gonna like though and Kaepernick
who was a third-string best quarterback
at one minor season has owns that
company for some reason that's an
anti-american and my I hope they pay a
big big price for this what do you think
I think it's politics I think that it's
about their bases
about Nikes base it is been there
campaigning with this nonsense I don't
know if we've got pictures of the shoes
instead of it's the colonial a 13 star
flag designed by Betsy Ross and there it
is and there's I this thing was
contrived I really do
utterly contrived by their marketing
department and the audience they want to
buy that would have really been offended
if it been the US flag back there
the current 50 stars on it they're
playing games here absolutely and in its
transition I think it's a price well
I'll never I'll never wear another Nike
product again and again no they don't
care about me I'm a fat old man but I'm
gonna tell all my friends and I'm gonna
basically make fun of everybody wears it
oh we don't care either
you're a fat old man I had roasted a
former Navy SEAL and definitely not be
there I looked at it there was that Nike
swoosh it's hard to escape that son go
buy American that's what we need you go
find this several let's do it they did
good by American I'm a higher America
absolutely so says Ed Rollins these guys
just I just I can't wait these guys are
just like morphing into those two
characters in the Muppets yeah and they
just get one point she's gonna keel over
yeah and also the story about Betsy Ross
so in the first flag is there's
no documentation for that so I'm sorry
guys
but that's actually really interesting
so now like are they actually saying cuz
it it means something to say you know
products made in the United States well
compensated labor okay but now are they
literally almost saying like the shoe
can be made at a sweatshop in Bangladesh
it just needs to have the Betsy Ross
flag on it and then it's somehow made in
America I'm know they're saying they
what kind are they talking about yeah
yeah I'm wearing it and it's not the
best shoe New Balance is not well take
that take that American worker
now New Balance what it what yeah but
it's almost like what is it like a tenth
of your deduction go to the phone call
from
