[Music]
eight nine to eight area code who are
you where you're calling from hello
hello Michael hey hey this is Tim from
from Nebraska um I'm a centrist and I do
like to get both sides of the situation
and I'm this my first time calling and
um I just I'm calling because um there's
been a lot of you know frustration on my
and as a libertarian and you know that's
just expected but you guys do have some
good points but I I'm really upset about
your the way you talk about David
Axelrod mm-hmm you know and I just feel
like there's a distinction you need to
make in the way that he orchestrated
things and the man who brought you the
next episode shouldn't be discussed like
that you know David Axelrod one of the
greatest producers ever don't don't
separate the fact that David Axelrod was
a dough producer and that fuck-boy from
the Obama administration shouldn't even
share the same name you know I you know
I have if I could just have a favor can
I get some time on this coma yeah go
ahead go ahead and reveal your true
identity if one has nine yeah you know
my name is NJPW you know I'm saying I'm
a legend but enough about me and more
about myself
I'm a legend you know I'm saying you
could reach me at at Cole James cash but
yeah man it's been a couple months since
I called man good good to talk to you
it's good to talk to you what's on your
mind my friends well first of all man um
you know you know the you know to click
on line man on Twitter's called left as
best you know that yes the left is best
and I I had a sale on my music on my
band camp because frankly man like my
son wants this drone you know my son was
diagnosed with autism couple weeks ago
you know we're gripping with some things
this and that but also gripping with the
fact that rent is expensive out here as
hell out here in the San Jose Bay Area
and if you can believe in man you know
you're the followers man they've chipped
and I was able to give my son a nice
expensive 200 all the drone that's a lot
of that and you know those members are
like Lisa Lisa W temple Drake there's a
guy named DJ queuing on okay these
people like contribute a lot adult film
star Carol Fox you know like I had
everybody from porn stars - just
communist donating and I just wanted to
say thank you all stars - just communist
that is the audience right that's good I
like that
oh yeah yeah and Michael you know my
background man I made a whole album
about the big girl porn stars man that's
that's oh yeah most definitely I've been
I've made conversions if you go on my
page man on my twitter my pin is big
girl big middle finger said
capitalism and great ones don't know you
know I'm converting that's crop Canada
gonna counter hegemonic project sorry
fun half no yeah yes so first of all
them we need to get over under them who
what's gonna happen first six nine
getting life or Congress impeaching
Donald Trump 69 getting life six nine
getting life death that's robbing
September yeah no they're not gonna
impeach him you don't think though I
don't think so unfortunate I I tell you
what though I don't think they'll
impeach him but I am starting to in a
way that I have never contemplated
before I think dude might actually get
indicted when he's out of office
well might actually face like actual
criminal charges and I haven't allowed
myself to entertain that possibility
before and I'm not saying it might
literally be the National Enquirer stuff
but the way it's going I think he might
leave office and get hit with charges
like immediately I think that's actually
possible and I just saw you know Tish
James the new Attorney General in New
York she just said the other day she she
said she said I'm gonna use everything I
have to investigate that guy and it's
like
you and then and then we didn't pull it
because whatever who cares about Donny
Deutsch but Donny Deutsch said on
Morning Joe and Donna and the only
reason I take this seriously is because
Donny Deutsch is known Donald Trump for
decades and they're on all these scumbag
circles and he's like the whole thing is
a criminal enterprise and his words
we've known about this for decades and
why are we giving the guy all this shine
but I mean he he's like he said this
thing's gonna take him down and his
family so I'm actually I'm starting to
think that this might this might end in
a really dramatic way I think it's
actually possible and as I always say
the goal of modern politics is Kjell
Trump free Lula I mean you know that you
know that's a Brazil you're you know how
I feel about that you know but I I just
want to say like I said man you know I
brought up 6-9 because you know the
black delegation on your left is best
quick man we kind of need an explanation
as to are you talking about how you like
six 9s musically you know you know you
know I mean I'm not gonna ask you for an
explanation right now because there's
other things I want to discuss but trust
me we will be coming back today
no I noticed that I know that was fun
yeah meaning I noticed that they were
the garbage ass rapper and you kind of
cold find him I don't know well here's
here's my here let me tell you here's
the thing about six nine so I we
interviewed on woke Bros which is the
show I do it was Bobby shmurda 's lawyer
and I don't think Bobby shmurda and
definitely not six nine have I mean
especially six nine is obviously done
some extremely up
oh don't without a doubt but I also
think that there is I do think that
there's an NYPD whether they call it or
not but there is literally a rap tonight
yes that's a real thing yeah and I think
the way there they go after in an almost
paramilitary way you know essentially
like you know idiot 18 19 20 year olds I
think there's a bigger problem there but
it doesn't but six lines a trash person
I think is pretty clear
secondly it's also but it's like once he
knows is these are some marrow I don't
remember when but they were playing a
six nine song and making fun of them and
then one of them though had the honesty
to be like you know what makes me really
angry about this if this came on in a
club I'd be dancing right now
and so that's where I'm at okay I can't
lie got you yeah I got you and I want to
also shout out my local congressman is
ole offerin for intentionally asking I
was if you come up when you search the
president come on that you know that
 was all-purpose dog you know that
was all perfectly Kelly congressman
ain't playing now you saw how Ted Lou
did him dirty man he did he did Steve
King dirt you know yeah yeah that was
just a day removed after Pelosi put him
in a body bag
you know and you think you see you see
Chuck Schumer like oh oh well my friends
are here I guess I could say something
now you know this posture is terrible we
did good I said things to shut your
bitch-ass up Chuck you know I mean we'll
talk you know
um but yes you've not she body bag them
no man with that with that don't you
character don't you miss characterize me
talk because my whole set is insurance
now I'm Marlo and you prop Joe homie
it's a rest you know I don't know prop
Joe's alive part of the Trump oh yeah
and I hate doing that comparison but
when you fooled out here in these
streets
the wolf smell blood man hmm you know
look I said you got Chuck Schumer who is
the equivalent of we pay son name in
popping off come on man so you know so
it sounds to me like you have a lot of
optimism about the next couple of years
you know why man because I've already
told you the situation with you know the
mother my child the woman I love
yes you know and it's like if I don't
got hope I just drive her down with with
you know things like that and you know
we're working on relationship because
you know like offset I cheated you know
so I'm trying to fix that in this and
that
and that one offset right now man I'm
not I think all men all men are cheering
for offset right now yes yes yes because
I'm trying to really put my back
together and I don't have time like on
the real don't be a negative doesn't
help her because she says it you know
like like it doesn't there's nothing I
can do etc etc I don't think about I
have have optimism so you don't have the
luxury of cynicism cynicism is a luxury
don't have exactly right and I do have i
do have one substantive thing to say arm
I have you know I I work two jobs I work
as a case manager at a homeless shelter
now before I was case manager at the
group home right at the group home I've
actually taken a position as just a
counselor which is basically someone who
comes in and kind of babysits and I do
that overnight um I was gonna call last
week and talk about how we deal with
veterans at my current homeless shelter
job but that ain't fun we talked
about that man I wish Jamie was in here
right now so we can have a read read
escutcheon about which ain't even a word
about having fun you know cuz I like I
like you know we mess were the last time
about that not just like cheesenut but
this time man I'm telling you I've been
you know that cat wasn't it cute cutey
cubed I whatever you know the Swedish
cat you know cutie pie cutie pie cutie
pie
yeah yeah that cornball man yeah he's no
he some of the kids I work with you know
when and they're all minorities right
they you know they were watching his
videos it was like 7:00 in the morning
you know there was no school that day
there watching his videos and this and
that and I had to put it monsoon when I
was like you know he said the n-word
right right yeah and they're like what
no like he just talks about like you
know blah blah blah blah and then the
other and it's just like I've had to
collect kind of educate him and this and
that but another thing is man in order
to you know with video games man like
because I try to reach these kids any
way I can yeah so these kids like that
you know we they have an old xbox360 and
they got call of duty and this and
they're right well I've been able to
sort of reach a couple of these kids by
discussing some of the missions they're
doing you know and in one you know I was
able to if you can believe this I was
able to connect call mana fort into a
game of Call of Duty because there
section in black ops 2 where you're in
Angola participating in the civil war
with Joseph Savimbi as a CIA age Wow now
that's why really
sohow huh yeah and you know who you know
who put you that mission or assist you
who Oliver North that's wild
yeah so I was able to discuss with these
kids I was like you know the guy there's
a guy you know in jail right now he's in
federal prison who used to support this
guy which normalized him enough to be in
this game they're like what he's
connected to Trump I said technically
yes you know definitely and so I'm able
to have these discussions with these
kids and to make the connection between
hey you know this actually happened that
happened there's also a section in black
ops 2 where you team up with the
Mujahideen to fight the Soviets you know
and for a guy like me who's a veteran
you know that's that's important to me
you know and then you know like I said
it's it's I try to reach the kid anyway
that I can with um there's a game called
Metal Gear Solid 5 and if you know
anything about Metal Gear Madison real
that takes place in Afghanistan and
Angola so it's like you know and Metal
Gear does a great job of breaking down a
lot of geopolitical things you know and
and the reasons why it will happen etc
etc so I just try to throw in little
little things here and there like if you
just google this I take out your phone
and call that and all of a sudden we're
having a two-hour discussion on no
you're doing damn like a book that I
read in college and was and it was who's
Brazilian did you ever read a pedagogy
of the oppressed by Paulo Freire a no I
have not no I know I think you're doing
I would eat old people who do I recall
correctly it's been a long time since I
read it but he talked about he would
teach literacy through instead of like
children's stories he basically used
like newspapers so he teach like the
whole process at once like you already
know that this system is designed to
oppress you if you're poor if you're
marginalized so on and so he the
educational methodology would itself be
the tools for confronting the systems of
oppression that's what you're that's
awesome
it's awesome yeah and nature man one
last thing I'll say yeah
I definitely uh I will DM you and if you
could just give me the title again you
know how much we got you know from um
and then so the last thing I wanted to
say is um one of the kids was playing a
Wolfenstein Wolfenstein too you know and
I myself that completed the game but a
conversation between two of the kids
while they were playing it right now
this kid this kid was white you know and
the other kid the other kid was Latino
and they're playing and this and that
and you know I'm you know I like the
game personally but I'm just watching it
you know until it's time for them to be
put in the bed whatever and there's a
part where you you know you're reading
like what happened and how the United
States surrendered the United States
essentially folded and there's a part
where you know they're reading about you
know the Ku Klux Klan has the South etc
and how white people are generally
comfortable with the rhetoric you know
like there's a letter being written was
like whoa we were supposed to be the
master race right like they're basically
saying like well what's wrong with being
white and this and that and the white
kid was like I mean he's like I know
there's a lot of racist people like that
but I mean we would definitely resist an
occupation it's not gonna lift you know
kiss says you see anybody resisting now
Wow
and I was taken aback because the kid
you know you know I know the kids
background his before his parents aren't
citizens etc so he's you know he's he's
heat this kid reads a little more and he
was like do you see me but you see them
resisting now and it's not about you
know enforcing this concept of white
guilt but just again I see why the
church hate that game so much in gamers
hated that game because there's also a
part where you know like you know the
minority characters in the game talk
about we've been fighting our asses off
but white folks have been real
comfortable that's a literal
conversation that happened in the game
and considering this was developed long
before the Trump can it came in the
office these are real things that I'm
able to you know have conversations
about in convey and it's not about
demonizing white people as much as it's
about pointing out the truth that so
long as it don't affect you it's all
good you know it's all that's like
that's it yeah no I agree right but and
that's and that's a much deeper
recognition than like the woke rhetoric
because that's it's not essentialist I
mean it
it's like the the I the the identity of
whiteness that has been created the
reason it's so dangerous is because the
the fictitious creation of identity has
been rooted in that privilege in that
disconnect and yeah you're exactly right
I appreciate the call man I love it
I love what the community is doing I
love what you're doing with those kids
good luck to offset and yeah each Trump
and actually also the only the only
problem the over-and-under is Takashi
definitely might be cooperating with the
feds but for another yeah and and uh
Michael one thing you need to know man
yes ALC got the youth man ALC got the
youth they love them yes all right man
see young love her like they love it she
was like who want to get lit up next you
know I'm saying she was calling out
painted and all them and like her
Twitter man like the kids are following
it you know she like she already said
get used to me slaying who want to get
lit up next remember Paul Ryan's I'm a
Paul Ryan you know he's young and he's
got a vision you know my name is Ezra
Klein and I'm super so I
bought that you know hook line and
sinker you know I mean it's like ALC is
like oh yeah but he's a smart one right
then she posted that clip of Steve King
like well well well I you know posting
the wrong phone maker and this and that
when he was talking to Google CEO but I
don't know what I'm talking about
you know Ailes AK streets man no she's
not yeah we banging anybody who had a
Palmer LC see me come to bay area we
will thank you
