[Music]
yesterday Chuck Schumer had some
visitors up and it is a Brooklyn
apartment and right across from Prospect
Park it was about I don't know about 300
people there maybe a little more and and
this is what what happened folks calling
for the closing of the detention
concentration camps however you want to
refer to them they're all loved it's all
legit descriptions of these areas that
now and here are some of the pictures
the Inspector General of the Department
of Homeland Security not Alexandria a
consulate has but the Inspector General
of the Department of Homeland Security
has said has released pictures and have
called the conditions squalor they have
said it's a ticking time bomb I mean
this is just horrible
look at that it's nuts
88 we put go backward right there this
is 88 adult males in a cell with a
maximum capacity of 41 and let me ask
you this
when you think the capacity in a cell is
41 do you think that's roomy or
comfortable this is a cell 88 adult
males double more than double the
capacity
let's see the next picture here and you
have more images of of men and women and
children in cells it's just it's just
reprehensible and a reminder this is a
function of Trump's policies now which
is not to say there weren't problems
under Obama folks who followed
immigration know that Obama was broke
records particularly in the first couple
years of his administration for
deportation they spent the supposedly
five minutes contemplating the idea of
separating families as a policy as a way
of deterring immigrants and then
rejected it immediately of course yes
they separated parents from children
when the parents were accused of
committing some crime crime beyond the
notion of just crossing the border
without documentation that was a civil
offense if they were found to have drugs
if there was reason to believe they were
abusing the children they were separated
as they would be in this country if you
are a US citizen but it wasn't an
ongoing policy and there was a policy of
allowing people to go to families while
they await a hearing and like I said
yesterday somewhere about eighty to
ninety percent of those who are released
and then expected to come back for a
hearing come back and I think the rates
are even higher when they have an
attorney
they understand what the process is and
as these images come out and as the
Trump's own administration essentially
elements of it Department of Homeland
Security an executive agency Inspector
General part of the executive branch
comes out and says hey this is a ticking
time bomb these people are living in
squalor at that point even the most
rabid cheerleaders for this
administration are gonna have to figure
out a plan B and the plan B is of course
is to blame the Democrats is to pretend
like this is we're doing the best we can
we're doing the best we can we wanted to
do all the things you you're telling us
we need to do you just wouldn't let us
here is and Kilmeade tried to do this
apparently you can't even stomach it so
they send Ainsley Earhardt out there to
sort of do the like we really do care
about this I'm a mother I'm a mother as
if you need to be a mother to care about
the fact that children are dying that
men are shoved into a cell at double
capacity for no reason in the first
place
it's a tough situation it really is yes
we all have we have hearts we look at
these this video of people behind the
fences and they're sleeping on top of
each other
we need more facilities Democrats and
Republicans as you said over over and
over Brian need to work together because
these are human beings these are God's
children hold on before we get to God's
children why do we need more facilities
why do we need more facilities we don't
need more facilities the children were
released to their two family if if
everyone who could come in and have a
cousin aunt uncle father mother son
daughter come in and say
yes I'll be responsible for them but of
course the Trump administration has been
working overtime for years now to make
those people afraid to show up to make -
to make these people go underground even
if they're legal even if they are here
under some type of you know legal status
documented status seeing the Trump
administration get rid of tens of
thousands of people who have been here
for years who were here under the was
it's TPS is that what it's called the
temporary protection status we've seen
it time and time again these Democrats
and Republicans as you said over over
and over Brian need to work together
because these are human beings these are
God's children we want to do the best
thing I don't like to hear a OC talk
about how people are being made fun of
the women are called names down there of
course that is unacceptable and that
needs to be fixed but that's a different
issue Democrats need to work with
Republicans so that we can have more
money to help these individuals and to
come and through our country the right
way
how many Republican Congress people have
we seen go down to these detention
centers if we're all God's children and
we all care about this and none of us
want this problem how many Republican
Congress people how many Republican
senators have we seen go down there how
many have we heard actually say one
critical thing about what's happening
there how many have even done what
Ainsley Earhardt just did for the first
time ever and she expressed a modicum of
sympathy off the top my head I would say
it's zero but they're all
children do Republicans apparently
reject the idea that they're God's
children that should be the question
reporters should be asking them it's
just it's unbelievable and I don't where
the hell Chuck Schumer is I don't know
if he was at his house or not is he
still is he still in Congress Schumer
yeah is he still I didn't know I he's
focusing on really important stuff
protecting you from robo calls yeah I
mean all of those I mean you might like
to terrorize people selling you fake
Caribbean vacations but others of us
don't like it Sam and Chuck Schumer's
looking out for us you know Chuck
Schumer actually said something that
protesters which were remiss and not
reporting as he said I agree with you
but I don't hear you and they were like
what are you talking about we're
mobilizing industries like it tell my
imaginary friends the Bailey's come out
against the concentration camps my hands
are tied until that happens I'm gonna be
totally focused on oh wait my legs are
sore not enough room and coach on the
plane maybe you should stop distracting
me I'm also working on making sure your
coupons stay valid for a longer period
of time a lot of people think they have
the coupons for big beads at key foods
they go and they're excited to save 45
cents and then all of a sudden they're
not valid anymore these are the kind of
common-sense middle-class solutions that
aren't focused on what's that deal
no more bike lanes on it unbelievable
it's I mean it's it's sad but it's true
a primary that guy
