night Donald Trump is going to go on
television yeah and he is going to tell
us that our lake houses in Minnesota are
subject to being rampaged by another
Caravan or something to that effect and
he's going to have to declare a national
emergency
what and I guess ostensibly to build to
build a I don't know a mile and a half
stretch of a wall or a slats or whatever
steel cladding what does he have give me
your sense from a legal perspective like
how does this go down so well I guess
there's two questions here like the one
question is so what Trump is apparently
contemplating if he's going to declare a
national emergency and then say because
there is emergent and emergency I can
now order the US military to go build
the wall even in the absence of
congressional authorization or an
appropriation allowing me to do so and
you know the answer to the question like
if you asked me to like read the
statutes myself if I were the judge I
would look them and say no no he can't
do that but that's not the the important
question whether this is legal or not
the important question is whether this
Supreme Court will pretend it's legal
because they're Republicans and so is
Donald Trump and I think it's likely
they're gonna say it is I mean I mean
I've been looking at the statute and
staring at them all day and it's not as
clear-cut as I hoped it would be I mean
I basically what it turns on is that
there is a federal law saying that Trump
can declare an emergency and then he can
you can authorize construction projects
provided that the emergency is for
requires the use of the of the military
and so I don't think this requires the
use of the military there's no reason
like the reason why Trump can't build
Wahl isn't that there's some emergency
and the only way to address it is to
send troops the reason why Trump can't
can't build this wall is because he's
unable to convince Congress to pass the
Japan a wall letting him build the wall
so in my mind that's not an emergency
that requires the use of the military I
mean among other things building isn't
something that you need troops to do
here civilians can build things just
fine but you go to war with the Supreme
Court you have not the Supreme Court you
want and there is a long line of
precedents saying that is a general rule
arm Court should defer to the president
in matters of national security um I
think that if there are five people in
the Supreme Court who want to side with
Donald Trump and their whip there
probably will be like it'll be possible
to write a judicial opinion that passes
the last test arguing that he could do
this and that's all they need who would
have standing to bring this case I mean
who would sue I mean I guess ostensibly
probably Congress right because the he's
a he would somehow get money that has
not been appropriated by Congress yes so
the the the best plane it would be I
mean a lot in the land that this you
know wall would be built on is owned by
private citizen and so if one or more of
those private citizens refuses to sell
it to the government then the government
would have to use the eminent domain
power to force a sale and so that person
I mean it's you know it's you clearly
have standing if the government comes up
to you and says hey that land you own
we're gonna we're gonna buy it from you
you you can't say no so like there's no
question that that person has standing I
also think that that's the best
plaintiff because like you know in
political cases like this they aren't
about the wall they're about competing
values and you have to appeal to the
values of one of the judges who both
you're trying to get in order to
convince that judge to be on your side
and so I think there's an off chance
that if like a property owner comes into
court and does look
I am a property owner guys like you love
Iran like I'm the person you're supposed
to be looking out for so protect me I
think that there is an off chance that
someone like Thomas or Gorsuch might be
your by Jove I do love Iraq I'm not here
to protect Muslims but property owners
those are important people so there's an
off chance that I think you know one of
the Republicans on the court could rebel
but realistically speaking like this is
the court that upheld the Muslim ban I I
think they're going to be very
deferential to a Republican president
and in that scenario we're talking about
is months away right I mean so the idea
is that Donald Trump says we're building
the wall I can do it I'm getting the
money from here or there and he starts
to build the wall or he doesn't it
doesn't you know from a political
standpoint it it may very well be
irrelevant or I guess you know whether
there's a legal recourse because he's
just he just wants to say he's gonna
build it anyways and that's basically
that's basically it I mean I guess the
question is legally speaking if he is
allowed to do this it seems like it
might open up a set of can of worms or
no for future presidents oh there's no
let's be clear about what what Donald
Trump at least like according to news
reports is contemplating Donald Trump is
saying that he can use the United States
military to take people's land
I mean think about that for a second
III mean like you don't have to be a
crazy libertarian to you know to listen
to that he wants using military to take
people's lands to be uncomfortable with
that I and it's not like Posse Comitatus
I mean isn't there I mean a whole raft
of I mean aside from just sort of like
the you know sort of uh takings and
eminent domain like isn't there aren't
there restrictions I mean I guess we saw
that play out at the
order when the military was sent down
there and I guess it was Kelly and maybe
mattis said like he can't really do that
legally and they just did it right right
yeah the Posse Comitatus statute says
that you can't use the army or the Air
Force to it enforce domestic laws so you
know you could argue that this violate
that statute there's a lot of really
good arguments that you can raise but
again in these politically charged cases
they don't operate at the level of laws
they operate at the level of values
and so what I'm hoping happens is that
there's at least one Republican on the
Supreme Court who thinks about this
again we're talking about the president
ordering the military to take people's
land you know and then that that should
shock I mean it should shock them and
like these are people are supposed to
care about property right so I think
that's the best shot of stopping Trump
here is to get someone like a Thomas or
a Gorsuch to understand that again he
wants to order the military to take
people's way you know maybe that'll be
enough but I'm not optimistic yeah I
will not hold my breath in Milhiser
thanks for I mean why so let me just ask
you this and this might be outside your
your portfolio but from a political
standpoint he gets up there tonight he
announces that there's a national
emergency despite the fact that we found
out the administration had to walk back
the 4,000 terrorists crossing the border
it turns out there were six people over
the past two years who were on the
terrorist watch list which of course you
know at one point I think senator
Kennedy was on that list too so that
list is of dubious nature but
nevertheless so do you have a sense and
like I say maybe this is outside your
aportfolio but he announces hey I'm
building the wall I'm gonna get the
money from DHS and taking it you know
because it's national emergency powers
from the you know this surplus
and we're gonna build the wall and so I
don't care if you put it in the budget
or not I'll sign the budget is it and
then just we're done the the government
shutdown is more or less over tomorrow
yeah I mean there's the possibilities
that trump uses this as it is out so we
can end the shutdown before people start
getting really mad because they aren't
getting that they aren't getting their
their tax refunds I mean maybe maybe
this is just this big leaf that he's
using but the problem with this big leaf
is that like I don't know that that that
this Supreme Court is going to get the
joke I don't know that they're going to
realize that like the point of this is
you know it is to strike it down um you
know maybe they will and like maybe they
will understand I mean again if the
president can order the military to take
people's land then I don't know why
President Elizabeth Warren can't say
okay I'm going to order that you know I
think it's a national security threat
the too much banking power is
concentrated in too few individuals so
I'm going to order the military to seize
the banks you know I I don't know why
president Acacio courts heads can't say
you know I think it's a national
security emergency that poor people
don't have adequate access to health
care so I'm going to order the military
to seize a bunch of people's land so we
can build public hospitals there I I
mean if if the Roberts Court really
wants to go there then why you know Liv
can cut in ways that they're not gonna
like well it doesn't necessarily sound
too bad to me but I guess we'll have to
wait and see EML Heiser Justice Center
thinkprogress.org thanks so much your
tante I really appreciate it all right
thank you
