Mike Pompeo the Secretary of State who
looks like a creation from the Koch
brothers labs sort of we say like corn
syrup come to life
he's a extraordinarily extremist
far-right figure a Koch bract guy you
know like pretty much all of them are
but it's just important to note that
when even this guy this sort of you know
extremist House guy has ascended to the
heights when you come from the Koch
brothers House District and then you're
putting in the positions of power that
Pompeo is it's time to get concerned a
little bit yeah but of course I'm sure
that folks are super concerned about the
Trump administration because they
deplore racism saying hey not like I've
been funding racist literally
discriminatory efforts for decades going
back to James cannon say I really don't
like the racism um anytime a libertarian
tells you they don't like the racism say
you're not very bright
do you like inheritances from the racism
times right do you like the idea of
doing anything about the racism
do you support policies that codify it
how about the structures the racism put
in place for the structures that feed
the racism well that's not a thought
experiment none of that is thought
experiment based thinking which is where
Liberty comes from Mike Pompeo is in
Saudi Arabia because of course we have a
classic whodunit on our hands we do know
and we have known for years both the
Obama administration the Trump
administration who done it in terms of
mass murder in Yemen and it's also us or
accomplices in the crime but who done it
of the interrogation and murder of Jamal
Khashoggi so here's what we know it's
important to review this because this
isn't just taking turkish reports at
face value this is we have CCTV footage
of jamal cacha√ßa goes into the Saudi
embassy the Saudi consulate and doesn't
leave and then we have the surveillance
footage of that team that came from
Saudi including a DNA expert so that's
what we know supposedly the Saudis have
been preparing and they're putting out
the story that this was an interrogation
gone wrong which you got Coen Brothers
situation right it was a very it was a
very Coen Brothers situation and I mean
I I guess in the strict that like I
there pretty much admitted like yeah we
tortured him and we're interrogating and
we were gonna abduct him and then I
guess somebody got a little overly
frisky and murdered him see I told you
there was an innocent innocent
explanation there obviously literally
right now as we speak if they haven't
decided already figuring out who's
expendable here and no doubt MBS felt
comfortable doing this in the context of
a trump presidency Donald Trump calls
the press the enemy the people all the
time
MBS is just following his lead but
here's Mike Pompeo in Saudi Arabia and
there's an interesting accidental word
choice in this clip but of course you
can tell as representative of the Trump
team they're really serious about
getting to the bottom of the murder of
Jamal khashoggi over there we're gonna
conduct a thorough complete transparent
investigation they made a commitment to
to hold anyone connected to any
wrongdoing that may be found the count
without whether they are senior officer
official they promised accountability
for each of those persons when they
determine as a result of their
investigation has deserves
accountability hold accountable they
would never just start they were very
clear they understand the importance of
decision I was employed they are
determined to get to the bottom of it
and that they will conduct the report
and we'll all get a chance to see it
they they each promised that they would
achieve that I don't want to talk about
any of the facts they didn't want to
either and that they want to have now
believe that with this investigation in
a thorough way and I think that's I
think that's a reasonable thing to do to
give them that opportunity that we'll
all get to judge right so they want an
opportunity to figure out what their
cover story is for the abduction or
murder of this guy the detention of him
in a consulate and I will say given mb/s
his record and his moves against rival
members of the royal family I would not
be surprised if he feels comfortable
with other forces royal family being
held accountable for this
I would definitely chalk that as
extremely plausible that mvs could
probably think of several cousins that
he would be down with penniless on the
trouble is for him in terms of covering
this up is that Jamal khashoggi and
other people on the hill in Washington
had connections to other members of the
royal family who were rivals of this guy
so that might be hard to do that but he
says I don't control these guys no sorry
that was Gavin McInnes
right exactly like we started to do this
is a thing it's called the monarchy 38
hundreds of years it's like a club and
we have the Royal sites and but you know
if people killer blasphemous I don't you
know that's just my army and
intelligence service I don't run them
I'm a reformer ah this is a picture of
Mike Pompeo and NBS this is about their
fourth date and they are I will say MPs
really does
he has the he's got a winning smile I
can't tell who has more butterflies in
their stomach yeah I like how they're
gonna read bromance
I love how like the Saudis are like the
only Muslims that these guys don't hate
they're like we would be completely
loathe Muslims period if it was just the
Saudi monarchy man good guys okay so
when someone pointed out to me the other
day that NBS is a millennial mm-hmm he's
only 33 or 34 which makes sense because
Millennials do you tend to murder things
and people right they also murdered Joe
Carly's career apparently but this is
the sound I hear when I see this picture
do you want to go the picture just
quickly yeah copy right there's three
seconds but you get the joke
I like this that is like I like how
there they are they really are they're
like no we're not even gonna do let's
not even pretend to have not even
pretend of the photo-op where I look
like gravely concerned about you
clipping torturing murdering and
dismembering I mean I'm sorry and if
kids are listening and they probably
already should have been listening to
this they're really young but like let's
just outline that for a second this
Turkish police version of this story
which they have the video surveillance
evidence which everybody sees supports
this as well as the testimony of Jamal
khashoggi zuv former fiance who has been
very brave and aggressive on this is
that he walks into the consulate is
detained tortured murdered and then cut
up into pieces and driven out in a van
like
I mean I'm not trying to put two five
mean I guess like on some level like to
kill somebody is to kill somebody but
like premeditation that is a rat in a
 consulate that's like where you
know people go to update their friggin
passport pictures I mean he was going
there to get to basically just take care
of her some domestic business cuz he's
getting remarried and they tortured him
and they chopped his body up like I mean
I'm not even gonna do a movie analogy
because it actually is tasteless like
that's literally what they did and this
is the outcome of that it's like a hey
man how's it going
it's impunity that's global
authoritarianism that is the Trump era
typical millennial entitlement he's
really really trying to turn this into a
millennial bit millennial bin Salman is
like mom mom why can't I kill Jamal guys
Auggie
but Dad has killed all the dissonance
there is no dissonance for me to kill
why did the baby boomers kill all the
dissidents there wasn't an opportunity
for us to kill the dissidents well as
Thomas Tremont say he had a dark side
including millennial entitlement and
some balls as Thomas Frieden would also
say yeah and if you wouldn't have the
balls to chop up Jamal tashaki
if you have a New York Times
subscription cancel it folks indeed
support something that needs support and
is actual resistance
