Elizabeth Warren is with a good idea
she's talking to her on her wealth tax
and who's she talking to is she's
talking to O'Donnell right and here she
is explaining the wealth tax there's
been some skepticism as to folks ability
to capture wealth tax because apparently
wealthy people will will hide it but we
have that same problem with income tax
too frankly I didn't even do it
yeah there's there there's places you
can see the cash you can get some of it
and it's also I think just like I think
as important as the revenue as important
as diminishing the wealth that these
people have is I mean it is important I
think I think is like having such wealth
inequality not just income inequality
but wealth inequality is also
destabilizing and unhealthy for society
it's also signifying to the society a
certain set of values and it's
reinforcing that notion that to have a
healthy and successful society you need
to have one that is more egalitarian
here is Elizabeth Warren on that
proposed wealth tax so here's what we
know projected this year is the
tippy-top the 1/10 of 1% will pay in
total taxes that they pay about 3.2
percent of their total wealth that's the
whole thing all in the 99% will pay more
than double that about 7.2 percent of
their total wealth so part of what this
is about is just to say the Plainfield
looks like this could we just make it
look a little bit more like this but we
just level the playing field a little
bit and then here's the key part this
would produce revenue about 2 and 3/4
trillion dollars over the
ten years how about we invest that in
child care so that hard-working families
get some relief how about we invest that
in reducing the student loan debt burden
so young people who are trying to get a
start in life who who want to do
startups and want to try to buy homes
and can't do it because the student ones
get some relief how about we invest that
in a green new deal to help protect this
planet how about we invested in the
things that help us build a future
that's good for our economy and that's
what the wealth tax is all about so the
pitch is you know one part we need to we
need to have less wealth inequality and
two part and look at all the good stuff
we'll get for it I think and yeah I mean
that's great that's a good policy idea
she's definitely the best candidate in
the race so far in my estimation I I
think like maybe it's just a stylistic
preference but I do I do think there is
something in the moment now of the when
someone like Bernie also turns the heat
on a little bit and doesn't just like
which is interesting because she she
does that really well in hearings with
bankers she eviscerates them and I think
she could bring that and TV appearances
a little bit more but even it's like the
one we played a couple of weeks ago
where Bernie was talking about a workers
wages in Iowa had a specific example of
a woman who had like been working barely
above minimum wage like ten years and
he's just like that's and the
crowd just erupted right it is it's
disgusting and that's the only thing I
mean it's stylistic but I think it it
matters I would like to see and I know
she has it because she does an amazing
job in those hearings when she actually
does it to bankers personally which
should be all of her campaign ads should
just be montages of her like great
performances and those hearings yeah
people are pissed off and and she needs
to be channeling that if she wants to
win and like people's I think people's
reactions to her especially like the the
vibe she had in that last clip are gonna
be very heavily dependent on whether or
not they
the teacher that she most reminds them
of I I'm actually kind of okay with her
stylistic like I mean the tippy-top
stuff if her policy was a bit more bold
like I think you can raise more than 2%
to 3% go to five and then but you use
that same thing as you you're just
talking about the tippy-top and then you
seem more reasonable let Bernie do the
more like bomb throwing stuff but I you
know I don't know two to five percent
that's not from a rhetorical standpoint
I think what's more interesting to me is
on the get side I mean uh you know so
like focus on on on the material
benefits that are gonna come from it to
five percent of the wealth whatever it
doesn't matter
well rhetorically it doesn't matter but
five percent would be a big number yeah
that's actually a very Rudy I forget
bruenig crunched those numbered
differences those are actually
significant well maybe she's an
incrementalist and will make it to five
percent all right let's go oh I want to
play this - this is pretty funny now as
you know people have been just so mean
to - this guy Schultz what's his name
Howard Schultz people have been so mean
- Howard Schultz no there's a lots of
what I'm really man I think even about
how we conduct ourselves so honestly
folks look it's there was a time in this
country where you could respectfully sit
down with a billionaire and they would
hear you out if you had some complaints
about the impact of their wealth and
maybe buster doing environmental like
back when I was a kid I remember if
there was a local billionaire you could
go down and just ring the doorbell and
Fifth Avenue was like a listening post
sometimes they would send down there
their Butler or their chauffeur and
they'd come down in the Bentley and
they'd pick you up at the gate and drive
you back up and you'd have some tea and
sit down and talk but no more
we get stuff like this that Fox and
Friends are pretty upset about
[Music]
[Music]
and then he was escorted out
billionaires a bad word now can't make
money
whatever happened to putting up your
hand and they say my point is miss you
know Howard Schultz congratulations on
the success you had and I'm going to eat
your book but if you run it'll help
Donald Trump get elected you say you're
a Democrat will you hurt your cut that's
a conversation what's with the screaming
the anger and being tossed out can
anyone
this is Democrats yelling a Democrat
because to show you what a formidable
Kennedy he would be but I don't know
what what is like like there's I have so
many mixed emotions when I see this this
clip that I can't won like I do they
really think that Liam our society is
now like let is just so there's
protesting like that's never happened in
the United States like like that that
that is just like way out of bounds that
one guy at a book reading would would
point out that you're you're you know in
elite but then just this idea that
somehow oh well that this guy yelled at
him at a book reading is proof positive
this is a formidable cast a lot of heat
on we're getting so desperate out there
that they have to interrupt his book -
yeah Soros probably paid that guy
there's also the I mean if you thought
about it for two seconds like I feel
like that it would it would be much if
you wanted to help Howard Schultz and
nothing can help power chilled
the only people benefiting from this are
the you know people grifting off his
campaign would but it would be for them
to be like you know he's pretending to
be a moderate but he's a left-wing
Democrat this guy's so formidable that
yesterday we checked in on on his book
from the ground up get it
a journey to reimagine he's a copy guys
running round up a journey to yes nobody
got that nobody got that a journey to a
reaction go around the promise of
America well he's up to 24 whole reviews
ladies and gentlemen he's gotten 24
reviews and they are two stars that he's
gotten let me just say there's one even
that is oh I know it is here it is the
one star review that he got the five
star review he got was not even out yet
I love how people review a book and rate
at 1 star because of a person's
political aspirations aspirations
aspirations I think they they misspelled
that they're making a Ted Cruz
aspirations isn't that like meaning like
you're gasping or something the book
only the only the book only shipped
today so the reviews are purely
political in nature to have nothing to
do with the merits of the book you're
welcome to your opinions but being
narrow-minded and not listening to what
someone has to say says a lot about
where we are as a country I like Paul
B's review just titled FOH
please go away is what the text says FOH
means out out of here just to his
Sam just in case FOH is like the song
juicy you need a translation there you
go means out of here Susan I only
said of course Matt Taibbi wrote a great
review in Rolling Stone of the book
people can look at as well yeah
