Thank You slavery Constitution so it
comes out you remember that court case
that Rand Paul was involved in where he
got beat up by his neighbor being such a
jerk or something I'm not sure I don't
know the details of this and I'm this is
not this is not you know Judge Judy I
don't care I believe if there was a leaf
raking dispute Judge Judy he's denying
first principle it's possible Rand Paul
was upset because this guy had hybrid
peach trees and thinks that's the way
that our bodily fluids are being are
being drained from us who knows but Rand
Paul had a he's got a lawsuit against
his neighbor and the Louisville
courier-journal reported that there was
a revelation in these papers about a
surgery scheduled for a week from now or
so two weeks from now January 21st
maybe maybe Paul was gonna be out of
town or something I don't know exactly
why it would be in these papers but and
the interesting about it is as you know
we have the greatest health care system
in the world princes come from all
around the world come here to get their
health care however libertarians
apparently go to the socialized medicine
mecca of Canada when they need hernia
surgery he is headed to Canada to have
surgery at the the sholde i seeee hernia
hospital which i don't know exactly
where in canada it is but it is a it's
gonna cost five to eight thousand bucks
he's gonna buy buy it it's gonna pay for
it because he's not a canadian citizen
you can go in you can pay for the
services i imagine a canadian if they
wanted to could go pay for the services
but if you were canadian it would be
covered and oh i
guess the reason why I was in this thing
because it was related to the injuries
you suffered when he was beat up and it
is a privately owned hospital right
but almost all of its work is done under
contract with the Ontario government in
Canada so in other words it runs under
the auspices of a single-payer system
privately owned hospital that is paid
for its services either by an individual
decides because he's coming from another
country because he's a libertarian and
only he wants to try some of this good
old socialized health insurance and the
system it supports it's going to pay for
himself but if he was Canadian he could
go to that same hospital and the
hospital would take the money the
payment from the Ontario government
because it accepts Ontario's hospital
insurance plan which is part of the
nation's public healthcare system
maybe it's like how Alex Jones smokes
pot once a year just to remember how bad
it is right
I got a kippah where you're gonna stay
where now I will remind you the
disgusting part about this okay is it's
what it says well what Rand Paul is
doing because the employees at this
hospital say privately run hospital but
you understand they are paid
predominantly there are people like Rand
Paul will come in no pay but the vast
majority of the business they do is
accepting payments from the Canadian
government under their single-payer
system and we all know what these
doctors are they're not just doctors
they're not just Canadian doctors Rand
Paul will tell you what they are because
of the single-payer system with regard
to the idea of whether or not you have a
right to a healthcare you have to
realize what that implies it's not an
abstraction I'm a physician that means
you have a right to come to my house and
script to me means you believe in
slavery it means that you're going to
enslave not only me but the janitor at
my hospital the person who cleans my
office every we assistants who work in
my office the nurses if you have a right
to their services basically once you
imply a belief in a right to someone
services you have a right to plumbing do
you have a right to water do you have a
right to food you're basically saying
that you believe in slavery you're
saying you believe in taking and
extracting from another person our
founding documents were very clear about
this you have a right to pursue
happiness but there's no guarantee of
physical comfort there's no guarantee of
concrete items in order to give
something concrete or someone surface
you got to take it from someone so
there's an implied threat of force if
I'm a physician in your community and
you say you have a right to health care
do you have a right to beat down my door
with the police escort me away and force
me to take care of you that's ultimately
what the right to free health care would
be if you now now another wait a second
put aside the fact that the hypocrisy
involved in this right would be going to
the kidney because he's getting service
from people he believes are slaves he's
literally he's personally using he is
personally taking advantage of these
slaves but does that mean according to
Rand Paul if I have a right to property
then I can take any of your stuff I mean
if I have a right to property like I
mean does that mean that I can
necessarily conscript all your stuff
it's my is that right absolute that I
can actually force you to get I have a
right to property give me your bag it's
absurd this is like this it's just an
absurd construction well if he wants to
talk about slavery and coercion like
which does he think is more coercive a
system where everybody works a decent
amount and gets free health care that
they need as a form of social insurance
or a society where people have to work
like two jobs
or they'd starve to death and they don't
know they're gonna have you don't have a
right to food or healthcare but the the
the absurdity of his argument is just
that the idea that people having a right
to healthcare is a right that
necessarily has to be fulfilled by
specific individuals I mean it's just
absurd it's just absurd
I have a right to property and that
obligates the the state to defend
property that is mine that has been
acquired by means in which the state
seems to be appropriate
I just appreciate that does not mean
that I have the right to go and take
your Puma shirt you guys right the
property that's just absurd I'll be so
funny well surely starts the theft in
the wrong place right like when you talk
about he thinks that taxes are theft
right and you know most the majority of
taxes come from the wealthy and the
corporations right I don't have the
numbers in front of me but that's a lot
of taxes but where does he think they
got that money in the first place well
they got it from exploiting other
people's labor yeah but I'm even before
that whose money is it well yeah why
does that money how do you get the right
to take the dollars out of your pocket
and burn them you can get arrested for
that that's cuz it's not your money
remind me the next time I light a spliff
bro right I mean this is just absurd the
idea that this guy is like you know
responsible for for you know such a
significant portion of our legislation
right like you know as a senator
relative to everybody else around us let
me take a moment to abate the fact that
the Constitution actually and things
like the Federalist Papers are
challenging and interesting and of
course problematic but also documents
that we can work with in some ways and
that the founding fathers were not
actually like if the Constitution
literally read like first principles are
that anything that involves an
inconvenience upon me is that's the real
slavery
by your logic like the Constitution and
the founding documents gave everybody
enough room and or even having people
who are like cool from the beginning
like Thomas Paine we're like MLK could
be like this is actually how it is right
but if they actually wrote like that
that would be a real bummer well it's
like we were contending the Constitution
but the Constitution really was like a
now a thought experiment exactly it was
a necessary step in human development
and I think capitalism was an
improvement over feudalism right the
bourgeois state being something that
arose with capitalism and upholds it and
there are some good things about liberal
values right we don't want to get rid of
freedom of speech we don't want to get
rid of you know all those good ideals
that come from the French right Liberte
Galit a fraternity we just want to like
do a better job at guaranteeing those
rights for real right next phase of you
know whatever we come up with Rand Paul
as Kunta Kinte I will not tree you will
doctor you will your freedom is not
yours you'll give that boy an inhaler I
will not treat the sick well I mean the
according to Rand Paul as soon as you
say health care is a right then what
will happen is that people will be
mandated to go to they'll be mandated to
become doctors okay at birth you will be
determined based upon you no matter the
type of sci-fi movie exactly go through
leekie gets screened and you're like you
will be a doctor people can go to your
house at any time of day anybody who
works for you including even doing this
paperwork is also constricted that's in
the Medicare for all it's in Bernie's
bill it's like this is also the surgeons
or slaves amendment so that in my
opinion any time you should have so much
as a sniffle you should be able to go to
any goddamn doctor sounds to you what
the problem with libertarianism it's so
theoretically that they presume they
presume to that everything is going to
be to function
along these sort of rec rigid lines so
that that there is no first of all there
is no absolute right in our in our
society there's no one who has absolute
rights to anything like I say don't have
an absolute right to property you some
be property is yours some property is
mine state intervenes to determine who
legitimately owns it thirteen you
weren't oh yeah wench core you didn't
come out of the boot you didn't come out
of the womb owning that Puma sweat yes I
did and even talking about it is
tantamount to slavery I'm a United
States Senator
it's think about that first no
they have a very limited understanding
of coercion well that's that's also true
that's that's the angle that I would
usually come at a right-wing libertarian
along because they they say that they
respect you know people's freedom to
make voluntary choices or you know
reject certain choices as the case may
be but most people don't have that
freedom on that whole thing is sort of
like this this magenta or baterry Ness
of like the non-aggression principle
right the non-aggression principle says
you cannot touch me cause me pain by
hitting me with your fists so does that
mean if you have a laser can your laser
do it can you do the stick can you do it
just by if you have the ability to sort
of like what about like those audio what
about those uh those was that audio
weapon that they used at at you know
it's a kadhi park they used these sound
can sound cannons or do it by taking
away somebody's health care well that's
my point is that like you know I'm going
to create a I'm going to collect all the
money and keep you from having any money
to pay for health care how's that yeah
it's the violence of the status quo that
they refuse to recognize I don't know
why maybe some of them are privileged
maybe they're just dumb I don't know
this girl this young girl house with a
Gaza Hop
fever and you will treat her boy now
like it's struggling like the kid is
about to die and they're trying to force
the stethoscope
I'd start alright it starts before that
she is sick
now get sit down start reading how to
become a doctor you're gonna stay here
and you're gonna study and then you're
gonna do well on that test
then you're gonna start doing it start
surgery where you know it you're gonna
be goddamn brains we've got we're ain't
nothin you can do about it
[Laughter]
press-gang people like a pirate to be
doctors the ship full of pirate doctors
tell you now there's an underground
railroad people out of Canada's I tell
you now boy you start cutting into that
man's brain his brain looks like that
child right now bring me the switch for
freedom good have Liberty
