I mentioned at the beginning of the show
that we were sending a thousand troops
to the Middle East as announced by
Patrick Shanahan who is the acting
defense secretary when I also made that
announcement I also noted that this guy
was still the Acting Secretary of
Defense because he could not be
confirmed yet by the Senate because his
confirmation hearings had been delayed
because the FBI was investigating him
for corporate corruption specifically
with some military defense contractors
and it appears that the acting defense
secretary a Patrick Shanahan is no
longer acting as the acting secretary
but rather he will be stepping down now
apparently one of the issues that could
be holding up the FBI investigation
according to Axios is his complicated
divorce apparently there was an
allegation that Shannon hit her during a
violent confrontation in 2010 certainly
wouldn't be out of character for the
Trump administration to to be having
someone like that in their
administration frankly nor the
corruption would be inconsistent with
the Trump administration so it's unclear
I imagine there's also another element
to this and it could be it really could
go one way or the other one it could be
that Trump thought good time to have no
acted Acting Secretary of Defense
because that way Boulton and Pompeyo
couldn't possibly launch a war and gives
us an excuse to back off or Pompeo and
Bolton and folks in that camp told
Donald Trump you want to get rid of this
guy he is potentially problematic for
your administration and they don't want
someone who is in that position who
might be saying hey bad idea starting a
war with Iran
so either explanation seems to me to be
completely viable it's hard to believe
that what's going on with Bolton and
Pompeyo in Iran and Iran did not factor
into this in some fashion right I mean
it just doesn't happen that way but for
life me I can come up with two different
scenarios they're 180 degrees from each
other and both could be possible but you
should be aware that there is very
strange things happening in the
administration we can see you know like
many of the stories that we talk about
in this program and I've been saying for
years we see the shadows of this stuff
we don't see the actual activity we just
see you know the light refracting off of
it or the lack of light that it caddish
in the shadow that it casts and so when
trish regan has some weird soliloquy
about how war with iran is being
orchestrated by Nancy Pelosi Nancy
Pelosi Mike Pompeo and the Ayatollah all
to stop him from getting reelected
because they're jealous of what a
terrific economy it is maybe in Mulvaney
for coffee I mean it that's just it's so
weird you got to speak in a diluted
paranoid idiots term I understand but
it's not even so much the way that she's
speaking because I understand that
that's the way that she's got to
construct this story
because that's the only one that's gonna
motivate Trump but the idea that trish
regan who's you know like i don't think
the trish regan was sitting at home with
all due respect her as a as a journalist
and broadcaster i don't think that trish
regan was sitting at home going like i
really it's up to me to stop this
engagement with Iran I'm going to stop
this war and I'm so I'm freelancing here
that's that to me super confident that
that's not what's happening I am very
confident that's unlikely and so someone
is using trish regan to get a message to
the president use trish to get to be
this is the actual battle against the
types table this is cueing on for real I
just Rupert Murdoch looked at his stock
portfolio had realized a new massive
destabilization in Middle East was a bad
idea so he dropped a line - Trish Reagan
through a executive producer on her show
to backdoor an idiot diluted message to
Donald Trump that only he could
understand so in the middle of berating
Baron for being too tall he could pass
on info to the generals to stop Tom
Paine and Bolton Nancy Pelosi and the
Ayatollah from launching a war to
undermine this terrific economic record
and reelect do you think it's possible
that trish regan after she recorded that
she literally just like pulled you know
like some like ripped off and it was
like in a full like a bodysuit and then
scaled down the side of the building on
haven't quite a role to have one of them
happens like one of the dumbest anchors
on television for six years real god I
can't believe hardened do you tend to be
the studio dangerous next I have to go
meet with Ironman Archer
