[Music]
so this happened at this was in a town
hall in Corona New York AOC had a town
hall in the Queens public library and
meeting with folks in the 14th I think
it is right
district and talking about oh well I
guess taking questions from the audience
oh yeah a sort of like just for a moment
like just look at the the the audience
in this picture versus like half of the
other like almost all the other town
halls we see like there's a just an
incredible cross-section of folks and
here is a woman stands up and has a
point to make about about the climate
change really climate crisis we only
have a few months left I love that you
support the Green Deal but it's not get
it you know get it with a fossil fuel
it's not gonna solve the problem fast
enough a swedish professor saying that
we can eat their dead people but that's
not fast enough so i think your next
campaign slogan has to be this we got to
start eating babies we don't have enough
time it's too much co2 all of you you're
you you know your pollutant too much co2
we have to start now please you are so
great I'm so happy that you really
support a nuclear deal but it's not
enough you know even if we would Bob
Russia we still have too many people too
much pollution so we have to get rid of
the babies that's a big problem just
stopping my babies a silent laugh we
need to eat the babies under this very
soon
thank you thank you we'll go ahead okay
no thank you so I think um ya know so
one of the things that's very important
to us is that we need to treat the
climate crisis with the urgency that it
does present luckily we have more than a
few months we do need to hit Net Zero in
several years but I think we all need to
to to understand that there are a lot of
solutions that we have and that we can
pursue and that if we act in a positive
way there's space for hope I mean she
clearly thinks that the the questioner
has you know some type of you know issue
going on and but it turns out that in
fact it was a someone from the Lyndon
LaRouche PAC as they tweeted out Lyndon
LaRouche PAC trolls AOC AOC doesn't rule
out eating babies is the way that they
present it and Ryan's Avada the that
right winger got got taken in by the
whole thing one of Ocasio Cortez his
constituents loses her mind over climate
change claims we have only a few months
left
et cetera et cetera Michael has a theory
that the the woman was inter in
impersonating or trying to do an
impression of a Greta Thune bird I
thought it was that's possible have a
weird fake Scandinavian accent or she's
just a weird cultist herself well I mean
she's I'm gonna go with that's her
actual voices ones oh that's her actual
voice what's interesting is like this is
gonna be but they've done a lot of time
I mean these are these are actually
Hitler mustache people right LaRouche
people do this all the time though and
but yeah I think this type of stuff is
gonna become more and more prominent
over the course of the campaign I mean I
think like this type of the performance
art yeah
