[Music]
welcome back to this doubleheader
majority report joining us now is Megan
day she's a staff writer at the Jackman
magazine her latest pieces are wielding
the imperial presidency and among the
Bernie Bros in Brooklyn
Megan thanks so much for joining me
thanks for having me again so Megan um
let's I want to start with your piece I
was at the same rally you were in
Brooklyn and you know as were thousands
and thousands of other people and I want
to put just one quote in relationship to
your piece and then I'll throw to you
for your impressions of the speeches and
the people who were there and so on and
the energy of this campaign there was a
piece in slate where they asked a
handful of Bernie supporters about the
Bernie bro moniker and some you know and
some of them I guess would fit that
definition and they sort of joked about
it there was one woman they talked to as
a woman of color they described her as a
woman of color uh on the somewhere in
Upper Manhattan East or West who was a
nanny it's 35 years old and she
contributed $3 to Bernie's campaign and
she was basically like yeah I'm like
pretty serious about politics and I kind
of need this agenda in my life and I'd I
don't like I'm sorry I don't sit on
Twitter all day I don't really know what
you're talking about I thought that was
like you know if we could give her voice
and millions of other voices you know
unmediated time we'd have a much more
stained and honest election cycle and I
think your piece did that as well so
what were your impressions of the rally
and what did you come away thinking the
main thing that stood out to me about
Bernie as Brooklyn rally is that it was
enormous Lee racially diverse for a
Bernie rally I mean it's something has
changed I think in the political
discourse over the last few years it's
not to say that there wasn't a diverse
base at Bernie supporters in 2016 there
actually was especially among younger
people which isn't to say that he didn't
struggle with the black vote in the
south but I think that
I think that something has changed
actually I think that people of color in
particular are starting to warm up to
Bernie Sanders and young people of color
are not just warming up to Bernie
Sanders they're coming out and droves
and that's what I saw at the at the
Brooklyn rally it's also true that you
know Brooklyn is a very diverse place
the neighborhood is mostly a POC
neighborhood that the rally was held in
and it was held on the Brooklyn College
campus which Bernie attended for a brief
time before transferring to the
University of Chicago and many many
Brooklyn college students were there the
article that I wrote which is called
tongue-in-cheek
among the Brooklyn Bernie Bros it
actually came out by the way the same
day as a New York magazine piece sort of
profiling sort of like like left
literati of Brooklyn and so you can see
the sort of different visions of what
left politics I have to say I was like I
read that piece and I some people not
like my hot take I thought it was
hilarious and I thought some of them I
thought the jabs landed I'm not gonna
lie I mean it's it was distorted and
it's unfair and unrepresentative but
there was it was a funny piece yeah I
was pretty colorful and like those
people were obviously present saying
those things so you know you have to
expand your view of who actually
constitute brutha Brooklyn West and what
I found was lots of young people lots of
young women lots of young people of
color of course in addition to men and
white people but people of all ages as
well mm-hmm
came out and they came out because
they're extraordinarily excited about
Bernie Sanders platform and this is what
everybody everybody that I spoke to was
very quick without my prompting to pivot
to the issues the two issues that came
up over and over again were Medicare for
all and free college people also wanted
to talk to me about the importance of a
$15 minimum wage a green new deal and
serious climate policy and criminal
justice reform and people sort of this
is a Bernie rally so these are Bernie
supporters but they sort of uniformly
felt that Bernie had the strongest
approach to these issues but
medicare-for-all and a free college
tuition seems to be resonating on a very
personal level with a lot of the people
that I spoke to and I'll give you an
example
I spoke to 20 year old Brooklyn college
students they're both children of
they're both Muslim women children of
immigrants come from working-class
households they're friends with each
other other names are my are Alice and
Ronnie and Menaka calm and mm-my are
said you know what she said you know
when I was making this is a quote from
her when I was making my college
decision tuition was a really big deal I
got other offers but it didn't really
matter because I knew my family couldn't
afford it the gut level reaction to the
potential for individual freedom that
Bernie Sanders is free tuition proposal
actually would make a huge difference in
her own life and then and then Monacan
said I come from a low-income household
and just the other day I had to walk out
of a dentist's office I have insurance
but I couldn't afford the copay so I
just left and these were their
justifications for why these were the
first things that they told me when I
asked them why they had come out to
support Bernie Sanders and they also
mentioned that it was really important
to them to be hearing from a
working-class child of immigrants who
grew up in Brooklyn himself and attended
Brooklyn College and that's something
that really stood out about the Brooklyn
rally as you probably read and all of
the coverage Bernie took turn toward the
autobiographical which is
extraordinarily unusual for him but
never one to abandon politics or settle
for mere pandering he Colima sized it
almost immediately and launched into I
thought a wonderful portion of the
speech where he compared his own
working-class upbringing to Donald
Trump's upper-class upbringing and I
think it really resonated with a lot of
the people in the crowd across lines of
racial difference of gender difference
of difference in citizenship status or
or ethnic background and so on yeah I
mean I was there and that was I mean it
was hugely effective against Donald
Trump and also yeah I got it I actually
almost teared up when he talked about
his background and that and those were
two things that I also wanted to put on
the table
one i'll take them one at a time okay so
one look again they're in a broad
generality like who would not love to
see it like a african-american woman
candidate beat Donald Trump like just
destroy embarrass and humiliate him in
the electoral college and popular vote
and people's need and desire to have a
different representation in the White
House is correct and valid and totally
legitimate I and obviously I don't think
it supersedes vital class and policy
differences which is why I support
Bernie and you know that's just the base
of the conversation and I think we can
be respectful hopefully and good faith
about it on both sides of that equation
and I'm clear where I stand and I also
but I don't want to deal ajith Imai at
sentiment either
that being said to see a man whose
family was directly close relatives
killed in the Holocaust whose family
fled Europe in that context the old
white man moniker I'm actually gonna say
is essentially anti-semitic disgusting
and I'm not like I don't want to hear
that so let me just put that with first
one across yeah I'll give you a quote so
you know not being myself a person of
color I will give you a quote from a
young woman of color that I spoke to at
the rally it so I asked this young woman
who she's 22 years old she lives in
Manhattan her family comes to Palestine
I asked her if she agreed with the
liberal talking point that Bernie is
unable to represent people of color
because he's a white man and she
responded no no no policy over identity
and then she continued people who say
he's just an old white man and more of
the same are ignoring the importance of
his policies for people of color the
people who will benefit the most from
Medicare for all for example will be
working-class people of color when he
talks about championing unions and
workers rights he's talking about the
well-being of working-class people of
color as someone who's a person of color
and an immigrant not an American citizen
I would vote for him if I could and then
I'll go on and address the gender piece
being a woman myself
I can say that you know I understand or
misleading to see a woman in the White
House and certainly to see a woman beat
Donald Trump but the fact of the matter
is that Bernie Sanders proposes that we
tax the wealthiest people in society who
are disproportionately men to give
millions and millions of people who are
actually dis portion utley women because
women are disproportionately poor
universal health care Universal child
care free college tuition student debt
relief and he also proposes that the
United States guarantee women full
reproductive rights gender pay equity
stronger workplace protections and
unions that they can turn to in the
event of harassment and mistreatment and
a living wage and as a woman I see my
own interests reflected in that platform
and I have a very hard time justifying
opposition to Bernie Sanders on feminist
grounds for that reason of course some
people will say oh well you know
Elizabeth Warren likes all of these
things too and she's a woman so why
wouldn't you just prefer Elizabeth
Warren but my answer to that is very
simple which is that in like 2008
Elizabeth Warren was writing white
papers about how single-payer was
actually you know a preferable approach
to a health care for the working-class
majority she seemed to understand that
that was the case and yet for many years
after that she actually declined to
champion it she in 2013 called it called
Medicare for all politically
unacceptable in 2012 I believe when she
ran she didn't run I even though her
opponent did and that's very different
from what Bernie Sanders was doing at
the exact same time at the same time in
fact four decades prior Bernie Sanders
was actually making decisions about the
kind of politician that he wanted to be
not based on quote unquote political
acceptability but actually trying to
push the boundaries of what was
acceptable by using the office as a
bully pulpit for ideas I mean he and
Warren agreed but they both agreed that
single-payer was preferable for the
working-class majority and you know
especially women but Bernie Sanders was
the one who was actually championing it
running on it and making it ultimately
in
to a math demand and so for me it's
pretty obvious that he's the more
serious candidate with regards to I mean
there's going to be enormous pushback on
Medicare for all who do we trust to
actually muscle through extremely
ambitious reform the person who was
cowed into a suppose of submission by
the idea of political and acceptability
or the person who refused to accept
unacceptability it actually pushed the
boundaries of the impossible right
absolutely and let alone all the other
candidates who you know have obviously
you don't even have like the progressive
credit oh damn you know yeah right
exactly so there's the difference
between Sanders and I mean we title the
recent episode of Michael Brooke show
the difference between Sanders and
Warren and everybody else right like
there there's there's this thing to hash
out between two good candidates who have
right you know are absolutely you know
in the same realm and then Bernie has
major advantages in terms of activism
structure and commitment and then you
know in fact the other candidates but
that was the other thing too that really
came across was not only was it
important and correct and actually
moving the way not only he spoke of his
biography but definitely being a Turner
and Shawn King the way they framed it
but it struck me that you know with a
lot of boomer candidates it's like you
know you we allow particularly at the
convention time or something like hey
Bill Clinton and I marched for civil
rights and you know I haven't done a
goddamn thing for 40 years but I was
there and the thing that was so
interesting about this was this
candidate who's so hesitant about
exploiting his biography in that way you
realized like not only is it not sort of
biographical anecdote did this really is
just a through line I mean this is the
same person that got arrested protesting
housing segregation in Chicago is the
same person who ran in probabl campaigns
become mayor Burlington and protect the
public park and empower small businesses
was actually a nationally recognized
effective mayor and then toiled in the
House and the Senate for
medicare-for-all and voted against
welfare reform that opposed the Iraq
invasion and talked about well
concentration when everybody was
deregulating Wall Street this is the
same and and even in 2019 the last thing
I'll put on this he is a better
candidate in 2016
both as a communicator and he's more to
left and what's so interesting is that
not in all areas but the areas in which
he's been pushed like he talked about
gentrification he said the word
military-industrial complex he's like
okay yeah I will get better on race and
racism so I'm gonna talk about
gentrification I'm not gonna like you
know do the Naenae I'm gonna talk about
this actual stuff and incorporate it
into this broader agenda and again
there's more to do it's not perfect but
these are significant strides and the
same person that was that youthful
protester right I actually think that
Bernie Sanders is not content with
pandering he finds it to be
reprehensible and actually in some cases
it held him back because he doesn't
realize he has he hasn't necessarily
realized in the past that there's a
degree of communication about the
importance of these issues that he might
be lacking hoping that the policy ideas
will speak for themselves I think he's
gotten a lot better on that front
and after Brooklyn he spoke in Chicago
and he did an excellent job
not just paying lip service to racial
justice but actually presenting a
coherent political worldview about the
conditions under which racism is
actually manifests and shapes people's
lives their life outcomes you know
degrades their living conditions and
what what a politician can do to change
it but I also want to add to that that
the main theme that I'm seeing coming
through after going to the Brooklyn
rally and after quarter the Chicago
rally is not the autobiography and it's
not the specific focus on racial justice
it's actually a broader focus on the
importance of movements to his own
potential presidency and I actually
think this is really important and I'm
going to tell you why it's that Bernie
Sanders is somewhat of an accident of
history so I'm I'm a socialist I'm an
organized socialist I'm a member of the
Democratic socialists of America I'm a
writer for a socialist magazine and I
can tell you with great certainty that
socialists while while Bernie Sanders is
2016 run with a massive boom to the
Socialist Movement we would not have
designed it this way if we could do it
on paper what we would have designed
instead was the growth of the labor
movement strong unions the growth but
possibly of a party or at least a party
like formation that was capable of
running and disciplining candidates from
within its own ranks and the growth of
left social movements throughout the
country in all sectors that would be
able to support a presidential candidate
and we would have that candidate rise up
from that organic left groundswell but
that's not what happened
what actually happened was that Bernie
Sanders had is it like is like a time
traveler from the last time that class
politics was on anybody's lips in the
United States that he kind of went
underground a little bit he had this
sort of like four decade-long wilderness
period he's obi-wan Kenobi people it's
like him in Corbin yeah totally yeah
we're extraordinarily lucky that he did
not compromise on his principles like so
many people who came out of the new
lasted and he stayed really really
consistent and we're also really lucky
that he's still alive and still has the
energy to be you know a leader and that
he has the will to do that so there's
some subjective qualities here and that
happened to line up with the objective
material conditions you know the
financial crisis happened in 2008 occupy
happened in 2011 and the mood of the
nation changed and Bernie Sanders
happened to still be alive
still be consistent still be principled
still be a Democratic Socialist and he's
built up the record to actually justify
him taking a leadership position in the
American political sphere so the reason
I'm saying all of this is because if he
becomes president he is going to we
don't have that organic robust left
infrastructure populating this space
between dog catcher and president either
in the electoral sphere or in the non
electoral sphere we still are very happy
that Bernie Sanders could become
president for a variety of good reasons
but it is it does pose some tricky
problems he's gonna face a hostile
Congress he's not going to have a kind
of sympathizers in the state you might
not even have people there's not might
not be a robust political
patient outside of the state to make
sense of the pushback that he's going to
get to his agenda so the only way to
actually get around this problem is to
build mass extra-parliamentary left
social movements that can create crises
outside of the state in the form of
protests in the form of strikes and the
form of pressure campaigns in the form
of media attention in order to pressure
lawmakers to respond to those crises and
solve them and therefore that go along
with Bernie Sanders is agenda even
though they don't want to even though
they're beholden to their donors and so
on and so forth I think he understands
that the importance of
extra-parliamentary movements and you
saw that at the Chicago rally in
particular where he brought up an 18
year old black lives matter activist as
the first speaker at that rally he
brought up an anti gentrification
activist who was also a young woman of
color and then he spent the bulk of his
racial justice speech talking about his
political history outside the state
that's what's really important when he
talks about his political history now
he's not just talking about his record
as a mayor as a congressman as a senator
he's talking about his political record
when he was just like you in the crowd
when he was a when he was a just an
ordinary person who wanted to make
change in the world and who put you know
his body on the line and he devoted his
time and his energy to actually
participating in movements to make that
change and that's in the in the final
couple of minutes I mean that's how you
talk about him wielding the presidency
is that actually and he's really nailing
I mean another thing that I noticed in
the Brooklyn speech was he reformulated
that Obama not red states not blue
states but instead of a kind of like
mushy call for sort of like shared
civility
he was like recognize that you're all
workers and yeah right and so that's the
relation yeah yeah go ahead please I
have an analysis of the houses that
Obama was trying to unify and not
polarize like that was his strategy was
like let's just we're all in this
together but he was unable to identify
protagonist and antagonist but Mirnyi
Sanders wants to unify literally by
polarizing along new lines which are
classified
he knows that we can unite the vast
majority of the American people against
the billionaire class because most
people in America are not billionaires
so it's actually completely different
strategy that Obama's even though it has
some of the same features and not red
state not blue state you know uniting
across lines of difference Obama was
just uniting across lines a different
period that would be good
Bernie Sanders is unite across lines of
difference against the people that we
are all most different from who are the
billionaires who are controlling the
levers of society and as a final thought
I mean this is and that's where like not
only and of course like he is in many
respects he's the front-runner he has
the most organic support he's the most
significant candidate as you know he has
the credibility a you know of the other
successful previous run and then unlike
being a front-runner obviously there's
just this I mean there's this sort of
natural like I understand again
sometimes there's valid criticisms of
him those valid criticisms come from the
left of him so usually so they're not
even Electoral II represented and then
there's even just like hey look I'm a
centrist or I'm in part of a different
political machine okay you're not gonna
support Bernie Sanders but there's also
a huge amount of just irrationality and
weirdness in the dislike of him so
there's that sort of um you know yeah
look at what a yeah this nice old Jewish
guy wants to give you health care what
an you know that that just sort
of bizarre dislike of him that comes
across in mainstream media circles but
so that's the the dialectic and
ultimately he will win even as the
front-runner as a grassroots
door-to-door candidate and even more
importantly that's actually how he'll
govern and the only chance we have of
both his agenda and also the broader
social and class conflict we need to
have if we're gonna get our way out of
the climate inequality you know any of
these predicaments the predicaments of
capitalism its kind of lucky for us in a
way even though this is an accident of
history and it's not how socialists
would have landed on paper its kind of
lucky for us that he'll be in this
predicament and the White House of not
having any friends in the States because
it will actually force him to get
any of his agenda passed it will
actually force him to use the office
very differently he will have to use it
as you hope you have to be a Tribune for
class politics from the position of the
presidency building movements outside of
the state in order to get anything
passed just on a sheer strategy level
which is fantastic
in a way oh great because it reduces the
possibility that he's going to
capitulate to the structural pressures
of the presidency because if he wants to
pass Medicare for all he's sure as hell
then I have to get people out on the
streets flooding you know I'm having
town halls letting you know politicians
offices holding mass protests in order
to get it done if you can't do that then
it's not going to happen so it's gonna
turn him I think into a very effective
grassroots movement bill they're just
fighting by the nature of the dynamic
Meghan day I agree with you completely
and people should read all of Meghan
days just indispensable work at Jacobin
oh really everywhere you're coming from
honestly because I send it to people to
who were you know like in the baby
boomer cohort people have different you
know or actually the worst Gen Xers but
people are different different Paula and
and you and and and you're the type of
writer that people can be like okay I at
least I get this more now across the
board so I really really appreciate your
work and thanks so much for taking the
time Megan day thank you so much thanks
for having me
