[Music]
another six one nine column from a six
one nine area code who's this where he
come from hello Sam ed from San Diego ed
from San Diego what's going on in San
Diego today that mean it's like the
second or third call we've gone from San
Diego hey I'm off today so I just
sitting around alright but have you
heard the latest
since that Dave Rubin is using the Dodge
debate in fact I have and I appreciate
the the call let's look at the tape
right now this is a video that was sent
to us by listener Evan and I believe it
was listener Evan was was in fact there
at a turning point USA at Santa Clara
University I think this is over the
weekend Dave Rubin classical liberal
that is was there with turning points
USA most recently in the news for having
another white supremacist problem
unclear if that was before after this
I'm not sure I mean it doesn't really
matter I mean it's you know once or
twice these type of scandals hit a
organization you could say well II know
there's you know the correlation is not
causation right but at one point you
start to say like I'm starting to see a
pattern here but here is this event
where we're listener Evan came up and
asked a question of Dave Rubin
so it's been a while but one thing that
I really liked something that you talked
about here was the difference between I
diversity of thought and diversity of
identity sure now the thing with a
diversity of thaws I feel like that's a
problem you actually compare on your
show because the only time you really
have left we need guests are when there
are members of the intellectual dark
woods just Harris or Weinstein and
they're only there for the bulk of the
time to talk about the regressive left
and so I pretty much wanted to ask you
why won't you have Sam our same cedar on
yeah okay yeah he's just a dishonest
player who's just lied about me
repeatedly so would you be willing
excuse me dishonest player I would like
Dave Rubin to saying where I've been
dishonest I claimed that he was funded
by the Koch brothers not directly I was
very clear about this through an
organization that came out of George
Mason University that sponsored his a
series of his interviews and he
subsequently conceded that was the case
I now the idea that he would smear me in
this way for simply reporting on
something that was true ugly is a
serious allegation and the idea that I
have in any way slandered him isn't
enough itself a slander now yes it is
true that at one point Michael called
him stupid and I reprimanded Michael for
that and I apologized publicly to Dave
Rubin for it yet he still refused to
even discuss any policies with me and
frankly that smells like a Dodge so if
not me who is slanderous and a smear
merchant and dishonest
what about other people would you have
on who have differing opinions for you
and all you do is you set up as you
stand in front of a big government sucks
poster is malign the so-called left but
yet you won't have any of those people
with the leftist ideas on your show it's
odd well maybe if you are offered other
people so would you be willing to have
now to be winner contra points or David
pac-man or kolinsky all these are
progressives who I'm not a principal I'm
not against having any of them but I'm
not have people that attacked me first I
think it's pretty obvious if you watch
what I did up here but I don't attack
people first and happy to talk about
ideas you're going to go up to a person
even alive inside
but it just has a monthly there's no
waiting you know I have a certain set of
rules when it comes to talking to people
I think the the fact that he determines
who his guests will be on the scale of
their being a win in it for me I think
is the one of the more revealing things
and the more honest things that Dave
Rubin has said he attempts and look Dave
Rubin is perfectly he is beyond well
within his rights to not have anybody he
doesn't want on his show the thing I
take issue with is the idea that he
presents himself as taking on all comers
that his whole shtick is to allow for
ideas that otherwise wouldn't be
available to people to be aired and that
we can take on all ideas yet he is
excluding the very ideas that the show
is almost built around maligning because
he's going to go on now to say like if
you look at my roster of people they're
all liberal or this or that who have
left the people I will not have on my
show and so he claims to have this wide
array and so all I take issue with is
that claim is that claim I mean in if
you look at the evolution of Dave Rubin
and I like to think that at least part
of our pointing out that the idea that
he was of the left and he used to
support used to list a bunch of policies
in addition to the fact that he was gay
and married which he probably had to
stop at one point because he realized
like wait a second I'm using my identity
as a means in which to show my bona
fides
which is of course contrary to the idea
that he promotes but it was only two
years ago when Dave Rubin was saying
that he was for Medicare for all he was
for a single-payer system and it had to
be pointed out to him that when you talk
about being for a single-payer health
care system and smaller government that
you could not articulate two ideas that
were more inconsistent with each other
there would be no other version of big
government in the way that they're
talking about it because he has no
problem with the military then to say
we're going to have the government
provide health insurance for everybody
because the biggest thing that the
government does now it's social
insurance Social Security and health
care that does not involve the military
and to expand that would be even more of
that but let's hear his justification
[Music]
but but also I think your premise is
actually wrong if you were to look at
someone to break this down on Facebook I
don't know how many shows I've done
maybe 500 interviews of it like that
most of my guests actually either were
like these or are left needs to some
extent so it's like you can say well
Harris and Brent Weinstein considers
himself deeply progressive who's a
professor and ever to be sneaked the
most lefty College in the United States
you could say well he's not an
aggressive anymore well he's not an
aggressive anymore it's not because he
moved actually it's because the left
when an addict so telling me to Eric
wants I voted for Bernie Sanders you
can't tell me he's not a progressive my
guest two weeks ago in Christakis he is
a conservatives on the liberal he's in a
whole-school liberal so I think my I
don't know if there's our show that has
a sort of a flyer in that I've actually
never seen it but more than that I'm
sure that Sam cedar would be more than
willing to have in a respectful
discussion but my potent Wisconsin
discredited them progressiveness of
either of them I just wanted to say that
I think you should have more people on
the left that you would consider to be a
part of the gross progressives well on
your show okay hmm that's gonna stink to
have that type of applause at your own
talking turning points USA
event that's sort of surprising and it
is true
be completely respectful and if I wasn't
then I would be the one who validates
your entire claim so this is an
opportunity for you Dave
to further your claim I mean you've
asked for these people Rob Reiner
Michael Flint Chelsea Handler Sarah
Silverman AOC
Bernie Sanders senator Warren Mark
Ruffalo Stephen King Judd Apatow Maddow
Amy Schumer Lena Dunham Cory Booker Seth
MacFarlane you would love to chat with
some progressives who can keep it civil
but you notice how he mentions aoc in
this look at this other tweet that he
and Bernie know he sees no one he's
going to be
and the socialist dust has to sit there
and pretend like she knows what she's
talking about that's not being very
civil about a Oh see that's pretty
stunning that's kind of exactly what
he's mad about us for do now to be fair
those two tweets came almost 10 days
apart so it looks like the kettle is
calling someone iron and black I also
like how half of the people he tags our
celebrities who are not primarily known
for political commentary what we mean
half no they're all people who espouse
liberal perspectives on but they're all
they're all almost 3/4 of them are
actors yeah that's what I'm saying
yeah that's pretty nuts that's like I
would like to debate James Woods I mean
I would I'd be happy to but I don't
really think that like you know I've got
Edmund in the lineage of Edmund Burke
yeah exactly I mean the I mean the fact
is is that there is virtually no one who
is interested in having an exchange with
me that I wouldn't have an exchange with
maybe I have it on this show maybe I'd
go on their show I'm happy to do that
and I feel like I have a responsibility
to do that you know sometimes the
scheduling issues but I'm open to it
Adam kokeshi you know at one point
jumped on said yes what's-his-face who's
that guy whose show I was on
the crazy guy brought Brandon no Jesse
leaders right I went on his show
Brandon Straka wanted to and you know
I'm I'm happy to go because that is you
know that's part of I think our
responsibility if you want it you can
get it whichever Hollywood actor gets to
debate Dave Rubin maybe you can help
them prep yeah well I don't think
they're going to
but I think I think we should some of
them should tweet out to tell Dave to
debate you yeah listen
and I am NOT going to tell people to go
to Dave Rubin events and ask this
question I haven't told anybody to do
that it's happening organically because
I think people genuinely have this
question of Dave Rubin
and so you know I just want to make that
clear - oh and one of the people that he
claimed as being on the Left Erik
Weinstein I just looked him up he's the
managing director of teal Capital his
breathing Oh different guy well no no
Brad they're brothers yeah you're
mentioned both of them right but it's
you know the bottom line is he sits
there and nods regardless of who's
sitting there and he does not know what
to do when he needs to actually question
and interview someone with thoughts that
are actually challenging to his
