every day Friday that means Monday is
casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat gommage our day
report with sam cedar it is Friday July
5th 2019 my name is Sam cedar this is
the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live to tape
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA it's
casual Friday folks so casual that we're
actually recording this on Wednesday
night I'm not gonna tell you a lie
yesterday was July 4th today is July 5th
but not really I'm just anticipating
this being July fit recording this on
July 3rd unless something horribly goes
wrong Friday will be July 5th but in the
event that we have gone through some
time of strange time-space continuum I
want to offer my apologies that today is
not July 5th or Friday or I'm not sure
all the things that could go wrong but
whatever they are they are today special
edition of the show because we're all on
breviary vacation I'm actually probably
right now I'm probably right over there
as you're listening to this or watching
this and I'm cleaning stuff up over
there trying to fix that thing so and
then I'm gonna try and fix that thing so
but nevertheless we are I am very
pleased to have in studio live to tape
Alex Perrine staff writer from really
the new New Republic yeah
you knew I would I would had a second
new maybe a third new at this point
actually the newest the newest Republic
yeah is here with me Michael will join
us in a bit he is he's taking I think
he's getting a massage or something like
that now what is he doing he's some type
of aromatherapy puncture acupuncture not
exactly sure what it is but and so we're
gonna look back on the week the
abbreviated week but I think we should
also look forward to look back in other
words let's talk about what happened
tomorrow yes let's yeah which is the
July 4th celebration with the tanks
tanks and the missiles are we gonna see
miss I don't know I mean I guess I will
know by the time you hear this I will
know if we have seen missiles or not and
I'm just gonna check the weather to to
see what the weather would be like I
today we did a show and I was hoping
that tomorrow we would have such intense
rain in Washington DC in the morning
that I am not seeing any rain until
maybe later in the day mm-hmm and then
only 30 percent I was I am I'm I did see
word that the Blue Angels have decided
that they won't be showing up tomorrow
so based on the weather reports really
Wow
so much for our air superiority as a
military I mean it's a little bit scary
in some ways I mean it's just symbolic
yeah it's it's this weird Trump era
thing of like scary silly right like
it's just everything is has this bizarre
combination of deeply silly and then
like unsettling and and with a lot of
this stuff it's almost one of those
things like you can't really tell if
it's gonna be a problem
for like five years right I mean like
net like okay Trump is gonna do this
again next year because he's been a
do it this year yeah and presumably it's
gonna get bigger we're gonna say we had
10 tanks last time I want 30 tanks this
time and whatever it is then the real
question is assuming he doesn't become
president in 2020 which is conceivably
might it's gonna be well yeah the
question is is it's gonna be like god
bless america
Yankee Stadium all right what the the
patriotism ratchet only goes in one
direction that's right right like how
like like I mean President Biden Harris
Warren Sanders Buddha Judge slaw well or
what else well whoever it is Williamson
if they will you know if they try not to
have tanks right they'll bill how much
where the Republicans be like he's an
American she's an American like where
was this where were their lapel pins and
that I mean right that's what's gonna
happen
it'll be yeah it'll it'll have become a
tradition and and it'll be disrespectful
to the Armed Forces to cancel the tank
parade right of course beyond that I
don't know what else we we do about it
it's just I thought it was you know
others have commented on this but I
thought was very funny that they were
worried one of the bridges across I
guess one of the bridges into the DC it
was like not stable or not couldn't
support the weight of tanks which seems
someone said that was like a good a good
thing for your capital city but also
maybe we're making our tanks too heavy
like what her how are we gonna get her
tanks into other cities yeah the point
being like where are these tanks what
works my other question like he's
talking about he's been talking this
week about how that we got new tanks and
this and I'm like what we're at where
what is the conflict that we're
anticipating where we're gonna be using
a lot of Tanks again I'm not sure I mean
I guess it's just deserts that's all
we're thinking about we're not going
into cities we're just going into
deserts or something or we're just
outside of town we don't need to cross
bridges I don't know
but be that as may so that's that's
tomorrow or yes that was yesterday
pending on what respect
the tanks were yesterday let's go back a
week
as of Wednesday there was a bunch pulls
out they seem to be all over the place
yeah the one consistent element of them
like Bernie seems to be up and down in
them the there's two consistent dynamics
that seem to me
one is that Biden went down and the
other is that Harris went up and Warren
sort of maybe also edged up a little bit
too but those in terms of you look at
the trends that consistently across all
of the yeah all that that's what
happened what is your I mean you know I
know it's funny like I used to swear off
the horse race stuff but I feel like
we're like it's quite clear where
everybody is it seems to me yeah in in
there's a clarity maybe I've just been
doing this for too long or what or I
think it's too early in some ways for
people to really absorb stuff I think
there was a pull out there that showed
the other day the Democratic voters are
only paying 35% of them are paying
attention to the primary which it's
probably consistent with the number
people are gonna vote in primaries in
terms of Democrats but so maybe maybe we
have the full complement of people who
are gonna pay attention at paid
attention like I also you know I think
there's a thing and you see this I
imagine with Sanders numbers because I
remember a poll that was like people who
aren't paying very close attention
Sanders is doing a lot better with them
and like that's a function of they made
up their mind so I think there are
people who are not paying attention
because they're like I know who I'm
voting for
right so you don't really need to keep
up with it if you've made up your mind
but I do I I feel like the horse race
stuff it's a lot you're on safer ground
trying to sort of analyze the current
moment than you were trying to predict
the future right but though I mean Ely
after the two debates it should have
been pretty easy to see that like Harris
was gonna rise Biden was probably gonna
fall and and that Biden's fall was going
to sort of benefit these candidates or
pitching themselves very much in the
liberal mainstream but like not but you
know the
the younger fresher alternative
basically right right and and I think to
a certain extent from the I mean the the
at least from my sort of ideological
perspective anything that brings Biden
down at this point is good yeah and
there's virtually nothing else that can
happen that is a negative in my mind at
this stage of the campaign I think a
tight grouping is probably good for the
candidates that I support which is
obviously it's Bernie Sanders and and to
a certain extent I would like to see
Lizabeth Warren come out of it I mean
really I'd be most happy if it's anybody
but Biden anybody would the be in front
of their name I think actually yeah you
know like a Biden Buddha judge bat out
the only one I mean I would be happy
with is with ABI is a bernie i think but
and then it's just really i guess we
gotta wait right i mean i mean it's in
some ways it's too early yeah beyond the
notion of like this is not going to be a
situation where somebody walks away from
it right and i this was the the first
the you know the first two debates
probably when a lot of democrats only
just started paying attention at you
know last week and it's always been
ridiculous to imagine that Biden's lead
was going to be stable because people
hadn't even been introduced to the other
ones you know unless unless they are
avid majority report listeners or new
republic readers or people who have
MSNBC on all day like normal people are
waiting to make up their mind until like
signals like okay the debate is on
tonight let's see what these people are
about right and and my argument has been
that people don't really know Joe Biden
yeah they they think they know Joe Biden
yep because they know Joe Biden the vice
president yeah but they don't know Joe
Biden the candidate and the decanted Joe
Biden the candidate has been
significantly less popular over time yes
then Joe Biden the vice president yeah
and
we Clinton had this problem two people
she was extremely popular as Secretary
of Defense when she got into the
candidacy it's people see for better for
worse a different side of you and Joe
Biden's not attractive no it seems to me
I mean this I in 2008 you know with a
which was a you know a generation ago
practically in terms of electoral
politics he was the he had no interest
from the voters into the money and you
know that got the guy like was a popular
vice president for two terms after that
but the we're seeing candidate Joe again
just like right exactly
all right so let's uh let's let's move
on from the debate to a certain extent
and in the in the race because I just
don't know that there's really any other
developments the well Hickenlooper is
melting down I was enjoying I enjoyed
that is absolutely right when campaign
finance director leaves your candidacy
to go work for Beto yeah at this point
you know you've got yes right I mean
that's like yeah Michael will step in I
mean when you go from working for when
you when like it's a step up to go work
for the guy who had the greatest drop in
in in attractiveness to the candidacy
after this debate because I think Beto
topped even Biden's drop yeah um you
know you've got a problem yeah right
like I mean Hickenlooper has got to be
thinking like oh ye I'm not even right
I'm not I don't know how do I even get
into nevermind the cabinet like yeah I
don't even think I could get like at an
agency no I wasn't part of Hickenlooper
z-- like bad karmas that literally the
same person is running from Colorado
right that we've got my party and it's
like much more pleasant human being
right so it's like hey we have two
people who make no history have no
interesting ideas of boring depressing
records
their right-wing Democrats and one of
them seems like a nice enough guy to run
into on an airport line right and
Hickenlooper he actually kind of seems
like a jerk don't they want Hickenlooper
to run again for something in Colorado
can he run for governor though well no
they wanted Bennet's run for realized
for Senate I don't know oh you know
there was a Senate seat they wanted oh
it's Cory Gardner right I mean that may
still happen it seems but you got to
wonder if you're the campaign finance
director and that's floating around you
would go to Hickenlooper and say like so
what do you say we're gonna go in this
other race and Hickam boomers like no I
am determined to be president and can't
pay five directors as well all right I
can't believe this it looks like Beto is
my life I'll go I'll go work for the
other guy who should be running for
Senate right you're not the only
delusional narcissist in this race John
there's a lot of them all right so let's
let's leave that for a moment I mean I
think you know we've we've certainly
said on the program all we can say in
terms of of where this race to the
extent that we can sort of anticipate
where this race is going one place that
did not go during the debate however was
impeachment of Donald Trump I don't know
if that even came up which is suspicious
to me to be honest with you like I'm not
I just find it very odd that none of
those people of those journalists were
like hey yeah impeachment might be an
interesting sort of like clickbait ii
thing to talk about yeah i can't help
but get the sense that there was a
feeling of oh i don't know what could
inspire all of those those journalists
to think like impeachment nobody's
interested in that nobody who watches
MSNBC is interested in that we don't
want to put I mean that that doesn't
seems to be like no one is deeply
invested in picking a person to replace
Donald Trump could possibly be
interested in removing I feel like we
could do an episode on the sort of like
conjecture on why that question is evil
OSI does
wanted to lose reelection um why that
question wasn't asked but it is weird
that it was brought up I think it might
be I I do I think it's weird wasn't
asked because I can see lots of you know
even just from a baking the candidates
squirm since why you would want to ask
it I almost just wonder if it's just
considered if they're almost too savvy
to think impeachment is on the table
right because like the the savvy people
have are like ah I have a series not
gonna do it so we styled conspiracy
about maybe why not what was just I feel
like well well
Cedar's style thinking would be this is
not a bad thing it's fine eyes eater
don't need to be convinced that no I
don't think any okay Chuck Dodds not
gonna ask about impeachment the most
likely person to ask about impeachment
would be Rachel Maddow and I feel of
that line up and she steered clear of
her whole like her Hulk or print brands
proposition she didn't say anything
about Russia she didn't say anything
about her questions were very standard
issue and I'm wondering if she's trying
to sort of reap position herself as an
anchor you know there was a story a
couple weeks ago the New York Times was
telling journalists that they couldn't
go on her show anymore because they I
forget what the phrasing was but I
thought that's a very big concern their
New York Times one opinion show yes but
there was a sense for a while Geordi
reporting right no of course but there
was a sense maybe that her show yeah but
there but that was a problem in this NBC
Phil Griffin I know according this
report was making calls they don't like
that brand Association so at least for
me with Rachel especially coming in and
expecting her to at least ask one
question about what she spent a vast
majority of her time on the last couple
of years it was it was striking the that
is I think it's very possible that it
was just sort of a a less of an
ideological idea and more of just like a
branding thing because this is we need
this to be more NBC News than MSNBC type
of thing
that's conceivable there also I mean you
know this may be a different topic but
prior to Trump I know that MSNBC was
attempting to become CNN yeah of days of
yore and I imagine
if they're starting to anticipate where
things are going it's a democratic
presidency yeah now it could be funny to
watch them do the sort of same thing
that they did last time which is like
gear up to solutely wholesale get rid of
everybody in their primetime lineup and
then and then Trump wins again and see
what happens but yeah it sort of like
one of those things like if I could just
look through a like it's like I guess in
some ways like if you're looking at a
nuclear explosion and you just see like
oh look at the lights and then you don't
see that you don't see every mushroom
cloud don't go into the little town
after exactly but so impeachment was not
brought up and to a large extent
my sense is Joe Kennedy the other day
came out for impeachment we finally had
Neal who is the chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee start the the court case
about Trump's taxes took a long time
which took a long time my sense is is
that this has been the strategy we're
gonna slow bleed this thing yeah and by
the time there's enough people to say we
want impeachment Nancy Pelosi is gonna
say in February yeah you know like in
the end the elections are feelings away
right yeah I think that's I went to
really clearly the leadership strategy
either it feels like they've been
successful yeah I think it's working I
think it's working so far I mean it
might have already worked I think this
is a problem yes I mean I think it's a
problem for democracy I think it's a
political problem I think it's a problem
in every possible imaginable way yeah I
mean and I say this is someone who six
months ago I was for impeaching him but
I thought the best argument not
impeaching him was like you impeach him
the Senate refuses to convict and then
what happens if he wins re-election well
right yeah like there's no there's
absolutely no restrictions whatsoever I
mean people have been saying this to
smoke to a lot of people this week about
the gerrymandering case and the biggest
danger about the gerrymandering case now
is to the extent that the idea that the
supreme court could reverse stuff and
the Republicans didn't want to go too
far yeah that's just like that's over
that's off the table now yeah now it's
like you it's incumbent upon you to go
as far as possible with the
gerrymandering and that's a little bit
terrifying
yeah but it could be that way if they
impeach but so what are the implications
of that I mean the idea that now Donald
Trump is just like impervious it seems
that is what is absurd about it is you
like by creating it's like a fear of a a
completely unencumbered Trump has led
them to remove the cumbers right they
were like if we impeach and in the
Senate doesn't convict that and he'll do
anything he wants so we should let him
do anything he wants it's absurd logic I
don't know the implications are that
it's it's the it's the the look forward
not back
like Bush Obama first term thing again
to accept we were doing it in advance
that's the bizarre thing where it's like
we're not gonna we're not gonna hold
hearings on the prior administration's
like malfeasance because that would be
looking backwards though we're also not
gonna do anything with a current
administration's malfeasance I sort of
feel like it's almost like even less
like Obama could say like don't look
back yeah
and one could argue like okay yeah he's
just that's just obviously that's pablum
but he's afraid that the well I don't
know what he was afraid of but I could
say like okay no I want to hold the
dirtiest date that's a security state or
hey the American public won't help or
where's the political angle in this yeah
but I can easily come up with a
political reason to impeach Donald Trump
even if he's not going to get impeached
in the convicted in the Senate because
then you can implicate the Republicans
yes exactly yeah yeah and the the the
hearings themselves are not like they I
think like a lot of Democrats have
convinced themselves that Trump is like
more powerful when he's under attack
when in fact he becomes like a
complaining baby when he's under attack
and what he loves is to not be under
attack and this is what they have like
they've convinced themselves that
impeachment hearings will only make him
more powerful but my god he would be
he'd be screaming and throwing a tantrum
every day if they were actually holding
hearings about this stuff well the other
thing is is that you would be putting
the Republicans on the defensive I mean
there's some notion that Nancy Pelosi
must have that like the Republicans are
just gonna be like oh thank God we don't
have to deal with impeachment and let's
just ride this out as opposed to like
we're going to get bill bar to start you
know indictments of yeah every sitting
Democratic lawmaker and robert muller
and everybody like they're not going to
not do anything yeah and particularly if
there's like nothing preoccupying them
yes I'm serious like if the White House
if everybody in the White House is not
having to run around talking to their
lawyer about their testimony that may
come up yeah or if they're not sitting
there trying to fight subpoenas or if
they're not you know if the cut if the
the lawmakers in the Senate are not
starting to spend time like how am I
going to vote what's the best way for me
to position how I'm going to vote if
they're not doing that they're gonna do
something they're gonna do other they're
gonna do things and they're just gonna
go on offense you know I think that
that's what's really problematic like
it's one thing for people like me to be
sort of skeptical of people like Pelosi
and and on people focusing on norms and
this type of thing but it's very hard
when they start falling short of their
own metrics you know I mean impeachment
is a very big thing but I think this
stuff with the border funding is also so
reflective of it and it's obviously
people who are first and foremost
horrified than in fact we have
concentration camps and apologies to
Megan McCain but just more broadly that
again I mean I don't understand they yes
they campaigned on health care but they
absolutely said this is out of control
this is ridiculous you need a check on
him and they're not doing that in such
to-the-point also where then conversely
when she says stuff like he should be in
jail
it's like doubly offensive because it's
like well first of all you're the cop
there you go
you're the only cop and by the way and
secondly I would say if there was only
one thing that I would remotely take
seriously about norms would be like
maybe we shouldn't all copy Donald Trump
and just saying like they should go to
jail right but if you really think that
they meant the very least you got to
remove them or try or just say so so
it's double your reinforcing the
authoritarian ethos and doing nothing
yes
just stand up and say this is our
formalized way of saying what you're
doing is wrong you cannot listen to us
and you can break but force them to
break the rules
force them to you know because otherwise
you're just giving you're giving a tacit
approval for all this and and so I
mean strategically speaking they got
Justin Amash to come out for them
anyways right they've got blasted
because Amash went too far for them they
don't want like they were they weren't
waiting for a Republican to give them
cover and they work they weren't
expecting any of them to write if they
were waiting for a Republican to give
them cover they would have seized on it
but of course they were like shut up
Justin here's the thing that I can't and
and you know we've had you on in the
past and we've talked about Chuck
Schumer today on the program that like I
say it's Wednesday I it actually like if
someone had come up to me and say to
Chuck Schumer retire
he's still a senator is he still the
majority leader no instruction would say
don't know pick up your phone if oh one
less fake Caribbean cruise call if no
welcome honest leadership if somebody
told me that Chuck Schumer no he's been
in the hospital for yes yes no he's he's
you know he said he's had like he had a
kidney removed or something like you
know cuz sometimes that happens with
senators you're like from cancer turns
out he's had dementia for four years
we've been hiding it right if someone
said to me that Chuck Schumer flattering
scenarios all right I guess if you had
dementia do Chuck Schumer know he's been
recovering from knee surgery and he's
been he's been he's been late as there
wasn't in Washington I had in the injury
cuz there wasn't enough room on the
plane if someone and that's what would
work if someone told me that I would be
like oh okay
that's why I haven't heard hide nor hair
like he's disappeared and the only
person who gets less attention you know
apparently is Mitch McConnell you know
but and but Mitch McConnell determines
when he's gonna come out and actually do
stuff I mean this is there is such a
vacuum of leadership I don't have a
sense of like what do they think is
gonna happen yeah like what like and
it's interesting you also don't see yet
I mean Joe Biden was trying to do this I
guess maybe on some level but you don't
see any of the and maybe it's too early
in this in the primary but you don't get
the sense that any of these the the
presidential candidates are going to
assume some sense of leaders you don't
know the party either because everything
seems so in incoherent it's actually
worrying and one thing that worries me
is that there's no you know we hear
about dissension in the house all the
time people who are mad from about
Pelosi from the left or from the right
like it is alarming to me that we don't
hear that about Schumer from senators
like I we don't hear it you know we
don't hear that like we don't hear
Bernie's pissed off at Schumer we don't
hear warrant
talking Schumer like we currently who's
supposedly trying to himself to be the
successor yeah and as a progressive yeah
we just don't like we hear the people we
hear it from our former aides to Harry
Reid right that's who we hear it from
former Harry Reid Abe's are like what
the hell is he doing and I'm actually
very concerned that there isn't urgent
sea among what few left-leaning
progressives are are in the Senate yeah
what do you think that is do you think
it's they have other agendas or they
just think that like there's no value in
going after Schumer right now because
what are we gonna do I mean I guess they
think that there's no they might not
have a better option in mind it might
just be like hopelessness about the
McConnell thing I mean I don't know it's
hard to say cuz I I do wonder after
especially after the border funding
thing well let's talk about that yeah it
was a total I mean it was a disaster
it's such a disaster because again I'm
not saying I I don't agree with it but
if someone said to me look here's the
deal the speaker wants to do an agenda
and she wants to fight Donald Trump
legislatively yeah and this is what
we're going to do and this and that and
impeachments gonna be a distraction from
our and people are gonna make it look
like so we're gonna get in there we're
gonna roll up our sleeves we're gonna do
this we're gonna take it to him with a
baseball bat
instead of going over there with a you
know like a gun yeah and we're just
gonna pound him and but no they did they
did nothing yeah they're not making a
stand on the story that has dominated
the headlines like I'm sorry the
American public I seems to me at least a
significant portion of it could get
behind a party that was saying we don't
want to represent dead people floating
you know a dead child with her father
floating in the the Rio Grande like I
mean the insanely a completely insane
thing to me is the extremist moderate
position that it will have been worse
politically to be tarred
as withholding funds from ice then it
would be to be Blake I mean there was
determining some level of justice yeah
okay you're gonna get your funding but
guess what guess what members of
Congress can go in with our cameras
whenever we want we don't have to make
an appointment for this or whatever it
is like they got I I don't know what
they got maybe they got something but
they have not communicated it to people
who follow politics Engle that they got
uh they got a verbal promise from Mike
Pence
oh yes that will tell you if somebody
dies within two hours pretty good yeah
but I think that's the other like I
Andrew Sullivan of course is the worst
and Alex now you bear some
responsibility where you work but he and
what he wrote like a cod and you'll
you'll see a Mary's Andrews you're the
Chuck Schumer somewhere in the
witness-protection pretty he wrote uh
but you know you'll see a ton of pieces
like this of like hey I you know I
really want to vote for Democrats but X
and he did you know most of them would
be about like Medicare for all but he
did one on immigration recently where he
was basically like I think it was what
the Democrats need to learn from Bannon
and what is so frustrating is is just
and I say this all the time we can have
these broader debates about the border
and open borders and on all of this
stuff but it seems that almost nobody
understands that it seems to me a
totally sellable case to just be really
clear to spell out what we're saying
which is like you're still gonna check
passports you're still gonna have a
process we're just not gonna kid up and
kill children anymore and I have to
think that that is a pretty broad swath
message outside of the Republican base
and then guys like Josh gossamer just to
put one name on it I think he's New
Jersey 5th or 6th
yeah he's the leader of the
problem-solvers caucus I mean he's just
Scott I mean please I was gonna lead up
to a talk about him because he's a guy
this is who's driving this is Pelosi is
listening to him more than Pocan or Gipe
all right well the because he's got
leverage in the leverage he has is he's
got the luxury of complete and I ilysm
about whatever the end result of his
nominations are it's the the via it's
the the the centrist thing where because
he doesn't actually care about any
result except for in very narrow
political terms he can you know his
actual and like what he wants to
accomplish his kneecapping the left and
he's got the leverage of saying he's
gonna he's a has to be a moderate who's
from a swing district in New Jersey he's
just a he's a product of the awful New
Jersey machine on and Marston bursts
Tyler first in Marshall yeah yeah mark
attends old market benzyl global PR yeah
and he met with Rasheeda to live when
she first got into Congress he basically
was like I we should sit down and of
course that's what you do and he
basically turned the session into like a
you don't understand how things work
here and you know essentially tried to
bully her out of her politic yeah and
he's verbally abusive to his staff yes
but anyway he's the leader the problem
solvers and it's unclear would probably
have yet solved right they haven't
they've been working on for a while and
they're working on their first problem
right but the kids dying in custody that
was not a big enough problem for them to
solve no well the the interesting thing
is I mean this was a dynamic that that
existed in the the Senate that you see
more clearly in the Senate right because
the numbers are smaller and there was
always talk about sort of like a
filibuster reform and taking it down to
55 and taking it to 60 and I just
remember a lot of the discussion at that
time was it's just a question of who
then is going to put themselves in that
position of being the 55th vote yeah and
that's the person and everybody there's
a and there's always a group of people
trying to be that person and they they
define they don't have any political
program except for being that decide
except for being the person that
everybody's got to come to and say like
well you know in a massing power I mean
it it's hard to contemplate this I think
for normal people well I think it's just
really hard to get you to wrap your head
around like you're gonna make decisions
based upon
like that are gonna implicate the lives
of sometimes hundreds of thousands
sometimes millions of people just based
upon like you know your narcissism yeah
I just it's like it's like like really I
mean as a congressman from New Jersey
like what's the variance in terms of how
much power you can have other than in
that moment like it's not like you're
gonna walk into you know hotels and they
like here's a free room or here's how
does this manifest except you kept the
kids in those concentration camps
here's a free ride understand he gets
free dances at the bottom Bing because
he kept open eyes it's because I don't
know weird it's just people who I mean
it is it's it is just about
relationships and power and politics is
just transactional like for them it is
just about it's about transactions and
not actually about like they think like
these people barely believe that they're
like things happen as a result of the
votes they take right like I think that
that's so that's the part they haven't
actually like reached cognizance of that
like what you'd expect that people
involved in politics would have a better
sense of that yeah but okay so what does
this mean for if because Pelosi well
this is the what I was saying about
Schumer is that Pelosi we always talked
about the people who are criticizing her
and Pelosi obviously for the the border
funding thing took a lot of for
that but uh Schumer let Schumer let
everyone vote for him yes this is let
everyone vote for it that's right so
that was something like 83 to 70 years I
mean he released all of these Democratic
senators did not hold them and once they
vote once you get 25 Democratic senators
to vote for something
there's no Democrat in the house who's
gonna say like I'm not sticking my neck
out yeah this because I don't even have
the cover of my own party in in the
Senate Schumer just could and you know
like I I don't know when we find this
out like who writes this you know and
and you know like we have a vague notion
of like Harry Reid you know now who has
cancer I guess and
you know Ryan grim did a lot of
reporting on this and even then like
read backs off some of that stuff
because whatever this is just I don't
understand I don't understand Senate
brain I don't understand that but but
the question is Jesus if you know I
don't know if we're ever gonna find out
if Nancy Pelosi goes Chuck Schumer
 me over
yeah over and over again or if she says
Chuck Schumer is an idiot and he didn't
even know like I would say he me
over but he could even tie his shoes
yeah or if Chuck Schumer was like Nancy
told me yeah I just did what she said my
my this is my impression to a lot of the
subtext of applause he's been saying and
I think it's still incorrect about the
politics but my impression of the
subtext what you saying what impeachment
is that she can't trust humor to get the
Democrats like even not just that the
Senate would vote to keep to keep Trump
but that a significant number of Senate
Democrats would also not vote to remove
Trump and that is my that would be
damaged now it is my impression of one
of when Pelosi warns about the Senate
that would cannot trust Schumer to she's
not talking about the Republicans she's
talking about machinability will talk
about impeachment late at first coupons
[Laughter]
question we ask ourselves if we want to
stay in touch with the electorate Ojo
making a dreidel joke again I am okay
Joe this is one of the most depressing
Friday show it had not occurred to me
that she's her real fear is and that is
a very valid fear you don't want the
last thing you want is for it is like if
you're gonna if you're gonna lean on
those purple district Democrats in the
house to vote for impeachment right
because you need them because if you if
you don't have them you look like it you
even it's even more of a disaster I mean
I agree that's a disaster but then if
they vote for it and their senators vote
against it mm-hmm that's that's all the
leverage that the Republicans in this
and the Senate and the house need a
challengers need to save to you know
look at the loonie left
out-of-touch like even their own
senators didn't vote for it yeah that's
okay you know that had not occurred to
me but I think the only way I would ever
said Nancy Pelosi its various the
expense of having lower expectations of
Chuck sure I mean I was gonna say
because you know in her loss in that
deal is uncharacteristic yep it's very
uncharacteristic yeah she she has been
she never you know this happened many
times with drunky drunker son I can't
remember his name now bow now he brought
up many votes that that lost yeah Ryan
brought up votes that lost mm-hmm she
never does she doesn't do it if she
doesn't have the votes Chisholm she
doesn't bring it up and this is what I
was saying the idea that she's
constantly getting sold out by Chuck
Schumer is problematic but you would
imagine there would be some conduit like
but I guess there's just a feeling like
what are we gonna do yeah I mean I don't
know cuz Schumer hiding from her at
various DC establishment I mean the way
you know I think I was talking to
someone about boy which which bad deal
was it I was talking to someone about
the what was the deal they were just
doing where they they pulled
oh yeah the prescription drug deal and
this was a few weeks ago and you know
they they were like yeah there's there's
the there's a we have the caucus between
the House and the Senate but like
outside of that there's just not a lot
of communication which I find insane
that like the the House Dems and Senate
Dems are just look like they're not
they're not coordinating like Chuck and
Auntie might be doing some degree of it
but there's not like coordination
happening beyond that which I it's
stunning but they're also part of the
problem just you know functionally we
talk about how the Democratic Party is
really not a party for right now and I
mean it you know it's like there's a lot
of interesting historical and
comparative politics reasons for that
and it matters ideologically and so on
but this might be the really the rubber
meeting the road in an incredibly
practical way like you have one party
that basically fuses oligarchs and white
identity politics
and they just drive stuff through and
then this other thing is split yeah you
graphically money-wise strategically I
mean if yeah I mean if what you're
saying is true then that would mean that
even two of the people who are
relatively speaking the closest which
would be a you know I mean Pelosi is
better than Schumer but I mean yeah
they're same generation yeah California
and New York I mean if they can't even
coordinate that's pretty bad right I
mean it also may explain to why there is
such sort of like party dependence on
the presidency and maybe yeah or maybe
it's vice-versa that the the Democrats
always seem to focus on the presidency
in some fashion maybe I was for many
years institutionally we took for
granted the house and the Senate I don't
know yeah it is it's bleak I mean is
there a saying that says like you know
the the the the the light the darkest
hour always darkest before the dawn
yeah it's also always darkest before
it's even darker yeah right right like
its darkest if it's a darkest it can be
until again until it gets darker well
that's a tough tough point and and it's
true it's an interesting point it I mean
I have I I draw everyone's really looks
I worry about what happens in the fall
in terms of like Democrats getting
caught up in now maybe maybe the the
primary dominates the news enough so
that there is it takes the oxygen out of
anything that the Republicans could be
doing they'll they'll have their
conspiracy theories there'll be all
sorts of sort of like yeah I don't know
maybe now that they don't have the house
they can't have sort of hearings on
shadow banning and you know that's
happening through the the former DOJ you
know Obama DOJ people who are working on
the shadow banning right and through a
pizza place or whatever it is but you
know do you think Eric Holder was behind
the attack I'd you yeah exactly I mean
I don't know it's uh it is a just it
just gets more bizarre and I wonder you
know I mean I don't know I do like just
talking about insane Republican hearings
just makes me wonder even more like like
where where are they like where are the
televised hearings like now you don't
even have to have impeachment for to
have some of those I know they play
these Moeller weeks but they issue
subpoenas they get ignored and then they
agree to closed-door meetings with with
people for no reason
like do you not want publicity for they
don't when they don't have I don't know
what I can that's the thing that I keep
like you're banging my head up again
what's the exact I can understand you
would rather a than B or B than a but I
don't see you wanna either they want to
have the house get reelected take care
of their donors and be relatively
popular I I'm really I mean that no it's
so obvious what they what there doesn't
seem to be as individuals it's not a
cohesive project well I understand but I
don't even see what individuals are
doing per se like this is their like
goth I'm worried and you know deliver
for a particular but but the leadership
has a strategy theoretically
theoretically and it seems to be for
four corners we're just gonna wait yeah
hope that you're nothing happened yes it
for the next and like 16 months leaves
don't let anything happen
we can't let it yeah well isn't this a
generations of people who basically that
is how they've they've I mean they've
either won national elections with a
charismatic presidential candidate or
they win like in 2006 where it's like a
war is spiraling out of control
well that was had a file in the house
okay guys yeah actually maybe the 2006
lesson is the actual like that is what
they're actually just trying to recreate
it's like sit back do nothing and and
and eventually things will get so bad
that will come back in a huge wave yes
let's hope that there is a scandal where
the top congressional leaders are
implicated in covering up for the
predation of pages yeah I mean that does
that even play the same you know you're
being really unfair about people's
preferences yes I thought you were the
party of tolerance yeah how come you
know anyways yeah the Democrats they'll
start talking about common pizza in well
tree election campaign um we are I guess
10 days away or so from the Muller
hearings maybe this all changes the
tenor changes of this I don't I don't
know I don't see why it would yeah
there's no reason to believe that
they're there you know maybe I don't
know it'll be interesting to see if
Jerrold Nadler is like getting with
people and saying like we're gonna do
this actually the right way yeah like
you're gonna be responsible for asking
about this and you're gonna be
responsible for asking about that we're
gonna try and do this cohesively in some
fashion I guess we'll see we'll see
and aside from that I don't know I guess
the only other excitement is Netroots
nation there you go
I will be down at Netroots next week or
you cannot going to I'm not going
alright well Alex anything did we leave
anything on the table no I don't think
so make sure to subscribe to the New
Republic magazine yeah now is the time
well you know I have to say like
actually this is this is we you know
today is uh Wednesday and we had Matt
Ford on oh yeah talking about the
Supreme Court and there's a lot of I
think like young energy left this energy
over there yeah is that fair to say I
think that's fair to say there's like
Chris layman is the new ish editor he
came over from a Baffler
and I think we're doing we're doing fun
stuff and there's more fun stuff to come
yeah that's good I mean folks need to do
that I mean I feel like to a certain
extent there has been a sort of a
generational shift at these places
The American Prospect is
you know Dayan's over there now and I
think this is good it's a good time to
support these these publications so
folks go over there give Alex preen a
bunch of clicks yeah as it were and and
then also subscribe get the the paper
version yeah I mean it's actually still
a physical magazine and it looks great
like this that's cool so yeah I love I
got I had a cover story like my first
one I was like I'm on the cover magazine
was awesome what do you do with that now
do you'll frame it right right now it's
like in a static like a framed
illustration McConnell held you kid
always two and a half yeah so it's just
like you've got like his scribbling or
yeah it's like paint that he's just
rubbed on with his hand yeah and the
thirty of those all right Alex bream
thanks so much time today really
appreciate it folks just a reminder you
can support this program by going to
join the majority report calm and just
coffee dot co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate we will be back live on Monday
and a reminder we are going to be
rolling out in the next couple of days
next week a a new a new AM brief if you
will it will be in the majority report
feed it's gonna be short it's not going
to give you a lot of depth frankly but
it will give you a sense of what stories
are in play on any given day and we'll
have a little bit of attitude but it's
we're not going to editorialize that
much we don't have time to do it we're
just gonna do it quick it's gonna be a
quickie if you will all right in the
meantime we will see you Monday live
thank you and hope you had a good forth
and bye
to get to where I want
but I know some
[Music]
I was
I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
you
