this week we have moved into a different
era it seems to me in terms of the
question of impeachment and there's been
a couple of measures of it part of it is
it seems to me that people have just
become some people have become more
adamant but a big part of it is it seems
that the Trump administration is
actively courting this if they're not
it's very peculiar behavior because they
are now not only you know taking the the
case of impeachment from one involving
actions of the president that are
outlined frankly in the Mahler report
even though there's no indictments of
further indictments not just in terms of
obstruction but I think frankly if
people read it they'll find a plenty of
reason to impeach the president if if he
can't you know despite the fact that it
can't be charged with a specific
criminal conspiracy but also because of
the sort of subsequent obstruction on
multiple fronts fronts that have nothing
to do with the Muller investigation
things like the taxes things like this
and that but just generally speaking so
the facts on the ground have changed and
the political facts have changed I think
that's right and and it does seem as
though they're courting impeachment but
if they are they're very very stupid and
and they are very stupid but I actually
think to me this looks like a typical
Trump terrible negotiation I mean it's
for all of his reputation for being a
great negotiator he is a terrible
negotiator and we've seen that over and
over again and I think in this case he's
playing chicken and he thinks that you
know by listening to Pelosi and by
looking back the Clinton impeachment and
having people probably you know
whispering this stuff in his ear as well
that you know he can push the Democrats
off of impeachment by pretending that he
wants it in other words this idea of he
goading them into it because you know he
really feels like this is going to be a
big winner for him is actually a bluff
and and so I mean that's that's what I
think I mean I don't know maybe he is
that stupid that he wants an impeachment
I mean no president should ever want an
impeachment it's ridiculous I mean I'm
sure Bill Clinton who came out ahead
although he started out way ahead
I bet looking back on it I don't think
he would say yeah that was really great
I'm sure glad that happened I mean
that's just not something that any
president should ever want it's it's
it's the nuclear option on his
presidency well right wait a second I
mean let's let's talk about that because
there's there's a couple of sides to
this to this question right I mean of
impeachment there's there's the
political question and there's two sides
of that political question and we'll get
to that in a moment and then there's
just sort of the you know broader sort
of import of impeachment but it seems to
me from the perspective of Donald Trump
anyways that and his advisors that
impeachment that they they could
rationally believe I think they would be
wrong in this case but it's not
inconceivable to me that they could
rationally believe that it would benefit
them insofar as there is no political
agenda of the of the Trump
administration they don't they don't
have one outside of probably you know
what they're doing on the immigration
front what they're doing on the sort of
the whitening of America they don't have
one certainly not one that involves
Congress in any way they're they're fans
you know their supporters don't seem to
care about one and so this is a way of
avoiding that and they look at those
numbers
you're right Bill Clinton started you
know more popular than Donald Trump
but it added to Clinton's popularity
people forget this is a guy who won 45
percent of the vote the first time he
got elected you know he was helped in to
a large extent by by third party running
in 92 anyways it was Ross Perot you can
gain more obviously going into his
second term but he left the office as
popular as he had ever been
because of impeachment and you know it
didn't it didn't you know so from that
perspective that very narrow perspective
I could see people saying to Trump like
look you know you've been talking about
obstruction well now now they're really
obstructing you I mean I could see it
being rational from his perspective and
but Nancy Pelosi up until this week and
I want to talk about what I think is a
subtle shift that took place midweek has
been saying you know Trump is goading us
into impeachment and we're not going to
go there it may be the case that Trump
isn't goading the Democrats into a
Pietschmann but just because Trump is
that doesn't mean the Trump is right
right like you know it's not like Donald
Trump is been brilliant like you say
horrible negotiator not necessarily very
good at strategy he won an election it
was a fluke there was a there was about
12 different reasons why he did pretty
good at tactics in terms of a dominating
the news but that's not the same as
being able to withstand a sort of
relentless ongoing all-encompassing
campaign that starts to dare all his
dirty laundry like Donald Trump could be
trying to convince the Democrats to
impeach him and he could also be
horribly horribly wrong about the the
intelligence of doing so I he is
horribly wrong I mean I look back at the
Clinton impeachment and you know I want
to be labor it but you know that that
interpretation that he really benefited
from it he did in the polling you know
he was on his way out by the way I mean
he was in a second term I mean there was
no chance that he was going to be going
to be you know reelected and I was it
was a different situation in that regard
but the truth is is that Clinton was
already quite popular and he had already
been under relentless investigation for
a dozen different things over the course
of his his two terms at that point
people saw what that particular
impeachment process with the Monica
Lewinsky scandal
as being trivial and and it had you know
it wasn't the height was clearly not a
high crime and misdemeanor that is not
the case here I mean we are talking
about in this obstruction that is in the
Muller report if anybody cares to read
it is really obvious this guy and all
those prosecutors I don't know it's
close to a thousand now who signed that
that document saying that if they were
prosecuting this case they would proceed
they have believed there is more than
enough evidence to prosecute Donald
Trump for obstruction of justice and he
would be prosecuted it's really obvious
and the collusion side of it you know
Muller there's a whole lot of stuff in
fact that's something that happened this
week we can talk about that there's a
whole lot of stuff that didn't make it
into the Mahler report about the you
know Russia interference and the
sabotage of Clinton's campaign and what
the Trump people did a lot of that under
you know was classified redacted and
there's a whole investigation that
continues that had that Muller did not
put into his report so you know that
whole part of it is and this is it just
to make a long story short this is just
a much much much more serious situation
one that confronted Clinton in 1998 and
Pete the American people understand that
I think that's Clinton deduct throughout
as you know he worked with the Congress
he worked with anybody he passed
legislation he would meet with Newt
Gingrich and they would have a friendly
conversation I mean it was weird but he
did it and people gave him credit for
that for being able to be the president
and peace you know it made him look a
compartmented yeah all right listen
let's take we got to take a break we're
gonna take a break when we come back
let's talk a little bit more about that
difference and also there's another half
of the equation it's not just about how
this impacts Donald Trump it's also how
it impacts the Democrats we got to take
a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back with Digby
