this was a fun clip it'd be nice if we
had a little bit more of this in the
United States right but we never have
like there's never an opportunity for
something like this I also like their
sets better I love British political
television but here is this is on
question time it is a BBC a BBC news
panel show I guess and I guess they take
questions from the audience which is
also great I mean we do that here too
but they should pay us to make this in
America good idea here it is two things
firstly could we get over feeling sorry
for Theresa May do you never feel sorry
for them no I don't feel sorry for her
she's the woman who for many many years
has led the hostile environment for
migrants in this country which resulted
in the Windridge generation is a
disgrace she's the person who created
her very specific red lines on
immigration in the ECJ which have
created the negotiation mess that we're
in she triggered article 50 when she had
no plan and as to blick criticizing the
EU on this there are 27 other countries
in the EU they have been completely
united on this we do not even have a
cabinet that unites and definitely a
government that isn't in control of the
process they are a body of rules and
regulations are now not going to break
that when it's the most successful
single market in the world and and all
round the world people want to do deals
with the EU we are going to lose all of
that and it is ridiculous for us with
our hopeless government cannot get it
together to actually work out what the
will of the people is today in 2019 to
blame the EU and to go round feeling
sorry for Theresa May I'm sorry
I mean broadly speaking I don't think we
should feel sorry for many politicians
period ever and so I like that sentiment
and I it just the idea of anybody asking
like a two-part a question from the
audience here like would be completely
unheard of
well those Ken bone and that almost
unleashed a revolution I remember him
who was Ken bone again there he was this
guy in like a red sweater that got to
ask a question he was like a fossil fuel
guy or like worker or something like
that but I don't know he turned out
didn't we find some like he was like the
one independent that had we decided
between Hillary and Trump yeah Prime
Minister Corbin
