[Music]
all right let's go to here is now Ken
Cuccinelli
saying that basically the Terrorism that
we saw from ice this week following the
shooting in El Paso they decided to
bring their own more official fully
jacked armed guys to a to a series of
factories in Missouri and here is his
promise that oh this is just the
beginning folks and you know it is right
they're going to right now they're
sitting down and they're saying we're
gonna do one of these a month till the
election
maybe we'll ramp it up in the months
before the election here there were
recently workplace immigration rates and
of course President Trump his first
person commutation went to a man who was
arrested after his business build when
[Music]
did that decision to grant a person
commutation to this man central
investors to employers I'm not really
prepared to speak to that I don't think
so the president does those one person
at a time I think what you saw ice do
this week and enforcing the law
meaningfully with seven operations
across the state of Mississippi and of
course investigations still ongoing
criminal investigations growing out of
that is a is a growth for ice from the
previous year their enforcement efforts
are up and I think you can expect to see
more of that as part of the message of
this administration we're going to
enforce the law so what what that
reporter was talking about was that
Trump had commuted decision this was
back in 2017 the end of 2017 there was a
guy who this guy
Ruba shaken or Rubin who had served
eight years of a 27 year sentence for
bank fraud and money laundering
during a raid of his Agri processors
plant ice officials arrested 400
undocumented Mexican and Guatemalan
immigrants that he had a slaughterhouse
basically he was never tried on the
immigration charges because he didn't
want to let his employees to testify
about their treatment at the plant he
got acquitted of 67 misdemeanor child
labor laws but Trump let him commuted
this guy even though he had hired 400
people who were supposedly illegal
meanwhile they'll go and arrest these
people and separate them from their
families the hypocrisy thing just
doesn't work okay what is it about like
meatpacking that's just always super
abusive ah watch Fredrik Wiseman's meet
just to get a little hint these
meatpacking facilities working there is
extremely extremely hard for people that
Upton Sinclair got they at least used to
have strong unions but those have
largely been broken now
it's it's an extreme I can't remember
who had written about this but the work
in these plants are disturbing super
disturbing
