[Music]
we've had two things happening in the
House and the Senate that are worth
noting one being that Nancy Pelosi is
seems to have come to an agreement with
rebels in the in their caucus rebels the
insurgency whatever now as
insurrectionist yeah except for they
unfortunately these people tend to be
more centrist you know sort of more
centrist insurrectionists but al Qaeda
yeah and but nevertheless they were able
to at least get a commitment for a rules
change involving leadership that
leadership cannot serve more than three
terms in a row and that it would be
retroactive for the existing set of
Democratic leaders in the house so
Clyburn Hoyer and Pelosi this would be
their last term if this passes and the
only way they could stay if there was a
two-thirds majority of the Democratic
caucus that voted for them as opposed to
50/50 and you know based upon what we
saw with Jefferies and Lee you know
50/50 is typical so that's a good sign
not sure if that's gonna apply to
committees not even sure if that's going
to apply as a permanent rule because the
caucus has to vote on it but Pelosi said
she would abide by it anyways so she's
stepping down this is her last go and
hopefully there'll be nurturing of other
leadership in the house simultaneously
Democrats basically saved SNAP benefits
food stamps as we used to call it for
probably it's hard to measure what and
what the Republicans would have cut but
it's safe to say millions and we don't
know if it's 10 million we know if it's
5 million or 2 million because it's a
counterfactual but they are the same
suffering for millions and millions of
people will be getting food stamps
unfortunately in that same bill the
forint farm bill
Republicans have put in a provision that
will unprivileged and it's unclear if
this is going to get stripped out or not
but it seems like Paul Ryan the great
Paul Ryan who's going out just like he
came in slimy he's going to keep it in
which will unprivileged
the War Powers Act Roca HANA has a
resolution under the War Powers Act to
stop what's going on Yemen that matches
essentially the one that Bernie and Mike
Lee are promoting in or will get passed
in the Senate the problem is is that if
it doesn't pass in the house it's
unclear as to whether or not it would
pass it's unlikely that it would pass in
the Senate with the new Senate coming in
so the new house would pass it but the
new Senate wouldn't so it's unclear what
the implications are to me I can't I
can't I haven't seen anybody quite map
it out but it's not good in terms of
raining and what we're doing in Yemen in
particular is what it's about
meanwhile in the Senate Chuck Schumer
two pieces of evidence really three
pieces of evidence that Chuck Schumer is
just not up to this job okay put aside
his politics for a moment Harry Reid
came into the Senate was anti-choice
that never ever implicated his
leadership and it never implicated any
of his boats frankly so put aside a
moment for Chuck Schumer's politics
although I suspect that they they inform
his incompetence in certain areas but
I'm not sure about that Chuck Schumer
negotiated with the Republicans so that
Kamala Harris could stay on the Senate
Judiciary Committee the loss of those
seats in the last midterms meant that
the Democrats had one less seat on the
Judiciary Committee she really wanted to
stay
he negotiated a deal with the
Republicans where they added one more
member to the committee so their
dominance on that committee is greater
but it's irrelevant because it's always
going to be a party vote anyways she
will stay on the committee so they'll
chill I have an opportunity that's why I
think she does the best frankly is in
asking questions of nominees and whatnot
but that is evidence to chuck schumer's
either confident incompetence or willful
incompetence or inability to lead and
sometimes when you lead it's about
getting people to do stuff that they
don't want to do for the sake of the
group that you're leading that's that's
that's basically the point of it what if
leadership was I just hand out goodies
then anybody could do that if leadership
just meant like I'm never going to ask
anything of you then you know Santa
would be a leader as opposed to just a
guy who gives presents something you
might get coal still it actually doesn't
work that's true that has more of an
accountability system so here's my point
why do I think the Chuck Schumer can't
get anybody to do anything that they
don't want to do in the Senate why do I
even where do I even get the idea that
the Senate leader does stuff like that
why would I think that that that Harry
Reid would sometimes go to a member and
say look I'm not gonna release you for
this vote there's going to be a price to
pay for it if you do it and I know you
think you need to vote this way for your
re-election or I know this is part of
your brand or whatnot but we need you on
this vote or we need you to do X or Y
and I want you to do it if you don't do
it then you're gonna be on the wrong
side of me and that's a bad place to be
that's what a leader does or at least
that's my imaginary notion of what a
leader does if only we had insight as to
what a Senate leader does from let's say
someone who served in the Senate someone
who is not even necessarily aligned with
my politics someone like I don't know
claire mccaskill former senator just got
it was just on her way out I guess still
center what about your party though
Democrats have gone ahead and reelected
Schumer here on the Senate side to be
Majority Leader Nancy Pelosi looks like
she will be elected Speaker the house
this is not exactly a fresh new face of
leadership for the party are they the
right people to challenge oh I don't
yeah I mean I think Schumer is really
good at his job and I've I publicly
opposed Harry Reid in his reelection at
one point just because I didn't think he
was the right guy for the job at that
moment I think Chuck's the right guy for
the job at this moment because he is
very good at trying to pull people
together when it really matters and
giving people the space to vote against
the party line and not and not get on
him I mean he was great with me and
whenever I needed to vote against most
of the Democratic caucus because of I
had a difference of opinion with him he
never made me feel uncomfortable or that
I was somehow betraying him or my fellow
Democrats so it really more is about who
is coming up that is inspiring who are
the young voices and faces is it who
they are and you know is the center of
gravity changed in the party
if Republicans have seen their party
sort of taken over by Trump there is
this interesting split you know people
like you are more and more of vanishing
breed when it comes from you know
senators who are from Republican leaning
states is it so possible to is there a
center oh yeah there there will always
be a center it's not heavily populated
right now but when the pendulum swings
back it will be more populated you know
Kristen cinema one in Arizona is a
moderate Beto lost in Texas as a
progressive their states are very
similar in terms of their makeup and
Kirsten said I want to work together I
want to I'm a moderate she was not she
was an unabashed moderate Barrow was not
that and so if you want
care about her assessment of that I'm
more interested in just the whole point
of Chuck Schumer's never asked me to do
anything that was uncomfortable never
now you could say well that was smarter
Chuck because if it wasn't for Chuck
doing that crow that claire mccaskill
could have gotten voted out of office
was in the face of a massive um you know
blue wave she could be gotten voted out
of office isn't Harry Reid a really
illustrative because she's complaining
about Harry Reid who is by all accounts
a Servat of Democrats well any respect
so I'm not on actually not on key
spending on economic economic populist
streak for sure but clearly was able to
recognize people needing to take a vote
and was not a rigid ideologue but still
also expected and actually spent capital
on killing Social Security cuts so it's
not an ideological objection it's just
an any accountability to any
constituencies of the Democratic Party
ever
objective yeah Chuck Schumer made it
easy for me to and facilitated the idea
of a non cohesive Democratic Party
that's what it is right like that's
distinct from Rochelle Schumer never
this isn't just distinct from ideology
this is partisan right like the the the
most partisan you know Democrat in the
world who Zuzu's ideology could be far
to the to the right of mine would take
should take the exact same issue with it
yeah like there's no party discipline
that we can't do there's no way to
execute a strategy or a tactic or to to
wage politics if you do not hold those
members of your party to account when
they don't when they don't help the team
when they need to absolutely that's
another reason to well they'll never be
any kind of like parallel with
quote-unquote Republican moderates
because we all I mean I was wrong about
Susan Collins in the disgusting vote on
Kavanagh but it's
like even as a quote-unquote moderate
the best way to understand her is just
as a Republican team player yeah they
don't tolerate that no of course I'd
peel core and people shouldn't hear
either and Schumer doesn't have human
rata G and he barely has time I mean his
strategy just may be like how do I stay
in power right and I will be I will
continue to be the Minority Leader
because if I don't ask anything of
anybody I'm the perfect guy
doggone it people like me it's like it's
you that just gives out a 's there's an
old way exactly called there's nothing
in the middle of the road but yellow
stripes and dead armadillos by Jim
Hightower all right we got to take a
quick break we got to take a quick break
when we come back Adam Koch Esch for our
debate
you
