[Music]
or six area code who are you ready
calling from hello six four six you
there yes hi I'm here yeah no problem
I'm sorry I missed it will you tell me
your name and where you're calling from
Nigeria how you doing thanks for calling
I'm doing okay yeah thanks for picking
up finally I actually recently in
Nigeria just held its election and it
took about three days for them to count
all the votes because we still kind of
live in the Stone Age and yeah hi
everyone
he won reelection yeah you won the
reelection okay and I was kind of
disappointing but only in the Senate
both of them were disappointing so my
question is basically when who Harry
beating I think a threat to security and
kinda joking up ethnic animosity in
success how do you think a leftist
foreign policy would handle conflicts in
other countries that aren't like that
isn't kind of like an interventionist
standpoint but also isn't isolationist I
just don't know like what alleged
foreign policy the US would look like
yeah that's right that's an that's a
really big question do you want to just
tell me your second question quickly so
I could I'll try to get to as much as I
can what's the second question
okay um well I it's funny I literally
just recorded for patrons this Sunday
Daniel Besser and I did of a real
grounded tour of like what does this
actually look like and we looked at
Venezuela where you know it's more easy
but also North Korea and then India and
Pakistan and one of the things that I
feel like sounds kind of generic but I
think is actually a really important
point because the difference between the
project that someone like Daniel best
that Daniel best neurs working and I
would consider myself a part of and you
know I think a lot of other people fit
in this in different ways is it is a
little different than the like venerable
important leftist tradition of like the
Chomsky tradition of like JIT you know
you descent right like this is an empire
or committing a numerous abuses across
the world new descent and that's part of
it we descent and we oppose coos and
invasions and all the rest of it of
course but at the same time and
especially if you're thinking towards
like wait how would you actually staff a
presidential administration and what
would a policy be it's gonna come up
with like the really important question
that you're asking and one of the
answers that sounds super generic but is
actually really important is literally
like rebuilding diplomacy or building
diplomacy as a capacity in u.s. foreign
policy which has been like incredibly
degraded I mean you look at post Cold
War basically just even like even before
Trump was like gutting the State
Department right now obviously there's
like bigger much bigger structural
questions like what does that diplomacy
on behalf of and I'm not pitting
diplomacy versus military obviously
those were all about much out of like
country totally that's totally true so
my thing I think that that's of course
but those are you know those are the
types of fights and battles that are
like structural and presumably like I
guess I'm taking I'm taking your
question as if like let's
Bernie Sanders is president and you have
at least like an actual Social Democrat
in power and you have theoretically God
willing you theoretically want to do
something different in foreign policy
what does it actually look like and I
would say what Nigeria it would be
definitely bringing just like I would
you know you should absolutely bring
diplomatic pressure and the prestige of
the United States to bear against you
know what bolson ro is doing to
indigenous people and labor unions and
the political imprisonment of Lula and
in the same way you could do the same
thing to Bihari probably more
structurally and where the fight that
actually totally synchronizes between a
domestic progressive agenda and an
international one and has a lot of
effect on Nigeria is telling the
extractive industries like we're not
building our policy towards Nigeria and
West Africa based on oil anymore we're
moving different into a different energy
economy and you guys don't get to
exactly
I feel the main problem in our country
we can't think past our immediate cash
cow and that would be time so with the
global economy moving more and more
towards green energy we're gonna be
stranded with nothing absolutely nothing
but like Oh money yeah and so that would
be so that's like this strategic
challenge for Nigeria and then if you
were left in the United States you would
say what can we do in terms of like is
there debt that should be cancelled to
Nigeria they are they're armed maybe we
take all of this extractive money we tax
the oil companies and we give it to
Nigeria in the form of like the types of
like minuscule no-strings-attached
low-interest loans that Chavez gave to
the Caribbean when he was bringing money
around right real and and I am debt
relief and then you say and then
combined with those very like
progressive and synchronized
peer-to-peer moves then you can also say
and you know mr. president like
this is not a threat of military force
it's certainly not a threat of sanctions
of its population maybe it's the
sanction against you and your personal
bank account and people in your
government but we see what you're doing
we articulate it and we will oppose it
and I and you know this is where I know
some people are so attached to like
lefty conversations and that very like
dissent tradition where it would be like
well the United States is never in a
position to say anything about anybody
because of our own obscene record and on
one level that's totally true and then
on another level that's a naive denial
of power that exists and even in even if
we achieve something like Sanders being
elected president the battle is gonna be
how do we use it because what's amazing
about that stance to me is that if we
don't have that battle foreign policy
especially will just fall into the old
defaults and you'll have a progressive
hopefully a progressive agenda at home
but basically an ongoing destructive one
broad and you need people in place to
say yeah this means debt relief it means
under it means banning international
arms sales it means you know taxing the
oil companies to redistribute money to
countries that have been impacted
negatively by that industry I mean all
of this type of stuff that's how people
need to be thinking so that's my kind of
short answer or long answer for that
