[Music]
another crazy week and it's gonna get
worse folks I want it let me just just
touch on this McConnell thing because
sometimes stories like this get lost and
certainly I'm not going to go into a
long diatribe about about Jimmy Dore or
other people who are just not bright
enough to understand the implications of
having a Republican executive in office
in a republican-controlled Senate
there's not going to be any legislation
that gets passed over the next two years
eighteen months two years that is going
to be particularly horrific there there
may be some corporatist ones that get
passed that do so with a little fanfare
that we may not like but there's not
going to be any huge tax cuts for the
wealthy again there's not going to be a
rollback of the ACA although it will
happen administrative Lee in in some
sectors there's not going to be cuts to
Medicare there's not going to be Custis
Social Security they're not gonna be
Social Security privatization however
what has happened in the Senate and will
continue to happen in the Senate and at
a pace that is even greater than it's
been will be the hotel monopolization of
the far right of our judiciary for
decades to come
decades to come if we are extremely
lucky the worst that will happen from
the about the Supreme Court from now
until 2020 will be that a 70 some-odd
year-old conservative is replaced by a
45 year old conservative so that seat
will not come up for grabs for another
30 years and if you look at
the conservative is on the court that
majority of five will be there until I
am probably too old to speak into this
microphone and be legible and understood
huge missed opportunity obviously would
the garland thing I mean it wasn't uh
you know putting aside that garland was
not the pick that I would have chosen
but Kennedy and maybe Thomas is I would
imagine Thomas is going to announce his
resignation pretty soon that would be my
guess
yeah they're gonna want to get him out
of the way
although McConnell may not certainly
will not slow things down because it's
you know nine months till in an election
whatever it is but Roberts is probably
going to be the next out unless
something tragic happens and one of the
four on the left side of the court I
guess the liberal side of the court has
to resign and and even these four are
not you know they are to the right of
nearly everyone who sat on that court
supposedly in the left seats thirty
years ago but nevertheless the other
aspect of the judiciary is not just the
Supreme Court it is the Federal Court of
Appeals in various districts circuits
around the country and Trump has filled
these spots at a pace that it's
completely unprecedented at least in the
last I don't know four or five
presidents so 3040 years at least
and they are as radical as maybe we've
seen in the modern era they are much
more reminiscent of of justices that we
would have seen in the 1890s let's say
or the early 1900's who viewed such
things as Social Security as
unconstitutional
I mean these people are extremely
radical they come in slightly different
flavors some are are convinced that we
are now living in a full-on socialistic
communistic state others think that
we're living in too profound profane of
a world and they're theocrats but
they're all extremely radical on the
conservative end and what Mitch
McConnell has done is he got rid of the
filibuster when it came to the Supreme
Court justice is completely predictable
although some people thought it was
equivalent to the moon falling in Lake
Michigan completely predictable and
Mitch McConnell also got rid of blue
slips which was a a rule that basically
said a senator from any given state
could basically refuse to give their
sign-off for a judicial nominee in that
circuit that includes their state and
prevent a lot of justice judges from
sitting on that Court the Republicans
use this throughout the Obama
administration repeatedly kept a lot of
a lot of judges off the court McConnell
it no longer recognizes that practice
the latest reporting is that McConnell
will now invoke a new nuclear option by
reducing the amount of time for debate
over district level judicial nominees
from 30 hours to 2 so one of the ways
that Democrats have tried to slow
McConnell's role here and particularly
since Chuck Schumer was basically told I
think by his caucus you got to stop
making these deals that allow all of and
walk through that they would require 30
hours of debate and you know 30 hours of
debate it's not from this morning at
10:00 a.m. til tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. it
is 30 hours in which the the Senate is
in session and on any given week there
may only be 30
hours of session time period probably I
don't know maybe even less and so this
slows the pace in which judges can be
confirmed however if you change the
rules which McConnell can do with a
simple majority vote that will basically
just make it the path to confirming all
these much easier so this is going to be
you know highly problematic for my kids
that's how long the impact of this is
gonna be as far as I'm concerned court
packing should be a question asked of
every single presidential candidate
right now the problem is I mean yeah and
Eric Holder actually came out in favor
of that today I mean I think ultimately
core packing will will bring about
hopefully some reform with the Supreme
Court on 18 years but there's just it's
unlikely and it's possible the Senate
could add you know to the circuit courts
around the country certainly the
Republicans are trying to reverse that
they in during the Obama administration
they tried to eliminate three positions
on the DC Circuit Court so that Demma
khun's can maintain their parity with
the number of Democrats on there because
there was three or four vacancies it's
conceivable that in this but that's not
just for presence right this would be
for Democratic senators will you vote to
expand the number of judges on these
circuit courts but you know it becomes
you're opening a can of worms I mean the
the best thing to do is to win elections
consistently over time and and make sure
that you have the ability to vote for
these for these you know to confirm
these judicial nominees and frankly the
left does a very bad job because they
don't seem to understand the importance
of the judiciary as exemplified by
people who do poet there is no there is
nothing akin to the Federalist Society
in terms of basically training and
reproducing these judicial candidates
and providing on day one the president
with a list here's here's 50 people who
should be getting you know the first 50
Circuit Court or district court
appointees and here's a list of people
on the Supreme Court I mean it is just
simply that the left broadly speaking
doesn't take this stuff terribly
seriously I think that's going to change
over the next 15 20 years when they
start to realize like nothing we pass oh
it's changing now I think I think there
are I think there are structural
barriers to it and maybe some people
didn't take it as seriously as they
should have but it's like more complex
than what it takes it takes you know I
mean people can say I take it seriously
but it takes literally you know decades
to build an infrastructure and when Jake
yougurt was a young lawyer 25 years ago
I think he was member the fellow of
society right like there is no
equivalent on the left and and I'm not
just talking about you know voters or
the commentariat also like
institutionally there needs to be more
appreciation on the left of the
judiciary that will happen it's going to
be it's going to take ten years from now
when we have you know President Alan
Omar al on Omar trying to you know he is
the new gonna stand and I don't care by
the way if whatever the amendment is
that bars her but she's my new ideal
stand right it's no longer AOC right
it's president Elano okay whoever it is
as president there when they start to
pass the you know the Sharia laws and
the work again where the court says you
can't pass the you know that this is
unconstitutional that's when I think
you're gonna see a lot more we've
attacked the court so we can implement
Sharia right
right yeah well awesome pork packing and
term limits are two shorter term
solutions to the damage that's been done
to the judiciary I'm importing the
grandmas
