I'm guessing you're leaving the
politicans stuff for Sam to dunk on
tomorrow but I hope you guys played
Charlie Kirk blowing up with Hasan
Sam killed it though as always jank also
beat Tucker it was a good weekend for
the left and as always left is best I
actually don't see any reason why we
couldn't play the Charlie Kirk freaking
out with oh yeah I also sent a clip that
someone showed me of debate with Sam
hello where this is actually pretty fun
okay stipulate Jack catch yeah
uh-uh-uh-uh-uh relative gains are
growing but however if you can afford
less than the aggregate number it's not
gonna mean very much to you see I guess
we don't even need to play the clip here
Sam debate charlie Kirk Sam where are
you so mad about entrepreneurs creating
jobs you say creating jobs but tax
repatriation go city shareholders just
his research from humans
deep sea okay before Charlie Kirk I
don't know what he did he apparently I
don't think he freaked out while he was
debating Sam he must have no he kept
yeah mustn't take his leave cool so
there was this moment and this
conservatives love this I did a
i-i've dislike if you have social values
and you have a critique of capitalist
economy or even just want a universal
safety net that that means you should
live in poverty actually the point is
that we don't want anybody to live in
poverty and we want everybody to enjoy
material benefits so but he thought that
he was doing a huge dunk here by getting
Hassan to reveal his salary which
like I actually have to say like look
it's a great salary for like a single
young person but it's not like
especially when that lives yeah his
parents in a multi-million dollar home
right charlie Kirk does right exactly
but Charlie Kirk thinks he's revealing
something here he's not a sawn
actually saw and handles is really well
which is just like sure
I'll tell you my salary what the hell
does that have to do with anything dude
and then that's gonna lead when the
question when the question goes in the
opposite direction
charlie is eight well he looks like he
could use some milk from his mom larger
the point is larger than that charm I
live like a capitalist every single day
shank what do I do
I get security every single year what's
my salary all right ridiculous all right
behave everyone okay okay whistling girl
nerds all right hold on last point last
point last one you don't want to give
them the attention here everyone we are
funded by the grassroots to this country
demagogue it all you are
okay can I finish my point all right
what's this on yourself let me finish my
point let me finish my point all right
right we're having it we're having a
reasonable discussion right we're we're
here we're talking to one another let's
stop screaming at one another including
those of the Young Turks who obviously
don't pay me enough so haha okay so I
just want to say as as my unending
emphasis on branding that's beautiful
because I don't care what else happened
in rest of that debate Hasan won it
because the only representation you have
of that mass media is Charlie Kirk
freaking out and having a bizarre
meltdown and Hasan being like dude calm
down and sit down so we can talk he won
the debate and then at the I was like I
you know I don't know I've seen charlie
Kirk I'm not impressed with him
obviously but I've never seen him have
that kind of weird freak out before but
it's the hole you're gonna try to
demagogue it and say that I'm not
so he's touchy that he's funded by a
handful of oligarchs and he still lives
with mommy and daddy some fun that must
be littered some fun bit of practice as
if Charlie Kirk ever comes to your
campus just get like you and a dozen of
your friends and intersperse yourselves
in the middle of the crowd and agree at
like a preset time to just start
speaking at maybe just a room like a
normal inside voice just say Foster
Friess Foster Friess Foster Friess
Foster Friess Foster Friess that's all
you need to do that's right act like
he's a substitute teacher you want to
 literally check all the jargon and
all the other stuff and just yeah just
find exactly the way to make him
uncomfortable and revealed for what he
is indeed you see the clip that this is
really funny I mean yeah okay Sam clip I
just sent it I just tagged you uh-uh
stipulate that that that the Consumer
Price Index is increasing however if
milk is going up above you ages then
then it's not really gonna make much of
a difference to you even if it's
increase in the advocate oh my god this
is clarifying clipped my friend of the
show lizard Rumsfeld lizard Rose very
talented Twitter very good at being
online
very good at being on so we see this
moment here in the debate what should I
set it up yes please yeah I don't know
where they're talking about how the yuk
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is
funded by money from banks fees from
banks and charlie Kirk is trying to say
that they're actually using your deposit
money to pay for this eve fpb and Sam's
like do you understand how banks work
this is going to be fun in terms of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
saved consumers ninety million dollars
worth of bank fees in the last year of
the Obama administration alone okay so
one there has not been one enforcement
action since the Trump administration
has taken over so what's the CFPB budget
what is the budget
it is completely funded by fees that
they get from the bank now okay so so
forcibly take money away from the people
that are depositor and then say that
they're saving 90 million dollars of
fees on the back the balls of that
argument
I'm like I'm in all of that because you
know it's the only play he has because
again your money out of your bank there
is no normal person on earth that is
gonna oppose the idea again besides the
Koch brothers or Foster Friess or if
your salary depends on people like that
there's no normal person on earth who's
gonna object to okay you put a fee on
banks and that money subsidizes them not
defrauding me I support that you know
maybe some type of weird kids used to
call in for like libertarian debates and
salmon everybody's in support that so
how if you're a right-wing propagandist
you make this awe-inspiring lie which I
guess maybe sounds good to some people
but ironically for like a capitalism
propagandist you're revealing that you
don't know how one of the most basic
aspects of capital circulation works
let's finish this deposit your money
so the banks make money by people
putting money in it and then they borrow
it out so those are depositors so you're
taxing the depositors to then put on the
back end of the government agency that
is run in a and the CFPB should be
completely abolished it's an
unconstitutional agency or there's the
pivot and it's used as a weapon
bankers against your on us loan out
their depositors money exclusively
that's why you have capital controls
they loan it all exclusively that is one
form and function of a bank but it goes
back to you well obviously goes back to
you know most of the money in your
bank's actually not in there Sam you
know that right that's the way a bank
works so you FDIC that insuring that up
to a certain amount but that money is
probably somewhere else in the economy
on loan or on lien to somewhere else to
try to make the bank money so when
you're taxing the bank to try to fund
the CFPB you're actually taxing the
depositors you're yet you are you're
taxing the money within the bank
comprise the people that put the money
in the bank know you're taxing the
profits they make off of their land they
make right yes that that is amazing
you're taxing the people that do fraud
to protect people from fraud yeah but
you're not doing that because what banks
are is you just take $100 and then you
put it in a bank and it just remains
your hundred dollars it's what's great
is that he's like totally Bank
illiterate and that it's beautiful
because then he gives you the next two
moves which is he he's like oh
Cedar's it's not even a she's not
institutional that's always gonna be
number one that's the first pivot and
then the second pivot is I've been
completely humiliated on the basic
mechanics of Finance and now I'm gonna
actually try to just flip this I'm just
gonna I key to it like hey you know that
you're bent your money's not actually
there Sam I just revealed but like I
just revealed myself to literally not
understand how banks work to tell a on
sputtering lie about a thing that
protects American consumers
I noticed the Constitution doesn't
work with normal people anymore so let
me do the
reverse expertise move it's like it's
like that's that's Star Wars I know I've
been shamed with my own ignorance let me
adopt a pedagogical tone and act like
I'm going to teach you something about
banking like literally like like a kid
I'd like a museum tour I would start
kicking in he really doubles down he's
good well that's his job propagandist
he's mastered the effect game of debate
right like if someone says something to
me even if I'm like 90% sure I'm correct
about it I'm like oh oh well
that's it that's the whole time you're
not that's that's the thing that's so
stupid about these debates is it's more
like wrestling than like disco or like
in in discourse rights it's all about
the on-the-spot rhetorical flourish and
the the message you can convey to a live
audience
like I think if you wanted to have
debates between people where they're
just supposed to speak extemporaneously
about things they know fine but don't
have a live audience there to be like a
sort of lever of yeah you know appeal -
right because then then you that that's
that's my main problem with presidential
debates there should not be a crowd
there no they go through the song and
dance oh please don't clap or applaud
they shouldn't be there they'll
be there I mean politican makes that a
bit difficult cuz that's the whole point
that's the whole point
but wrestling for lanyards who did a lot
of extra credit in high school that
sounds like a nightmare and the reason
Sam does it well see this is a good
right because if he just had the facts
about how banks work that actually
wouldn't do the job I'm not saying it
helps it helps that he consistently
revealed it helps in a rhetorical way
but it's because of how he sells it if
he literally was just being there well
no actually the way the banks work cuz
then Sharlee Kirk will just keep
steamrolling him but but it's
because he's right but he's also giving
him to like I actually like he's doing
but he's alpha copy has somewhat put
upon professor trying to explain to this
freshman basically how the
works exactly like listening
idiot like and that's what comes across
it's not the facts exactly people aren't
applauding because the facts are playing
because he got sonned by like Sun by
facts and that's a good yeah that's a
good thing right if they're actual fat
you got sonned by contextualized fat and
authoritative deliberate of supposed
facts right that's right but that's it
that's the whole game that's what all
these people who've been trained on ben
shapiro that's all they're doing it's a
number if I don't get out of this tone
you're gonna think I'm still winning
that's it
start taking testosterone not that ben
shapiro has a lot of say that's a very i
don't think that's the the first time
that that phrase is ever my little
conversation about ben shapiro do you
see but like the confidence of
privileged white man that's something
else that he's running on something now
he's running on some other fuel that's a
whole other operation trillions
I'm telling ya I believe I believe I'm
almost entirely there with you do you
see I missed the beginning of the show
do you got did you guys give your boy
Sam praise for totally owning Charlie
Kirk of Politico yesterday well I as I
said it seems like it if that was any
indication of how it went that was not a
good exchange for Charlie Kirk
