goto well he is on point
he's on point for everything bad in
society Tucker Carlson is really on a
roll Matt we have a copy of Tucker
Carlson's book don't we
yeah ship of fools paradise was sent to
us yeah what that was doing here a
publisher has been sending me
conservative books because they just
know what I like and I figured Matt
might really like this one so he's been
dipping into Matt actually said
it's so bad that it's not even worth at
EMBs reading series well you know you
hear all this stuff about like writers
like Hitchens when he was still I'd be
like Tucker don't become a TV you're
such a good right to it like this is
just nonsense this is just garbage
writing its fifth grade level you can
indulge me and do your Hitchens
impression again you look totally stake
that Tucker cause it became oh right
it's one of those books is books that's
fits it bump you up it fits three
sentences on a line they're like all
like three word sentences just like why
don't you give us a give us a little
taste of the poison hit me with that
literary hangover yeah this is also a
good tease for the literary hangover
patreon content where Matt will actually
read you books that are of course far
more high quality than this fascistic
propaganda from Tucker so this is what's
weird about this book is he'll say
something he does kind of the the Dinesh
D'Souza thing where he says what he
wants to do now the Democrats were doing
it but we all agree that when the
Democrats were doing something it was
bad right but there's some sort of
hypocrisy so anyway this is about the
Chinese Exclusion Act the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882 which banned the
immigration of Chinese laborers is often
cited as an example of race hatred and
xenophobia xenophobia and it may have
been i hate there's a lot of work with
that where he even does that when he's
hosting he does a lot of work with me
but fundamentally it was a form of
protectionism the Knights of Labor
backed it and when the law came for the
reauthorization in 1901 so did the
American Federation of Labor
thanks to lobbying from Union
the Chinese Exclusion Act remained the
law for more than 60 years right so he's
like doing anti-union but the unions
were supporting the unions or the real
rate well that's great because he can
actually play it either way he can
either say the unions and the Democrats
are the real racists and obviously you
have no ground to oppose the muslim band
today because of something happened to
the eighteen hundreds or conversely he's
saying maybe sometimes you need to do
stuff that isn't politically correct to
protect Americans and I'm a guy who's
looking out for the little guy
whether or not it's banning Chinese day
laborer Chinese laborers or doing a
Muslim ban that's that's actually some
extremely sinister savvy propaganda work
there tucker's doing the thing where you
play the guitar and with your hands and
the keyboards with your feet during the
live performance there later in the book
he goes into like a sort of wearing it
like a nylon tie tucker tries to get in
the mind of sort of a liberal elite who
likes immigrant labor oh good this is a
little little bit of an imaginative
exercise yeah like a immigrant labor
from Oaxaca you would like more than
your ignorant working-class quote
unquote as he likes to say Trump
supporter who who you know it's fat and
drinks beer no sounds like here bear
like beer so I like beer he writes he is
of course once you recognize that
outside is why is he not more impressive
than the reactionary machinist in Ohio
who we should say that's as a look like
he's doing what he's accusing yeah well
that's that's the crazy don't you do why
don't you like that
machinist it's your problem yeah once
you recognize that your perspectives
change America's lower classes look less
like fellow citizens in need of uplift
and more like damaged raw materials
worthy of replacement if they aren't
measuring up your support for social
improvement efforts the ones that
previous generations of elites devoted
their lives to begins to win one wonders
if Tucker would have devoted his life to
those yeah one one really spend some
time wondering about that yeah here's
the next I thought this was a very
interesting and revealing
paragraph public schools for example
sure they're bad you know that that's
why you don't send your kids but but can
we really improve them you're starting
to wonder maybe it's just simpler to
import a new wave of low-skilled workers
from abroad they certainly have better
attitudes who is he writing this yeah
man
kind of tipped the hand that he's not
really writing this for that like
mythical white working-class Trump
supporter yeah yeah it's definitely he's
writing it for its it's actually this is
like a good Talking Points Memo
for Republican candidates doing
far-right fake populism it's that's
exactly the very old trick the elites
play where they shift all of the
responsibility for reactionary politics
on to the working class and then they
say if you hate reactionary politics
you hate the working class when in fact
it's really the elites pulling the
strings not saying that there is not a
subsection of the working class that has
reactionary politics of course but why
why do they you got a look at the
economic base you got a look at a lot of
things do you you got a look at well I
don't want to get into the zero-sum
argument again but I feel like you and I
are actually in agreement I think we're
more closer on zero-sum natchez you
wrote some game Murtaza Hussein was on
with me last weekend where he was
talking about the mistake he kept saying
like these are people who look at global
security in a very zero-sum way and I
was biting my tongue the whole time you
wrote some King Matata
and liberals do it too right like that
New Yorker cover that was like oh that
liberal family going to the country on
vacation and then they're parked next to
a pickup truck with a Trump bumper
sticker on it or whatever there was an
article about like liberals being
uncomfortable around conservatives when
they go on vacation that pickup truck at
least if not more likely to be an SUV I
mean I've seen it I've seen the Trump
pickup trucks they're they exist even
out in rural Massachusetts I think like
it's a very I think it's a very delicate
line between
this like liberal freak out and
condescension and total lack of ability
to think in textually and then on the
other hand that other people get into
the other hand or it's like oh no like
these people if you just would go play
Woody Guthrie for them they'd be so
progressive and I'll just say also
ridiculous this this character of The
Machinist in Ohio who voted for Trump
which we know there are some I don't
have a lot of animus towards those
people because I don't think they're
spending like nearly as much time as I
am paying attention to this stuff right
people they have those people have a lot
of more on their plate than follow in
politics so like blaming people like
that is always a pointless thing but
Sussie but the the conservatives love
when liberals do it because it's the
same reason when sort of this sort of
hypocrisy argument there's a
double-edged sword of it right because
one person says you're being
hypocritical because you want them to
value what's be the the value being
broken and from the other side it's like
well you're being hypocritical like
Trump points out hypocrisy in certain
things it's cuz he wants to do it
himself right so nobody cares about you
know somebody having a private
foundation that's basically a slush fund
so he'll hit Hillary for because there's
hypocrisy and then he does it right
right yeah yeah no I think that's devil
and I just think it's also it's just so
easy maybe it's more difficult for a
campaign strategy but it seems to me
it's so easy to say if you were part of
a small group of people that were
swindled by Trump um and we're concerned
about non-interventionism or restoring
jobs or whatever like we got you and
then the rest of people voted for Trump
are Republicans and they vote on all of
the issues that we endlessly and
exhaustively chronicle and the ones that
are always there for them yeah
 them there's a people get health
care but them exactly they they
will get in my world they will get all
sorts of benefits that every end and
potentially increased power in certain
areas and also many many many many
political defeats and that's it
there's nothing more to it
