[Music]
so Joe Biden is having a very very rough
day first thing that comes out CNN has a
poll that shows that his that he's
dropped about seven points in you know
his lead Bernie Sanders took about half
of that a couple others brought up that
difference now seven points it's not a
huge thing but it's outside the margin
of error and the the reason why this is
most problematic for Joe Biden as
opposed to really anybody else right
because like polls are gonna go up and
down and this and that but Joe Biden so
much of his support is built upon the
premise that he can beat Trump that
there's this weird sort of feedback loop
I think with the polls that is going to
create a problem for him as long as the
polls are staying where they are or
going up it reinforces the notion that
Joe Biden has a certain amount of
invincibility that Joe Biden you know I
may not like him but he's gonna beat
Trump and beating Trump is paramount and
I would agree that beating Trump is
paramount I don't necessarily agree that
Joe Biden is a lock to beat Trump in
fact I would argue that certainly there
are people in the in the 2020 field who
I think have less of a chance of beating
Trump but I think that Joe Biden is a
much riskier pick frankly then the
conventional wisdom has suggested but
putting that aside what I think is
really clear is that there's really no
reason to believe that he is any more
likely to be Trump then maybe the top
other I don't know half a dozen ten
candidates I'm just - you know saying
that off the top
of my head but his support is mostly
where I would say more than any other
candidate by far a function of this
assumption that he can win so if his
poles start to drop people start to
question that premise so this is very
problematic for him and the other
problem he has is that his strategy has
been to hide himself and the reason why
he's been doing that is because he wants
to run a campaign as if he was the
incumbent as if it was there was a
certain amount of inevitability as if I
don't have to sell myself because I'm
just gonna win which is that's the
that's on some level that's the message
right forgive me father I've sinned I'm
not gonna sit I'm not gonna sell myself
and so when that's been your strategy
and part of it is is that as I have
contended Joe Biden is where Joe Biden's
at right now because people see Joe
Biden as Barack Obama's president they
don't remember the Joe Biden pre Barack
Obama's president and I think Joe
Biden's people don't want people to have
really a good grasp on that and there's
there's the reason is is because Joe
Biden is a politician from a different
era and even in that era
he was a little bit too far to the right
for democratic constituencies and even
in that era he was too sloppy there is a
quality about Joe Biden that permeates
his campaign and what he does and that
is a sense that he deserves something or
that he can get away with something like
in 2016 where when he
dabbled with the idea of running it said
and floated this idea that he may run
with Elizabeth Warren as a way of sort
of stealing her capital as a financial
consumer advocate to cover for his
deficiencies in that era in that area or
when he did it this go-around with
Stacey Abrams to cover his deficiency
when it comes to women women's issues
and frankly an understanding of of black
issues in a minority issues and it was
just his for the taking or when he
literally lifted from a speech from a
British Labour leader who wasn't even
policy stuff it was like his upbringing
no that was the extraordinary thing it
was Neil connect in 1988 and it was a
speech about growing up it was different
it was like but it was I think it was
coal mines and Biden just shifted like
the profession and location but it was
literally along the line here to think
it was not somebody it wasn't like you
know hey let me lift this inspiring
especially in the 80s like that's a
great line and nobody knows it was like
this morning in America yeah this is how
I grew up it was literally this is how I
think when you're telling a story and
you realize halfway through that it
actually happened to someone else yeah
except for you're professional and
you've written it and then somebody's
written it in your speech and and the
weird thing about this is it's it keeps
happening to him there was reports he
had plagiarized in law school and now
there's another example of this now you
would think that on day one of the
presidential campaign Joe Biden would
say like hey guys make sure you source
everything all right I know
it sounds a little bit idiosyncratic but
let's make sure you source everything
here is as reported yesterday Joe
Biden's campaign has now acknowledged it
they have been lifting language from
other groups for its policy plans and
the bat and in what makes it worse is
who they've been lifting from so for
instance apparently this was noticed by
Josh Nelson over at credo in Biden's
environmental plan its language about
carbon capture sequestration was lifted
almost word-for-word from the carbon
capture coalition's plan the members of
that include Shell Peabody and energy
and Arch Coal his education plan
included a sentence word-for-word from
the group XQ Institute which is one of
those sort of like Charter II corporate
reform groups Lorraine Powell jobs and
part of the problem here is a gives you
a sense of where they're looking for
their ideas be a sense that they don't
feel like they have too much of a
responsibility to to make sure this
doesn't happen because they think
they'll get away with it and then it
also is indicative of the fact that Joe
Biden had no proposals you know you see
Bernie Sanders has had a lot of
proposals that came out in 2016 they've
been developing new one they're well
thought out Elizabeth Warren has these
deep proposals that they've been
thinking about that they lay them out
other candidates maybe not to the same
degree
as Bernie and Warren but they come out
with proposals generally in issue sets
that they've been working on for a long
time but when you're a candidate with
really no ideas and you're doing this in
reaction to the fact that other people
are coming out with ideas I better come
out with something quick this is what
happens this is more indicative in many
respects of the fact that they got
nothing but I like that synthesized
point you're making because just to
underline it they have nothing they
don't take policy seriously and then
their default setting is let's go to
these regressive sources of policy if
they had gotten in the second order if
they got things are shifting a bit so we
don't have anything let's go check out
the Economic Policy Institute or the
teachers union or whatever well I was
gonna say that that is their policy
proposal to defer to these neoliberal
think tanks and corporate entities on
everything so in a way it's actually
pretty honest that they just put them on
the website well I mean maybe it may be
perfectly honest but I think it's an
indicative of a problem that they're
going to have going forward because
there's no real depth to it and this
latest thing about Joe Biden I think is
indicative of that as well about a month
ago at a campaign event there was an
ACLU I think she was a volunteer or
stringer and she had asked Joe Biden
about whether he would commit to
abolishing the Hyde Amendment the Hyde
Amendment comes from I think it's the
80s if I remember correctly and Henry
Hyde I think was his name and it
basically says that federal funds let's
say Medicaid cannot be used for
abortions so you may have private health
insurance and
if you need or want an abortion your
health insurance will cover it maybe
cover part of it it's a decent health
insurance if you are a woman who is
living in poverty or up to now and
depending on the state's 133 percent of
poverty and you need an abortion the
Medicaid will not pay for it and this
has been a big problem fact Democrats in
their in their Democratic platform
regarding choice says repeal of the Hyde
Amendment and so here how does that sets
those really quickly hasn't that been
the case for a long time too that's
that's not like new progressive no now's
the 16 stuff that is in already and
census yep for a while here is here's an
ACLU member asking a quick question of
Joe Biden this is about a month ago I'm
an ACLU rights for all voter and I have
one quick question for ya
and that is will you commit
abolishing the hyde amendment which
hurts for women and and women
empowerment yes and by the way aclu
remember i got a near perfect voting
record my entire career did but i'm glad
you just said you would commit to item
right now this has to be the can't stay
thank you how are you man yeah now
what's what's exceptional about this is
not just joe biden's commit
dismissiveness of like the question the
waving of god he just wasn't paying
attention to her like I'm not yeah
whatever yes yes yes and she was great
about this like I'm asking you a
question
you've given me an answer now I'm gonna
reiterate the question just to make sure
that you heard it and understood it yes
yes yes
and it comes out today that either Joe
Biden lied in that moment or that you
just misspoke couldn't understand what
she was saying
apparently this story that the his
advisers are saying is that they thought
he was referring to the Mexico rule the
Mexico City rule which prevents federal
aid money from going to organizations
overseas that perform abortions now I
don't know how he could have misheard
that it was City they sound very similar
very similar there's a why in both those
things and but he has come out and said
no he still supports the Hyde Amendment
and this is a this a big problem it is a
four decades now
I guess 80s yeah almost 40 years
it bans federal funds being for being
used for abortion except for in cases of
rape or incest or to save the life of
the woman he apparently you know ISM
Racing it because he thinks it's gonna
set him apart but it is again a it
really in many respects Hyde Amendment
is a real problem for women living in
poverty women of color and apparently
he's just okay with that even though he
has a near-perfect record of voting to
support women's rights I also just think
well or the ACLU in general and I just I
want to make a comment on voting records
because it's a really shallow sloppy way
of looking at politics like you know
that was a big thing during Clinton and
Sanders like they vote the same way 90%
of the time and it's like yeah but the
votes where they didn't were the
invasion of Iraq the Patriot Act so you
know Joe Biden I have no doubt if you
look at most of his career as cast I
probably not actually necessarily the
beginning of his career but probably in
the 90s he cast a lot of like
generically the right sort of
center-left votes but the major votes
not only did he vote the wrong way
unlike things ACLU wise the Patriot Act
but he also like authored the crime bill
so you know don't don't get lost in
these statistics and these these vote
measuring schemes are you know or even
like League of Conservation Voters
somebody could have 90% that's terrific
that means you voted the right way and a
lot of things but you maybe you voted
YES on the most environmentally
destructive proposal then we all would
you far outweigh nice 90% of the problem
so much voting records that the problem
is more just sort of like looking at
them statistically as opposed to looking
them wala tative lis politically right
yeah and so Joe Biden has a problem here
and it's gonna be interesting to see how
he he deals with it I don't I think
there's a reason why this is coming out
now I think this is in anticipation of
the debates people want to start on this
guy quick and early
and so there it is here he is
here's Biden's campaign saying he still
supports the Hyde Amendment hey is that
what that is what is that one okay oh
and here's one more problem with Joe
Biden I guess and this I think you know
is consistent with this notion that he
can everything's for you know for him
whether it's Neal Kennex personal story
of growing up or whether it's Stacy
Abrams cachet with certain segments of
the Democratic voting base or there is a
sense of the Joe Biden deserves
something its entitlement its
entitlement and theory is still trying
to show like I'm not afraid of my
personal space invasion issues
[Applause]
we're little secret going here I want
the press to know she pulled me close I
just watch it okay
and I would delight it
I would delight it anyway
weird we love that okay I mean baby
subdue but like what it's I'm being
facetious seems like a bad idea to joke
about that I don't know I am gonna start
a campaign to start calling Biden
supporters Biden bros because as I've
seen people pointing out on Twitter he
has made multiple women uncomfortable
according to the women and he's terribly
weak on abortion rights so if anyone
deserves to be bros it's people who
support that I don't think you're gonna
have too much pushback on that frankly
