[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday February 6 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today gory
Brettschneider author of the oath and
the office a guide to the constitution
for future presidents also on the
program today well not a lot we did a
full period we did a scale we did a full
coverage of the State of the Union last
night job shuts and boat shows
birthday the truth is were recording
this last night and we've been drinking
all night and we just we just it took
too much out of us folks not gonna lie
to you and so on the program today we're
gonna play that interview from Cory
Brettschneider and we'll be back with
the live show on Thursday however we'll
look back on last night there were three
major speeches Donald Trump where he I
think very effectively made the case
that he's not a Holocaust denier and
then we heard
from Stacey Abrams who I think you know
showed that she's incredibly charismatic
and unless she ran for Senate for
governor again able to pull off the pull
off the rebuttal to the State of the
Union which is sort of notoriously
problematic and then Bernie Sanders gave
a like I guess his traditional rebuttal
he's done this for two or three years
now his was not televised it was just
streamed on one of his sites and I mean
I think on balance it went a little long
but towards the end he brought it home
very strongly he went directly at Trump
he obviously cracked congratulated
Stacey Abrams and then also strongly on
the drug war he added some new elements
voting rights integrated them I thought
it maybe was a bit long but it was very
good and of course Amy Klobuchar
sort of pre announced at in the middle
of Trump's speech or no I guess it was
god bless you Matt I don't know if it
was it was I guess it was at 8 p.m. I
think that was Eastern she announced
that she's making a big announcement on
Sunday I don't know for sure that she's
gonna be maybe she's retiring from the
Senate it's either she's going to retire
from the Senate or she's going to run
for president I have to say if she does
I will need to amend something which is
I have predicted that Christian
Gillibrand was my first I should say it
was stipulated main or major Democratic
primary candidate I thought she would be
the first to drop out if a man Club of
Chartres declares I amend that Amy
Klobuchar will be the first to drop it
well it's too late because Richard oujet
oh right no but I should I didn't
consider the time Sultan I like here yes
but I did not consider him to be a top
tier content okay fair enough
yes or at least in terms of you could
just also narrow it down to sitting
senators sure because there's there's
gonna be a half dozen I think I'm gonna
go with Booker in that scenario then
hmm that's a respectable choice Wow
Booker's out before Adam Avenue Iowa
Booker is safe Booker out before
Gillibrand oh you know what I will bet
you Chinese lunch on that sounds great
all right I'm not sure why it had to be
Chinese but folks speaking of lunch cuz
I was okay so restart the antenna and
yeah the other day we had in studio a
crew of folks who were coming it must've
been Friday when they were here - or
maybe it was Thursday - because they're
coming to see the Michael Brooks show on
Friday including Jeff from Georgia and
we got a delivery from sharri's berries
now Jamie Jamie went home with the
flowers how did the flowers look thumbs
up what do we got double thumbs up also
we had the the the strawberry dips in
dipped in chocolate and you can never go
wrong with Sherrod's Berry's signature
dipped Valentine strawberries dipped in
milk dark or white chocolaty goodness
for any discerning palate I think we
they sent us like a half a dozen I was
like I can have one but then you guys
have to eat this and it was literally I
don't it was dangerous how quickly
everybody went after these I wish I had
more topped with decadent chocolate
chips heart and glitter sprinkles your
Valentine will fall in love with every
bite these are the perfect companion to
a candlelit dinner a bouquet of flowers
a night on the town they ship anywhere
nationally and they always arrive fresh
with a hundred percent sherry berries
guarantee Valentine's Day right around
the corner
send your Valentine the gift of their
dreams at the price of your dreams
starting at just $19.99 plus shipping
and handling order now make this
Valentine's Day really special by adding
a dozen red roses for just $19.99 more
loose berries at no extra charge go to
berries dot-com click on the microphone
enter my code cedar lets SE de are a
checkout
that's Barry's combi II RR ie
s.com click on the microphone
enter the code cedar order today and
also folks if you're like me and you own
a small business then you've got to be
frustrated by dealing with the back and
forth emails the endless paperwork and
in our instance actually we get paid
because you know our people will sign up
for our members but most small
businesses they bill and getting paid is
always a pain in the neck honey book can
help you spend less time handling the
administrative work and more time doing
what you love
honey book is an all-in-one business
management platform for creative small
businesses honey book makes it easy to
streamline your process with client and
calendar management tools and custom
branded brochures proposals and
contracts you can even get Eze
signatures generate invoices get paid
faster all with one online system over
75,000 photographers designers event
professionals other solo entrepreneurs
have saved hundreds if not thousands of
hours a year with honey book the
advantages of owning your own business
are that generally like you don't have
to spend a lot of time doing a lot of BS
and honey book makes that a reality and
that's why we've partnered with honey
book calm to offer majority report
listeners 50% off the first year of
honey book with the promo code majority
so get started in honey book.com today
use the promo code majority for 50% off
your first year again that's honey book
calm promo code majority we're gonna get
to in a second a couple of clips from
Trump last night there were two a couple
moments that we laughed about for an
extended period of time
but before we do just want to remind you
that the New Yorker magazine represents
the best writing in America today I mean
this seems obvious I think to most
people we've had this show has relied
frankly on the new
Yorker for a multitude of its guests and
the succubus general research and
general research both online and in
print The New Yorker covers a full range
of topics including politics news
International Affairs climate change
popular culture the arts fiction food
humor and cartoons not to mention the
New Yorker touches on subjects that many
readers may not have previously put much
thought into like the world's
diminishing supply of sand paper jams
think bugs and hunting down heirloom
beans some of the New Yorkers incredible
writers include contributors like Ronan
Farrow how much has Ronan Farrow in the
stuff that he's reported in The New
Yorker changed our culture over the past
year
I mean it's stunning he did the pieces
on how Harvey Weinstein unless moon vez
and frankly he's impacted things based
upon the pieces he hasn't done he got
Helen Rosner James Beard award-winning
food writer who contributes essays and
reports stories on all things
gastronomic you get across the board a
full range of stuff every week I am
looking at The New Yorker for stories
that we're going to talk about on this
program I am looking for folks to
interview I have been reading The New
Yorker I guess maybe in magazine form or
in print for probably I don't know 30
years I still reference articles I've
read in The New Yorker like I think over
25 years ago there was one about
required narcissism that is true a total
Gawande wrote about two for life me I
think that that article may have been 20
years ago but they he wrote about two
towns and and compared them in terms of
Medicare I mean the New Yorker writes
stuff that lasts you that that that last
the test of time Jane Mayer Jay mayor of
course now our listeners can say 50% and
get 12 weeks of The New Yorker for just
six bucks
majority and enter the code majority
you'll get an exclusive tote as well as
unlimited access to New Yorkers apps
online archives crossword puzzle in New
Yorker calm with 10 to 15 exclusive site
only stories every day I don't even know
why they throw that in you don't need it
it's New Yorker dot-com / majority enter
the coupon code majority that's New
Yorker dot-com / majority enter majority
all right so we got two clips that we
get a play from Trump last night that I
mean broadly speaking the the speech was
completely uninspired he was reading
look they all read off a teleprompter
but he didn't seem to have any
relationship to the words it's hard to
believe even in the really sort of
saccharine sweet stuff like the the
Apollo 11 is what stuck out for me do
not although 11 astronauts didn't
realize he was talking about Apollo 11 I
thought I was 13 but he thought it was
how many of them they went up on the
Apollo 11 astronauts and the 13 the only
time he became animated when he was
talking about the half a dozen stories
that exist of undocumented immigrants
killing people and of course we have far
more stories of native-born Americans
killing people but that's not what
that's not his jam as the kids would say
this part was sort of fascinating which
one is this Matt this is the piece of
legislation okay yeah this was great he
wants I think it's probably
unprecedented that we have a State of
the Union where the president basically
says please stop investigating even Bill
Clinton I was just looking you know
alright you should really stop
investigating me constantly it's totally
unfair wait let's play this first and
then we'll make those jokes
this is Donald Trump
if the glove doesn't fit you must acquit
moment if there is going to be peace and
legislation there cannot be war and
investigation it just doesn't work that
way you know we were talking so much
Dodson's during the State of the Union
that I miss that and then Nancy Pelosi
that the look on everybody's face behind
him it's just like I'm just I'm getting
paid to not react to this and Mike Pence
is just looking right at him like I've
got to remember my my my communications
expert told me to squint that makes me
look like I care just hold the
admiration that is that is incidentally
what they do tell you communications
experts tell you that's what Bill
Clinton squint was all about when you
squint at people
I'm looking at you that's more of a
double you squint right there well they
all they all have their squint
they all have their squint so you can
write in an economy in the 21st century
if you want imagination hinges on not
investigating travelgate if whitewater
is invading AOL's innovation just have
you just started say like you can't get
the returns if you investigate the
interns I don't know I don't know what
that would about your capital return
will depreciate with the intern just
horrible and the doesn't love with him
it doesn't work that people laughed at
him I don't know if that was meant to be
a laugh line by him but people laughed
at him laugh can't argue with that
well so at least I got a laugh what was
the other clip well we got the socialism
thing where Bernie doesn't respond to
the call for I think bipartisanship
where aoc doesn't respond that people
are gifting a lot okay yeah so I Oh
see and Bernie won in that room here is
here is Trump I guess sort of
acknowledging that that socialism is
ascendant in our society like I mean
what was the last time an American
president felt like compelled even
during you know even during the Reagan
years like I don't think like the idea
that domestic socialism or something
that they're mobilizing against nope
nope I mean I think this is a good sign
and I Wilson or something I just don't
think that Trump
I mean what's fascinating about this is
like why why sort of highlight this I
mean because I don't think that Trump
made a very strong case I don't think
anybody's going like hey man he's right
I've gotta watch out for the socialism I
just don't think that was what the point
of this was here in the United States we
are alarmed by the new calls to adopt
socialism in our country
[Music]
America was founded on liberty and
independence and not government coercion
domination and control we are born free
and we will stay free
[Applause]
Burnie No
not terribly impressed and you know and
the interesting thing is that in his
rebuttal
Bernie specifically addressed this and
made basically what was I could only
describe as a an expanse an expansion of
FDR's Four Freedoms by saying you know
we're not free if our wages are stagnant
we're not free if we are beholden to
private insurance companies to make sure
that we stay healthy we're not free etc
etc at that point and so he he
specifically addressed that moment from
Trump but I thought it was a very you
know I think a lot of this for Trump was
just like I've got to hit these basic
things otherwise you know I'm not gonna
I'm gonna lose Sean Hannity tonight and
so that was the I think that was the
agenda there well if the bad thing about
socialism is authoritarianism Trump
doesn't really have a leg to stand on
well you say that I love freedom I don't
know I love free
Jamie let me just say you can't
legislate if you're gonna investigate ya
legislate if you're gonna bring that
hate you got me there thing out it I
will also say that he did not address he
did not do you can't Southern District
of New York me if I'm going to project
my I don't know I'm getting tired anyway
ms-13 is around yes and you can't
capture ms-13 if you insist on
investigating a means OC alright so ALC
crushed something else and then we're
outta here okay so okay let's go it's
it's not even noon and my customers just
pounding the beer let's do some more
arms yeah yeah can we do more limericks
to make fun of Trump because I gave you
the day off so I don't you think that's
a shame though that that like that
actually made it into a State of the
Union I think it's awesome that he's
Mora
no like Leslie Lee said it's hard to do
comedy about Trump because nothing is
funnier than Trump himself true I get to
the jokes first punchline house Sharpton
and you know Jesse Jackson called he
wants his life back alright so here is
Donald Trump calling for bipartisanship
and you know look I don't know like I
you know we haven't had a chance to sort
of like check around at this point but
is there any human being who could can
say like this was you know sincere with
without being a total liar themselves
let's listen to this but we must reject
the politics of revenge resistance and
retribution and embrace the boundless
potential of cooperation compromise and
the common good
hmm
well no sorry go back go back go back
here for a second because first off aoc
completes the isis isis him but you'll
in but notice that pelosi doesn't just
clap she sticks her hands in his face
watch this go back that's actually a
very our presence yeah oh yeah herself
more clapping in front of your face it's
like she's in the front row at a Duke
game yeah no but he's the other team
that was actually great and then ALC sat
Lydia Vasquez actually that's pretty
good gonna row that's a good row there
so it was great we've got a good
interview ahead well I mean so I it'll
be interesting to see if I would I'm
gonna make a bet that Donald Trump's
approval ratings rise two points because
of this I think no I think that's
exactly and actually a Vox put out Vox
the headline to me is correct which is
that he is now officially low-energy
yeah well it wasn't it was born I mean
even the stuff because it's like the
stuff were riffing on was actually
supposed to be something compelling
right he didn't write that line as a
joke slightly irregular mushroom dick
energy you know well part of it is also
not only the mushroom dick energy but
totally predictable
[Music]
alright otally predicting out to our
esteem thing is that he's no you know
the in the context of the State of the
Union and and maybe that's just the
nature of that speech but everything
that is interesting about Donald Trump
is not possible in the context of that
speech yeah and it was way of charisma
everything he does it's not possible and
he's doesn't you know every year we're
like we go off-script
well no no Brandon I'm afraid you lose I
think I might win this bad guys more
like us yeah what was your back he's not
gonna pull out his dick that we can see
all the pundits they're gonna think he
did great I don't think are we gonna see
about the pundits yeah I don't I don't
think there's gonna be I don't look I
think I'll put the Oz way there's gonna
we're beyond that them but there's gonna
be more energy given to Stacey Abrams
than his speech I think so
she's the she's even just like the horse
race story of the night I think that's
probably true totally over I think
people are gonna be like Stacey Abrams
for real she was the first she was the
first person in in years to deliver a
State of the Union rebuttal and not hurt
herself and I think that's a that's a
big deal because this is someone who you
know even her being I think you know
running for get well got running running
for governor in in Georgia is a big deal
but getting propelled to national
spotlight you know particularly when you
all you hear about is bado
this is a big deal I think all right
well folks we're gonna take a quick
break and when we come back we'll be
talking to Cory Brettschneider on on his
book the oath and the office a guide to
the Constitution for future presidents
we will be back live tomorrow on this
program just a reminder you can support
the show by going to join the majority
report com
we'll be right back after this
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program political
professor professor I should say of
politics at Brown University and author
of the oath and the office a guide to
the Constitution for future presidents
Cory Brettschneider welcome to the
program thanks for having me looking
forward to the discussion so all right
let's start just with the idea of the
the oath the relationship between the
oath because I have to admit that I
don't I don't know that I ever talked
about or even contemplate the fact that
the first thing the president does right
as the president is to take this oath
and what its relationship to the
Constitution means walk us through that
yeah I mean as you say that literally
the first second in office it's the
first thing the president does is recite
a set of words that are prescribed
word-for-word and article 2 which
creates the presidency and one of the
things that it does to is prescribe
these first few moments and to me what
part of the significance are the words
themselves but it's also the idea is a
symbol I think that you're prescribing
these first few moments in office and
what it's saying I think the
Constitution to the president directly
is look this isn't anything goes kind of
job this is a new you won the election
you were elected by the majority do what
you want it's there's a set of duties
that come with a set of obligations to
respect and limits as well on the office
so I think that there's a sort of deep
symbol in in the fact that that office
has these proscribed words and then of
course in the content to me the the most
significant part of the oath is the the
requirement that a president commits to
preserve protect and defend the
Constitution which is about most
obviously not violating it but also
going beyond that to try to really even
if the courts for instance aren't going
to require you to respect certain
requirements of freedom of religion or
or the ban on this
there are things that as president
you've independently committed to do so
the book is partly about the role of
Courts and stopping a president that
does wrong and disregards basic rights
but it's also about the independent
obligations of the office and that's
something that we have to start to look
for as voters I think when we elect a
president and I think a lot of people
haven't really thought about the oath
and you know when you're in a crisis
like the one that we're in now with this
president who is such the antithesis of
the kind of president that the framers
imagined it just refocuses us I think on
the basics and the basic requirements of
the office and that that preserve
protect and defend the Constitution is
what I'm trying to get people to see as
the the focus of the presidency and to
return to the way that actually when we
elect a president to see that as as as
part of what we're looking for I mean
the I mean there's a tension there
though right particularly with I mean
there's obviously a tension with the
constraints that the Constitution places
on the president has interpreted and
enforced by the courts right and and
then although by Congress but there's
also a tension between the the sort of
the proactive obligation of a president
to protect and preserve the Constitution
when the president doesn't have the
ability to or doesn't have I guess the
power theoretically to say what the
Constitution says mm-hmm right well I
mean that's one sort of view and I think
it's a view that the courts have
sometimes that this Supreme Court for
instance is sometimes expressed that you
know it's the role of the courts to say
what the Constitution is and these other
branches do other things but I'm what
what sometimes people called apart
Mentalist it's a sort of view that goes
back to Jefferson that says you know the
Constitution is an independent set of
words first of all and second of all set
of values I think that are independent
of any one institution and if that's
right the Constitution says
stands as an independent thing it means
that any branch can interpret it really
any person any citizen you and I can do
it just as well I think in many ways
better than the current Supreme Court
and so yeah I don't think it's just the
role of courts to do this thing of
interpretation and I think that's sort
of you know part of the problem that
we've gotten away from that you know it
would be a real travesty and and uh
especially given this Supreme Court if
we said you know what the courts failed
to enforce the travel ban and that's the
end of the story I mean to me that was a
real failing not just a moral failing
but a failing of constitutional
interpretation and the fact that they
failed the court failed to stop a
president from doing so doesn't mean
that there wasn't an independent
obligation of a president to not and
basically seco a ban based on religion
the most obvious violation of the First
Amendment guarantee of free exercise of
religion that there could be and the ban
on establishment of religion the ban on
specifically not favoring one religion
over another and even in that travel ban
decision which I was so disappointed and
justice Kennedy comes right out and the
sort of wishy-washy opinion you know he
fails to do the right thing but he does
say something like look just because we
failed to stop a president it doesn't
mean that he hasn't violated the
Constitution or or his sort of
independent role so yeah I want to get
away from the idea that this is just a
document for lawyers and just a document
especially for the Supreme Court it's
for all of the branches and even more
fundamentally for me the Constitution is
a document for citizens that we all need
to start to pay attention to because you
know there are no there is no
Constitution police the court especially
this Supreme Court with this current
makeup can't be trusted to really
guarantee the basic values the rights
that have been so hard earned over
centuries and including you know a war
in the nineteenth century and so if we
can't trust this one institution and it
falls upon the other institutions to do
it the presidency of course is not a
place where we're going to find a
defense of the Constitution right now
but it can be in the future and that's
part of what I'm trying to do is to get
people to see the next election as about
constitutional office and a referendum
on on the constitutional obligations of
a president well I so but how how does
okay so what what walk us through how a
president would do that but also how the
rest of us would do that when the
Constitution is and maybe maybe two
before we do that we should preface just
with your perspective on the
Constitution I mean there's you know
broadly speaking to very generally
speaking to sort of like I guess abroad
assessments or perspectives on the
Constitution as a living document and
and others who perceive it as something
that was was was written and it's static
and we don't we need to divine what was
what it meant the moment this guy used
to call it a dead document right exactly
when they think dried on the paper that
was the end of the story and it's just I
guess you know which among which among
us are a smart enough to know exactly
what was meant by it when that ink tried
so but we're give us a sense of those
two different perspectives and how that
implicates how that plays into this
relationship of the president saying
like okay the Supreme Court is not
assessing the Constitution properly or
upholding it I'm gonna step in I mean
how does that work yeah I mean you know
the first thing is we have to battle
that out I mean I take a stand in the
book against the view that's usually
called originalism that you describe the
the Scalia view that the Constitution
should be understood in the way that it
would have been understood at the term
time that it was ratified or enacted and
so that means the 18th century if you're
talking about the original Constitution
or the mid 19th century if you're
talking about the Civil Rights
amendments for instance and on my view
you know that really fails to capture
the meaning of the terms when you start
to read them so when the Eighth
Amendment says when it bans cruel and
unusual punishment I don't
that cruel can just mean you know what
people commonly thought in the 18th
century cruel was so if flogging wasn't
thought to be cruel then that's fine I
think that what they did what the what
the words do is they sort of invite us
so first of all you know read their
plain meaning and sometimes they're
playing like the age of the president is
very clear for instance you know there's
not a lot of debate about that sometimes
the text is clear and sometimes it
invites us to go beyond the text and to
engage and really a sort of value-based
as I call it or moral reflection on the
meaning of the words and we don't just
do that free forum we do that partly by
looking to the principles of the as
they've evolved over time to the case
law so while the Supreme Court doesn't
have the final word and it can get
things wrong I think it also informs us
through the history and through the
cases so in the book what I'm trying to
do is you know I don't call it a living
view because it starts from the text but
it also goes beyond it by looking to the
values as they've been understood over
time through the case law and also
through direct sort of common sense and
through the history of the principles
that we're talking about so for me you
know you just have to read the text and
talk about the specifics of the text of
you know cruel and unusual punishment
might not have been widely thought in
eighteenth-century to ban the death
penalty but when the court in Furman
versus Georgia said you know the deep
value of the ban on cruelty is
incompatible with essentially the
torture that's involved in capital
punishment or the current supreme court
failed to recognize that you know when
you make a law based on intentional
prejudice based on religion that that to
me he that's the most obvious violation
of those two religion clauses the
guarantee of free exercise of religion
and the ban on favoring religion or the
ban on establishment so I think you go
clause by clause and you you partly look
at the words and you can start with that
but then you also engage and you know a
broad value based kind of inquiry in a
way that that the framers themselves did
the courts do and that you and I are
doing right now just in having this
conversation okay so I become president
and
I am I'm a and you know an originalist
Texan and I say and you know I'm trying
to play this part well but I'm yeah
please skeptical
I'm deeply skeptical frankly that we had
agreement when we wrote this back in the
day is to even amongst ourselves about
how cruel we thought flogging was which
i think is problematic but but but
nevertheless i am president and so i
interpret it this way and how can so how
why do i get to interpret the the
constitution i mean so it's one thing
for me to say like i'm gonna protect and
I'm gonna protect and serve the
Constitution but I got news for you I
think it says something different than
it you do yeah what is a mechanism to to
if not adjudicate this to resolve it
yeah I mean first of all I should say
that if we're in that realm of
originalism versus my way of thinking
we're a million times ahead of where we
are right now because this president I
don't think has any kind of view of the
Constitution and there's there are sort
of common agreements as you sort of go
through the book and about the limits on
the presidency about the meaning of the
Bill of Rights that are just so
obviously disregarded and in the various
proposals that that that Trump's made
during the campaign and more recently so
so even that would be lightyears ahead
of where we are but I think the ultimate
answer to your challenge if we have an
originalist president is to say look
there is that's just a basic fact of
American life right now that there's a
battle going on it's basically a 5-4
battle on the Supreme Court itself
between two visions of the Constitution
and this has been true throughout
history we've had different editions of
the Constitution and what progressives
need to do is define theirs and so I
think you know when I give my account of
why the Muslim ban is a violation of the
religion clauses or why the death
penalty really does violate the cruel
and unusual Clause that's not just you
know some words that I'm using it's a
vision of the Constitution that is at
odds with an originalist president so
what do you do
I mean well that's what elections I
think should be about is battling over
these these two two visions now this
isn't new I mean the in the 19th century
before the Civil War there were two
visions of the Constitution once said
that African Americans weren't people
that was the view of Dred Scott and the
other was Frederick Douglass's view
which was the Constitution is a set of
values and what it means to respect it
is to take seriously the idea of
equality and self-evident truths and
Liberty and to the as he put it that
that this sort of glorious Liberty
talked about in the Constitution can't
truly be meaningful unless it's expanded
to you know to everyone now those were
two visions two of the Constitution but
one in my view was the now recognized
rightly as the right one that happened
during the New Deal where there were
people and they're they're back now
frankly who thought you know minimum
wage laws were a violation of Liberty
and then there were people like FDR
oddly yeah our labor
yeah is like bagging our case striking
down child labor law and there were
others progressives said at the time you
know you're wrong basically that's not
the meaning of the document so there
isn't a sort of easy answer to the
question of who's the ultimate
adjudicator because I think really in
the end it's about a battle amongst the
electorate amongst the people amongst
politicians for different visions of
what the Constitution is and that's the
story of American history so it mean is
that for you like the the is that the
primary value of the Constitution not
what is written per se and not what is
interpreted per se but rather a dynamic
that is grounded in or around the
Constitution yeah I mean I think that's
a good way to put it I guess the way I
would put it is that I agree with the
originalist that the text is a starting
point sometimes like in that age
requirement for the President or for
representatives or senators it's the and
beginning in the end but in a lot of
these issues the most important ones
that were really battling about it
Horsham religious freedom free speech
it's the beginning and it's an
invitation to a kind of dialogue and
it's a dialogue that's partly embedded
in the past and in past decisions but
ultimately it's it is about you know
what what kind of what it means to carry
those values into the future and you
know I guess this way of talking is less
certain than the original away talking
but I think it's much more honest to
what's going on when a court decides the
case I mean when when Roe was decided or
you know we could take any landmark case
or Brown versus Board which is sort of
settled you know people disagreed like
there was a case let's take brown for
instance Plessy versus Ferguson that
said segregation is completely
compatible with the idea of equal
protection of laws of you know famously
because the you know as long as the
facilities are the same and are
basically well and what Brown was about
was a principled rejection of that view
and it said very clearly that separate
is inherently unequal now that's not
something that you know inherently
unequal isn't found in the words of the
14th amendment it's an idea that the
courts carrying forth and it didn't have
Authority just because they said it it
had authority I think because it gave
kind of I mean I guess I'd say a vision
of what American democracy is really
about I mean it would sort of define the
core ethnos of the of the country and so
that's what I'm trying to do throughout
the book as we go through the various
powers talking about war talking about
the Bill of Rights talking ultimately
about what you do with a president like
this one who's gone rogue and is at odds
with the Constitution is to you know I
can't I can't just say here's what the
words say . that's the end of story it
has to be a kind of conversation about
the values that that are involved so you
know when it comes to questions that
we're talking about today for instance
Nancy Pelosi is talking about the idea
that I defend in the book which is
although a lot of scholars say president
can't be indicted while in office I say
you know the president is not above the
law and that's an idea that you find in
the US v Nixon case it's what you find
throughout the Constitution when there
are limits on on what the president can
do and in the earth itself the idea that
you know a president is devoted to the
law rather than him or herself I
I want to let me let me just put a pin
in that just for a minute and its work
because that I obviously I want to get
to but before we get there I want to
sort of stay just one more question in
this sort of like I guess yeah alright
is it in your mind worse to have a guy
like Donald Trump who clearly I mean I
don't think I you know I don't want to
get into the prediction game but if I
was to bet a lot of money if I was
forced to bet my my kids college
education savings on whether Donald
Trump has read the entire Constitution
or not I would I would bat not get
through it is it is it more problematic
to have someone like that or someone who
is who is a who is manipulating the way
the Constitution works or I mean you
know like what what is a more
problematic there because you know the
prior to Trump I mean it really I mean
in many respects between bush and and
Obama and Trump I think we saw three
different versions of what of of how not
so great things can happen relative to
the Constitution like like Bush had the
Bush administration had a very unique
theory about the power of the presidency
relative to the Constitution and went
rogue I think in many people's respects
Obama came in and in many respects
codified rather than say this stuff is
outside the bounds of what the
Constitution allows and American law
allows tried to bring it into a system
and sometimes had to sort of like you
know stretch the box a little bit but
wanted it to be codified because he had
the same inclination I think that you
know many law professors would had is
that like we need a rationale for this
rather than rather than you know because
if we don't have a rash
then I gotta lock them up right
otherwise we can put it into some type
of system and then Donald Trump comes in
and it's completely willy-nilly it's
like you know a monkey playing chess
type of situation yeah yeah it's a great
question I mean I'll just give you a
quick answer in it and then sort of
build up your point I mean I do think he
is by far the worst and the sort of
ignorance of the Constitution combined
with the disposition that is really not
just against the words of the
Constitution but really its core values
especially the idea of equality or the
basic ideas of freedom that's the most
dangerous thing I think that we've seen
period in the history of the country but
that said there are have been and in the
book I'm critical of presidents in the
past who have certainly been you know
well versed in the Constitution so take
Woodrow Wilson who was probably the
greatest constitutional one of the
greatest constitutional scholars
certainly of his time and was president
and used the office in a lot of ways
because of his confidence in a way that
was at odds with the basic ideas of the
Constitution so you know he he you he
not only is quoted at length and Birth
of a Nation the film about celebrating
the Ku Klux Klan but he views it in the
White House and you know he sort of does
it with a confidence that this is
somehow compatible with the Equal
Protection Clause I think he must have
known better but it was something about
the confidence I think of how how much
he felt he knew the document that he he
felt empowered to do this sort of thing
with Obama for instance and the failure
to seek a resolution and Lybia the you
know that's another example certainly of
a law professor somebody I think was in
many ways a great president but really
went wrong when it came to the abuse of
the the War Powers that confidence I
think came partly from his deep
knowledge of the document and of the
debates but what you get with Trump
isn't just of a different order of
magnitude because I think he's on really
every dimension of the Constitution his
instincts are contrary so I mean think
of the threat to lock up and imprison
your political opponent I mean nothing
could be more at odds with the
of free speech in the in the First
Amendment it's sort of the core meaning
of it is not to do that or the proposal
to torture the families of suspected
terrorists not just the terrorists
themselves of obvious violation of due
process and not to mention cruel and
unusual punishment
so I mean we could keep going through
them the the you know the travel ban
gets fixed by the lawyers eventually but
he keeps saying and it's certainly the
beginning no I want a Muslim man you
know anybody who knows anything about
the Constitution wouldn't do that and
those kind of combination I think of
these things amount to somebody who
doesn't get the basics of the rule of
law who is a aspirational fascist
dictator you know he hasn't achieved
that but I think that's what he
envisions himself so you know I take it
very seriously when he praises the
dictator in North Korea it's it's it's
part and parcel of the idea that he has
no knowledge of and I completely agree
with you of the basics of our system he
said at one point early you know in the
campaign that he was talking about his
sister who was a judge on one of the
circuit court federal circuit courts you
know a high-level judge and she at one
point said that the partial-birth
abortion ban was unconstitutional that
it violated Roe versus Wade and he said
I don't know why my sister signed that
bill and it's like the most basic
understanding of Schoolhouse Rocky I
mean they left but it's more than that
it's also the disposition to kind of be
against the rule of law that's what I
think really does make him the worst
president right not if he doesn't have
an understanding of the Constitution
specifically it's that he doesn't even
recognize the concept of the rule of law
right and his and even more than that
it's certainly that it's that his
instincts are contrary to the idea that
were bound by law or that we're bound by
basic liberty of free speech or I mean
the bigotry to I mean the you know the
Equal Protection Clause is really about
the idea that you can't make laws based
on prejudice will stop and the sort of
modern doctrine of the Supreme Court is
that you you know your intent matters
and if you're making a law or an
executive order based on prejudice
that's unconstitutional now in the
travel ban case there's an exception
that the court basically finds when
people are outside the boundaries of the
United States that's what they relied on
but certainly any internal policy with
that kind of motivation
that's young constant that's all they
found I mean it was a very narrow
decision but in the very narrow in the
rifra I'm talking about that rifra one
would the Colorado Baker was that yeah
that there was instance in the
questioning of this Colorado Baker that
expressed some type of hostility to
religion which I think was dubious but
nevertheless all right well so let's get
just a quick point on that because it is
so relevant I had a piece when Kennedy
retired is talking about the deep
contradiction between finding animus
towards this Baker and in the in the
cake case and the even so much more
obvious example of religious animus and
in the travel ban case I thought that
that really marred is legacy what
otherwise would have been one of our
great justice is really really ruined I
think his his reputation because it's
such a flagrant contradiction i I think
I can come up with a couple others to
the to you know the idea of the you know
there is no appearance of a bribery when
it comes to you know in Citizens United
that's my grab it but there's and there
may be one or two others but let's not
let's let's not digress here let me ask
you just in this in terms of in terms of
the DOJ has found has you know their
interpretation of the Constitution as a
sitting president can't be indicted does
that mean that he's above law like isn't
the issue that there is a different
mechanism to to to to punish a president
or to find a president guilty of the law
of a breach of the law that isn't me
rather than saying rather than he can't
be indicted means he's above the law
isn't it just simply like we have a
different mechanism a special mechanism
for adjudicating this and that's called
impeachment and conviction in the Senate
yeah I think
captures the debate really well and this
is one of those instances where the text
isn't gonna you know answer it and
certainly we're not gonna get agreement
from the framers Hamilton made exactly
the argument that you're making he said
look it's not that the president isn't
above the law
it's that there are two separate
processes and impeachment has to come
first and by the way the president can
be indicted after he or she is removed
through that through that distinct
process and what the memos do is they
try to draw on that and they these are
memos I should say written by the
Department of Justice office of legal
counsel during the Nixon administration
and then another one during during
Clinton and incidentally just tying back
to that earlier great question that you
were asking the existence of the office
of legal counsel is sort of a
recognition of the duty that I'm talking
about right what that office does is it
really you know its sole function is to
take all the actions of a president and
to hold them against the Constitution
and to say what's constitutional and
what's not and they're supposed to tell
the president basically sorry you can't
do that and you know hopefully there's
in the future they're gonna play an
active role in stopping this president
more than they have but on the
indictment question what the memo say is
they sort of start from that Hamilton
point and point that you're you're
making and then they make to two other
points they say look a president is
unique in his or her role that's why
there has to be a separate justice
process because if the president is
basic ro the entire executive branch is
gonna cease
stopped functioning that it's that
important a job it's the sole person
that runs a branch it's got you know now
more than 2.5 million people and then
the other argument is that there's a
kind of dignity to the office that
immunize is the president from the legal
process so that's what the memo say they
sort of build that argument off and
certainly they don't they don't think
that they're saying that a president is
above the law they're just saying that
that's it's a sort of unique position
but I I think it's just wrong and when
you start going through all those
arguments you see why and here we're
helped not just by thinking about that
idea of the rule of law but also the
cases on the too busy argument I mean
you know first of all with this
president I
it might be a good thing but they also
work things out with courts you know
it's not that you know the court
basically demands you be there without
any sort of coordination and if you
think of the enormous coordination
that's going on all the time the
executive branch moving the nuclear
suitcase around the world for instance
it's possible to work it out with courts
in a way that I think you know comedy
isn't I mean to me it seems like the
most compelling argument is simply you
wouldn't want the law to be used as a
weapon in this way I mean that you
wouldn't want it to be weaponized as a
as a political weapon and if you were
you should make it an explicitly
political or I should say it in the only
way to prevent that from happening is to
make it an explicitly political thing
mm-hmm well I do think removal is
rightly exactly that and when we could
talk about impeachment but it but that's
what I'm saying that's what I'm saying
that's why I'm saying impeachment as
opposed to indictment right I mean
Franklin and I've you know like have
well III have an issue with with a lot
of the work that Robert Muller has done
you know in a lot of his career frankly
uh uh with James Comey and and so and
and you know these guys you know I think
at times were were tasked or were
undertaking inappropriate things
particularly when it comes to like
Muslim surveillance back in the anse and
whatnot and so you know maybe I don't
want them to have the ability to bring
an indictment against the the president
because I just don't trust them that
much well in Ken Starr is your best
example I mean that really was a sort of
rogue prosecutor that was in the end
didn't indict but talked about why you
should be able to so i guess to me you
know i don't want to discount that
there's a danger of political you know
prosecutions and that's that is i think
largely what happened during the star
period and that's why the Independent
Counsel law which you know basically
protects are couldn't have been fired
unlike Muller
by the
the DOJ he had independent protection
and because of the rogue nough sub that
whole operation I guess you could call
it that law expired but I guess here's
my simple way of putting it I mean it's
sort of a spin on a know kind of classic
legal principle I mean I would rather
have ten Ken stars than one Donald Trump
going free and my worry is that if you
don't have basic legal investigation of
you know collusion with Russia of the
sort of use of the business in order to
make money this sort of you know it's
really sort of very close to rampant
bribery that the president is such a
powerful office and we're really seeing
this now and the danger of what can be
done with it with the control over the
vast federal bureaucracy with the
control over nuclear weapons with the
control over you know really an access
to the world's financial network is is
you know imagine somebody smarter than
Trump imagine a sort of oh no I wasn't I
and so that's why I think we need to
check I think if we don't have it
impeachment might not work I I think
investigation is important I'm just
right I'm I'm skeptical of the
indictment and I'm also and to be on
telly honest like yeah I'm not convinced
that Ken Starr didn't bring us in many
respects Donald Trump yeah I mean the
it's not a hard
it's not a hard it's not a hard thing to
draw a line between that seven-year
multi-million dollar investigation into
basically both those Clinton's to to
Donald Trump's election a lot of the
same people who are involved I frankly I
mean this enterprise started the careers
of a lot of people but ya later and I
don't want to downplay the danger I
guess I think you know the the the
problem with impeachment though although
you know we'll see what happens we have
a new Congress of course but is that you
know Hamilton sort of just assumed the
following thing and you know I could see
why it's common sense look if it turns
out their president has committed a
crime you don't need a prosecution
because the the house is going to
immediately impeach and the Senate's
going to try and the person will be gone
quickly and I think the problem would
trump what we've seen over the last two
years is that actually he was just a
flawed assumption
it could be the case that a president is
both a criminal and extremely popular or
popular enough that the impeachment and
removal uh never happened so even now if
the House moves forward with with
impeachment as you know there probably
aren't the votes in the Senate remove
Lee yes I don't know what problem
there's no indictment and there's no
impeachment that means he gets boy I
think that's a problem with a with an
entire political party that is not
Trump's problem that is the Republican
Party's problem it seems for me but all
right well let's
we won't resolve that one but but lastly
let me just ask you this broadly
speaking as a constitutional scholar
it's the Constitution like good I mean I
mean I don't mean like like like if you
had to take another whack at it
manok and maybe this question is is sort
of irrelevant based upon this notion
that like it's more important to be
engaged with it then actually what it
says but right you could take another
whack at it as written there would be
big chunks I would assume that you would
say like this didn't work yeah well the
whole Senate thing right I might rethink
a Electoral College for instance right
but I also think that there are huge
chunks that are saving us right now so
you know I do think that the First
Amendment guarantee of free speech
internally I think he's hearing this
from his own people and from his office
of legal counsel but I do believe that
even this Supreme Court as bad as it is
if you were to try to carry out you know
his change to the libel laws his desire
to I guess prosecute Saturday Night Live
for its libel of this his greatness that
you know those basic protections of
freedom and liberty I think you know
certainly are there in the document and
I think would operate in the way that
they're supposed to and I think that's
true despite what happened to travel ban
in case of religious freedom and equal
protection too and more than that to the
structure you know as much as I think
that there you know is a problem with
with the electoral college the the idea
that there are co-equal branches I think
is also a thing that when you have a
demagogue
this who's succeeded in being elected
starts to kick in so you know thankfully
we now have the at least one-half that
the House of Representatives has gone
into the hands of much more sane people
and they'll have investigatory power
they'll have you know the ability to
look into many of the questions that
we're talking about in the way that that
no one has before I don't know that
they'll succeed in removing the
president you know through the
impeachment process but it is a check
and all of those things are by design
they're all I think about the
possibility that you know they wanted to
get away certainly from the weakness of
the Articles of Confederation but the
framing document was also about the
worry that we would have a demagogue
come to power and that the thing is
designed to protect liberty and to
protect the rule of law from such a
person and you know I'm glad about
because we we really are in a situation
where we need it right now
Cory Brettschneider the book is the oath
and the office a guide to the
Constitution for future presidents
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thanks Sam really
happy to do your show
to get to where I want
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
