[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise's they
are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday February 13 2009
teen my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
climatologist from Pennsylvania State
University author of the hockey stick
and the climate Wars and the madhouse
effect and the 2019 recipient of the
Tyler prize
Michael Mann will be here to discuss why
is it so cold if there's actually
climate change meanwhile the Senate
passes a massive public land protection
bill sort of sherab and on the recession
watch a record seven million Americans
are behind in their car payments not
good meanwhile a hedge funds real-estate
play will destroy local news and the War
Powers Resolution to end our Yemen war
support is gaining steam Republicans
realize they may have messed up on that
whole health care thing and Mitch
McConnell will force a vote on the green
New Deal resolution in the Senate
meanwhile California governor Gavin
Newsom seems legit now the question is
can he execute and back on the hill the
attorney general nominee William bar
advances
El Chapo meanwhile found guilty a word
who's gonna get their patreon account
I'm sorry and adds a single tears slides
down Howard Schultz's face a new Huff
Post poll says only 10% of the country
think the parties are too extreme all
this and more on today's majority report
ladies and gentlemen yes folks it is it
is Wednesday should tell you that
Brendan is on the board today so you're
wondering why it sounds so good if
you're wondering why we've had a little
upgrade in the audio mixing department
now you know now now it's not a mystery
there it is Matt is on a personal that's
having a personal day thank you imagine
what that is like no I can't I mean I
can imagine what it's like it's video
game sound effect oh also today I should
tell you that in the fun half we're
anticipating a phone call from listener
we'll just use first initial a I was
holding the line for nearly an hour
today this was yesterday and you guys
didn't take my call I think you guys are
scared of people with actual strong
arguments to challenge your narrative if
you want to prove this notion wrong then
take my call next time well I hope you
call in today we have your area code
that can be about so many things it
could but that's the thing it's it's
completely oh I have no idea where that
but and I do appreciate the
acknowledgement that we have a narrative
and so that's good but also you should
know that in our fun half when we take
calls we have somewhere between 10 and
30 callers on the line on any given day
and we just simply can't get to all of
them
so but yeah not ones that are gonna
disrupt our narrative right no actually
no that is a brilliant way to to jump
the line is to send us an email and say
I want to disrupt your narrative and
give this your your your code and then
that you will see that we will just a
reminder to big corporations are getting
rich from selling your data Congress has
completely failed to save net neutrality
or protect your privacy online now
internet providers and mobile carriers
like Comcast and Verizon are free to
resist restrict websites spy on your
online activity or sell your browsing
history to advertisers but with
one-click expressvpn shields your online
activity from Internet and mobile
providers expressvpn has easy-to-use
apps that run seamlessly in the
background of your computer or your
phone or your tablet expressvpn secures
and anonymizes your internet browsing by
encrypting your data and holding your
public IP address and hiding I should
say get expressvpn protection for less
than seven bucks a month you can get up
to all sorts of mischief for this
expressvpn
is rated the number one VPN service by
TechRadar comes with a 30-day money-back
guarantee look if you ever use public
Wi-Fi and want to keep hackers and spies
from seeing your data expressvpn is the
solution that I will not go on a public
Wi-Fi system at all particularly because
when I'm traveling with my computer I
have sensitive stuff on the computer not
government secrets not you know I
haven't taken a series of amounts of
snuff films or anything like that but I
have you know I have saved bank account
statements I have maybe a picture of my
license that I had to send somebody
maybe someone can divine some things
like I don't know
my you know first pets maiden name or
something that you know would allow them
to hack into some of me yeah I'm just
using but the point is using a VPN and
using expressvpn gives you protection
particularly in that context the smart
thing to do would be to use it all the
time to take back your internet privacy
today find out how you can get three
months free go to expressvpn comm slash
majority that's Express VPN expr ESS VPN
dot-com slash majority for three months
free with a one-year package visit
expressvpn
dot-com slash majority to learn more if
you don't know about VPNs check it out
alright we're gonna have Michael Mann on
in a moment and in I don't wanna say
celebration in honor of him coming on
you know Michael Mann has been at this
for two decades now in terms of engaging
in the political fight often to great
expense to him frankly in grief and we
will talk a little bit about that and he
just wrote the other day probably the
millionth column he's had to write about
how when it's cold in the winter for a
couple of days that is not evidence that
global warming is not happening there is
a difference between weather and climate
so in honor of that we went into the
Wayback Machine and found a time where I
was significantly younger this was nine
years ago
almost nine years ago to the day I was
it was just out of college with an
ex-girlfriends going where's Keith
exactly it was it was December I think
of 2010 maybe and I was hosting filling
in hosting for Olbermann
and we did this little bit on a day
where we had gotten snow and
it was quite obvious that rush limbaugh
at all would be talking about how there
was no more climate change little did I
know nine years ago that we would have a
president who does exactly the same
thing as we were accusing some of these
other dummies from doing but first we
wanted to explain the technical
meteorological reasons that storms like
this fuel global warming denial for that
report let's go to our countdown
meteorologist Sam cedar Sam thanks Sam
now this is Sunday storm right over the
Northeast drop in more than two feet of
snow in some regions but then we got a
high pressure system coming in from the
energy producing states specifically
lobbing pressure that emanates from
companies that stand to lose money if we
actually go green this effect is known
as the Koch brothers sometimes referred
to as Llosa hermanos now combine that
with a strong front of ignorance
sweeping up from down south and keep in
mind on their best day you're looking at
60 65% stupidity levels down there and
that gives you a strong chance of
thunder and prevarication and it just
sits right on top here and hangs there
and of course you get that current of
blustery hot air out of just one radio
studio in Palm Beach Florida and that
gust actually controls an entire stream
of Republican Liat lawmakers leading all
the way up to Washington DC and creating
an entire system spinning counter fact
wise keep in mind with the chilling
factor on the mainstream media it's
gonna feel several degrees stupider than
it already is
so please folks bundle up back to you
Sam that's a meteorologist Sam cedar
thanks for that report Sam I'm also
seeing some type of like old Steve
Carell vehicle here it's like he's the
main actor but he's also the weatherman
right you got a run same guy get a run
right over there you're gonna do that
just did I tell them that I was gonna do
that I don't know no I just brought my
own weather map and no of course I'm
impressed that they let you do that
that's all they helped me write it
that's great that even
they wrote most of it I would think
Alber wishes he could do this it was a
little bit different it was a little bit
different era towards the you know in
those first couple years of the bush and
the Trump excuse me the Obama
administration but there it is and sadly
not much has changed in terms of this
debate so the only difference oh I
should let me let me rephrase that there
is to a large extent I think folks on
the Left have moved past that the denial
and are just trying to push it through
and it's interesting that Mitch
McConnell is going to force this vote in
the Senate because it's quite possible
that the Democrats will not be as afraid
of this as he anticipates there are a
lot of elements that are very
progressive and seemingly outside of the
purview of simply fighting climate
change within the green New Deal
but that's gonna be it's gonna be
interesting to see how that shakes out
probably not in the way that McConnell
hopes meanwhile speaking of health I've
been on this kick for some time one of
the most important things we do for our
health every day is brushing our teeth
yet most of us don't do it properly
it took me years to find this out quip
is a better electric toothbrush created
by dentist and designers quip was
designed to make brushing your teeth
more simple affordable and even
enjoyable with sensitive sonic
vibrations it's gentle on your sensitive
gums and the built-in two-minute timer
pulses every 30 seconds to remind you
when to switch sides and guide you to a
full and even clean better yet quip
doesn't require a clunky charger this is
my favorite part about the clip it runs
for three months on one charge and it
comes with a multi-use cover that mounts
to your mirror for a less cluttered
sink space the wonder equip is one of
the first electric toothbrushes accepted
by the American Dental Association look
the the difference between the different
cleaning mechanism
of an electric toothbrush are virtually
irrelevant the key is to use it all the
time and the beauty about the quip is it
is basically the size of a normal
toothbrush and so you can travel with it
you could have it on your sink and you
have to bring it to the charger or you
don't have to have a whole like plug-in
type of situation going on on your sink
and it's also extremely stylish so the
thing called functionality and look I'm
not gonna get into it too much but the
point is you that whole thing will you
go like this it's not the way you do it
you angle down once you start getting
like the deep cleaning for the
periodontal stuff like you do with my
brush roughly you will never go back
believe me believe me you're gonna want
to take care of your teeth and now's the
time to do it and that's why I love quip
and that's why they backed by over
20,000 dental professionals equip starts
at just 25 bucks if you go to get quip
dot-com slash majority right now you get
your first refill pack free with equip
electric toothbrush every three months
they send you new toothpaste and a new
brush head because you're supposed to
change them every three months folks but
you didn't know that you get your first
refill pack free at get quip dot-com
slash majority GE tqu I p.com slash
majority and also for those of you who
suffer from heartburn or acid reflux
keeps you up at night med Kline is a new
natural solution to a problem that
affects thousands of Americans med Kline
is a comfortable acid reflux pillow
system for your bed that keeps you in
the best sleeping position for natural
relief a lot of people try and do this
by just propping up pillows what not you
don't have to do that no more sliding
down a wedge no more putting blocks onto
your bed frame no more dangerous
medication no more suffering the medic
line system is available in three sizes
it has a patent in arm pocket so you can
sleep comfortably on your side without
pressure on your shoulder the soft
supportive body pillow keeps you from
rolling on your back so you can get the
rest
you deserve if you're suffering with
nighttime heartburn you have to give med
Klein a try tonight with their 100 day
guarantee relief guarantee you have
nothing to lose the system ships free
with this special offer in comes
complete with a full set of pillowcases
for more information visit good night
heartburn dot-com or call 866 teen oh
seven and two the code majority a check
out for fast free shipping
that's good night heartburn dot-com or
call 866 T no 7 that's 610 1607 to learn
more and try med Cline today
alright we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back we'll be talking to
the great Michael Mann
you
cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome back to
the program climatologist from Penn
State University author of the hockey
stick and climate Wars and the madhouse
effect is his most recent he's also the
2019
Tyler prize for environmental
achievement Award winner Michael Mann
Michael welcome back to the program
thanks Sam always great to talk with you
Congrats on this Tyler prize I gotta be
honest with you I had not I had not
heard of the Tyler prize before but as I
read up on it this thing is like winning
like this is like winning like the nobel
prize for environmental a bid for
environmental protection I guess yeah
well you know they bill it is sort of
the nobel prize for environmental
science and i am you know truly honored
and humbled to receive the award but the
real honor for me was that i shared the
award this year with a personal hero of
mine a war in washington who is one of
the the first scientists decades ago to
develop the the sorts of climate models
that we now use you know frequently to
look at future projections of climate
change to answer all sorts of questions
about human caused climate change and
warren washington was really at the very
forefront of that the whole development
of that science he's also the second
African American recipient of a PhD in
the country in atmospheric science and
so he's a real hero of mine and it was
an honor to share the prize with him
this year okay well let's and let's
let's talk about the I guess the sort of
the some of the reasons why you you got
that award and and sort of the the work
you know as I as I read into you know we
I think I've interviewed at least
multiple times and I did not realize how
long you have been under assault and I
know this came up during the hockey
stick and the climate Wars but maybe I
just forgot about it but they
have been there has been like a
full-frontal attack on you for an
extended period of time like 20 years it
feels like yeah absolutely and sometimes
I'd like to think maybe they picked on
the wrong guy you know I think the
intent was to get me to shut up to get
me to back off to get me to disappear
from sort of the public space and it's a
result of this you know iconic graph
that my co-authors and I published
literally two decades ago the so-called
hockey stick graph that shows how
unprecedented recent warming is it shows
it's unprecedented as far back as we can
go which was a thousand years at that
time and it became sort of an icon in
the climate change debate and it became
a lightning rod for sort of
industry-funded climate change deniers
fossil fuel lobbyists and front groups
whose sole you know aim is to try to
discredit the science of human-caused
climate change because it represents an
obvious threat to their bottom line it
means we can't continue to burn fossil
fuels and of course that that you know
the fossil fuel industry benefits from
our continued addiction to fossil fuels
so you know they've decided that they
had to try to bring down the you know
the scientific evidence for climate
change and the easy way to do that was
to go after one iconic curve and one you
know what they assumed was a vulnerable
young scientist I was just a
postdoctoral researcher at the time but
I chose to fight back and ultimately not
just to defend my research and to defend
the science of climate change but
because there's such larger stakes here
we really are talking about the future
of the planet for children and
grandchildren so and after and then
there was there was lawsuits as they
were attempting to get your your emails
and largely it's it strikes me as it was
just simply a way to keep you busy on
some yeah the end of vexatious lawsuits
you know putting me in the hot seat at
congressional hearings I was vilified in
the you know by Fox News The Wall Street
Journal and the right-wing media there
were a pressure groups
tried to get me fired from my job I was
at the receiving end of death threats
and threats against my family so yeah
pretty much seen it all at this point
well so let me ask you this because you
know we just I just played a clip that
had occurred to me as I was reading a
piece you wrote about the the big freeze
we just had that huge you know
three-quarters of the nation was was
subject to super cold temperatures and
so I read your piece on it reminded me
of of something that I did when I filled
in with Olbermann about eight years ago
which was basically just talking about
whenever you get this type of cold
weather or snow you start getting this
idiocy forgive my bluntness about your
being kind yeah yeah I mean yeah that
that assumes actually like good intent I
guess but this attempt to say that well
this proves there's no climate change I
want you to address that specific claim
in a minute but has things I mean what
has changed you know from ten years ago
in terms of a our our collective
awareness and assessment of the problem
and be our the the political will to
actually do something about yeah great
question I think there are a couple of
threads that are coming together
favorable threads in sort of a you know
perfect storm if you'll forgive the
expression of a potential for climate
action and and one of those is just the
fact that people are seeing the impacts
of climate change firsthand now they're
no longer subtle we see them play out in
real time on our television screens and
our newspaper headlines unprecedented
super storms heat waves droughts floods
wildfires everything we saw play out
last summer writ large around an entire
Northern Hemisphere and meanwhile the
the summer in the southern hemisphere
Australia is experiencing the the worst
heat that they've ever had and
unprecedented floods that is the face
now of climate change and people are
getting it and scientists like myself
are doing our best to connect the dots
for the people
for the media for you know the public
for our elected representatives or
policymakers and I think people are
connecting the dots I think it's grown
extremely difficult for climate change
deniers to deny that something is
happening much as you know despite the
fact that you continue to try and Donald
Trump in his Twitter feed of course
continues to be a purveyor of sort of
climate change denial talking points and
myths but I think the people get it and
so that's it we understand climate
changes in this distant far-off threat
it's about people losing their lives in
unprecedented super storms Maria and and
Puerto Rico the California wildfires and
something else is happening salmon I
think you probably you know have a sense
of this as well it's sort of the the way
young folks are reasserting themselves
in our public discourse in our and our
and our social discourse in our
political dialogue we're hearing the
voice of younger people weigh in on the
on the matters that are important to
them whether it be gun control or now
climate change and you've got these kids
around the world now who are engaged in
these school strikes to draw attention
to climate change and and they just
speak with such clarity and moral
authority that only the most hardened
cynic can can cannot be willing to
listen to what they're saying and I
think that's a game changer I think it's
changing the conversation I think all
these things are coming together and of
course with Democrats now taking back
the House of Representatives there's an
opportunity now politically for us to
actually see climate legislation it may
not be able to pass the the Senate now
who knows two years from now but we're
gonna see the groundwork laid now by
Democrats in the house and maybe some
Republicans who are willing to work with
them to get climate change back on the
political agenda I mean I definitely
have I mean I think we could definitely
track the that the center of the
Republican Party first and and and and
the reason why I focused so much on the
Republican Party in this is that I think
they're the only major political party
in the world that denies that has a
climate change denial as like a campaign
plank and
part of their platform yeah absolutely
and it seems that they have moved at
least from total denial of it as a
phenomena but are you know still sort of
dancing around with the idea that it's
not it's not man-made and then to the
extent that it is there's nothing we can
do about it right right the only
consistency and the various arguments
that they put forward is that they're an
excuse for inaction right there's
otherwise no intellectual consistency
you know it's either it's not happening
- it's happening but it's not us all
right maybe it's us but it's happening
but it's not bad and then finally sort
of the ultimate stage in our book of
madhouse effect Tom tolls Washington
Post cartoonist as a beautiful cartoon
we talk about the ladder of climate
change denial as they sort of go down
the rungs from it's not happening - it's
happening but it's not us and eventually
you get to well well you know what
there's nothing we can do about it and
that's not true either um all right well
let's talk about I guess let's talk just
a little bit about some of the problem
then we'll move on to what we can do
about it because there is there is a
like you say the the the the youth
ultimately and it's starting to bring
you know sort of suggestions to the fore
but I just want to talk about two things
one let's talk about the that that a
polar I don't not sure what you call it
but we had three quarters of the country
with temperatures that were either at
records or near record lows for a couple
of days it was it was bizarre and then
within like two days in New York it was
sixty degrees which is also a strange
thing to experience in the middle of
February yeah right we got weather
whiplash right extremes on both sides
and here's the thing it felt like record
cold to us and you know I think you and
I are probably a similar sort of vintage
you know I grew up I remember these
really cold snowy winters in the early
70s in New England where up blizzard of
78 I was
yeah three weeks there you are no I mean
and you know of course when I was a
little kid I mean the snow would come up
to my you know to my head and and part
of that is just I was shorter but no we
had these really cold snowy winters and
you know I call that old-fashioned cold
old-fashioned only in the sense that you
have to go back to our youth to see it
and you know Millennials and folks who
are younger than that just haven't seen
it they've grown up in a world that just
did not see those sorts of old-fashioned
winters so then when you're confronted
with something like this cold air
outbreak the Arctic the polar vortex
break down in these very cold conditions
we saw a few weeks ago it feels like
it's unprecedented cold only because
it's unprecedented in a few decades
right how profound climate change is
that sort of cold has become so rare
that we think it's record cold when in
fact it is and Donald Trump of course
exploited that by claiming we were
breaking cold records here's the thing
that week there were actually two
locations in the world both of them I
think in Minnesota or Wisconsin two
small towns or no maybe she maybe
Illinois there were two towns that said
all-time lows in the entire world there
were two towns that actually said
all-time lows Chicago none of the major
cities did and in that same month the
first month in this year when we saw
those two record lows
we saw 35 record highs elsewhere in the
world where you know the southern
hemisphere Australia South America
baking through a record warm summer for
them and so no we're not seeing an
increase in record cold we're just
seeing some of this old-fashioned cold
and here's the kicker there may even be
a climate change connection there as you
know because one of the things were
increasingly convinced that the fact
that the Arctic is warming faster than
the rest of the planet is actually it
because it decreases the contrast and
how cold it gets when you go from the
equator to the polar regions
it's that temperature contrast that
drives the Jetstream and the polar
vortex so when you warm the Arctic more
than the rest of the planet you actually
slow down this Jetstream and you slow
down the polar vortex and you allow for
these sort of polar
breakdown events where the cold air
that's normally bottled up in the Arctic
can escape down into you know the United
States or Europe which is what we're
seeing it's not giving us record cold
but it's giving us some of that
old-fashioned cold how much how much
like new dynamics do we find as as time
goes on in other words like I like
everything else I guess I mean it was
just a report that a couple of days ago
that we are headed to a mass extinction
of insects for the most part
címon couple are doing better because of
what's going on and that it's not all a
function of climate change climate
change seems to be one factor another
factor seems to be these new forms of of
pesticides and herbicides but you see
but we're talking about we don't it's
very hard to predict right like if the
number of a certain type of grasshopper
drops below a certain critical mass we
don't necessarily know all the potential
implications for our egos fears and
whatnot right and I imagine that's the
same thing with climate change how many
new sort of dynamics are we observing
you know because it seems like every six
months we're like wow the rate of the
the warming of the oceans is actually
goes beyond what our models predicted
how many of those sort of crop up along
the way yeah yeah and yeah with the
ecosystems you know the animal
populations and plants we say that these
relationships are nonlinear it means
that there's a very complex
interrelationship between the different
sort of species in our ecosystem and
that makes it very difficult to predict
when you lose one species it can have
reverberations through the entire
ecosystem through the entire food chain
and and so that's a real worry that we
can have these impacts now global scale
impacts on our environment where you
know the potential implications are
extremely difficult to predict
accurately even with our best models and
so you know the lesson there is that
uncertainty is not our friend
you often hear uncertainty sight
by the critics as if its reason for
inaction well there's uncertainty in the
science well if anything as we learn
more and as you're alluding to as we
learn more about the science we're
finding that the uncertainty is sort of
not breaking in our favor it's breaking
against us we're finding that things can
happen faster and and and and and there
are things that can happen that we
didn't envision happening and we're
seeing that with the melting of the ice
sheets which is happening faster than we
expected meaning that it's contributing
to sea level rise faster than we
expected and that has to do with some of
the physics of ice sheets behavior it
just wasn't in our previous models and
when you put them into the model
suddenly you find that hey you know the
West Antarctic Ice Sheet can collapse
much more quickly than we thought and
that can lead to sea level rise much
more quickly than we thought
and that's true for example for the
relationship between climate change and
extreme weather and some of my own
research deals with that connection and
we're finding that there's some subtle
ways you know we just alluded to if you
change temperatures you can change the
Jetstream
you can change the Jetstream in a way
where you get these very large weather
systems that remain stuck in place like
we saw last summer with this you know
very hot air drought high pressure over
California giving them unprecedented
wildfire we're back east
we had an unprecedented sort of low
pressure system which gave us the the
wettest summer on record and so you know
that's difficult to predict the models
didn't see that coming these changes in
the behavior the jet stream may be
leading to even more extreme persistent
weather events then our models were able
to predict you know just a few years ago
let's let's sort of pivot towards
solutions but one before we get there
there was just a report that came out
from NASA which I imagine you might be
aware of but the the Jet Propulsion
Laboratory confirmed that the oil and
gas industry is responsible the largest
share of the world's rising methane
emissions I guess this was somewhat of a
mystery and I'm not quite sure how NASA
necessarily goes about determining that
but you know NASA is one of those
outfits apparently that gets paid
regardless of
they find out about methane leaks and so
they're not necessarily it's not
necessarily a motivated finding yeah
what I mean
as we there what is the low-hanging
fruit is there a low-hanging fruit when
we start to talk about solutions or at
least mitigation of the impact of
climate change because it feels like
there is all the fruit seems to be
frankly fairly high up the tree and
we're gonna have to do something drastic
yeah so you know and I'm glad you
mentioned NASA because you know you talk
about it what's an unimpeachable source
of scientific information in our nation
and still the people even even the most
hardened contrarians and Meserve ative
tend to respect you know the space
program and NASA and it's played this is
amazingly important role in the history
of Science and Technology in this
country and so people listened when that
says something in a way that they might
not listen to other sources and and NASA
just you know doesn't have an agenda
they're just looking at the numbers they
they are able to make interesting
measurements because they use what's
known as a remote sensing satellite
based observations and this has become
increasingly important in observing the
Earth's system so you can use these
satellite observations to actually look
at you know emissions of carbon and and
and so that's the connection here that
you know even NASA is saying that hey
we're seeing an uptick in these methane
levels we think that's coming from
natural gas fracking hydraulic
fracturing when you try to get at that
natural gas they inject fluids into the
bedrock that breaks it up and some of
that gas escapes through holes in the
surface and we call it fugitive methane
emissions like it's trying to escape and
well that's what it's doing time and the
methane escapes into the atmosphere and
it's a very potent greenhouse gas so
that's adding to the warming so we think
that natural gas you know the the
advocates used to say well you know you
produce less co2 when you burn natural
gas for power versus coal and that's
true
you also some of that natural gas
escapes into the atmosphere some of the
methane escapes into the atmosphere so
low-hanging fruit well you know some of
it is just common sense regulations too
you know to make sure that you know that
that natural gas recovery is done in a
way that attempts to prevent the release
of methane and and under the Obama
administration we had executive policies
the EPA had policies now to try to limit
those methane emissions from natural gas
of course one of the thing first things
that the Trump administration did was to
try to eliminate those basic protections
so the low-hanging fruit the easiest
thing is keep keep the protections that
were already in place there and we have
an administration right now that's
trying to undo all of the environmental
protections of the last half century but
on top of that sort of you know there's
a lot there are a lot of things that we
can do in our everyday lives that you
know save us money they make us feel
better they you know they're healthier
and they reduce our carbon emissions
you know bicycling rather than driving
using more fuel-efficient vehicles or
public transportation or you know more
efficient appliances changing your diet
and in a way that's carbon friendly
there's so many things that we can do
that are good for us and they reduce our
carbon emissions that's the low-hanging
fruit we call it no regrets a it it has
a negative cost it's a benefit just to
do it and we ought to be doing it
anyways but to get the sorts of carbon
emission reductions we need to avert
catastrophic warming we're gonna have to
you know go further than that and that's
going to require that there be a price
on carbon that we've got and incentives
for renewable energy we've got to level
the playing field so that forms of
energy that aren't destroying the planet
renewable energy can compete fairly
against fossil fuel energy which
currently you know the current
administration is getting all sorts of
subsidies you know it's interesting that
conservatives often complain about you
know the government picking winners and
losers
they often they did that when the Obama
administration was trying to push us in
the direction we need to go with
renewable energy well here we've got the
Trump administration trying to prop up
the failing coal in
Street yeah well I mean look from my
perspective there is no there's no such
thing as a government that does not pick
winners and losers it's really just I
mean that's just the nature of society
frankly and the question is just like
who who's going to decide who those
winners and losers are and and what's
that decision you're gonna be and the
the sort of the the personal
responsibilities part of it aside that's
not you know I think that's going to
make people feel good but at the end of
the day we need a robust government
societal and frankly international but
response to this and in in leveling the
playing field I'm not even sure will get
us there either right I mean we need to
sort of aggressively in the same way
that we said let's build an interstate
highway system like you know let's um
let's let's let's subsidize corn so that
we can basically set up factory farms
you know as we did 4050 years ago right
we need to have or or for that matter
you know like the our response to World
War two you know like mobilization yeah
yeah let's convert our capacity to build
weapons obviously I'm not advocating a
war of that sort but metaphorically
speaking you know we did that we made a
massive shift in the entire economy or
in a matter of months it's really like
we need to do that well then that's the
you know impetus behind the you know the
now well-known green new deal right that
AOC is is favoring along with some of
our co-sponsors and supporters in the
Senate ed markey of massachusetts and a
number of others you know that that is
the the principle at work here we need
the equivalent of you know an Apollo
project focused on transitioning our
energy system away from fossil fuels to
renewable energy and so you're
absolutely right you know I would say
that those mechanisms aren't
incompatible if we put a price on carbon
if we
explicit incentives for renewable energy
we're going to accelerate this natural
transition that's already taking place
I mean solar and wind soon enough just
left to their own accord are going to
become cheaper more efficient than
renewable energy it's inevitable what we
need to do is speed up that transition
so it's fast enough to avert
catastrophic warming of the planet and
to do that you know there are market
mechanisms that you can you know use to
do that and that's you know incentive
you know subsidies for renewable energy
or a price on carbon and that's where
that comes in but then there are all
these other things that you can do to
try to help transition you know society
along in the direction we need to go and
and so it requires a major mobilization
and I think that the green new deal you
know whether or not you know something
that looks like it gets passed it's a
wonderful starting point and it gets
climate change right at the center of
our agenda going into this next
legislative term what from a policy
perspective I mean and this may be
somewhat outside your portfolio right I
mean you can it's you can tell us it's
gonna rain but you not necessarily
choose your umbrella I guess right like
I mean I can't even tell you it's gonna
rain well but I'm saying I'm saying just
you're indicating that we have a problem
and the solution it seems like is once
you get past the the amount of carbon
that needs to be essentially prevented
from entering the atmosphere how you go
about that is it seems to me or from
your perspective is it strictly a
political decision like are there yeah
like do we it seems to me we have like a
fairly wide array of technical or
technological responses to this problem
it's just a political decision as to
which one we choose exactly I mean we
have the technology necessary to solve
this problem but you know we don't need
a miracle as people like Bill Gates like
to say we don't need a miracle the
miracle has already happened it's called
renewable energy its wind it's solar is
everything else we've got the technology
to do this it's simply a matter of how
much
in incentives we provide to to move us
in that direction and to scale that up
rapidly and so that's a matter for
legitimate political debate you know
what how do you do it do you do it with
explicit subsidies for renewable energy
do you do it with a price on carbon or
both of those things and if it's a price
on carbon there's a tradable emissions
you know cap and trade or is it a carbon
tax and if it's a carbon tax is that a
revenue neutral carbon tax that some
conservatives have actually gotten
behind that's a worthy political debate
to have that's the debate we ought to
have been having we should have been
having you know over the last two years
when Republicans controlled the House of
Representatives and we haven't been
having that I think that is the
discussion we're having now and there
have already been a couple hearings one
that happened today in the House of
Representatives on climate change in
climate policy and the tenor of the
discussion it's refreshing it's so
different from you know when I testified
back in 2017 to Lamar Smith the house
science committee chair he held a
hearing to try to you know discredit the
science of climate change and he's the
chair of the House Science Committee
today we've got a house science
committee in the House of
Representatives that is pro science and
that once they have the meaningful
conversation that we're talking about
here so I think we're going to see that
happen over the next couple years again
we might not be at a point where we can
see legislation passed the Senate but
you know with you know with some small
changes in the makeup of the Senate we
could potentially be see an environment
where we could actually have climate
legislation emerge out of our out of
Congress in the relatively near future I
don't think we can rule that out this
may be a sort of a silly question to ask
and one may be that you can't answer or
but I know that there is sort of a broad
consensus in the scientific community at
least that is I guess related to
laypeople about how little time we have
to act on yeah when you're sitting
around at these conferences or when you
go to a
France or when you with your colleagues
are you guys basically throwing out
another number that is actually worse I
mean that might like they like how does
it get you know how dark does it get
when you talk to your colleagues yeah
you know no I would say that we're
pretty good if you look at the report
the National Climate Assessment report
that was put out this fall which the
Trump administration tried to bury on
Black Friday and then end up commanding
even more attention for it ironically
that we should say this is just so that
people know what this report is that's
like what like almost a dozen US
government agencies that obviously
they're not making their boss happy
right they are tasked with putting out
this information and so that's a broad
assessment of the US government right
and the president is congressionally
required to to put out the report and so
but and so they try to put it out on
today they thought it would help bury it
and and that didn't happen and I think
because the message was so clear and and
and and the IPCC report the special
report about what it would take to you
know limit warming below dangerous
levels of one and a half degrees Celsius
or two degrees Celsius that's three and
a half Fahrenheit warming of the planet
and a pretty sobering report and it
actually is the basis of this talking
point this the this sort of assertion
that we've heard a lot about lately
including you know aoc made the
statement that we only have 12 years
left
you know before basically we commit
ourselves to disastrous climate change
and and it's true so that that's a
pretty alarming talking point right
that's a pretty alarming statement and
it you know even though it sort of came
out of the mouth of a OC and she was
vilified by her conservative critics for
for it it turns out that that's
essentially what the IPCC said they said
we've got 12 years in order to bring our
carbon emissions down rapidly enough to
avoid crossing that those dangerous
thresholds of 2 degrees Celsius three
and a half Fahrenheit warming a plant of
the planet where we see the worst
impacts of climate change
so no I don't think the scientists are
holding back and if you read the
National Climate Assessment Report it
really uses some pretty striking
language in describing the devastating
impact not that climate change will have
in the future that climate change is
having already so I don't think the
scientific community in general is
holding back what is happening is
there's still some inability for us to
get our message out through the
mainstream media and we should say
there's no going backwards right there's
no there's no we hit a certain
temperature and then o we get smart
enough about this and we can we can we
can we can go backwards we know that's
it right once we start to melt the great
ice sheets the Greenland ice sheet and
the West Antarctic Ice Sheet there's no
going back and we could try to dial the
co2 back down dial the warming back down
that doesn't stop that continues and so
that's that's that's what's so
terrifying frankly about the prospect of
climate and action is that we commit to
long term changes that are irreversible
on human timescales and societal
timescales
in a matter of years now if we don't act
right that is one of like I guess the
the key flaws in human imagination is
that we're making decisions we made
decisions 20 years ago that sort of
sealed the deal for at least certain
problems that we have now right and
right we don't necessarily have the
ability we it takes a certain amount of
I guess maturity on some level to sort
of view the future but right not what we
have in the White House right now no not
even close Michael man congratulations
again on the on the Tyler prize and
thank you so much for joining us we will
put links to your books at majority
report radio.com
thanks again for coming on thank you Sam
always a pleasure all right folks
I mean at some level it's like the teeth
brushing you don't brush your teeth
today you're in your 20s or your 30s
guys you're not gonna realize you made a
bad bad mistake for about 20 years
and then and you can't go backwards you
can't go backwards jeez jeez these are
always so depressing but I mean I'm not
gonna say the whole thing of what I
think about the policy prescriptions in
the interview I would only urge people
to go to we are many org and click on
the environment tag if you want to hear
some lectures from Marxists on the issue
of climate change
nevertheless the the whatever those
policy prescriptions ultimately end up
being it's going to take a we're nasai
our political class you know my honest
response to that interview is I don't
buy the climate scam totally a lie it's
it's definitely worth reading both the
hockey stick and climate Wars and the
mad house effect he has been under like
literally siege for decades trying to
get the word out and he's one of the few
scientists there's some but you know
scientists are not it's it's very
difficult for scientists to compete with
tens of millions of dollars of public
relations disinformation that is put out
I mean this is the same dynamic that we
had with with tobacco for a long time in
this country all right I'm gonna take a
break ahead into the fun half of the
program the number six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number where and we will take your calls
a if you're out there
listening call in now Sam light
narrative disrupting crap tomorrow
Thursday do not call them are I don't
call Morrow it's nonsense it is we have
a specific line or I think any narrative
disrupters narrative disruptors we've
cleared all the west coast and East
Coast lines for you I'm barely
interested in narrative affirming calls
I'm not interested in that affirmative
calls at all I know if we had 30 calls
stacked up who just wanted to tell me
how wrong I was it would be the happiest
day of my life nightmare we'd never get
out of here
it's true longest show first the water
regulation is now and I hew call oh my
god you know what go till 7:00 you were
on the show when when I did the 12-hour
show right Michael oh you weren't okay
so we did a 12-hour show and it was me I
mean I can't remember I think old Matt I
think old Matt was old Matt was here
and and um you know one point he went
home went to bed I think I'm not sure
but I feel like I could do a 24-hour
show if it was if I could just get
enough callers to disagree with me I
feel like it would just fly by and
everybody else would definitely that
would be our flight attendants moment
just look if you want to go on this
reckless path that's oh I have no
problem doing shifts doing doing shifts
and then being here you know it's
finally morning just looking around
there wow I'm really Lula all right
Sam's coming back to take another
idiotic call le vrai as long as I get to
talk about capitalism I'll be happy
that's all right folks we had to take a
quick break ahead into the fun half just
reminder this program relies on your
support to exist you can become a member
for just
pennies yeah I mean it would be annoying
to carry around that many pennies but
dimes would be an easy task to carry
around the dimes per day that it would
take to support this program head over
to join the majority report comm become
a member we give you extra content next
week in fact next week we're going to go
on a break it's going to be all new
interviews and we've got some really
really good ones and Brendon is going to
head into the deep archives and pick out
stuff that he is interested in stuff
that like like how old were you when the
deep I'm talking deep archives I'm
talking Air America archives oh well oh
for two like oh seven how old were you
then we're like junior high yeah let's
go to the ball game baseball to listen
to the radio so yeah when I actually did
listen to a lot of radio when I was kid
all right
most of like 1010 wins and then like
Steve summers how did you listen to air
America well you didn't know what
channel that was I'm just AM radio and
it was you know you knew 1010 wins
Brendan it's like the mainstay of games
Brendan's on the car ride to go see a
Mets game and then all of a sudden you
just accidentally flip it you just hear
like what would stipulate that what the
Bush administration is doing is just
like hey geez when you turned the
channel to go to the ball game I think
what happens with a lot of our listeners
right now frankly anyways members will
have access to those deep archive shows
that Brendan chooses for next week so
join the majority report comm also just
coffee co-op fair trade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
today's Wednesday last night Tuesday
Michael what happened here what happened
was the great mark Blythe talked about
decarbonizing the economy the Green No
Deal Trump's dual populism pivot a whole
bunch of stuff long block on Brazil
and how it relates the kind of
synchronizing of a new effort to destroy
the Brazilian pension system and Wall
Street investment and how this has to do
with a new deployment of violence in the
favelas in the post-game we told you
exactly how to understand the Elan Omar
scandal and the Amy Klobuchar scandal or
I don't want to say L on Omar scandal l
on Omar debate and freaked out people
are having and also Sam Harris he has a
very dumb idea about 2020 and I invite
you to consider the possibility that if
he knows this little about politics
maybe he's not quite as sharp on him
what was his idea he's like I think what
the Democrats need is sort of like a
younger Michael Bloomberg candidate
which I love as I pointed out in this
segment I mean and I will will actually
probably close Tom Styer know Tom Steyer
would be too progressive for him but
what I like about it is is that it's
it's both not supported by any empirical
data and this is supposed to be like the
empirical Howard Schultz right I mean
that actually would be like he's
literally just not reading the headlines
enough he should be supporting what
Howard Schultz is like well he's five
years too old about it Joe Biden no Joe
Biden's you know Joe Biden's not a
billionaire or younger than Bloomberg
but Schultz is a billionaire yeah
younger than Bloomberg he's not well as
I pointed out though I didn't make the
Schultz connection but as I pointed out
it wouldn't be a proper Sam Harris at
segment if there wasn't at least a part
of it that wasn't totally just imagined
right you know what I mean so it would
be like if he just said I'll I support
Michael Bloomberg or illiquid Howard I
liked in raises it's like that would be
too much in this realm well no that's a
problem with is that you could actually
address what he was saying right but if
he says like like Bloomberg but
impossible to pin down in terms of what
I really want
oh well there's a hole oh my god there's
a whole bunch of stuff in that anyways
it's patreon.com slash T MBS I will say
also
just real quick we're 13 away from our
next goal which is our first 2,000
patrons thanks everybody he's keeping
the momentum going and patrons know this
and that will be announced really soon
but the next TMDs live shows in LA April
20th 4:20 with Waze Ana Kasparian Orton
and Avila yes ok I hope you're flying in
Germany for cake
I could really Jabil you that that's not
happening it's a long way to go
oh man so this week on the anti Fatih
in our bonus released on Monday Andy
speaks with Murray Bookchin scholar
Blair Taylor at porta viar-toe bear
weekend about Murray Bookchin 'he's
political evolution from being an
influential and our kissed to something
of a post anarchist thinker his
Institute for social ecology Blair
currently runs all kinds of good stuff
and then today we just dropped our free
episode featuring the always amazing
Cory pine in which we talked to him
about Silicon Valley the book the hero
super good live work work work die we
talked about the over-under on a big
Bezos hog reveal the dark powers that
our new tech overlords hold over our
lives and how we must fight back against
them and Brendan how was your day I
don't know you do the impression of Matt
yeah
headed to the final what was the actual
patreon I don't know
it's let me let me just say it because I
feel bad calm slash literary hangover
check the podcast description alright
heading into the fun half
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
I am a total John can we bring back the
ug dinner yeah or a couple of you put
them in rotation DJ den well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's I don't have Markinson
and the alpha males oh
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis keeping it 100
birthday to me Jew boy I have a thought
expenditure foil and the alpha males are
black black alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
me around here I am a that dude did not
call in yeah take the time to send us an
email and get all uptight about knock
about about not getting the the call and
then you don't call in that's very
annoying different narratives only one
o'clock now
oh that he's a coward meanwhile sad
brandon Straka is I guess a mad that we
what context did we talk about him we
devoted another whole episode to talking
about yeah we're in love with him what
was what honestly what did we talk about
him initially initially no just it was
recently marrying our queen wait a
second he announces that he's going to
no not primary general election well he
announces that he's entering the
election and he faults us for mentioning
that that's very odd strategy for your
campaign Amin candidate tactic you did I
announced my candidacy keep your mouth
shut in media keep very quiet about it
but so apparently it got him very very
upset and it's weird this didn't show up
in my timeline did I I don't think I
muted him I would be I wouldn't be able
to see it now would I
wait what's the dude doing at 1:41 a.m.
he's going around googling himself or
something is that what I mean that's
maybe the most relatable thing about him
[Laughter]
this is a guy who really needs to get I
guess maybe a job where he has to be
somewhere in the morning but nonetheless
so Sam cedar and his team of
crime-fighting grammarians dedicated a
fifth
losing count episode of a show to
talking about that is a lot to do five
full episodes on him is it seems to be
late you wanna instructor report with
sam cedar or Milton al-ahmadi and just
blinking you know like Milton I promised
him a Thursday we talked about the new
developments in north to Southern Sudan
due to the Trump administration's
pullback from global diplomacy but
really actually have you heard of this
guy Brendan struck well now all right
let me finish
I've always had a soft spot for a nerdy
guy with an obsession for me but I think
Sam's wish was good for his own daughter
to be raped as a kind of deal-breaker
and of course he's referring to Oh
bad form Brendan we've got a and of
course he he he posts the the tweet that
I put out in 2009 in response to people
who were apologizing for Roman
Polanski's rape statutory rape of a of a
girl that he then was was about to was
supposed to make a plea deal for and
then skipped the country where and I
wrote don't care about Polanski but I do
hope if my daughter's ever raped it's by
an older truly talented man with a great
sense of meson sin which many people in
fact mike Tsarevich one of brandon
stratas forbearers tried to make an
issue of got me fired from MSNBC then
got me rehired from MSNBC and one of the
more enjoyable periods actually of
certainly of 2017 but your life don't in
my life soft and my adult life I don't
like I don't like and so in honor of a
Brandon Straka being concerned that we
have done a now I guess a sixth episode
of our show talking about him we're
gonna make it seven we're going to
release the the debate we've had it
behind a paywall
but instead in in celebration of his
candidacy where he is going to be
running against AOC in 2020 because he's
the only New Yorker who can take her on
we're gonna release that debate to all
of the world so they can they can watch
and we will be doing because his
coverage
oddly enough for the millions of people
who are in the walk away movement I
think that you only got like three or
four thousand hits on that video I think
so and maybe he needs to get a signal
boost and so you're welcome
Brandon cut to a OSI headquarters how
could he do that is he doing God in the
same week we plant agree do deal guys
the Boston College dancing video was
nothing but Brendan Straka is everything
he'll foil our whole plans to turn our
America into a giant compost collective
I mean are there gonna be any voters
though the to vote for her by 2020 cos
all gonna have walked away aren't they
yeah but he should have done a little
Google research on them now that last
the last time I think it was the best
that he could do he must have I don't
know 140 but first was the best he could
do was the dirty guys who are obsessed
with me wine that was that was should
have finished it right there
this is this is pretty good and do we
have that list of donor states do we
have a graphic for that okay so let's go
with this this was pretty amusing on Fox
and Friends how are they going to deal
with the reports out I mean look we know
the initial reports in terms of the
Republican tax scam wherein they
basically just gave wealthy people a
huge huge bonus in terms of tax cuts
there was massive tax cuts for offshored
profits that money came back and of
course it went into the hands of
shareholders we
know that 84% of stocks are owned by 10%
of the country's population despite the
fact that Charlie Kirk would have you
believe otherwise I actually recently
contacted the the author of that study
and he says it has nothing to do except
for her households so but that's for
another day so Fox in France it was
definitely very petty of me to do it Fox
and Friends tried to deal with what a
lot of people are finding out is that
they did not get their their tax returns
and they do not get any tax refund that
they had anticipated and here they're
trying to Slough it off and then they
move into the territory where state and
local taxes are not are no longer fully
deductible which was intended to put
pressure on blue states that actually
collect taxes from its inhabitants to
provide them with services and here's
how that way what taxpayers are
complaining as the average tax refund
drops an average eight percent from last
year but are you actually making less
money here to break it all down for you
and what it means for your wallet
Charles Payne host of making money with
Charles Payne on the Fox Business
Network
so Charles you know people look forward
to their tax refund I've never seen his
show this his whole show is about
basically just come up with some type of
just pick up an ability to recite right
wing talking points and that's how you
can make money is that more or less what
yeah it's like one of those I was a kid
like you can find in like comic books
like you can make money selling
money-making secrets and you would buy
it and it would be basically telling you
just to do what they just did to you
yeah only this one you actually do make
money Oh
getting back the money that they
overpaid to the Fed that govern exactly
you know here's the thing is for the
most part the IRS is telling everyone
that they just simply did not make the
proper adjustments on them with Holdings
at the beginning of the year so they've
been making all this money well it's not
necessarily their mistake
it's it's the your employer or you IRS
actually put a lot of a
they even made it pretty easy to go on
their website and figure it out this is
at the beginning of last year of course
most people didn't do that I said while
people weren't obviously seeing fatter
paychecks they were still counting on
that refund that they always got which
is interesting because you kind of
hinted at it that we would allow you
know the IRS to have like a two thousand
dollar loan our money right yeah because
we overpay so people probably should
consider making these adjustments anyway
unless you want to give the IRS two or
three grand of your money to hold for a
year maybe they can make the interest on
it you won't but usually here's the
problem there's certain things that have
gone forever and that is in these blue
states in in Illinois in New York as
well as Los Angeles New Jersey school
Los Angeles as well as California you
could no longer ride out-of-state local
taxes well there's limits right with the
dassault do Yeah right now that's gone
no more you that's gone that's gone in a
lot of these states are complaining and
listen that's what Governor Cuomo was
meeting with the president yesterday
that's why he was meeting with the
president but you know that these states
have put themselves in a bad predicament
because they have taxed their residents
they've created these these obligations
they've made these promises and they
need to find out some of the taxes that
they can probably address rather than
you know incidentally those promises are
things like health care or decent
education or good roads public
transportation public transportation
maybe food support Medicaid support you
know promises like that government
asking someone in Mississippi you know
to subsidize a millionaire in New York's
New York cities that subsidize their
mortgages New York State should run more
like Texas or run absolute like far
absolutely well yeah hey that brings up
a good point about subsidizing people
across state lines can we bring up that
chart on just who are who are donor
states and who are not let's see what
did they say something here we go
New York let's go down to new
ork here we have New York wow that is 50
you gotta pull it up here because I
can't see which those two go all the way
up just so I can see what share of state
spending federal grants and the share of
state spending I'm not sure how that
let's see ok grants that go down
well there are donor states that's not
the right one but the fact of the matter
is is that we've got let's let's pull up
the donor states things here the five
least dependent states do see mention
New Jersey New Jerseyans receive only
point 48 cents back for every dollar
they pay an income tax Delaware Illinois
mentioned also by do see Minnesota
Kansas New Mexico here we go these are
the least dependent on the the five most
dependent states would be New Mexico
Mississippi Kentucky Alabama then that
guy actually saved Mississippi and
Montana the least dependent would be New
Jersey Delaware Illinois Minnesota and
Kansas there you go it's surprising
about Kansas Kansas surprises me oh this
is 2015 that I'm looking at that's part
of the problem I have a feeling Kansas
has moved on down the list quite a bit
hard to imagine but there you go that's
absurd and the idea that New York
doesn't put back into the federal
government more than it takes out and so
it's not really subsidizing across state
lines it really is just a question of we
have local services subsidizing
billionaires tax cuts and corporate tax
cuts that's basically what it comes down
to
let's go - oh here's uh this is a funny
clip with odd and odd gear Dada's which
one is which here we have two of them we
gonna play both yeah let's play both do
the first one first
so apparently Stephanie ruhle and Annan
gear Dada's got into a twitter exchange
and it's sort of fascinating to watch
this sort of has their is this real
I don't know if I would say compulsion
by certain members of the media probably
across the you know you know outside the
media - to a certain extent but of
course we see it in the media to protect
I guess the I don't know the reputations
of billionaires like I'm not quite sure
what the what is the compulsion here but
maybe it's just some sense of trying to
justify their their broader perspective
I'm not sure I mean Stephanie role seems
somewhat seems somewhat uh sincere here
but I'm not sure they're handmade it's
the power yeah I guess so but they're
not all like this but it seems actually
like it's almost it's almost touching
like like naively like touching but here
dreaming I hear you but I want to share
sort of the tweet that started this
conversation between you and I it's from
former Labor Secretary Robert Wright's
who wrote anyone who has a billion
dollars either exploited a monopoly that
should have been broken up got inside
information unavailable to other
investors bribed some politicians or
inherited the money from their parents
who did one of the above here's my issue
with this argument hate the game not the
player if the argument is if you became
that rich you must be some crooked
criminal posit one second how no pot it
is a game critique tweet well it is yes
the point is in fact he doesn't say they
even be crooked criminal necessarily
there's
one or two I think of that list of four
or five that right read off he's not
saying they're bad people right well
look exploiting a monopoly very well may
be legal in this it's perfectly legal in
the context of our society we had a
whole conversation yesterday why
monopoly is a problematic inheriting
money isn't necessarily make you a bad
person it is problematic with the system
bribing politicians
I don't think Reich med meant that
literally I think it was like campaign
finance donations which the Supreme
Court has said legal I can't remember
what the second one was but it wasn't
basically going in mugging old ladies
here good possibly that rich you must be
some crooked criminal how are we
possibly going to get people how are we
gonna get that powerful class to the
table to be self-reflective to say let's
make sure the world doesn't crumble
beneath me and make things better if
we're strictly demonizing the super-rich
why on earth would they do anything but
build a higher wall around their houses
I don't think that's actually about
demonizing and I think that this is an
argument that it's not demon I don't
live in let me explain why hey let me
explain why if you were a man in
nineteen hundred huh
you could be a good man or you could be
a bad man mmm-hmm
but there was no man in nineteen hundred
it'd n't benefit from the systemic
exclusion and persecution of women in
every job that those women couldn't
compete for in fact that women couldn't
vote for public policies that would be
better for half the country etc amen to
that there were good men and bad men in
that regime but all of them benefited
from an unfair system right so the
argument there is not that all those men
were crooks or who was not and I don't
want to get into you know I I have
gotten to know through my reporting a
lot of billionaires this is never and I
say this again and again not a matter of
individual morality this is about an
immoral system and a system that
prioritizes having billionaires and
letting them keep their billions over
health care for everybody over education
that is as good in the southside of
Chicago
as it is in Greenwich Connecticut it's
not a question of our billionaires bad
people it's we have made a very weird
social decision to allow people to be
billionaires before before dealing with
these other things I mean the that is
the whole idea behind the idea of every
billionaire is a policy failure it is
not every billionaire is the failure of
parents to raise a good kid yeah not
every billionaire is a moral failure
it's a and and the other one was had
access to inside information that others
didn't have that's almost like the
scenic one on a business right how is
but I also wanted you I do want to say
though for what it's worth I agree with
that a hundred percent but I also
haven't seen Stephanie ruhle and maybe
correct me if I'm wrong I haven't seen
her dedicate segments to saying that you
shouldn't be you know moralizing to the
poor because they're financially
disadvantaged we're doing segments and
help like people need to save more so
this you know moralism well there's
activity there's a well there's a lot of
slow flakiness but on my point is in
general I'm at all for it I I'm a
critique the left a lot on this I'm
across the board less moralism less
personalization yeah period including
for people that are my political
economic opponents let's hear the second
clip a lot most people to avail of the
American Dream I'm with you and we have
the this same ultimate goal but if
what's happening right now on the
progressive left is demonizing is to say
it is it should be illegal for Jeff
Bezos to be that rich he's a bad person
this person is a positive way to second
Z this is so frustrated because they
keep imposing this thing that like it
somehow they Jeff Bezos are back who
cares about Jeff Bezos saying that it's
elite should be illegal for Jeff Bezos
to be this rich is also saying it should
be illegal for Stephanie ruhle and for
Sam cedar and for everybody to be that
rich it's not picking on an individual
there's no law that's gonna say Jeff
Bezos
shouldn't be this rich there's a lot
that's gonna say nobody should be
how are we going who said he had bad
person
I don't think Jeff Bezos should be a
billionaire or at least have as many
billions as he have who said he's a bad
person but do you think that my guess is
I've heard he cooks pancakes for guests
at his house everybody's a very nice
person that's what I've heard
doing that doesn't mean I think you
should be a billion let's take em for a
second gear out a way to get those
people to the table because if I turn on
let's say conservative media we run the
risk that we're gonna go down a slippery
slope where Americans are gonna say hold
on are you controlling how much money I
make and that's not the argument you're
trying to make but if we allow a certain
narrative right it's like why is the NRA
as powerful as they are there's tons of
people who are members of the NRA who
want a little bit of gun control but the
NRA convinces them well it's a slippery
slope and if they take bumps talks away
they're coming for your handgun in six
months if we go on a hardcore argument
that rich people gain got these gains
through nefarious ways suddenly we could
hurt this argument where people say you
can't control much money I want to make
I disagree I'll tell you why no time
what lasso sorry who was the last
president who actually did do a little
bit of demonizing FDR called the
malefactors of wealth he was one of them
he was a traitor to his class where's
one of the most noble things people
Obama Obama Cowtown so badly to this
class and what what is what is stunning
about this is that she has a daily
television show if she is worried about
the wrong narrative getting out there
why not just go affirmatively
and deliver the narrative that
billionaires should be illegal but
there's still nice people
he ideology he met with the bankers he
was I am between you and the pitchforks
yes the direct quote and then she's
talking about how in 2011 when he made
this minut pivot literally like I'm
gearing up for re-election and I
probably shouldn't be talking about
cutting Social Security and Medicare and
he went to Kansas and was like well
think about pay people a couple
extra dollars an hour and why can't
there be a private jet tax I think we
all could roll our sleeves up if she
considers that to be demonization that
means she is really on another solar
system well she was raised in a certain
ideology that is still dominant across
the world and especially in the
mainstream media and she's showing it
right here the thing this clip reminds
me of is a thing called imminent
critique Marx is big on this among other
philosophers where basically what that
means is by describing how something
works in a factual way any sort of
reasonable or moral person will extract
some kind of critique from it right so
like he's laying out the facts and she's
taking a moral judgement from it because
she's like oh that sounds bad when you
put it like that she I think there's a
sensitivity to realizing like this makes
it really does it really makes him sound
bad here I mean FDR call the malefactors
of wealth he was one of them
he was a traitor to his class where's
one of the most noble things Bhama did a
lot more with a lot more tempered in his
approach than FDR he did not demonize at
all he talked about you know we need to
have regulation common sense regulate
but there was not a going after we have
not seen Democratic presidents in the
modern era go after malefactors of what
that kind of like yes an FDR used the
political capital that gave him to
actually enact a regulatory apparatus
that served us fairly well in terms of
Finance for decades and I think a little
bit of demonization of people who are
stealing the dream from people it's fine
you know I think what you have
plutocrats like Donald Trump doing is
taking the real anxiety that many
Americans have and instead of actually
leading those Americans to punch up at
the powerful who stole it getting them
to punch out at Mexicans and other
fantasy causes get out the power of
correct and and and stuffing his cabinet
full of them right before they you know
they croak and and so I think what's
really important right now is for a new
politics in this country not about left
and right
but frankly about humanism versus
plutocracy he's doing it pretty well uh
also by the way if Stephanie if Barack
Obama spoke the way FDR spoke about
oligarchs you might not be where you are
because you had a stroke right like you
would have a literal physically
incapacitating response I mean but but
also it's what's typical too is it's
like a caller who disagrees with you
about something but just keeps moving
the goalposts it's like first all right
well he got rid of the whole conflation
of policy of morality well but don't we
all need to be at the table well FDR did
that well so did Obama kind of see the
gears turning in her head though that's
like it's sort of sweet in a way that
she's like a naively there's a certain
naivete and there's also I think sort of
like a realization like you were
suggesting Jaime that like she's
realizing like this is bad skill set
anyway it's it's harassing like this is
bad but I can't think that that's bad
and so I need to sort of like switch
over here and and project on too it's
it's it is fascinating I think we could
be probably I feel like six to eight
months away from from from Stephanie
ruhle basically Jamie you know
presenting different Marxist she is
welcome any time
all right and like maybe I'm just
feeling a little bit more optimistic
than usual today but the fact that she
had that reaction to hearing those
things laid out that instinctual
reaction like that's bad that we can
work with that because there are people
who understand Marx and accept Marx this
description of the world whereby all
value is created by labor exploitation
and resource extraction and all labor is
exploitation and people there are people
who are like yeah that what's what's the
problem that's fine I'm on the side of
the ruling class so the fact that she
had something of a human response
it is good yeah I mean I think she's I
think that project is pretty utopian
let's go to calm from a 6-1 not as
utopian his antitrust six one zero area
code who's this where you come from
watch it's the Phil relax oh my god six
one zero six one zero what's gone six
one zero
let's try come from a four six nine area
code who's this hey Texas hello Jose
what's on your mind oh cool yes
first-time caller longtime listener real
quick shout out to Michael Brooks he's
awesome but uh what's on my mind is well
just you know going into 2020 you know
I'm a young Hispanic kid I here in
Dallas college student you know I'm a
hardcore Bernie supporter and just you
know this past couple days I've seen the
Democrats have done the same old thing
you know go after one of their own for
expressing their opinion on AIPAC and I
know her her tweets were a bit sloppy
but you know with context you know I
feel like they shouldn't have done
condemned her for her actions or for her
words and those kinds of things like
really turned me off from the Democratic
Party like Here I am
I'm involved in elections like I was a
field director I was a deputy field
director for a state rep I raced out
here I'm with an organization here that
I you know knocks on doors and get out
the vote for working-class Latino and
brown people so it's not really what the
Democrats you know we push issues like
health care immigration education and
you know but I'm gonna be voting in the
Democratic primary next year and you
know I think my favorite at Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren and I think you
know I think those kinds of things
issues will be popping up and I'm not
really over 2016 I'm still kind of
stunned but you know I think
those kinds of issues you know keep me
away from the Democratic Party and you
are awesome and I I I would just say
just on a positive note I think the
freaked out about Alana Maher is also a
really positive signal that this
conversation is changing in the
Momentum's actually in a really
different direction the freak out is
what do you mean the freaking oh oh yeah
we there's a definitive Rothkopf service
it was a very mainstream foreign policy
guy you know he used to edit foreign
policy magazine
he said undoubtedly part of why the
emotionalism is so high about this day
underst
it's white-knuckled it's a white-knuckle
meeting and also I have to say APEC
using this to send out a fundraising
letter oh my god yeah I mean I think
it's good at sizes up arrays but a look
I think the I think the best piece I
mean I enjoy seeing like Peter Beinart
being you know scolding right being on
point the tweet was sloppy and there's
sensitivity around there there's a
certain amount of politics that's
involved with it she's a freshman
Congress congresswoman and so you know
she's going to learn how to sort of
thread that needle more and yeah the
Democrats I think reacted more than they
needed to but that is like an area like
frankly you know don't anticipate the
Elizabeth Warren is gonna be
dramatically better on this stuff than
your average Democrat there's no that
she won't
I do think though it's not just a
question that they're just getting money
from AIPAC there's there's there they're
getting money from people outside of
AIPAC there's also a host of other
cognitive capture I mean it's been the I
know plenty of people who you know I
think particularly people who are a bit
you know older it's the good intention
default like I opposed the obscenity of
anti-semitism so I support Israel and I
think now that is actually part of what
I mean by the freakout the
defaulting generously called in too bad
yeah like you know I think the bigger
issue for me is that you know they they
think like young people aren't informed
like we don't know you know different
nuances of the issues like right now I'm
taking a class that's a trump supporter
he's 70 years old and you know we have a
lot of different arguments and he's very
like very Fox and usually very uh
talking point and I have to like break
down issues to him and I think like it
scares him because like he does he
doesn't expect it from a 23 year old
like these kinds of issues I have a lot
of nuances and like we're not just gonna
see it for face value like we're gonna
actually look into it and call your
 out like we have information
information at our fingertips you know
yeah that is so important I think I
actually have to side with Amber frost
on this one when she said that
progressives Social Democrats Bernie
supporters whoever need to toughen up a
little bit and when they try this kind
of disingenuous argument just say like
I'm not here for your you know
and you know you only say that to people
who are doing the wrong thing right
because there are people who are we're
trying to do the right thing right who
might think that this is something that
they need to care about but in this
instance no they don't and people should
be unequivocal about that appreciate the
call definitely this is great what are
you studying column from an 804 area
code who's this where you call them from
hi there can you hear me yes who's this
hi my name is Steve I'm from Florida
hello Steve from Florida what's on your
mind uh so um I'm a longtime listener of
the show love the show big progressive
um and I'm just calling I kind of hate
to bring up the subject but Sam Harris
and I thought you guys would be
interested in a particular article so as
I said or may have said I'm
environmental anthropologists and
there's a particular article about
charles Murray called anthropology in
the bell curve that kind of breaks down
some of the connections that charles
murray has and i thought it'd be
interesting for you guys so basically um
charles murray is connected with this
organization called the pioneer fund
basically his uh his whole book was
funded by the pioneer fund and the
pioneer fund has an interesting history
it was funded by this guy or it was
created by this guy named Harry Laughlin
right who was a bonafide eugenicist
right and he got his degree from
Heidelberg University in 1937
so Heidelberg obviously in Germany so
yeah he was Nazi educated so you know
and if I'm not mistaken he was final
that fund was established to study
basically genetics so it was something
like hereditary and human differences
called um well it was funded by um New
Genesis it was created by you Genesis it
um basically you know it was the hot bed
or the intellectual you know core of the
you Genesis movement in the United
States because also what they called big
bundlers for the Bush campaign were
pioneers to I think now that I remember
it yeah it it's lasted a long time um
but yeah I mean the pioneer fund funded
sending the bell curve to every single
person on the mailing list of the
American Anthropological Association
sociological and psychological
association so they have some some clout
they have a lot of money to blow around
and just the fact that Sam Harris I
don't know if you guys listen to that
entire interview
he did with charles murray but to call
it a softball interview is a as an
understatement it was more of a you know
more of a tongue bath but i have had as
fortunate listening to it because of
this book and it's a fusion i mean first
of all it obviously is confirming all of
sam Harris's pre-existing biases and not
just on race i would say all right on
class and also on the idea that really
complicated hard to understand things
without even putting politics on it
honestly but just historically complex
subjects can be reduced to some type of
simple math so you don't have to write
here anything out that's his quest so if
you follow the logic of what he's doing
even what you're doing by saying hey
here's what the Pioneer fund is that
takes a certain amount of historical
research and contextualization inquiry
not only doesn't he do that he's
actually saying any effort to do that is
like fundamentally wrong headed so it
was Yahoo's what was disgusting and
Charles Murray's the perfect person for
that because he sounds very measured and
you know he knows how to speak in in
quantitative terms yeah he starts out
the entire interview by saying well all
this you know ad hominem attacks against
you were just SJW bien well that's the
whole point he had to have Mon was
because he wasn't having me it was
getting a full airing of this guy's book
which of course not only was was heavily
subsidized but was I think like a cover
story on the New Republic that does it
was a from Sullivan put put on when he
was the publisher back in the days when
Marty what's-his-face Moritz was the the
bigoted publisher of that magazine and
and and actually you know and yeah yeah
and Robert Wright said to me in a
conversation that we did publicly that
you know actually everybody else at the
time in the New Republic even as a
centrist as it was didn't want to do it
oh yeah but Sullivan he said like we
fought but Perret Sullivan muscled it
through
I appreciate the cost which by the way
I'm sure it's only a matter of time now
before someone says it's a Photoshop of
Sam Harris giving Charles Berea tongue
Beth if we if we get lucky so the green
New Deal like I say is gonna head up on
the Senate it's gonna be interesting to
see how people vote on this so we've got
a lot of I don't know how many four out
of five five out of six of the so far
declared presidential candidates have
have you know said they're supportive of
the green New Deal there's a lot of
stuff in there that we're gonna see the
right attempt to scare monger with and
here is a little this is a little teaser
I guess of coming attractions in terms
of what the Republicans are going to say
about the green New Deal it'll be
interesting I mean this is my prediction
all of these memes that we're about to
hear from Senator John Barrasso from
Wyoming are going to be ones that we we
hear in the right wing echo sphere but
hopefully we'll be sequestered there in
fact I think the more insane they get
the the because of the Trump effect
mainstream media is just a little bit
more resistant to this stuff a little
bit but here it is John Barrasso giving
you a coming attractions of all the
things they're going to claim will go
away if we get a green new deal there's
another the green New Deal it's ice
cream livestock will be banned
say goodbye to dairy to beef to family
farms to ranches Americans favorites
like cheeseburgers at a milkshake will
become a thing of the past fun millions
of American workers will lose their jobs
living this green dream is actually a
national nightmare just the energy
portion of the plan alone would cost at
least five point seven trillion dollars
and it's feasibly impossible the
government handouts health care and
other giveaways will cost tens of
trillions of dollars this Green Deal
will bankrupt
the country well as you know it's
impossible to bankrupt the country
because we print our own money but aside
from that it's gonna stuck I I mean why
would the Democrats promote it get rid
of ice cream deal cuz ALCS singer she's
like you don't I think it's gross
burgers and I mean you're all gonna be
eating tofu D yes all the political
capital I have is gonna be spent on
wasabi tofu
I want a trademark soy boy ice cream
right now are they're gonna get rid of
puppies too that's that's that's next no
more puppies livestock like also I like
the line coming from both Democrats and
Republicans on this so far because you
know Pelosi is not a huge fan of the
green dream either as we know that's
like oh yeah we could stave off this
coming apocalypse in ten years that no
one still seems to take very seriously
but like it'd be really expensive and we
have to tax the wealthy so maybe not I'm
really disturbed but I'm just seeing
someone just sent me this tweet that
just came in and it's from the official
prime minister of Israel's account and
the first part is he's apparently
meeting with 60 foreign ministers and
envoys from countries around the world
against Iran
what is important about this meeting is
not is that it's not in secret because
there are those of because many of those
this must be a transcript of what he's
saying that is in an open meeting with
leading representatives in Arab
countries that are sitting down with
Israel in order to advance the common
interest of war with Iran that's
terrifying
and the Gulf and Emiratis are just as
insane as the Israelis on this this guy
is a true menace yeah here is it's an
audio come together to talk about in
order to advance the common interest
this will continue where is the war part
what some oh the common interest of work
with
Wow well no I don't think he says that
well a pack had to get something in
return for its stuffer ring you know
maybe if Alana Omar had not been so
aggressive with their tweets Israel
wouldn't have to feel like they had to
I felt so threatened that we this is
because I was very true this was a
fascinating story that I saw today in
the Washington Post apparently they've
done an autopsy on the Republican caucus
and speaking privately to his donors
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy
squarely blamed Republican losses in
last year's midterm elections on the GOP
push to rollback health insurance
protections for people with pre-existing
conditions and in turn blamed his
party's right flank now this is funny
for a couple of things one I do remember
that Nancy Pelosi you know at one point
was like let's hear it for pre-existing
conditions she was clearly aware of of
what was what was driving that last
midterm election and to a large extent
we saw a lot of people in the lot of
Democrats I mean almost universally
running on health care and at least 50%
of those running on a single-payer
program
what's also funny is to hear mccarthy is
blaming the party's right flank this is
the the freedom caucus he's talking
about but I'm so old I remember when
they were all celebrating together in
the White House rose garden I believe it
was when they passed the first version
or the only version that passed this was
a they tried to pass a replace and
repeal the initial version of that bill
was withdrawn because of the freedom
caucus and Republican moderates
Meadows and representative Tom McArthur
from New Jersey no member of the freedom
caucus crafted an amendment that would
give states the ability I know if we
remember this the ability to basically
waive the protections that the
Affordable Care Act provided one of
those being protections against
discrimination because you had a
pre-existing condition so they are able
to path it to pass it I should also say
that MacArthur had lost his election and
they were able to pass it and this is
the scene that we saw in the Rose Garden
hadn't quite got it through the Senate
yet but let's watch this oh it's it's
it's Kevin McCarthy who's he calling up
there
just walk it away there they are all
very excited are they gonna do any
cheering here what comes up next that's
just it
they're all congratulating themselves
they're all so so happy and apparently
that did not work out so well for them
let's go to the phones come from a 951
area code who's this where you come from
hey guys this is Dylan from California
Dylan from California where you what's
on your mind Dylan um I assume that you
guys are all socialists are you
identified as socialism over another am
i correct there I don't know if I would
identify as a socialist per se but Emily
is socialistic Hawk boom socialistic
name is a cranky Social Democrat love
him anyway
Sam's a SOI boy but go ahead okay well I
was just wondering if there I mean if
we're assuming that like socialism is
democratization of the workplace if
there are any like policies that you
guys advocate for as people that
identify as socialists that promote
socialism in your own workplace or in
other people's workplaces and how that
applies to your business or others I
guess
well that's part of the reason why I'm
not I don't identify as socialism
Farren I did one time float the idea of
turning mr into a co-op and Sam reacted
neutrally I pretended like I did not
hear it
I would totally opt out on that just so
we didn't have to have extra meetings
I've seen what happens just with the
washing of the coffee mugs so I'm going
to pass on the coop idea yeah I bought
my own coffee mug I think it's a I think
it's an interesting I mean I to be
honest with you I don't know how much
some of these concepts to scale apply
advocating in like the you know sort of
small business and the creative economy
kind of like people sort of like paying
themselves and making their way but you
know I think it certainly affects some
of the decisions that I'm not frankly
necessarily gonna get into you know that
are between me and other people but yeah
it affects how I do you know the extent
to which I have i don't really have
people working for me i've people out
contract for a certain amount of
services and affects things it also
affects things with how you know when i
do shirts for my show obviously the type
of labor that's used but obviously mr a
same deal with that of course it affects
things but i think you know i'm not i
think there's a balance between of
course you can't discard your values and
your you know like your day to day but I
also think that like again like these
are really about macro questions and not
people's like kind of small sort of
day-to-day interventions well I think at
the point where it becomes I mean I
agree to a point like lifestyle politics
are bad the place I would personally
draw the line as you know a communist is
becoming a boss no offense to any bosses
in the room or a landlord or a cop like
any anything that like is part of this
systemic structure that enforces private
property for for me at the anti Fattah I
mean we're lucky it's easy to do it this
way so far we do everything ourselves
but we are a three-person cooperative we
split the work three ways we split the
money three ways it's been pretty pretty
good so far
on the macro level like there are laws
that can be passed to encourage the
democratization of the workplace I
believe Jeremy Corbyn has floated one in
in England that would give workers of
every single firm of a certain size the
chance to vote to turn it into a co-op
so that's pretty cool
government actually would issue the
credit to buy the businesses it's
actually there we have a legislation in
this country and I I wonder if it passed
I can't remember exactly who promoted
where I don't know if it was Tammy
Baldwin but if there are family-owned
businesses that are that are being shut
down the government provides low-cost
loans bridge loans to the workers if
they want to turn it into a co-op I mean
so expansion of a program like that on a
bigger level and really the one that the
UK is proposing is super ambitious and
it's totally again it's it's actually
another good example of I guess you want
to call it's not exactly a public option
because it's actually very much in the
private sector but they're not obligated
to do it it's just a if you want to if
you want to take over this medium-sized
enterprise we will back you with the
capital and if you vote for it as a
company and I also and that's actually
another thing to like as far as ethical
consumption goes I don't completely
discard it but I also think like you
know it just kind of is what it is if
you're in the supply chain but one area
that I do try to the extent I can and I
feel so bad I cannot for remember the
beer company right now but like there's
a I don't drink that much beer actually
but like there's a beer company you go
by it Dwayne Reed that Richard Wolff
actually told me it's literally workers
owned in Colorados now I never buy
another brand besides that I'd love to
put my money towards that sort of thing
hmm appreciate the cop that's efficient
yes sorry can I say one more thing sure
our are there any policies that any of
you would advocate for on the micro
level that you feel would benefit
society as a whole or as a cultural as a
cultural change well I would like ours
socialistic policies I'm sorry it's a
new Belgian beer but oh you mean like
beyond like a single-payer type of
system or nationalization of
infrastructure certain infrastructure or
expansion social security or you know I
would I mean I think that we should have
universal pre-k and a at least one
public college option in free public
college option in every state we also I
care I think is a frankly if not I mean
free daycare I think we can do in a
similar fashion to the way that we do
free K through 12 education I mean is
that what you're talking about I mean
that's basically what we do almost every
day no I'm I'm saying apart from actual
policy changes or political changes on a
micro level or I guess what Jamie would
call lifestyle politics are oh yeah we
should watch I'm Jordan everyday people
should become a people I do watch every
day there you go boom you've already
things you do in your own life matter to
you but if we want things to have an
impact in the macro scale we have to do
it together that's why you know
bargaining with your boss is more
effective as the cohesive unit than is
one person that's why climate change
can't be solved just by telling
individual consumers to eat less meat
because the bulk of the emissions are
still coming from a small number of
companies the French Communist
philosopher produce had fall in love
because that's a space outside of market
logic no it's not sorry but do I trust
more than P she appreciate the call fall
in love anyway no actually I would sort
of be thoughtful I think we got the call
and we come from a 705 area code who's
this where he come from
this is a Vinny I'm calling from Ontario
what's up yeah yeah you guys hear me
yeah
can you guys hear me yeah I can what's
up
okay okay it's okay story yeah so it is
you about three new deal I yeah I hear
you guys uh you know talked a lot about
that you know there are lots of there
are lots of things with that where you
know what's - I've been talking about
but I'm talking with like the premise
itself of having you know a huge public
sector intervention like that right is
uh so um yeah are you guys aware with
aware of some mainstream macroeconomic
theories no yeah okay so have you heard
of the crowding out of that the crowding
out effect yes that's a yeah yes I have
yeah so basically the idea behind that
is so when you have this massive amount
of public sector spending right now
expanding within the economy just of the
huge scale as is proposed by aoc and so
many others right what happens is it
temporarily leads to an increase in
interest rates which in the long term
one you calling me corrects itself in
the law how does it how does it how does
it lead to explain how does it lead to
an increase in interest rates so what
happens is when there's so it's like
because that's like that's within the
that's within the models we work with
whenever there's an increase in
investment how does government spending
how does government spending lead to an
increase in interest rates it's a it
increases because it increases the
demand for money right governments spend
money government spending increases
in government spending it increases the
demand for money demand isn't government
spending an increase in the supply of
money no that's what the Federal Reserve
does the federal supply side corrects
itself what you get is you got it isn't
that who said let's just let's let's
just start at the beginning who sets the
interest rates the Federal Reserve
policy open market operations does that
right that's correct
and so for instance when we had that
massive seven hundred billion dollar
stimulus how high did interest rates
jump in this country well as I was
during a period of quantitative easing
are you know what quantitative easing
the quantitative easing came afterwards
but yes I do know what quantitative
easing is that's actually even more
money being pumped into the gut of the
economy yes how did the interest rates
go then the stimulus package didn't
create a rise in interest rates because
quantitative easing with a stick right
so wait a second you're telling me hold
on professor since you're giving us a
macro economics class here so you're
telling me that when the government
spends 700 billion if the Fed basically
creates another trillion dollars as they
did in the quantitative easing 1 and 2
then that keeps interest rates low but
if the government's pay you don't create
another trillion then interest rates go
up because the Fed decides what they're
gonna increase the money supply which
which sort of creasing the equilibrium
so because when the government spends so
you're telling me that when the
government hold on a professor I have a
question I'm raising my hand here so
you're telling me you're telling me that
when the government spends the Fed
decides to increase the money supply
beyond even what the government's
choosing to spend are you saying that's
the same thing Oh
so if they're saying the Federal Reserve
reacts you government policy in many
ways I guess a dozen so in case of
quantitative easing it wasn't just it
wasn't just in reaction to the
government stimulus policy but it was
also just increasing the money supply in
general right just why did they do that
you know you need well they gave it they
gave it they gave it to the banks right
so so the government spent money so so
but the Fed makes the decision on the on
the money supply and you realize that
when they increase the the interest
rates that's because they're trying to
tighten the the money supply right so
you're saying so what you're arguing is
if government spends all this money if
government spends all this money the Fed
is going to need to tighten the monetary
supply and therefore will increase the
price of money which is interest rates
is that what your argument is what did
you do your phone the interest rate
thing is so a big government program
like that all things all else being
equal so without quantitative easing
that would lead to a temporary rise in
the interest rates and then in the long
run when the economy corrects itself it
would be at a lower rate of GDP growth
so that's what's code that's the idea
behind the crowding out of that and
that's why you see it like in Europe
right now they still have to do
quantitative easing because their
economies are so well part of the
problem was that they they practice
austerity instead of stimulating the
economy like we did but so your argument
is what so the crowding out effect
happens and then what degree new deal
with it would accelerate that would
accelerate my argument would accelerate
the crowding out effect and when the
crowding out effect happens what happens
GDP growth decline GDP growth declines
and then what yeah and then that's
that's a bad situation not and that's
what I'm warning you what what is what
happened to me bad what happens in a bad
situation
well there's there's no economic growth
or the economic growth is so minuscule
that it is but I'm saying why did what
happens in a bad situation what does
that mean does that mean that people
don't have jobs is that what you're
arguing yeah yeah in creation more jobs
the creation of more jobs under a green
new deal is gonna create less jobs is
that the argument well I mean most of
those jobs are gonna be contract job and
contract jobs what does that mean that
you're gonna be contracted to do a job
with these it's a project B
it's a project B this someone you have
it so let's say you know you as opposed
to what jobs are you aware of you mean
almost like a service sector service a
service industry job is that what you're
saying oh it's no it's just be project
projects so it would be infrastructure
things that would create economic
activity in other words right like
people aren't just gonna be hired to dig
a ditch and fill it up again they're
gonna build something that is going to
be used in a productive manner correct
well if you do a cost-benefit analysis
on that I am I assume like you I'm also
saying if you do a project like this
needs to actually meet an actual need
that needs to happen it needs to be
realistic the idea that by 2030 we're
gonna completely phase out all petroleum
all nuclear energy and we're going to
replace it with something what happens
right what happens if we attempt to
phase it all out by 2030 and all we do
is phase out 85% of it I mean it would
be interesting to see that scenario but
I don't outlook even that there's way
too ambitious 85 percent what's that
what do you think that what's the proper
ambition that we should have in terms of
this climate crisis um well I think okay
so in in macroeconomics
well don't tell me about good economics
give me a percentage every lesson of
history tells us that number one lesson
that comes out of it you cannot
underestimate humans ability to innovate
to meet their and also not underestimate
one's ability to not use a phone
correctly because they can barely hear
you but are you aware of what the United
States did in terms of its war effort
for instance yeah I'm aware of that you
are so you know the figures in terms of
like you know how much of our GDP we
were able to within the course of nine
months dedicate to basically building
machinery for fur award yeah well what
was I number 45 percent 45 percent of
our GDP at that point was was converted
I mean not overnight it took a year I
think into into creating those weapons
for war so I mean our ability I don't
know I thought your your point is though
well you just use that my point I said
do you want me to tell you yeah yeah
just tell me you say it's too ambitious
by 2030 to hit even 85% of those
benchmarks and I'm telling you that what
we did in gearing up for World War two
in many respects Dwarfs what we're
talking about now yeah but it's a
different situation with the war war you
need there is a fundamental
understanding of this is our this is a
clear objective we have and we're gonna
we're going to do that with the Sun like
green new deal so Adrian will use a
really very vague it's very vague you
don't well no it's not big I mean you
were able to tell me right away that you
thought it was too ambitious and you
were very
licitum what goal you thought was
explicit it's very clear isn't it well I
mean I mean I'm not saying I'm not
saying it's not ambitious but their
consequences of it I'm like I'm not
saying it's too ambitious to be done but
the consequences I'll go you did say
that's to be done but go ahead like
let's say you you create all these okay
so you're able to get on that that
complete let's say you are able to get
that 85% target um in that situation
there so there's questions to be had
would that be able to personal would
that be sustainable what kind of jobs
would emerge as a result of that this
huge government intervention what injury
what what effect would that have on the
private sector I assume it wouldn't be a
positive well you assume that now you'll
be pretty positive if you owned a solar
panel production Factory if you owned a
a windmill factory it would be pretty
productive if you did not have to pay
the extraordinary amount of money that
is involved in the health care because
of the burning of fossil fuels it would
be productive in all of the huge amount
of savings that you would save relative
to what we anticipate the costs of
further global warming will be you could
save money on your military expenditures
because of the destabilization of the
planet that would not take place we
can't even yes there's so many questions
we don't know you can't plan a nobility
of Adriane yeah I don't know will you
mean by viability the the wind is going
to be there the Sun is still going to be
that well no it's not actually you
should do a little more research now
that you've finished your economics
studies into the viability of things
like solar and wind and other renewables
plus when you think of all the
incredible technology that just came out
of ours pursuing going to the moon and
how
many technologies that emanated out from
that all the questions are we don't even
know all the incredible amount of
benefits that are gonna come from we do
know costs right now I'm not doing it
and that would that put up you you're
just proving my point before that yes
you can't underestimate humans the
markets private sectors ability to
innovate to serve the best interests so
so you're bad in your survival
let me just let me just get this
straight your bed is we should not
address climate change because
ultimately there's a good chance the
market may come up with a solution
however what we've seen is the market
has yet to do that and we are already
experiencing the problems of climate
change the private sector has spent
probably billions of dollars to keep
itself from being regulated for exactly
this purpose Danny what do you think of
a my man Elon Musk
I mean III like I like I like him as a
person I like him and I think he's a
good CEO and a good wage he made there
is with when Tesla had negative earnings
their market capitalization was able to
beat that of most major traditional
automakers so what does that tell you
that tells you that Wall Street is
neutral and backers are able are able to
see that this is where the ship that
this is a ship that's happening and the
fact that they understood that even over
rid you know any volatility in Tesla's
financial financial you know setting yes
Tesla's actually failing as a company
the only reason that they got decent
initial evaluations precisely actually
Elon is literally the king of government
contracts you got to research how he
makes his money and if that company
survived I mean I mean really get funded
by a sovereign wealth fund from the Gulf
dude like you need to I'm I'm actually
embarrassed for market arguments right
now I know people who argue
things I fundamentally disagree with
regularly who did better than you sad
little energy come better next time
but do you appreciate your questioning
our narrative narrative was deeply
reaffirmed it's 2:15 so we're talking
about Armageddon here so even if fixing
it did wreck the economy as we currently
know it and we had to find a new
economic system it'd be worth it in my
book to save the human race you just sew
Armageddon phobic I think undermine
underestimate Armageddon from a cap cap
market perspective Goldman responded to
vas breaking Arvika in startups
Armageddon is an opportunity for
investment
I like Elon Musk as a person though
that's a hot take here's Chris Murphy
this is interesting to me see Chris
Murphy come out and and well should we
do that yeah we do get a get going at
2:15 okay alright we'll do this tomorrow
and Friday as well I'm sorry folks
there's any of these that you can I get
to these tomorrow you don't want now you
can get to Chuck Schumer was honestly
nauseating but why why bother with that
right now
all right folks I'm afraid that's it we
have for tonight for all the time we
have for today and got a hard out at
2:15 today we will be back at tomorrow
and then of course Friday and for more
of our narrative infringing program
going forward alright see you tomorrow
in that state
[Music]
to get to where I want
No
I'm going
I was
[Music]
yeah
take it
[Music]
I could see where the choice is made so
the option where you tell get paid
for the road
they're fans before
brakes
I guess fell off sweet ride
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
stay
[Music]
