guys this is maybe the most horrifying
book cover I've ever seen in my life
there's no way I mean I'll look it up on
meat only this happen toxicology the
book contains the most important
information nuggets and his daughter oh
look at and he's behind his daughter
okay I'm looking off in the distance I'm
Michaela my daughter it's a fantastic
piece of ass it looks like a Chuck
tingle bug there's no way this is true
this cannot be real
no it's a it's actually for free on
Kindle unlimited right now this is a
actual cover of an actual book are you
serious here's the here's the page you
can get it well it's only got seven
rating so far because it might not be
out yet guys this is a cover that
someone put out with their approval and
design for real graphic designers my
parents like analyzing her breasts but
it seems like that one on the left is
not in the actual it looks like the bra
was photoshopped on you know like I was
out sunbathing with my daughter and
we're Tasha's behinds eating only raw
pig meat increases libido Michaela so
many salami yeah only it's salami
exclusively we should probably
superimpose a bra over breasts oh wow we
got to read the copier really finely
inappropriate use of the word yikes
can I read can I just say before we do
this I had to read some of Jordan
Peterson's like actual book for my book
and there's this great section where he
explains why he left Freud and realized
there were more answers and young and he
was just like you know and and to his
credit he used to care about important
stuff he used to be obsessed with the
arms race and the idea of there being a
nuclear arm again right and he said and
he goes and he says this whole thing
about how he's one of his cousin's when
he was a little kid and and she was the
most beautiful girl I had ever
and all the stuff and then he said that
he had a dream where they were sitting
in a living room together and they were
watching TV or something and then an
atom bomb exploded and and woke up and
and then the he's like and the Freudians
kept trying to tell me it was sexual but
it wasn't it was about the apocalypse
[Laughter]
all right let's read this book yeah we
need to read this copy so uh we were I
just want to keep saying this we're a
hot we're really thinking that this is
real that this is this is on Amazon's
website sorry there's a podcast
interview with Eve or Cummins this is a
joke this book contains a podcast
interview with Eve or Cummins this has
to be this book contains the most
important information nuggets by dr.
Jordan Peterson and his daughter Mikayla
Peterson regarding their carnivore diet
or their quote lion diet forever
paperbacks old Michaela and her father
Jordan dr. Jordan Pierson they put dr.
Jordan Peterson and every single line
will receive $1 directly this book
offers 11 chapters of revised
transcripts and blog posts by Michaela
Peterson on how they cured their disease
depression and health issues with the
carnivore diet and how ill people could
start this kind of eating as well
this is that is gross if this is real I
mean this is I mean they really do
believe all of these things yeah no I
think this is real this is it's
independent one star Wow the first
review not happy another pseudo
scientific fad diet riding on the
coattails of her father Jordan Peterson
a Canadian psychologist who somehow
became an internet celebrity for
refusing to use gender pronouns of
students that is a summation of his
career Michaela Peterson is pushing just
what the world needs another unhealthy
fad diet claiming to be a Nostrum
formalities yeah exactly and got it
right okay this is better five stars
such important information I have been
following Michaela and Jordan Peterson
regarding their carnivore diets for
quite some time
it's a controversial approach due to the
prevailing beliefs that eating red meat
is detrimental to human health and that
a plant-based diet is optimal I
acknowledge that the results for the
Petersons are largely anecdotal however
the evidence is growing across well
across a larger population that a meat
only diet is largely beneficial these
people are all gonna have major for for
more background see meat heels cough in
addition I belong to several carnivore
right only Facebook groups hello Mark
Zuckerberg remembers try the diet and
report their results many of them have
been very compelling including a weight
loss I've found out that a relief from
depression and mental fog and addressing
type 2 diabetes and autoimmune
conditions overall the most diet pipe
and get my pipe overall health and
vitality oh I'm glad overall health it's
really great to have all this
information in one place in write that I
mean that's disgusting actually
like that's real if Jordan piece is a
bad person and his daughter's bad too
there's a lot coming from Matt cuz it's
mostly McDonald's McDonald's three times
a week diets are under ten dollars for a
meal these days seen a lot of health and
vitality out of that and so Michaela and
I couldn't keep up with our schedule of
reviewing old George Orwell also so we
needed to immediately change your diet
face in Brooklyn a large coke is the
same price as a medium the efficient
decision the right decision to get the
larger option and that'll provide you
good energy base for recording a pocket
prevailing believe that sugar is bad for
you in large amounts like that is being
overturned by more evidence every day I
found that I've actually been able to
worried a lot more books about the Salem
witch trials
well this is a politically correct
scientists call over the 704 area code
who are you
