[Music]
let's just briefly talk about the other
a big story today yesterday
Trek's it that's what I call it that's
about you had two checks it she had a
choice of tricks I mean it's harissa may
I think what that what was it EB white
book with profile encourage so it was
talked about a profile and not courage
right I mean Teresa may at any point
could have said like look we're not
doing this or this was very silly
bothell yeah bad I tried to split the
baby guess what the baby died but first
me here she is Teresa may 10 during her
resignation and we'll see who succeeds
her but man things are messed up I
believe it was right to persevere even
when the odds against success seemed
high but it is now clear to me that is
it it is in the best interests of the
country for a new prime minister to lead
that effort so I am today announcing
that I will resign as leader of the
conservative and unionist party on
Friday the 7th of June so that a
successor can be chosen I've agreed with
the party chairman and with the chairman
of the 1922 committee that the process
for electing a new leader should begin
in the following week I have kept her
Majesty the Queen fully informed of my
intentions and I will continue to serve
as her prime minister until the process
has concluded it is and will always
remain a matter of deep regret to me
that I have not been able to deliver
brexit it will be for my successor to
seek a way forward that honors the
result of the referendum to succeed he
or she will have to find consensus in
Parliament where I have not
such a consensus can only be reached if
those on all sides of the debate are
willing to compromise III mean I don't
follow exactly what happens next that we
get I think they EU gave him till
October 8th until October the Tories
will have an election and Boris Johnson
will probably take over who is I mean
he's much more he's a career politician
I think he is more genuinely glib and
intelligent and calculated but he is a
trump --is-- to figure there's parallels
there I think I'll just say I know we
know if - maybe Owen Jones will get to
this in the clip but I would look up the
Windrush generation I would remember the
gren fall tower burning and just to say
that like I always say this but brexit
is a crisis but there's the structural
crisis of what's happened since
conservatives took over Britain in 2010
has rat I mean there's a new UN report
so I can have 14 million people in
poverty in the UK Wow and here is uh
Owen Jones laying out her awful record
just in case you had a moments of
sympathy for her here he lays it out on
politics live I feel less than I
sympathy I think of the people that she
has cruelly treated if any sympathy is
to be expended today it should be for
the windless Britons who because of her
were kicked out of our homes denied
medical care deported from their own
country it should be for the children
who have been driven into poverty at the
fastest rate since 1988 it should be the
disabled people are having their
benefits stripped away it should be the
victims of universal credit whose lives
are being destroyed it should be the
people driven to food banks because of
her policies and I wish we would spend
far more time in the media discussing
talking of sympathy rather than
expending it on the powerful who will
live a fluent and comfortable lives to
the day they die rather than people
driven into hardship and insecurity and
misery because of their policies and
that's the root of the turmoil of this
country she is the only leeway I'll give
her if she is just one of many
architects this is a team effort by a
Conservative Party which over the last
decade has plunged Britain into the
worse turmoil in peacetime and for that
I think they will be she and her
colleagues will be done by history you
know it's a real shame to hear that kind
of hate speech and his complete lack of
sympathy how sad
her family members must be how she's
going to she's gonna have to move right
she's gonna have eleven down even
salt-tolerant that's so one of the most
stressful times
and thrive and loss of a job I mean can
you imagine both the loss of a job and
having to move out of what is 11 they're
12 10 Downing Street and I think of from
her practice who she opposed brexit and
then saw a brilliant opportunity to
actually leverage herself forward in
politics by supporting no sim now it's
blown up in her face no sympathy really
very harsh when you look at wind rush
it's I mean it is an analog obviously to
any number of Trump administration
policies and you're talking about people
that came from the Caribbean as early as
like the 50s yeah just being basically
told out of nowhere like oh we decided
you don't have the paperwork anymore you
could get deported sent back to a place
you haven't lived in for you know 40 or
50 years and you've done absolutely as
Lara as a Lamy who's an MP there he said
you know he's pushing for amnesty but
he's like I have a problem with that
word because they've done they've got a
wrong right
so Trek's it hopefully we don't go well
Britain doesn't end up you know from the
frying pan into the fire because it but
if a gum bucket it's gonna be Corman
Johnson that's that's gonna be a quite
vivid choice there
