[Music]
somebody mentioned do you think we're
gonna carry the Senate in 20 in 2020
it's gonna be tough part of the reason
is we're probably gonna lose the senator
in Alabama now I don't know for sure
Doug Jones got in there it was a special
election and he's up for re-election I
believe in 2020 if I'm not mistaken but
good for him
while he's in there to go on Face the
Nation just as the Democrats in the
Senate and the house have introduced a
bill to read to to provide a formula a
new formula for section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act which essentially gutted the
Voting Rights Act when the Supreme Court
ruled that there was no proof that these
formerly racist states are still racist
and then of course like literally within
months there was proof that half of them
were racist again via lawsuits and
whatnot in terms of their voting
restrictions but here is Doug Jones
basically saying we need to reinstitute
the Voting Rights Act backsliding that's
raised you use particularly on the
Voting Rights - these days who do you
blame for that well I think it's a
combination of things I mean I think
that we've had some losses in the courts
but I also think it's a political power
grab right now where people are trying
to gerrymander districts where people
are trying to prevent people to the
right to vote give them free access to
the vote we need to be expanding the
voter rolls and trying to get people to
the vote we need to be pushing the
percentage of Americans up who are who
will to vote on Election Day and instead
we seem to be working and the powers
that be seem to be constricting that and
I think we've got to change that there's
a new bill pending right now introduced
last week on the voter enhancement try
to put some teeth back in the Voting
Rights Act who do you blame for this
well you know I think if you hit look at
carefully you have to look at the state
legislatures governors and members of
Congress that are Republicans for why
ever reason they do not want
african-americans and other minorities
to vote
I assume rather than rather than trying
to get those votes they seem to want to
restrict those votes and I think that
that's incredibly unfortunate we need to
have more dialogues in this country
rather than monologues and then we can
do it about Voting Rights Act we talk a
good game about everybody having a right
to vote in a duty to vote but at the end
of the day we seem to be working to try
to restrict that and that's just law I
mean that you know he's got to do a lot
of we and the powers that be and this
and that but when he got push came to
shove he was one to call out exactly and
everybody knows it
I mean they don't put it in their
platform but they certainly every
Republican intellectual has said like we
do better when there's no voting yet
that Wisconsin lawmaker was like oh this
this voter suppression this is gonna get
us one or two points in the general
election guess what it did pretty
important ones too yeah what was the
difference in Wisconsin 7,000 or 12,000
in the presidential election 22,000 in
Wisconsin Wisconsin are you sure about
that oh yeah yeah it was I'm sorry was
12,000 in Michigan 22,000 that's still
it's chump change
