I think Michael Cohen the difference
between a guy who's like a small-town
scamster crook who wants to make money
definitely pretty sleazy but he doesn't
want to ruin the country he doesn't want
to completely destroy the United States
institutionally and I think just even
the contrast of you know a minuchin or a
Gary Cohen who at the end of the day
they don't they what happened in
Charlottesville and the overt support
for white supremists terrorism pales in
comparison to giving themselves tax cuts
evicting people from their homes you
know the whole just orgy of greed and
expropriation of Wall Street and
Republican and often democratic politics
that they buy into
I think Shultz will actually disturb
Michael Cohen on some level certainly
more than his cohort and he also of
course I mean it's on a surprise to
everybody but it was important to
underline like yes of course this guy is
racist of course this guy is a bigot
this didn't get as much play but I think
this is also pretty significant and
certainly in my mind this has been a
real worry to me because I think and of
course you know we still gotta do what
we got to do and obviously we need to
get Donald Trump needs to be defeated in
this next election that's absolutely
essential but I think what Michael Cohen
said here is a confirmation of a very
real concern about what might happen in
a transition period given my experience
working for mr. Trump I fear that if he
loses the election in 2020 that there
will never be a peaceful transition of
power and I don't know what that entails
I doubt that Donald Trump has the
strategic capacity or the you know
mental acuity and the United States does
have a lot of institutional
circuit-breakers this is important when
we need to get subtle here in terms of
how we break some of these things down
the United States is not a democracy it
is an oligarchy and that has been dumb
straighted by the Princeton research and
the country has it as at least for the
past several decades then fundamentally
in control of moneyed interests nothing
fundamentally has gone against their way
and then of course before that you
literally have an American apartheid
state in a significant part of the
country all right so I'm not I'm not
gonna naively so America was this great
democracy and Trump that's a historical
that's ridiculous that's naive that's
inaccurate it erases a huge amount of
empirical reality in history conversely
it would be very diluted and very wrong
to not recognize that in certain
institutional senses there are circuit
breakers on as an example you know
Richard Nixon just saying no not gonna
leave I'm not taking a helicopter out of
the out of office right and unlike in
his time the Republican Party of course
is never gonna tell Donald Trump you
have to leave they're never gonna
they're there they are lockstep 100%
behind him we've said that from the
beginning and it seems like maybe some
people are catching up on that but
conversely you know his ability to be in
a transition and call up the head of the
Joint Chiefs and say we're gonna fortify
the White House and I'm not going to me
is a very far-fetched
you know profoundly unlikely scenario
but will he instigate violence from his
supporters on Twitter
I would imagine almost definitely god
forbid could he set off an international
crisis highly possible so this is
something institutionally to really
think about because there's
maasai mean and of course I think it we
will see a repeat of every other cycle
with him he the first thing he might
come out and graciously concede and then
the next day say we're gonna do a
process and then there'll be a million
dumb well here while he finally became
president right but then a day later
he'll wait for the right wing to figure
out some sort of weird little conspiracy
theory wait a second what is saying what
are these guys saying so when you think
about it those 60 vote the 60 million
votes weren't real
it was a computer simulation by the
one-world government that Alex Jones
said and it was sterling and so I'm
gonna stay in the White House so people
need to be not only mindful of that and
wary of that but also again really
reaffirmed and this is an area where you
can't make these cheap direct analogies
the Democratic Party there's a fight
inside the Democratic Party and the
right people might absolutely lose we
might also win and there's plenty of
Democrats that are awful and there's one
political party that is a non democratic
party even in a very narrow and liberal
sense right and that's a meaningful
distinction they might after they've
done all the stuff they can do to
suppress votes and disenfranchise people
and of course in North Carolina we saw
the actual theft
they're certainly willing to cross those
lines very aggressively but you can
maybe say most Republicans are it's
they're like air to wine and Turkey
maybe most Republicans are still willing
on some level to say all right go to the
polls have a vote but once we win and
when we win by we could use whatever
means possible including systemic
disenfranchisement and suppression
that's it we have power and so it
doesn't surprise me that's what the
Republican Party is and if it surprises
you you weren't aware of what it was but
it's very important to underline this
because the threat of that statement
isn't just Donald Trump is a nutcase who
knows what he'll do
a thread of that statement is what
institutionally the Republican Party
will do and how much they will indulge
their base all right
