[Music]
I'm trying to read a little bit more up
about Palantir and I gotta be honest
with you I follow a you know Barrett
Brown on on Twitter and he's it seems as
far as I can tell is has waited the most
deeply into this territory but I have
not followed these stories enough to
sort of really understand really all the
players and what's going on and you know
I just trying to catch up on it and I
cannot but it's it's fascinating to see
you know really this company Palantir
which I think has been involved in so
many insidious things over the years
like a private spying company and makes
me wonder what Peter Thiel is up to I
mean to a certain extent understand you
know and I've said this before we just a
lot of times see the shadows of stuff
and when you see Peter Thiel going after
Google it just makes me believe that
he's got some type of like search
product that he wants to launch the key
with this is to let the Giants fight and
hope that that both of them are so
injured at the end that some of us
little portions can maybe can maybe to
restrain them in their weakened state
but this is pretty fascinating this is
on CNBC you have the Palantir co-founder
Joe Lonsdale defending his other
co-founder Peter Thiel's comments
against Google saying Google is clearly
not a patriotic company I Got News for
you none of these companies are
patriotic but good Google's in a tough
situation because there are a lot of
people at Google or
a culture here that's not very
nationalists and China is in a very
nationalist place so yeah I think that I
think that Google probably needs to
reevaluate what it's doing and Peter and
I built a very patriotic company Google
is clearly not a patriotic company not a
patriotic company that's kind of
dangerous and an alarming language to my
ear who's american enough what's
unpatriotic about Google well you know
Google comes from a culture that comes
from an academic culture and you talked
to the deans of engineering at top
schools and they're worried about this
too there's there's a culture where
there's there that you know people in
the universities there's they want to be
open they want to share with the whole
world and there's nationalists and China
coming and taking whatever they can
learn and taking it back and using it
for their own nationalist purposes where
that's really not how we think about the
world is two very different cultures
that are clashing right here and when
you work with China you have to be
nationalist you have to help the
government when you work with America we
have a country where you're allowed to
push back and we're people from that
culture do push back so it's a tough
situation there in Joe I mean is there
evidence there's a reason to believe
that for example foreign intelligence
agencies have actually infiltrated
Google Oh everything everyone in the
valley knows that the Chinese government
is very involved there when you talk to
people who are senior at Google
the reason at first they didn't want to
go into China was cause anyway think
would be stolen at this point they know
everything stolen anyway it's not this
is not a secret like we've added all of
our companies Chinese spies that are
caught something we don't talk about a
lot but this is just a regularly known
thing in Silicon Valley's it's very
clear what Peters saying is something
that we just we know but I guess it's
not really discussed so I think it was
very courageous um thing to talk about
it all right let me just say this I do
think there's an argument that there are
some critical infrastructure and
technologies that we need to keep as
national secrets and national products
but the way to do that is government
regulation not nationalistic programs
not private corporations that claim that
they're patriotic and therefore then we
give them a pass on all the other
insidious horrible things that they do
in the name of patriotism companies are
not patriotic
they're not anything they are machines
they're like like sharks they're killing
machines except for they just eat up
profit they don't care what spews out
the other end or the sides or any of it
we should not expect any company to be
patriotic if we feel there are secrets
that are important to the infrastructure
and the national security of this
country then we should either
nationalize those things or regulate
them to the point where they might as
well be nationalized I totally agree and
I just want to say this not for point of
making like you know who we're
hypocrites but also this is childish I
mean the United States and definitely
act junk companies does very much the
same thing well with regards to
offensive spying if we go back to the
NSA revelations we aggressively spied I
mean look it's easier when you say like
okay maybe China there's a some parity
in that relationship but we're doing
that too I mean one of the places we
spied on most aggressively is Brazil
that means a lot to me and there's no I
have no doubt in my mind that the United
States played a role in everything
that's happened there because of oil
privatization without a doubt I'm not
demonizing China for doing what I'm
saying this is the reality of the world
that we live exactly and we should have
a national security with critical
infrastructure we should probably also
do this with our food supply there
should be a whole host of things and
certainly we do this stuff and these
other countries I would encourage also
to do the same definitely the part of
the reason why I have an issue with any
interference in our elections in this
country is the exact same reason why I
have an issue with the interference of
our elections by us in other elections
well I like the ROE Khanna bill and that
he you think he introduced in 2017 which
is that in addition to contaminant er
Fearon sin our elections that the the
CIA should follow the protocol that we
demand be observed in our country right
I like that as the methodology yeah and
I just want to say among many other
things Palantir according to report and
Fast Company email shows
ice uses Palantir technology to detain
undocumented immigrants so I mean that's
no surprise obviously this is
sociopathic growth I mean that's like
the day that's like the model used for
theirs that's their core business model
so that and Trump ran with that so this
is literally like contract dog whistling
to a specific customer all right
