[Music]
let's start with Stephanopoulos Jim
Jordan the the brave wrestling coach who
ignored reports from his team that there
was a doctor of physical therapists who
was attempting and in some instances
successfully sexually molesting them
turns out there was something like what
1500 was it 150
many many cases Jim Jordan couldn't be
bothered but here he is on George
Stephanopoulos is program ABC this week
this was this Sunday I guess I don't
know why someone like that can
continually get back invited onto even
though he won a obviously a
congressional seat but here is Jim
Jordan and he's got a story to tell
about Donald Trump's basically extorting
Ukraine to a to get dirt on his opponent
so I still haven't got an answer to the
question is it appropriate for the
president to ask China to investigate
Joe Biden I think he's got you guys all
spun up and obvious I don't think he
really meant go investigate cuz I do you
think China's gonna investigate him I
don't know if China's gonna ask him but
I know they're not George come on why
can't you answer yes or no do you think
it's appropriate I don't because I don't
think that's what he did I don't think
that's wise it's oh one second first of
all why do we assume that China wouldn't
develop a storyline about anybody
why didn't why do we assume that China
at this point now that they've been
invited to do so I didn't even need an
indentation
why wouldn't we think that they I mean
certainly we would do this why would we
think that they're not sitting around
going like it's in our best interest for
Bernie Sanders
to win or it's in our best interest for
Donald Trump to win or Joe Walsh to do
well in the debt in the Republican
primary or I want Amy Klobuchar and so
they just come up with the dossier and
stuff that implicates whoever they
perceive as being an opponent to the any
of those interests to me why the the
point isn't what we think China is going
to do the point is what the President
did I don't take the president seriously
George but here let's go but it was
right there on camera I think I think
senator Rubio had it exactly right i
think i think our side says that this is
exactly what i think most americans say
this is exactly what the president was
doing you would think after like i said
a few years of following this present
you would understand sort of how this
guy communicates i think that's what
he's doing you're still not answering
the question
if the president is asking trying to
investigate which he did right there is
that appropriate is that an abusive
president i think when the president is
and this is why it relates to Ukraine I
think when the president is trying to
make sure that there is not corruption
that if we're going to be sending the
hard-earned tax dollars of the American
people to Ukraine to help them fight
Russia to help them get their country
moving in the direction they need to get
the security assistance they need I
think he believes that we should make
sure there's not corruption there it's
not them it's not president Trump's
fault that that Joe Biden's son was
hired by a company that mr. Volker told
us this Thursday when we had him in for
the interview the ambassador the special
envoy to Ukraine it's not president
Trump's fault that Joe Biden's son was
hired by BER yzma this company that had
a long history of corruption I think the
president when he's when he's trying to
decide how American tax dollars are
going to be spent and what countries
they're actually going to go to it's his
job to make sure there's not corruption
so when the Vice President son is hired
by this company that mr. Volker told us
had a long history of corruption was was
linked to the to the to the government
in Ukraine I think that's the president
doing his job so you think it was
appropriate for the president ask
Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden do you
know of any other instances where the
president has called on foreign leaders
to investigate corruption that did not
involve that one of his political rivals
George we heard from the ambassador for
hours this Thursday and the ambassador
told
there was no quid pro quo there was no
linkage between any type of security
assistance money and any type of
investigation the Ambassador was clear
we have the transcript where there is no
quit even Democrat chairman said after
reading the transcript even though
before they got the transcript they said
there's going to be a quid pro quo okay
we don't need to hear the rest of his
story I have very little doubt that he's
lying in characterizing that behind the
closed door testimony from Volcker we've
seen yesterday a Friday I read all the
the the the text messages back and forth
that's all we need
but Jim Jordan and you know kudos to him
George Stephanopoulos let him repeat his
fictional little thing over and over and
over again that's how you do it folks
that's why he goes on to say you know
like why would you go on and embarrass
yourself like oh the president's just
saying that stuff it's just like a bank
shot but let me reiterate this thing but
if that's the reason why Donald Trump
supposedly called because of burry smih
he was concerned about with hunter Biden
knows he didn't say anything about Joe
Biden what happened to what Jim Jordan
was on about with Jake Tapper just a
couple of days earlier that there was a
whole nother conspiracy involving the
2016 election so things you really think
they're very people wait a minute so
where did you learn the president lawyer
had to come I think that you came in
here and leveled a bunch of accusations
and allegations about I just said the
facts he was paid by a foreign company
yeah he was very hyper asthma but Joe
Biden was trying to get a prosecutor who
was not pursuing corruption fired it was
amazing it was a sixth you guys will go
through to defend what that you've I
spent I would somebody who's been
accused of things in the last year into
would be more sensitive about throwing
out wild allegation not throwing out the
facts you what the prosecutor was not
pursuing corruption that's why the
entire West wanted him fired including
anti-corruption activist
in Ukraine I don't understand what you
don't get about that well now he goes on
after that now you get with it he goes
on after that to talk about a complete
conspiracy theory involving the Biden's
but there it is I mean there's Jim
Jordan he's he's he's doing his job
he's doing a good job at it I gotta say
if I didn't have background on any of
this stuff I would believe him in both
of these clips he's getting that message
across the rest of the stuff is just
sort of a crosstalk
