I really don't want to do this I really
don't want to do this but we got to do
it we got to do it and and you know what
I'm so annoyed that I've got to do this
but my I you know I don't know if my
daughter is a fan of Ellen's right now I
mean I know that she's talked about
Ellen in the past and this is why this
is important this is why this is
important because it takes very little
time we used to get gore Vidal used to
come on the show the majority report on
air America you come into studio and I
think around the time that he had
written the United States of amnesia and
I couldn't quite get what he was talking
about I mean I understood what he was
saying but I didn't I didn't really
genuinely feel it and I think part of it
was that I was not engaged in politics
you know in 2004-2005 to the extent that
I have been now I've been doing this for
15 years on a professional basis looking
everyday at the news and so I'm hyper
conscious to the fact of how quickly
people forget certain realities and
that's why we got to do this
this is Ellen DeGeneres this is just a
picture is it still yeah this is still
shot of her at a football game
with George Bush and Laura Bush now you
could probably say criticize people you
know in the same way like Michelle Obama
big fan of George Bush's because he give
her mint now there's different pressures
on Michelle Obama than there is uh
nellen right I mean Michelle Obama
you've got to sort of maintain there is
a civic sort of duty to maintain some
semblance between presidents of like
some type of
you know nonviolent transfer of power
type of stuff but nevertheless I would
criticize Michelle Obama for this and I
criticize Barack Obama for not
impeaching the guy and for trying to
turn the page instead of looking back on
things like torture instead of looking
back on things like bringing this
country into a war where we were
responsible for the deaths of hundreds
of thousands of civilians probably in
some level you could probably track it
just to the hundred who died this week
the 6,000 who were injured and you know
what Jane would not take the candy
exactly and so it's not just Ellen but
Ellen's the latest so we're gonna talk
about it
here she is she goes on her show I will
remind you to and maybe Ellen's only
referring to this but I watched George
Bush go on national television a prime
time to address to the country on how he
had to change the Constitution to make
sure that gay people were not allowed to
get married and have the 1900 rights
that are attributed to married people in
this country but maybe she's not
thinking at all of the the thousands of
hundreds of thousands of innocent
civilians who are killed these are by
our own Defense Department numbers I'm
giving you two I'm giving you the
conservative numbers four million
refugees two million external two
million internal here is Ellen DeGeneres
talking about the haters who have an
issue with the fact that I hung out with
George Bush during the game they showed
a shot of George and me laughing
together and so
people were upset they thought why is a
gay Hollywood liberal sitting next to a
conservative Republican president didn't
even notice I'm holding the brand new
iPhone 11 but a lot of people were mad
and they did what people do when they're
mad they tweet and but here's one tweet
that I loved this person says Ellen and
George Bush together makes me have faith
in America again
here's the thing I'm friends with George
Bush in fact I'm friends with a lot of
people who don't share the same beliefs
that I have we're all different and I
think that we've forgotten that that's
okay that we're all different for
instance I wish people wouldn't wear fur
I don't like it but but I'm friends with
people who wear fur and I'm friends with
people who are furry as a matter of fact
I have friends who should tweeze more
and I I have but just because I don't
agree with someone on everything doesn't
mean that I'm not going to be friends
with them when I say be kind to one
another I don't mean only the people
that think the same way that you do I
mean be kind to everyone I wonder if she
really means I mean I wonder if she
means that would you be kind to someone
who you know to be a serial rapist would
you be kind to someone that you know to
be a serial murderer
my guess is well maybe maybe if they
were would it would you be kind to
someone who you saw beating a child
maybe if we went to the same Country
Club well I mean I mean I'm curious
maybe maybe she has the ability to be
kind to every every human being even the
most even Hitler I would be kind to I
would hang out and laugh at a football
game at Hitler now I know I'm using an
extreme but my point is is like there
must be a line where you determine that
you will not be kind to someone that it
is actually unhelpful to a better
society to show that you can get along
with them unhelpful to endorse them by
being around them and if there is a line
then what we're doing is we're arguing
what constitutes someone who has passed
that line and I would argue that someone
who allowed promoted protected the
United States becoming a torturer nation
I would argue that someone who lied the
country into a war that killed a
hundred thousand plus innocent civilians
I would argue that someone who expanded
the ability for us to be surveilled I
would argue that the person who ignored
warnings about a terrorist attack to hit
the United States I would say that
person crosses the line for me and if
Ellen got up there and said like look I
can forgive the killing of the hundred
thousand plus civilians and I can
forgive the torture or I have a problem
with it but that doesn't mean that if
I'm gonna get in the way of me having
fun with that person that would be the
honest response but basically what she's
doing is burying history burying truth
and that's what I have a problem with
you know I bet she wasn't even thinking
about all the bodies he's got on him
when she said that I bet she was
thinking about like the gay marriage
stuff yeah I I think she was I think she
was and you know what on some level like
I can understand that
I can understand like you know saying
that like people evolve you could
pretend that it was you know he evolved
as opposed to just like was leveraging
it for his own personal gain but I mean
I I don't know that I would do it but if
if that's what she's talking about
but she's ignoring the the the
incredible human suffering and toll that
this guy presided over and just complete
not even ignoring it
she is eliminating it acting like it's
were upset because we want a police
George Bush for Thought crime like this
isn't about sharing beliefs with him
this is about him acting on those
beliefs as the most powerful person in
the world yeah I mean he harmed this
country Donald Trump would not exist but
for george w bush and if you dislike
donald trump
maybe you should dislike the one who's
got a million bodies on him just as much
at least but of course who will come to
her defense
who will come to her defense why look
it's Eric Weinstein from the IDW great
to have you aboard Ellen because and and
and then Weinstein says now I should add
that what I'm affirming is the general
principle that she is stating and not
that we should all break bread with
anyone and everyone now it sounded like
she was saying we should break bread
with anyone and everyone but he says
there are bloodied hands that I would
shake and clean ones that I would not so
then he's saying like I'm completely I
have a whole nother agenda I don't have
a problem with people who his hands are
bloodied but mostly shunning and shaming
just tears this part well mostly
I mean if someone said like well this
guy worked for the bush administration
but they just worked in you know the
Justice Department and they worked in
the Civil Rights Division or whatever it
is or this guy worked in Bush's EPA but
he was just you know I'd have no problem
with that but what Eric Weinstein is
saying here is nothing he is saying
nothing and she is not saying mostly
shunning and shaming just tears apart if
you don't shun and shame someone like
George Bush who do you shun and shame oh
I know Erik shun me you refused to
engage with me do you have the clean
hands he wouldn't shake
I guess maybe my hands are the clean
ones that I wouldn't shake he would
engage with Billy Bragg even though
Billy Bragg said much meaner things
about Eric than I did this is I mean
these people are celebrity chasers you
just look at dave rubin has done this
desperately i know for a fact I have
talked to reporters who used to do the
comedy beat Dave Rubin will write brag
about and you know like please write a
story about me I just had a
that went viral I'm not kidding um the
way that they chase Hollywood I think
really really exposes what what these
guys are about I get news for you I
don't perceive Eric Weinstein as a
celebrity but I am very very interested
in talking and engaging with him
I don't perceive dave rubin as a
celebrity or steven crowder i have
friends who are significantly more
famous than these people that is true
and yet some who have been in the studio
but I know how destructive their their
stuff is I don't care about a you know
in any way engaging with Ellen DeGeneres
but I do care that there's going to be
and that video will probably get I don't
know several million young people out
there who are just not going to get
she's got thirty five million
subscribers we're just not going to
understand that but you have no sense of
what George Bush did at that time and
the people that do our donors yep and
she's not gonna tell them that's right
she's gonna do worse than not tell them
she's gonna give them another narrative
like we just had two disagreement about
whether you should kill all these people
thought police yep yeah and the last
thing I ever wanted to do is address
what Ellen DeGeneres is said on our TV
show but that's what it is
well it seems like the tide might be
turning against that kind of thing at
even among liberals like the amount of
uproar that we've seen over it or is
that just like no Twitter no maybe just
Twitter but it's nice to know that least
there are some people who are conscious
of it and and if it's on Twitter at
least
there's an opportunity for them to tell
other people I mean I you know it's
different than when dot when George Bush
was president because there was a lot of
people who spoke out about George Bush
who got a lot worse treatment than Ellen
DeGeneres did now the Dixie Trix they
they built bonfires when they said they
were embarrassed by her
I don't remember Ellen DeGeneres going
out there and saying hey whoa wait a
second it'd be nice yes seriously
Janeane Garofalo was constantly harassed
and I don't remember Ellen DeGeneres
coming up and saying hey wait a second I
mean give me a break
well that's the great thing about
alternative media and social media for
all the bad parts of social media like
yo know you can say stuff back to these
people and you know that you're not
alone and you're not crazy for thinking
that they're ghouls it has for all the
things that suck about Twitter it has
democratized things in a way you know as
far as it goes that I think are positive
it gives the opportunity for people who
don't have a platform to actually get
you know to influence the conversation
and I think that's really important I
mean you know see the people one of the
problems that we have with with with you
know having all billionaires in the
Senate and just wealthy people those
congressmen is that they don't hear from
other people and it was also a very much
a problem within the media to a large
extent and for better for worse
sometimes it's bat worse but the better
part is a lot of media people they hang
out on Twitter and what they're hearing
that that what they're swimming in is
influenced by people who don't have
power don't have a sort of a platform
outside of Twitter that's very helpful
and you don't even need a huge platform
in the context of Twitter you can have
you know several thousand followers you
could have a hundred followers and if
you say the right thing to the right
person it can expand it you have the
opportunity to sort of like carry a
message and I know I think it's I think
it's pretty good I have a friend who
knows some people in like local Texas
politics and talking about staffers on
like Congress people's staffs and stuff
like that and just tell me about one
who's have currently having his mind
blown by Thomas Franks listen liberal
and Jane Mayer's dark money I think we
underestimate how much like people just
haven't been open to like those
arguments at all yep nice
