I want to play this this is a little bit
off-topic but as you know that one of my
well not just one of but my my bailiwick
is social security and during the Obama
years and prior there was a real push to
to cap I should say to cut Social
Security in the form of increasing the
cost of living adjusting the cost of
living increases to basically not allow
cost of living to keep pace with
inflation as a it is experienced by
elderly folk when you are older your the
things that you buy change one of the
things that you buy that's very
important is pharmaceuticals also you're
on a fixed income your rent increases
become more problematic because you're
not in your ability to move is
diminished because you're older and it's
just harder to move so there's actually
a different calculation for inflation as
it is felt and experienced by older
people than other people the I think
it's the Bureau of Labor Statistics has
done experiments with this but there was
also another formula which would have
cut cost-of-living increases well here
is some tape of a guy who apparently is
running for Congress in 2012 trying to
do it by going even further on the cuts
to Social Security if you and I get it
running in Texas but El Paso is not like
the rest of Texas and he's replacing a
guy and I don't know where a Sylvester
raised was on this I know suppose were
pretty conservative in some respects but
we're six years later eight years later
seven years later and the Senate
certainly in the years to follow 2012 I
think around 2013 actually maybe it was
2014 a non-binding resolution that was
voted on by the all the Democratic
caucus almost the entire Democratic
caucus I believe voted to expand Social
Security I get very worried about when
people will even say this in the context
of of a campaign because Barack Obama
one of the reasons why he won Iowa was
to go in and pretend that Social
Security was in crisis Social Security
is not in crisis there's a couple of
things that we could do to shore it up
and make it completely solvent and you
didn't have to do anything to it for 75
years if you want it very easy just get
back just raise the cap where it should
be below the cap off but to go out and
propose this for Social Security is
highly problematic and when Barack Obama
just said it was a crisis to win Iowa he
went on and on day one he wanted to cut
Social Security you can go back and
listen to all the shows I did with Digby
back in the the old days talking about
this before he gave up the ghost I think
it was in 2015 but here is or maybe 2013
here is a young Beto O'Rourke talking
about social security in ways that all
right do not like Social Security that
needs to be protected
that's inviolable but going forward for
future generation
from my kids generation five three and
one-year-old right now we need to look
at things like means-testing we need to
look at perhaps a a longer a later age
at which my kids are going to retire
that's a tough decision it's not easy to
say it's going to be politicized by my
opponent but those are the tough things
that you're going to want me to weigh in
on when I'm in Washington DC this is
precisely why the u.s. almost defaulted
on its national debt this son and the
incumbent voted against the compromise
that was reached so that prevented us
from defaulting on national debt first
of all let's start from the end that is
not the reason why the United States
almost default defaulted on the debt
almost a fault under the debt because
the Republicans were holding the debt
hostage statutorily Social Security
cannot contribute to the national debt
statutorily that is a complete lie in
the service of a horrible policy that
would undermine the political durability
of Social Security by by means-testing
we have a very easy way of means-testing
Social Security if you're very concerned
about rich people getting away with
murder because they're getting Social
Security a you know the the ceiling of
Social Security remember it we just go
up to about twenty four hundred bucks a
month I think
the richest but if you're very worried
about that there's a very easy fix and
you fix that on the front end you get
rid of the cap on Social Security you
tax them it is social insurance tax them
when they have the money god forbid they
get into an accident can't work lose all
their money because of medical costs or
they lose all their money because they
invested too heavily in first sinks they
will still have Social Security when
they are older and prevent them from
slipping into poverty like two-thirds of
our seniors did prior to Social Security
raising the retirement age for people in
like 70% of
the first 70% of income at a time where
the mortality rate in some instances
actually is like shrunk or I should say
the the age of mortality is actually
dropped or at least gone stagnant but
certainly for people who work in jobs
are in the the bottom the second half of
the income distribution
they don't live much longer than they
did 75 85 years ago and so these are
really horrible ideas if they sound like
a Republican ideas it's because they are
so this is ugly stuff back in back in
2012 here's another quote from Beto it's
pretty bad
long term middle term you have to have a
plan to address that debt but it's a
plan that extends from 2035 55 and 75 we
look at the simpson-bowles Commission
that is comprehensively taking a look at
all these issues and offering up some
tough choices that Congress at some
point is going to have to make or we
continue to look the other way you know
what it sucks but I'm gonna not let my
kids pick up the mess I'm not willing to
do that well then you should have been
advocating for getting rid of the cap at
that time and you know it's a Beto quote
because it sucks it sucks
so that simpson-bowles Commission go
back and look at me it's a very selfless
of Beto to say that his kids might have
to work a little bit longer just like I
assume they won't inherit any of the
real estate cash from his father and
right indeed yeah exactly but maybe he's
singing a different tune now I'm not
sure maybe we should dig up the ads that
rias ran against him talking about how
he was putting seniors on the chopping
block I mean watch this space
