you're calling from an eight-five Oh
area code who are you where you're
calling from hey Michael this is an
instant in Pensacola Florida hey Nathan
what's going on what's on your mind hey
man I was just wanted to comment real
quick about the commentary I've been
seeing about Elizabeth Warren with this
DNA test okay I have a problem with it
not on this show but kind of in the
general media just the way like her
racial background is being litigated and
it would seem to me like that kind of
comes from a I guess a really privileged
place and it's a muting a kind of racism
one like you're splitting hairs over
like you know if 1/16 of her great great
whatever grandparents may or may not
have been an Indian or you know they're
saying like somehow that you know that
experience doesn't they exist and I have
just been connecting it to my own life
like my ancestors come from five or six
different continents just because the
history of colonialism in this in this
uh you know in the Americas I I'm
thinking you know I couldn't really tell
you where all my different ancestors
came from and it seems to you know be a
the same sort of a I feel today and I
kind of am loving some of those I had
written here I don't know I hear what
you have to say I mean I think and I get
I got to just say big picture I really
like I just don't keep I don't care and
in a lot of ways and even know I mean
not your point but just this whole story
and part of it is honestly because this
is not for me to care one way or another
right like the Cherokee my Cherokee
tribe says like they don't like what she
did then I that's certainly not for me
to comment on and then conversely it's
not for me
to say that she isn't what her family
says she is I think more deeply if you
get in you know how do you negotiate the
fact that fundamentally these things are
not real right literally right right we
have an anti essential effective these
things are not real they're there
they're made up categories and then
conversely obviously it is offensive to
people who had a very real experience
historically and presently to claim an
identity of which you don't share
certain very core characteristics of
that experience okay that's true and
then there's also you know the third
point which is I mean I guess if I have
to be blunt it's like I think she has a
family story uh she obviously got where
she is because she's smart and she works
hard she's a pretty a very admirable
fascinating bio and I think she also saw
an opportunity in a certain context that
you know maybe it'll give her a couple
more points on a job application or
something I don't know that's my read on
it and and that's an indictment frankly
of um of meritocracy of competition in
the job market whatever but like it's
just not like if I I'm glad it's it's
frankly I like the idea that it might
hurt her relative to Bernie because I
prefer Bernie but I don't care I just I
I cannot be precise from here did ya
just see the I'm a little more focused
on what I wanted to say now okay I guess
I I sort of see like this is kind of a
pitch from the right to minority groups
and like what their it seems like
they're trying to activate resentment
among among non-white people against
someone you know oh look look at her
look at this white live pretending let
me tell you somethin or D boy I could
tell you anecdotally and it's not huge
but it's two people he did
need to do that for people to think that
that was a very stupid thing for her to
do so I'm like yeah I mean look let's be
real here
like if you give Trump that open lane
he's gonna take it and if you know you
play with that stuff
it's gonna offend some people and that's
not a right word you know I don't I
guess I don't buy that part of its
because there was no way for her to win
that game with him yeah the only way to
win was not to play honestly and it's
gonna end the offense that some people
took had nothing to do with Trump and I
think that yes he did see an example you
know yes when liberal types give
Republicans even if they're trivial and
they don't matter it doesn't matter
the whole you know oh you say you're
liberal but you you know Bernie Sanders
wears a winter coat you know I mean yes
these idiots are gonna always use stuff
like that that's I mean it's politics
what do you well
the hypocrisy that Trump thinks he was
exposing right is that on the one hand
liberals say oh race isn't real it's not
biological that everything is postmodern
and on the other hand when they when it
suits them they want to leverage their
racial identity for political benefit do
you think Trump really thought I don't
think so I think he just I mean I think
you're right but I think Trump was just
like she said she was but she's not
Pocahontas that's it and the way you
square that circle is that race is a
real abstraction right it's a socially
constructed category that does very real
things in the world so the mistake she
made I think like like she really could
have presented it like I'm just trolling
you into giving a million dollars to
charity but that's not what she did it
was very sincere and she does present
Native American heritage or race or
whatever as something biologically
determined well I would exact point in
here because she
listen Lee says in the video that she
does not she understands the distinction
between biology and tribal affiliation
she does say that she pays lip service
to that that's good but I understand the
overall like yeah at the end of the day
your race is determined by how you are
perceived and treated in this society
and she has never been treated as a
Native American right that's right yep
and that's why it's never good that's
 I agree I agree with you but
Jamie I mean yeah that's really the
bottom line you know and I you could
yeah like that's that's and right that
and we and there's always the history
you know even obviously much more
dangerous in serious histories of like
people quote unquote passing and that
illustrates like what I mean yeah the
reality is is that her life was not
shaped as far as we know at all by the
experience of what being a Native
American woman would entail in this
country and that's the bottom line
yeah I guess I guess since we're talking
about this we can just address it like I
when the ben Carson thing happened if
people remember that ben Carson was also
saying he was part Cherokee and he took
sheriff's he did 23andme and it turned
out he wasn't and he's like I guess I
was just a myth I thought Elizabeth
Warren should do that because I thought
a test was gonna say she wasn't and then
she should just say and then she could
have just addressed like look these are
family myths that get that get you know
passed down the ages and we were wrong
this makes it more complicated right
because she does have like some
connection to it I think most white
people from this part of the country
know I know right
and this is not unproblematic but it is
something notable that she probably
should have addressed with like a tribal
leader or something which is that your
family kept that story alive in a family
mythology and I do think there's
problematic parts of that but it's also
not like it's not they weren't doing
this to try to get a granddaughter into
Harvard down the line right no like it
was a more genuine family shorter thing
and I do think it is problematic the way
white people would you know like hold on
to that as if like it's some sort of
like that like American his
he's full of this sort of thing like the
like the the cross racial mixing and
that sort of like your claim to American
Miss or something like that right like
that there's a calm thing and that's the
discussion she should have had instead
what she did is say look I got this DNA
results and it vindicates everything
I've been saying and here's my family's
meanwhile I'm talking about freeing lula
da salah and meanwhile like involved
Native Americans are getting
disenfranchised in North Dakota that was
the thing that also struck me was like
if she did the video like hey here's
this like you said turn it kind of into
a joke say like all right you Trump
and incidentally I have legislation
that's gonna address this travesty that
was just confirmed by the Supreme Court
to disenfranchise Native American voters
thanks for the call man appreciate it
