fifteen indictments which could
theoretically lead to many many years in
prison and it has the effect of freezing
Donald Trump's potential pardon of Paul
Manafort
it has the effect of saying to Paul
Manafort hey you know that whole thing
where you were lying to us when you had
made an agreement to to tell us the
truth and you were feeding information
to the Trump administration and you want
to stay out of jail
well we got some bad news for you
there's a Donald Trump is not in a
position to save you from jail time at
this point or theoretically and it sends
a message to who knows who is you know
who else they might be sort of holding
back from either the Southern District
of New York's or the Muller
investigation or any of the other
parallel investigations with the hopes
of a pardon from Donald Trump Donald
Trump's not having a very good week is
he he certainly isn't and I think what
you just said the last part is very
important which is you said you know
it's it sends a message ask yourself who
is the person or what an organization is
most exposed to charges from New York
State and the city of Manhattan besides
Paul Manafort and I have to say it's
Donald Trump and the Trump Organization
and we know that the Southern District
is looking very hard at the Trump
Organization right now they're looking
at the inauguration there's also all
this you know we don't know for sure of
course they're not we haven't seen a lot
of details come out but it's pretty
clear that they are looking at the Trump
Organization now and you know by you
know Trump he's got people like Alan
weiselberger is all these people who are
going to be called before Congress we
heard all these names what's the guy's
name
Matt calamari you know this did all
these Trump organization people and
essentially what's being said there to
by the Manhattan da
and I'm sure by tris change that the New
York State AG is you know you know Trump
can pardon you on the
federal charges but don't kid yourself
you know when it comes to all this stuff
like tax evasion and money laundering
and and fraud insurance fraud and all
the rest of these things there are a ton
of state charges that can pile up on all
that stuff and by the way the
legislature in New York it has decided
to take another look at their double
jeopardy law which by the way in you
know it's there but it's kind of easily
circumvented when you have this massive
amount of criminality going on there's
almost always a way for the state and
the city to find other avenues to they
can use the information that they have
from these other cases to build cases
you know on charges that aren't directly
relating to that so it's even with the
double jeopardy law and there's still
great danger for any of these people if
they're pardoned by Trump on federal
charges and it looks like the state is
actually looking at getting rid of them
so all the getting rid of this double
jeopardy law so you know this is very
very dangerous moment for Donald Trump
because today what was shown is you know
hey you know I mean rather on on
Wednesday it was shown that they had you
know been that the the state of New York
and that other but portions of the law
enforcement community were looking at at
all of these crimes and where they're
prepared to serve as a backstop in case
he decides to abuse his power to pardon
and by the way just one one more thing
on his pardon thing you know the the
Attorney General the United States
William bar when he was you know we know
that he had has a grave sort of you know
he has grave concerns about the idea
that the president is obstructing
justice by trying to interfere with the
with the Justice Department
investigations it seems weird to me but
that doesn't seem to be his position
he's a you know one of those people
who's very into the you know unlimited
presidential power but they asked him
specifically about pardons in his
testimony and they said if it were shown
that someone offered a pardon in
exchange for for you know for for
testimony of some sort would you
consider that to be within the present
per view and he said no that would be a
crime now whether or not you can prove
that Trump and his his henchmen directly
did that is difficult so as Michael
Cohen said they speak in code but
nonetheless you know this is how you
know mob cases are put together where
they are able to prove the mob of did
you know or not prove depending on
what's there so you know even on that
level there are limits even for William
Barr about dangling pardons and and to
me it seems obvious if you look at
Trump's tweets and comments over the
past two years he has been out there
dangling pardons freely basically you
know saying it I mean there's just no
other way to interpret what he's saying
so you know we'll have to see where this
goes but this pardon issue is is this I
think it's huge I think it's huge and
and the real you know the real question
to me is to what extent did the the
Trump defense team
what awareness that they have that there
could be parallel charges against manna
for it and what what do they do next
right I mean it's I think I said earlier
15 accounts I think it's 16 counts of
everything from mortgage fraud
conspiracy falsifying business records
schemed to defraud there's a there's a
whole host of different charges in there
I'm not clear what the what the minimums
would be for those charges but surely
you know he's looking at a significant
amount of time certainly the potential
for as much as he's already going to be
serving so we will have to wait and see
what happens but Digby we got to take
quick break can you join me in the next
hour we'll be right back Sam cedar ring
of fire radio
