now this will illustrate exactly what
we're talking about this is Steve Bannon
speaking to a very sparsely and frankly
sadly attended event in Staten Island
let's take a look at sloppy Steve that's
it there's no real constituency for this
stuff I mean this is a guy he lives on
earned media Steve Bannon is an Elmore
Leonard character who's funded by weird
racist oligarchs
who want to strip your money and
resources away to enrich themselves and
also structure the courts in the economy
so that they and their heirs can have
power into perpetuity this is where
piketty's work on intergenerational
wealth and the stage of capitalism or at
we will either break to a
post-capitalist highly democratized
economy which harnesses technology to
generate broad-based prosperity and
human flourishing or we're going into
neo feudalism and make no mistake that
the Koch brothers and the Mercer's and
all of these other people that's exactly
what they want that's what Peter Thiel
wants it's futile as fascistic it's
anti-democratic in favor of markets and
it's not even pro market in any sense
that people might use it in a vernacular
in terms of competition it is structural
setting of monopolies that are insulated
from any type of labor legal or policy
challenge that's it and there's no doubt
Steve Bannon does a good job at times
with a sort it with a with a fake
populism and how you respond to that
super simple to disaggregate you say hey
I'm not an idiot
I know the subtext of all this stuff is
racial and on the flip side where you're
right about elites and money
concentration and condescension and
arrogant
and lack of opportunity for people great
I agree with you sloppy Steve so do you
support Masri unionization of America
are you rallying those 15 people in
Staten Island to go protest the Supreme
Court overturning collective bargaining
rights I thought not as I actually think
you're taking money from the most
dangerous people on the planet who want
nothing more than to concentrate wealth
and power for themselves and this is
just a marketing exercise and with a
proper left Democratic message on all
issues we can defeat that with with
confidence and clarity moving forward
the market rhetoric is very interesting
like they like the market more and more
especially when their relative buying
power becomes more and more greater
relative to everybody else right like
yeah you'd really like markets to if you
were a billionaire yeah exactly markets
are great if everything is preset for
you and don't ever believe any nonsense
about that there oh yeah they're gonna
sure they're gonna they really believe
in competition get the out of here
Peter Thiel's whole book is on how to
build yourself a monopoly in the Silicon
Valley economy at least in my reading
yeah and like and the idea that any sort
of generic libertarian economist who
would for instance probably still be at
George Mason University that they would
be that they would come to their ideas
about economics especially like
inheritance and tax and that sort of
thing and that it wouldn't be any
inflected by race at all like I don't it
doesn't really matter because the point
is that like those policies are
incredibly cruel and in order to not be
aware of that you have to have some sort
of dumb insulation from rate like your
own racism basically or yeah or just
structural disregard yeah like well we
talk I mean James Buchanan who Nancy
McLain did really important work on a
democracy and change democracy and
change is a fundamental you got to read
that book if you don't understand what's
happening in the country today and you
know James Buchanan not only the James
Buchanan and
people in Virginia perceive in the 1950s
they got it they understood that even if
they were less personally upset by Brown
versus Board of Education which a lot of
them were because they were racists but
even ones that say Buchanan didn't have
any sort of particularly personally
effective attitudes about race he
understood that the principle that
federal power in that instance could
intervene to protect civil and
individual and group and human rights
well guess what that has major
implications for labor power that has
major implications for feudalistic top
down apartheid economy and it did and of
course first and foremost it was black
people but it also absolutely affected
workers and poor people across the board
and they saw that so see what they see
and then with regards the normal people
I think there's plenty of people that
can be persuaded with a simple non
jargony relateable justice oriented and
self-interested message and then you see
what works and then yes there is a chunk
of voters that are they're voting on
identity issues and and it's
gross and maybe some of them will change
I think that's where the Civic space
comes in there was a great piece about
that guy I forget his name Black was his
last name I think but he was the son of
that storm front guy and he went to
college in Florida and a new school
which is funny cuz it's a new school
Florida's a very hippie school and they
started inviting him to Seder dinners
and through this process now he's you
know voted for Obama and I think is
doing some type of PhD in history and
totally left the movement and it
happened through dialogue and engagement
in the Civic space and that's great and
at the same time like when you read
about this guy I don't think necessarily
all members of the you know of those
movements or is intellectually curious
or as ready as he was but being that as
it may
