[Music]
cardi B has come out with her
endorsement I mean I guess we should
also just say AOC has come out and has
said this in regards to Joe Biden he
does not particularly animate me I don't
want to go back I want to go forward I
haven't endorsed anybody but I'm very
supportive of Bernie what Warren is
bringing to the table is truly
remarkable and transformational that's
from USA Today and here at cardi B who I
think that she officially come out for
Bernie in 2016 yep I believe the exact
quote was vote for daddy Bernie
there you go and evolved in any way were
you supporting in 2020 I don't know you
know i'ma always go with Bernie you know
because this is the thing right I burn
II don't say things to be cool like this
pictures of him being an activist from a
very very very long time so a matter of
fact I was watching the news and I saw
like this guy named Tim Ryan and his his
speech was very convincing to me he
really wants to give it the United
States free health care so that's a big
plus we need health care so I don't know
we'll see who's gonna tell her that I
love Ryan not gonna be so I feel like
she only mentioned million of her yeah I
think she only mentioned Tim Ryan cuz
like her people publicity publicity
learn not to get too political right
before this answer she's talking about
Trump but she's like I don't want to get
too political but I just hate him so
much
yeah that's right and so she's like
let's not just get on the Bernie train
right away they just mentioned Tim Ryan
or something in a position he doesn't
have that she mentions a completely
irrelevant candidate and then ascribes
him a great position that he probably
doesn't have it's gonna be very
upsetting to her later when she finds
out Tim Ryan not to have that position
but telling
it's very good rally to watch anybody's
bad pierced lips because it looks like
it hurts so much I know it doesn't but
it just I can't I do not have that same
experience of what's already gosh I mean
it hurts when they pierce the lips and
oh it's fine
it's keel time okay cuz I didn't even
get the like shots like if any any type
of like metal inserted into the body I
can't okay I can't deal well you know
what Ryan is a co-sponsor of Pramila
jeyapaul's medicare-for-all oh is that
right right well good for Tim Rowe Wow
so the cardi B knows more than we do but
exactly we just got faced face by cardi
that doesn't surprise me
we just got faced though he has argued
in the past against the term
single-payer health care because he
doesn't believe most pairs most
Americans understand what that means
well good for him that's fine I don't
care what they call it as long as that's
what it is call it Ryan carrot fall a
delicatessen care just do it
