meanwhile there the obsession of the
right about AOC is stunning it is always
creepy to have been Stine comment on
anyone oh you serious hooey we got Ben
Stein out of the crib yes so remember
her the last time we heard from Ben
Stein there's some controversy about his
approach toward women remind my my
forgetting that I'm gonna look that up I
think there was there was there was some
type of financial domination yeah made a
whole show around that so is he out
today to thank you see for giving
another couple years in life expectancy
because he's so thirsty for his new show
withhold Ben Stein's money well little
do those people know they were all
involved in his fiend on fantasy here is
here is a pin down Ben Stein talking
about AOC now how she's I mean I guess
she's what is it she's is she King
shaming him by calling for a 70 percent
marginal tax there we go was learning
that I mean they've tried right they try
and go Chavez had all kinds of promises
just like Alexandria Cassio Cortez
Maduro had the same kind of promises in
fact and we're going to show this a
little bit later the former vice
president del C Rodriguez I say former
because we no longer recognize her
regime there with Maduro she'll sit
there and tell you with a straight face
was it wait a second I guess we should
just also add like apparently Fox got
the notice early fathers let me just say
I guess I mean I recognized Nancy Pelosi
as president there you go
certainly new editorial guidelines that
I'm hosting she'll sit there and tell
you with a straight face that Venezuela
is the model of the world despite the
fact that ninety percent the people live
in poverty Venezuela has figured it out
I just hope then we don't go through the
same kind of
nations and challenges that they have
had to deal with it went somebody
happened in the clip well that was we
did have the oh here we go and education
I mean we have a society we got a real
problem with Ben Stein it's okay Ben
Stein was so boring then he actually
ruined the algorithm because the inputs
were off the Ben Stein input ruined the
whole process I mean we have a society
in which they're an awful lot of people
who have no idea that Stalin Hitler Mao
Zedong all came to power promising the
same kinds of things that mr. Cosby of
Cortez is promising and it led to mass
murder led to dictatorship and let the
genocide these promises are old promises
and they invariably leave the bad things
the promise of just saying the people do
what you can within the law to make your
life better your family's life better
that system works extremely well
capitalism is a system that allows
people to make something of themselves
instead of oppressing other people it's
incredibly good system making money is
one of the most harmless things there is
to do in the whole world and that's what
it's not about ordering people around
putting them in concentration camps what
do you do if a person is a richer person
a poor person what do you take him away
to shoot him well that was a positive
you know you could do you could just tax
him you could also just talk to tax a
lot of Stalin's purges though were
driven by disagreements on marginal
rates I love the fact that somehow we've
gone to 70 percent tax rate going to a
tax rate that was in existence just
prior to Ronald Reagan well it must have
been in existence during Reagan before
his tax overhaul is the functional
equivalent of concentration camps if mal
was alive today he would be playing
Donkey Kong with H bombers as you
support transgender teenager as DHS has
requested more beds and things
absolutely yes but the fact that these
folks even have to feel the need to
defend capitalism right now it
so cool it means that they're on the
defensive well not only doesn't mean
they're on the defensive I think is also
great about is I think that they talk
about like getting high on your own
supply they actually really thought that
when this stuff was actually put forward
that most people were on their side they
would just innately go oh well that's
crazy because you know Venezuela and
Hitler and now they're doing it and then
it's actually most people were like what
she's not think she's talking about a
marginal tax rate that will get people
health care you lunatic I mean holy war
is over it's it's reminiscent on some
level of like when they used to say like
Obama practices Chicago style politics
and everybody above you know like below
the age of like 65 is just like what
what does that mean like pizza or random
or in a smaller scale as I always say I
guess you got to give him props now for
universal daycare and health care and
NYC proposal but the coolest thing about
de Blasio when he was running for mayor
was like okay he ran as the liberal
against centrist so he's already the pic
and then the New York Post tried to make
a whole life
he wouldn't hung out with the
Sandinistas ladies I was like oh okay if
big goofy Bienstock you might be a lot
cooler than I thought well it's like
what Jamie said about the Cold War
they're really operating with the sort
of Cold War training wheels all right
arguments right now those aren't doesn't
work on people anymore and strong
emphasis on training wheels just it just
in defense of Ben Stein this is the only
way he's gonna get on TV again though is
if he says stuff like she's basically
advocating concentration camps yeah he
should only be on TV for like Ferris
Bueller's Day Off like creepy it was 30
years ago this movie came out calling
from a 607 area code
