[Music]
all right so Donald Trump was out giving
a speech on July 4th people were annoyed
that the parks department had to spend
millions of dollars to accommodate tanks
on trailers I guess or I don't know
platforms so ridiculous and stupid and
apparently people got soaked there and
didn't enjoy themselves which is great
and here's Donald Trump I I mean again
this is one of those situations where if
you were living in a repressive regime
and you were a cameraman you you would
you would be like how can I send a
message without having being held to it
right like this is why I like satire
exists and here it is an image of Donald
Trump with like on a rain streaked
Plexiglas
I guess he I don't know if they claimed
I don't even know how they described
this if they claimed that there was a
malfunction with the teleprompter but
here's Donald Trump talking about the
Revolutionary War and making some pretty
bad anachronism yeah I guess so
it Rand the ramparts it took over the
airports it did everything it had to do
we talked earlier
McKenney need to lead into that a little
bit more yeah go back a little bit
earlier okay it Rand the ramparts it
took over the airports it did everything
it had to do and at Fort McHenry under
the Rockets red glare it had nothing but
victory and when Dawn came
they're star-spangled banner' waved
defiant uh I just to remind you he's
talking about the Revolutionary War now
one of the major military failures of
George Washington was to expend so much
resources in building airports at a time
where we did not have airplanes there
was a very controversial choice but that
was one of the earliest yeah sounds like
politics there Jefferson was fiercely
opposed to Benedict Arnold oh yeah like
build it we're gonna future-proof our
way it turns out instead of being a
traitor Benedict Arnold was just an
early Silicon Valley guy so I'm just
future envisioning in June of 1775 the
Continental Congress created a unified
army out of the revolutionary forces
encamped around Boston and New York and
named after the great George Washington
commander-in-chief the Continental Army
suffered a bitter winter of Valley fog
she did found glory after George
Washington or the they named George
Washington the George Washington's mill
name was Army oh I see yes it's the
waters of the Delaware and seized
victory from Cornwallis of Yorktown our
army man the ant it ran the ramparts it
took over the airports it did everything
it had it come back wait what did he
swallow something like it's possible
that there was a malfunction in the in
the teleprompter which makes us even
worse because it means like he literally
had no idea what words were coming out
of its mouth like he didn't even know
what century he was talking about go
back just a little bit more I mean just
a little bit just yeah right there
teased victory from Cornwallis of
Yorktown our army man the ant it ranch
the answers yeah look down our army man
the ant it ran the ramparts yeah it took
over the airports it did everything it
had to do and at Fort McHenry think it
had under the Rockets red glare it had
nothing but victory and when door bistro
their Star Spangled Banner waved defiant
at shiloh Antietam and Gettysburg our
soldiers gave the last full measure of
devotion for the true unity of our
nation and the freedom of all Americans
deputies got the addresses an army
sergeant named Alvin York faced an
inferno of m/v fire and refused to
retreat he said I won't leave and
refused them be fire and refused to
retreat he said I won't leave I won't
stop he shot his rifle 18 times killing
18 of the enemy when they fix bayonets
and charged he killed seven more the
entire German machine gun battalion
surrendered because of one man Alvin
York a generation later the army
returned to Europe and embarked upon a
Great Crusade with knives and rifles in
hand
the Rangers scale the cliffs of Normandy
the 101st airborne left into the danger
from above illuminated only by enemy
flares explosions and burning aircraft
they threw back the Nazi Empire with
lightning of their own from the turrets
of Sherman tanks yes I mean he as far as
he's concerned he could still be in in
the 18th century where's the MacArthur
Park yeah and then the guys that came
and he told the British we liked the
Queen very much I didn't have our home
country now did you see that me my sight
no it's worth putting up just for the
full and maturity of it why not and I
have no problem with this how many was
it was it it was won by land to by sea
and three by air was exactly three by
air it's a British Airways Boeing it
just goes to show you Hana who say it
just goes to show you that you can
overcome these things even if you're
completely outgunned in technology IV
could you imagine we we what we were I
mean we were such brutal ruthless
marilla's that we actually defeated we
should when they had a fully equipped
air force we should get the point about
how the how unimportant air superiority
is after yeah all right we're gonna take
a break head into the fun half just
reminder join
