[Music]
let's actually play this sound mm-hmm
Donald Trump hosted uh Juan Guido who is
just declared himself president of
Venezuela and now is recognized as such
by Canada the United States European
countries other Brazil under the fascist
balsan ro the far-right Colombian
government basically countries that are
still pushing for an illegal regime
change or a coup his wife was at the
White House and Trump you know it's
funny it's rambling it's nonsense but
then there's a specific response Russia
has deployed I think about a couple
hundred troops in Venezuela they I don't
think it's a main foreign policy
priority for Russia it's not like Syria
Syria is definitely a main priority for
them but they have relationship with
Maduro and they clearly see an
opportunity to create at least a little
bit of indigestion and heartburn for the
United States Trump's response to that
is it's it's verbally tough we are with
Venezuela we are with which is a big
positive the white people of Venezuela
and the oligarchs and the oil interests
yes big majority of the country what's
happening there should not happen and be
allowed to happen anywhere so we're with
you hundred percent okay
please give my regards and we'll work
out it's all going to work out
it always does we're gonna get it to
work out
thank you very much it'll be fine
Steve what's your next question so that
let me restate my point and I really
want people to understand this when
people who have a manatee and view of
the manichaean view of the world which
is purely us-centric there's no other
problems in the planet besides the
United States it's one thing if you say
as Noam Chomsky does that your primary
obligation is to deal with the United
States because a you live here or B it's
the prime superpower those are valid I
actually think mostly correct arguments
but if the third option is the United
States there's all these horrible things
and China's just just beautiful benign
in you know an interest in Africa
they're not bioprospecting they're not
you know taking over economies and
countries and destroying environments
and abusing labor rights they're great
or you know no Russia just wants this
enlightened multilateral world that is
ridiculous
and it keeps you from saying as an
example in the Kurdish case there is a
small group of US troops why would you
pull them out just on a pure ideological
principle sell out the Kurds and open
the door for even more Turkish ethnic
cleansing again the comment of Turkish
ethnic cleansing is based on what
happened in a freeing which where they
actually went in and did it because the
in that case the Russians betrayed a
group of Kurds and Turkish foreign
policy makers saying we're gonna go
gutter to gutter
it's a paraphrase to get rid of these
people okay now conversely great I'm
glad Russia's going to Venezuela because
you see I don't want US imperialism
there those might my prime orientation
is anti imperialist and that is
primarily United States cuz I'm the
United States the prime superpower and
imperialist and I'm an American but I
don't want
a world that is to the extent it is
humanly possible clustered under the
corporate or state hegemonic umbrella of
anyone it's abusive it's profoundly
unjust and it also tends to be
antithetical to really important
political experiments whether the Kurds
or still yes in some respects the
Bolivarian government so understand that
distinction and reassess your actual
strategy and understanding of how power
works the other thing I just want to add
is an addendum and I think we might need
some sound for this which I don't know
if you have ready met a certain there's
a music maybe what I'm about to say
about the other aspect of this video
which it which is that and and this I
don't I don't want to lead with this and
I definitely don't want to talk about
the Russian investigation everybody's
annoying me but Trump said Russia get
out but in the beginning he said
everything is going to work out now if
you rearrange the words in that segment
he's saying Russia will work it out and
that should concern you I'm Rachel
Maddow
