[Music]
so we have this interview with Bernie
Sanders in the New York Times by Sidney
ember I don't know who she is she is a
historical and immoral but I mean I like
but that's a description I don't know
who she actually is some hack but she
interviewed Bernie Sanders and it was a
very strange interview where she was
asking about it was an interview
ostensibly about his long-held
opposition to war and his support for
socialist leaders don't really get into
the support of specific leaders per se
but certainly support or defense against
regimes but it's interesting it's
interesting to take this assignment
because when you say long-held
opposition to war the implication is
this is going to be historical right
like I'm gonna look back on Bernie
Sanders opposition to war and how that
played out
through different eras but Bernie
Sanders opposition to war is necessarily
going to be tied to specific involvement
by the United States with other
countries and if you don't know any of
that if you're not aware of even the
basic rudimentary history or you pretend
you're not for the sake of the interview
things are gonna get a little bit weird
like she says she apparently went back
to the wire report she's talking about
the rally that he attended in Managua
this is when in Nicaragua the US
government was trying to overthrow the
Nicaraguan government ended up
supporting all sorts of
wonderful enterprises like death squads
that would end up killing nuns but stuff
like that right like almost like a
parody of horrible things that you could
do and very often activists would go to
these countries to draw attention to
what was happening there and so she said
in the top of our story we talked about
the rally you attended in Managua and a
wire report at the time said that there
were anti-american chants from the crowd
now understand the US government is
funding millions and millions and
millions of dollars to create right-wing
death squads that are killing people and
the closer you are the the the closer
proximity you have to that happening the
more you were aware of what the United
States was doing may I just add really
briefly this is also on top of the
Sandinistas gotten the powers opposing a
vicious dictator that we back called
Somoza and calling for like relieving
poverty yep and there was an amazing
story I'm trying to remember this about
what happened after a major earthquake
there in the way that Somoza rebuilt I
can't remember I mean this is stuff all
that I you know was dealing with in
college quite a bit actually but because
it was many it was almost
contemporaneous and but it was not
getting much publicity in the mainstream
media so you know when people went down
there to support it
to at the very least not necessarily
even support or support the Sandinistas
against the United States this is the
question there was a wire report that
said there were anti-american chants
from the crowds and so Bernie's like the
United States at that time I don't know
how much you know about this was
actively supporting the Contras to
overthrow the government so that's
there's anti-american sentiment now I
don't they misspelled there is there
it's weird like that's their anti
Americans yeah
I wonder what's going on with that but I
mean I I saw this and it just stuck out
to me like why would they misspell that
but that's their anti-american sentiment
question mark I remember that I remember
that event very clearly and she says do
you recall hearing those chants this is
the like you were sitting in the pew
with Reverend Wright do you remember
hearing his what he was saying she says
I think the wire report has them saying
here they're everywhere the Yankee will
die and he says they were fighting
against Americans yeah what's your point
I wanted to are you shocked to learn
there was anti-american sentiment my
point was I wanted to know if you heard
that I don't remember no of course there
was anti-american sentiment there this
was a war being funded by the United
States against the people of Nicaragua
people are being killed in that war but
she cannot let go do you think if you
had heard that directly you have stayed
at the rally he's like I think Sydney
with all due respect you don't
understand a word that I'm saying like
what part of none rape do you not
understand this is just like we've
literally whole if you wanted to really
examine his position the idea that four
of your questions would be dedicated to
hearing an anti-american chant and then
not removing yourself from the area is
absurd because he's conceding I was in
the country the entire country felt an
anti-american sentiment because of what
America was doing I was there because of
what America is doing have you heard of
jingoism Jesus have you have you
bothered to read the Wikipedia entry on
the Contras before bothering me with
these stupid questions so now she wants
to get into Debbie changed your
perspective on Daniel Ortega
so she says do you believe you had an
accurate view of President Ortega at the
time and he goes this was not about
Ortega do you understand I don't know if
you do or not do you know that the
United States overthrew the government
of chile a while back do you know do you
do you know that I'm do you I'm asking
you a simple question
and she says what point do you want to
make I mean
is clearly an attempt and and I would
have lost it at this point but he just
goes on to explain my point is fascism
developed in Chile as a result of that
the United States overthrew the
government of Guatemala a democratically
elected government overthrew the
government of Brazil I strongly oppose
US policy which overthrows governments
especially democratically elected
governments around the world so the
issue is not so much Nicaragua or the
government of Nicaragua the issue was
should the United States continue a
policy of overthrowing governments in
Latin America and Central America I
believe that it then that it was wrong I
believe today that it's wrong that's why
I do not believe the United States
should overthrow the government of
Venezuela I'm wondering if now you view
Ortega and the government differently
knowing what you do now well this is 30
years later right something like that
I'm very concerned about the
anti-democratic policies of the Ortega
government yes right so and this
apparently is a view that this reporter
cannot comprehend that one can both
think that a government in country X is
not good flawed flawed 30 years later
even worse and totally different and the
United States should not intervene both
those things can exist equally well I
mean that's of course and it's stunning
the lack of just like basic ability to
make basic distinctions but obviously
they're trying to do a hatchet job but D
but the other thing though that's just
and I see it in a range of reactions to
this cuz it's like one is like Oh Bernie
lost his temper and and that's like you
know again just a pure American
narcissism where there's just like no
regard for human lives overseas there's
no consideration like I'm not saying
that foreign policy or how we interact
at the world needs to be your primary
focus right but it is different if
you're voting in the United States your
vote registers across the planet you
can't you know it's I'm sorry it's not
voting in Norway or something where you
could say hey I don't know I can
primarily think of how
gonna handle business here you have to
think about your footprint in the rest
of the world if you're voting in the
United States and the other thing I'm
thinking of Michael Cohen I think is in
the Boston Globe is that the columnist
yeah yeah the suite was just like it was
very disturbing that Bernie's just still
doesn't see like the ability of the u.s.
to do good overseas well like who
incidentally yes that's the name of his
book Roe there we go I mean it's like
literally this good America jolt that
writes about foreign policy literally
was a fart with a fairy tale like it's
not even I mean cuz it's like even that
frame like when we do happen to do good
overseas it's gonna be because it's
synchronized with other interests that
we have overseas this idea that you
could be a an adult writing about
foreign policy and then Jennifer Rubin
did the whole like you know he says he's
studying but he's still not serious
because for her serious still means
willingness to kill a lot of people and
start a lot of wars I also think that
even like even if like not only is the
argument that when we do good it aligns
with our interests which I think it's
fine
I think that's okay but that's an adult
way is what I'm saying and I think that
I do think that it's not necessarily
naive to say that doing good aligns with
our interest more than a lot of
countries okay because of the nature of
the way that we are built and I think
that's okay but none of that none of
that in any way is negated
by pointing out the severely bad things
that we have done with our power and do
it and do and it's not even like it
doesn't even matter what the net is
there is no reason none of these
policies were necessary for us to do the
good things
well let's the other irony of this and I
and I have some concerns because I'm at
a point I you know following down Daniel
Bester I really am wary of any type of
humanitarian intervention rhetoric at
all not objecting the abuses overseas
whether it's in Brazil or China
obviously but I I don't I I don't like
interventionism period I think that's
really proven particularly in Libya
right but II
if you were interested in just the
intellectual you know exercise of it
some of the objections from certain
people on the left to what Bernie is
trying to navigate is he's trying to
synthesize actually a certain kind of
liberal critique of there's a new rise
of right-wing authoritarianism we need
to confront it with a sort of left
position against the anti
interventionism and I think in some ways
you know
tulsi gabbard sort of doing this you
know more of like a right left alliance
on anti intervention those are both
different ways of thinking about foreign
policy that you could debate and talk
about but what's so interesting is
they're so blind and so I have no
historical awareness that they can't
even get the areas where Bernie's trying
to make overtures as to people like that
in terms of talking about an axis that
connects Trump and Hungary and Brazil
and India you know that's the high-end
critique that people like Tim Schneider
is supposed to be bringing forth those
are their intellectual gurus they're not
even taking them seriously and can we
talk about the media response for a
second like Jill filipova quita
I get being frustrated by reporters but
Bernie here is shockingly rude to
what's-her-name who's just trying to do
her job we already have a president who
attacks the press condescends and
refuses to answer questions he dreams
stupid now he's awful point one like we
said earlier it's tone tone policing
conceals the content which is actually
the thing that we should have an issue
with but also when she's saying oh she's
just doing her job no she isn't well
like a journalist job is to speak truth
to power
well the question is at that point what
is her job I mean if she's just doing
her job the question has to be like what
is your job I mean it is is it really
our four questions out of the 8 or 10
that are asked there about whether he
heard anti-american chance at a rally I
mean is that really what this job is
supposed to be to speak truth to power
let's save it and when they're not doing
that when they are on the side of power
it's your job would be truth to them
even if she's just like you know doing
like I'm just trying to you know to give
people a better understanding
of his foreign-policy that's not it
you could just as easily say oh no her
job begins with reading the Wikipedia
entry on this country and if she wanted
to critique him she could totally say
well didn't you I mean I don't feel
hesitate to give talking points but
didn't you realize by the mid-80s that
the right position was to you know a pox
on both houses and find some obscure
diplomatic initiative that probably
didn't even matter but was opposed to
the Sandinistas and the Contras and say
didn't you want to not in line with
either the US or the Soviets in a proxy
war you know you could do all sorts of
convoluted nonsense that at least would
require him to respond forcefully this
is just the right jingoistic shallow
garbage right uh and and pretending to
be otherwise right totally that jesting
she gave him Fox content with NPR FETs
the that's the that's the problem there
was a and I mean I mean you could say it
was rude of Peabody judge to go on Fox
and mock the Fox hosts that weren't
there that was rude but of course not
the you you wouldn't do that because you
support what he's doing well it put Mike
Wallace in a really unfair position I
know regardless of what you think of
Laura Ingraham and Tucker Carlson and by
the way I oppose both of them I think
they're terrible but I think when you're
there and they're not in the room with
Mike Wallace who's trying to do a fair
job and who all of us can I mean I wrote
that we would laugh them off of the
those are his colleagues whether we like
it or not there was a Ben Rhodes profile
may 5th 2016 in New York Times Magazine
this quote was in it where he said most
of the outlets are reporting on world
events from Washington the average
reporter we talked to his 27 years old
and their only report and experience
consists of being around political
campaigns that's a sea change they
literally know nothing and people were
upset about him saying that that just
seems accurate yes objectively true all
right here is Bernie on untucked odds
program I guess presumably following
this line of of question I mean they're
gonna you know people knew that they
would do this but and they tried to do
it too funny enough to Bill DeBlasio and
new
now the whole country is not New York
and they talked about how Bill DeBlasio
went down to hang out with the
Sandinistas ah solidified my vote but I
mean that's why it backfires in New York
around the country the reason why it's
going to fail is not because people are
like man he was with the Sandinistas I'm
down for that the reason why is because
just like the New York Times reporter
who didn't seem to have a clue the rest
of the country is gonna be like the sand
of what the sand is Bernie Sanders is
that there was this oh the Sanders
nieces it was a great Nicaragua that was
inspired by his leadership in Burlington
people are literally went and visited
there that's all people are literally
gonna be if they hear like the
Sandinistas are gonna assume that it's
like oh those must be what they call
like if you're a supporter of Bernie
Sanders you're a sandanista or maybe
like that's with that clash out it was
about Bernie like the clash people are
not gonna know people are just not gonna
know like I think most of the people who
don't know that icky like that that
that's the coinage like even and but
here is so I don't think we're totally
for good but if you're in Washington DC
and I mean that just sort of if that's
your state of mind if you are with the
foreign policy establishment you think
that this is going to be damaging when
in fact the percentage of Americans who
sadly I'm sorry Michael care about
foreign policy is extremely naturally
narrow we've changed the percentage of
Americans broadly speaking who know who
the Sandinistas are or were sadly
because then they would know who the
Contras were and they would know what
this country did but that's the case is
even narrower but here's Bernie Sanders
on with we Chuck done things I think the
larger question and I don't let me let
me just frame the question this way the
larger questions going to be if you're
the nominee
whether you like it or not the Wrights
gonna basically hammer and sickle you to
death how do you prevent it well I I
don't mind the right-wing doing it but I
I understand they will do it I don't
want the media to do it
look I when I was a young man I plead
guilty I voted III worked hard as a
young man against the war in Vietnam I
don't apologize that as a United member
of the United States House I helped lead
the effort against the war in Iraq which
turns out to have been the worst foreign
policy blunder in the modern history of
the United States as the United States
Senator I led the effort to pass a
bipartisan resolution to get America out
of the war in Yemen led by Saudi Arabia
which and I got to tell you something I
hope you guys pay attention to Yemen
what's going on in Yemen now is the
worst humanitarian disaster in the world
we're talking about hundreds of
thousands of people children dying and
I'm doing my best to get the u.s. out of
that war and Trump wants to go to war in
Iran that will make the war in Iraq look
like a cakewalk it will make it so we've
got to do everything we can to stop that
if people want to attack me because I
think that war should be the last resort
you can attack me but I have seen too
much how I was the chairman of the
Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs I
talk to too many veterans whose lives
were destroyed by the war in Iraq I will
do everything I can to see problem
solved diplomatically rather than
through war now that that's a great
response but the other of the alternate
response you could do to the question of
how are you going to stop them from
painting you with the hammer and sickle
it should be no one's gonna care no
one's gonna care Emer and what now right
exactly like they are there is a
mentality that exists in the in the
conventional establishment journalistic
worldview that there is some resonance
to the Soviet threat and I mean here's
the the reality folks we are close to 30
years out from when the Wall fell and
even for people in my age who were I was
like 25 maybe 27 somewhere around there
I can't do the math right now 27 even
for my generation the threat of the
Soviet Union was still not like you know
the only example we have was Reagan and
as soon as Reagan said some bad you know
some mean words to them it just went
away and also there was no like no you
know I didn't have to go underneath my
desk as a kid right the generation that
came before me did and the generation
before them did and that's why this had
some resonance there was a Red Scare
here but not that happened 20 years 25
you know a 10 years before I was born
and also not only did he say bad words
them I mean that there was a period of
time seems like I know that you would
know way better than me but it seems
like in the 80s and not I mean yes by
the second half of the Iranian
administration the you know Gorbachev
and Reagan or cut Arsenal's they're
negotiating deals the guy does a pizza
hut right not that many years later
right so I mean this is just like again
it's the same thing as we used to talk
about with with Barack Obama and Chicago
politics nobody knows what that means
nobody knows what that means
can I also just say it is what I mean
I'm sorry obviously I'm totally in the
tank for Bernie but like when is the
last time you have a candidate on
national television saying incidentally
all these dumb got you questions let me
not only defend myself but maybe I'll
use it as an example to highlight the
fact that you never cover a genocide
that the United States supporting right
now in the Middle East and you know
Bernie does a lot of that and I also you
know anti-abortion activists noted on
Twitter the other day that Bernie's
campaign is sending out fundraisers to
soup
actual grassroots local groups fighting
this stuff in places like Alabama and
they're doing strike support yep they're
doing strike support for grad students
everywhere they go and they always
foreground local I mean they had anti
gentrification activists in Chicago was
one of his opening speakers it is a
truly intersectional campaign but he
could get hammered in tickled but I Got
News for you what do you Amelia
that's the charity of people who
understand the hammer and sickle they're
just not gonna vote for the Democrat
regardless they're not gonna vote
because they're they're a woman or
they're not gonna vote because they're
gonna be too friendly to the blacks or
whatever it is I mean the to the extent
that you're gonna lose any people over
the hammer and sickle it is it is not a
cohort that is in play ya know people
whose brains have been poisoned by Fox
News think every Democrat is a communist
