[Music]
folks Sean Spicer has had a very rough
go of things ever since he was the
spokesperson now to be fair I think Erik
Bullard has actually had some bowling
Eric Eric bowling has actually had some
some difficulty right I mean lost his
son so I do have some sympathy for him
it only goes so far but Sean Spicer I
have no sympathy for and so this is fun
to watch these guys assess like first
off where are they oh they're in trouble
Bobby I see okay now and see the glass
there's no Braille so it's not that well
Sean Spicer tried to distance himself
from the whole Trump administration
thing and then he did it work he
couldn't get a TV I can't get a job and
now he's now he's trying to do the
opposite in this clip whole time yeah he
said when you come back to the White
House and I told them I said very
clearly mr. president I love you I love
this White House but you never get me
back what's next for Sean Spicer you can
go to Sean Spicer calm and I I'm having
a fun time oh wait a second let's go to
Sean Spicer dot-com shall we
I'm curious what is that Sean Spicer
calm Spacek let's see what's next for
Sean Spicer that hub of imploded message
we can download podcasts we could buy
the briefing check out recent media here
I'm gonna go down to this I need to
start selling briefings there is here is
on Virginia I use on Fox News talking
about Virginia's Democratic leadership
but not as a contributor there's a come
well it's hmm you can buy the book oh
this poor son of a yeah download
podcasts let's see what we got here this
is a different one than
sigh if you don't know what's in the
rest of this club Wow he's gonna what
okay let's keep going it's a it's a
bodega boy spin-off fun time I went down
and talked to Glenn I've talked to you a
bunch hey wait I'm I'm walkin true story
I'm walking through the airport I'm
coming back from Charleston you come
back from DC a from DC a but I was in we
were in we were in it was seven below in
Ohio came back to DC a days showing I
coming back and I'm like oh your ball
laying down the hallway spite were we
you were in a like I was like a client
mean he's yelling at you and you barely
recognize me and you're like oh you're
behind a rock I'm like what spice you
need you like a velvet rope I love it I
love velvet it feels good feel free look
at that's good I never knew that target
had good clothes like that all right so
so do we keep showing for the tweets we
have any tweets we have some pictures
that was a real burn yeah he didn't like
that do we know this is beautiful don't
want to see this nothing like watching
these guys slur at each other and say
nothing feels good how's Kanye look look
I'm having fun feel free look at that's
good I never knew that target had good
clothes like that all right
so so do we keep Shawn for the tweets we
have any tweets we have some pictures
some pics can we do it I know he's got
to go
Armani yeah after the party watching
back in bowling make America great again
you have another one give us another one
pretty good stuff watching so to Big
Spring
oh man that guy looks like a wide shot
guy Dwight shot by shot this place is
crazy here the place is packed
so to live from by the way the blaze
Groupon that you offered you know it's
not blaze Groupon let's be honest it's
bowling group ladies tv.com slash SOTU
you get 20%
it was ice bowling Groupon free drinks
at the hotel but you know you want you
know you want it on this bike I believe
that I definitely believe that oh also I
gave foggy drink vouchers I've got a TV
Eric not only should people not have to
watch that on TV that a conversation
should not ever exude what are you
talking about that is some of the best
right-wing media that I see years and I
have to watch this garbage every day I
feel bad for the for the for the sport
jackets in that conversation just that
they actually had to like exist within
the two of them how it was awesome down
to the it's Armani after like several
seconds of resisting it's funny I'm not
gonna go for the bait I'm not gonna go
for the bait I'm not it's our money also
I want you guys to know Sean Spicer's
podcast is called everything's going to
be alright
presented without comedy with Katie
Pavlich a lot of meaning in that for
everybody
Katie pavlikov she's the one who ate the
best like the exes she she used to go
out with that guy Brandon got it Darby
or something like there it is though it
is nice though however to see that Sean
Spicer has to drink so heavily and he's
returned to you know conceding that he
is what he is what a
