[Music]
and Shapiro is having a little bit of a
spasm and this is a this is a very much
I I don't like that quote actually my
answer is my feelings don't care about
your facts because our facts don't
matter has I mean just uh yeah
the next don't matter which Oscar rod
was another guy yeah Oh Oscar I was a
super facts don't matter guy which is
why it was such a great writer so The
Economist and they've actually deleted
the tweet um but there is no sunscreen
yeah you know put that up Brennan says
inside the mind of Ben Shapiro the
alt-right sage without the rage and I
haven't actually looked at the piece yet
but then Ben Shapiro says The Economist
this is a vial I not only am I not
alright I am probably their leading
critic on the right I was the number one
target of their hate in 2000 in 2016
according to ADL data IRA man I demand a
retraction and being source of their
hate huh yeah no he was the number one
target over there hate I mean if we want
to get into data he was also the number
one guy that the one of the mosque
students I think the one I forget mass
shooting in Canada he was one of his top
Twitter search for Pierre a fan but the
other thing that's getting your bag been
that's a fact that's just a fact we're
just talking about facts here yes
this is a day after it was revealed that
the Christchurch killer was a donating
to identitarian movements in Austria
sort of connected to you know uh well
Brittany Pettibone is one of the women
who was on it there she is with stefan
molyneux the britney Pettibone is
connected to martin cylinder one of the
leaders of it he is an austrian
identitarian and they actually raided
his house so i don't know the state of
things now but he was actually there was
at least some form of initial
investigation I think what's confirmed
so far is the guy the shooter donated
money to them right now he wasn't
arrests or anything but I believe they
exported we're looking for things yeah
but if you look through this is a nice
thread by Becca Lewis here who
just connects all the different people
who've been platforming this and
wouldn't you know that Lauren southern
who's also connected there she is with
Dave Rubin and some other guy I don't
actually know who that is and it's like
a Dave Rubin parody whoever that guy is
but that's fun look what we have here
the daily wire has actually hosted
southern several times Andrew Klavan
another show host on the network has
also had her on as has the head of the
network ben shapiro she seems to be a
favorite there there's a Ben Shapiro
discussing with Lauren southern is
America on the verge of a mental
breakdown hmm I wonder which way in
which people they discovered there so
maybe it was an interview where Ben
talked about how dangerous it was to
promote xenophobia and racism I'm
guessing that or took her to task very
hard Chuck her to task very hard we're
only gonna have you on six other times
on my network I take you to task here so
and the economist did eventually
backtrack and said we apologize they
call them like a conservative or
something now but bench bureaus like in
other words if you label me outright
 you and the horse you rode in on
Jesus nice as herb yes I'm really glad
to see a revival in the word herb yeah I
actually don't think the economist was
wrong to call Ben Shapiro alt right I
mean you could technically say maybe
he's out light because he's a conduit to
the out right yeah but I think we're
splitting hairs there after you know a
number of like actual killings racist
Killians of killers have cited this sort
of know where his main spin when he quit
Breitbart over Trump and I don't read I
remember he hated banning and God knows
like yeah that's the thing he's like I
wrote this thing against banning it and
who knows why what the real beef was I
mean maybe it was sincere but I don't
take anything that means people say a
face value but a big part of his spear
of his excuse me of his spin was Andrew
Breitbart would never do this Andrew
Breitbart the founder of Breitbart news
the spreader of the Acorn lie a guy who
was in the heart
of every racist conspiracy about Obama I
guess with the exception I don't think
he I think he was careful about not
getting too involved in birtherism but
I'm sure it was a conduit for it on that
site Andrew Breitbart it was just a pure
extremist media hustler he would have
liked after a career of lies about Obama
and socialist conspiracy theories would
have been like oh you know a tabloid
figure running like a troll campaign for
president with money at stake yeah this
is the time right I have a conscience
all that would happen if I am quite sure
that if Ben Schiff Andrew Breitbart was
still alive ben shapiro probably would
be working for him and wouldn't have had
his fake anti-trump phase this is the
mosque shooter info yeah the list of
Twitter profiles visited by Quebec City
mass killer in weeks leading up to the
shooting it's interesting I don't know
how they tell how many times he visited
there maybe his search or internet
history but right at the top of the list
Ben Shapiro the editor in chief for The
Daily wire and animated tour of the
bench Bureau show that's weird also John
Nolte up there at a third Breitbart
author of The Daily wire of Ben Shapiro
Tucker Carlson mmm Fox News founder of
The Daily Caller this guy was really
intellectually curious yeah I mean he
also goes you know more explicit racist
as Richard Spencer there but yeah that's
actually funny because in a way that's
actually a pretty good that's sort of
how it works right like you get a little
Shapiro little Carlson that's your main
and then we start moving then we get
then we get some I mean it's it's
jumbled up but I actually liked that
trajectory Shapiro Carlson Spencer Duke
that makes sense to me yeah I mean I
think that that's how the pipeline in
theory works right like you have these
bigger media figures and then you have
this were the intellectual dark web well
what ideas are really hidden here I
guess we're gonna have to like follow
all these different people you've had on
your shows right you're exposing me to
Lauren southern because presumably she's
part of this intellectual dark web as
well these ideas were just being hidden
from
like maybe ideas about Muslim birth
rates and that sort of thing right yeah
I mean this is a it's a it's so obvious
and I think more stuff is only gonna
happen or is it gonna out because this
close of the jerk encirclement all right
let's do one more piece of sound I want
to play this and then like we will end
soon but um are we may break the third
wall here oh we tight okay cool
Oh what is gab it's the intellectual
dark web that's exactly what it is know
it like literally is gab is like this is
where we go to be right yes exactly
right
I want to play this appeal from the
United Nations
