we had a listener who sent in let's play
this kids pretty funny listener Brian
let's say is a whole name but sent in a
video as you know we have an ongoing
challenge with steven crowder and oh
yeah here it is a Brian McAllister he
shot this this or he edited this video
here it is like to think that I mean
it's really hard to get leftist guests
on our show that's just reality we try
and book them doesn't think there's a
rape culture I usually do try and get
into an engagement of ideas ideas
Crowder interesting you know now that
we're talking about steven crowder three
or four months ago I was invited to
Politico
when they asked me if I would come I
said yeah I will if I can debate someone
now of course I threw out Dave Rubin and
I was told that he's not coming
competition started kicking in and so I
said Crowder and the people like great
and it all looked good and I was told
that steven crowder literally stopped
responding to their emails pretty sure
the quote was somebody got cold feet
I am issuing you a challenge to debate I
will host you on anytime any platform
any way to debate really the question
that steven crowder should ask is Alexa
is do I have the fortitude a cedar no
you are not courageous enough to the
face of middle-aged Jew who likes facts
and figures you are a coward Steven I
know you are watching or hearing this
and everybody else knows it too there's
no way you're not aware that I've issued
this challenge now you knew it was
coming when you backed out a politican
because you were afraid of debating me
and here it is Steven we'll see you soon
maybe I'm speaking out of turn here but
you can where you're not gay t-shirt and
you can have an opening statement right
you'll let him have the opening
statement I'm assuming oh sure
that's fantastic
you got to respond though you're done I
mean look it doesn't hear that Stephen
Crowder is pretending like he's not
aware of this and I know that he is
aware of this I I out of respect for
someone who knows that he's aware of
this and does not want me to let's just
put it this way I know that he's aware
of this and he is just pretending like
he's not seeing it and that's the plan
so here is my my trying to address
members of Stephens audience look you've
admired this guy he has claimed to be
out there you know wanting to debate
ideas and he goes to college campuses
and you know finds 19 20 year-olds who
are who are young and still forming
their opinions and and probably not
adept at the the issues understandably I
don't think that I was at 19 or 20 I
don't know if Stephen was maybe he was
maybe he was but you as an audience
member
more than anyone else you would want to
see Stephen hand it to me in a debate
embarrass me show how much change your
mind maybe change my mind
in his parlance it is very important
that you tweet at Stephen you can tweet
it both of us and say it's time for a
debate and so because I don't want you
as an audience member of Stephens to
watch him and every time you watch him
you think why is this guy running from
Sam cedar what what is he really just
full of it is he really that afraid I
don't want to ruin your experience of
Stephen in that way and now when you
watch him
you'll probably be thinking that and I
want that to end I want you to be able
to watch steven crowder and feel proud
about it instead of feeling like you're
watching something dirty because if
you're gonna watch if you're gonna feel
like you watch something dirty you might
as well watch something dirty
instead of that so I'm sorry that is my
that is my interesting lane there well
that's I just I just don't want to ruin
the experience of watching steven
crowder
when his audience will have to know the
guy is sort of a fraud so implore steven
crowder to respond to my challenge just
watch porn thank you
