oh this is a fun story that I think is
gonna cheer people up it's really breaks
my heart
daily beast reports that Megan McCain is
feeling like an exhausted defeated caged
animal and she may exit the view this is
this type of deep platforming is just
reprehensible Megan McCain is seriously
considering calling it quits and not
accepting ABC's offer to return for the
views 23rd season next September ah it
leads me to believe maybe she's not
getting offered a return invitation
she's just too annoying to work with for
the people who actually got there with
some merit but the other I mean just it
is just incredible cam is actually
amazing she's incredible yeah I have to
finally admit it like she has an anti
sense I mean only she could a week after
being like I know that's like really bad
what's happening at the border but to
call him concentrate when you call him
torture chambers which first of all it's
a fine thing to call them torture
chambers but actually nobody was doing
so she made up a thing that nobody was
doing to bring up her dad who's the sole
source of her narcissistic trust fund
baby existed to condemn people saying
something they weren't saying about
children actually died in custody only
she could have been a couple of days
later be like you know getting paid
millions of dollars a day to do a daily
review show or occasionally I get
critiqued for being an unbelievable
narcissistic it's like being a
caged animal I finally found something
that you can compare to my dad's
treatment right Zak suits putting under
his fingernails having to have joy behar
criticized me for being an idiot and a
narcissist this is like geez amaze you
messes up my own Vietnam this this is
like my own personal Vietnam and
Donald Trump said that he at least he
said it with a degree of Howard Stern
style irony she means it
she is like the most demented person on
the planet apparently there are leaks
about the behavior that's going on there
according to sources close to the 34
year old McCain she's making something
under a million dollars a year under a
million dollars excuse me
all right so hard she emotionally
drained angry isolated feeling like
caged animals said one McCain intimate
thank you being intimate for that
language it's getting to the point where
it's not worth the emotional toll every
week said of McCain pal she doesn't stay
at the view she'll find other work hmm
Federalist I'm sorry Fred Federalists
had a women's talk show and made a show
come on audio are you at the Federalists
in contrast to her colleague I hate ya
who's sad who spends weekends in the
Hamptons McCain likes to spend her time
off at home in Arizona quote quote quote
hanging out in the creek doing jello
shots and shooting guns
adhering from real goddamn Americans
about why we need to keep those friggin
immigrants out of the country that's why
she gets so offended when joy calls them
racists apparently she's got a team
behind her and the team spends its time
making jello shots not well
not researching look it's cool she
shoots guns and does jello shots that's
the best part it's the best way they
make the jello shots they load the guns
and then apparently what they do is they
check the social media of all the other
co-hosts on the view because according
to the piece it did it didn't I it also
did not go unnoticed by team McCain that
sunny Hostin she is one of the other
hosts
began following cartoonist le valley
on twitter after he posted a grotesque
caricature of a crucifix wearing Megan
McCain in March lampooning her
supposedly hypocritical support for the
Jewish people in the State of Israel
McCain herself tweeted at Valley this is
one of the most anti-semitic things I've
ever seen also this reveals so much more
about you than it does me Megan McCain
you okay that that's a pretty revealing
cartoon Wow I would say even more
revealing than the cartoon is the fact
that she has a team of people who are
checking on her co-hosts to see who they
follow on social media now I have a
revelation to make and it's arguably a
bit of admission one Michael I know that
you follow steven crowder I tried to but
he can funny
aggressive voices you got to stop that I
definitely thought I loved progressive
voices I thought his critique brand and
Asian style was persuasive Brendan
you've been following Rob Morrow
yep Rob Morrow was the star of what was
the name of that show shoot Northern
Exposure yeah Northern Exposure
and I really resent that who's mad
following certain of it
no Matt's following the official Yankees
team Twitter thing and I don't
appreciate that either
whooping strip spread pocket could you
imagine the the level of self-control it
would take as one of her co-hosts not
favorite this oh my god follow yeah I
think I mean even if you didn't think it
was accurate and funny and instantly I
think it is both accurate and funny just
knowing it's the pits the principal the
story yesterday
if you favorited this the comedic value
of the meltdown would be immeasurable I
this is what I would do if I was on that
show I would favored it and then I would
come in and I would say Megan I wanted
you to know I'm sorry I accidentally
favored that and I don't know how to
unfavorite it I can't figure out how to
unfavorite it I tried and I don't know
if I lost reception or if i retweeted or
what and I try was unfavored to get the
way to get please accept my sincerest
apologies and then I would do it again
with another critique of her and going
and apologize and somewhere I would just
measure like at what point is she gonna
realize like I am NOT being sincere like
at what point does what you're doing
become what happened to my father John
McCain he was my father in Vietnam it's
the same thing there's no children in
concentration camps offensive I have to
say cartoon by Elia Valley
basically the same thing as the
Holocaust which my father learned to
care about and Joe Lieberman so as you
know guys this is really hard for me
 she is up there she's absolutely
one of the worst people on earth it's
amazing she is one of those like meeting
points of everything wrong she needs
this job yes what is she gonna do
surrounded what's this time to do what
ya been Dominic what you gonna do after
this dominoes she'll get she'll find a
job on some what's CNN they'll keep high
you know it's it's in two I mean Paul I
mean she could just do jello shots all
day send out tweets about her dad or
something the worst type of like it
could be is literally the worst well
yeah
continuous is all just one play to get
more money out of them because I think
they love her well she makes a little is
funny is like I know you have years of
her as like someone who's not good but
just gets nepeta nepotism and now and I
was saying this last week like into a
specific media environment she's great
for viral content because she's so
repulsive so she's actually got like the
best selling point now because she's a
heel right right no it's like
it's it's wrestling
