[Music]
all right let's get back to some of the
clips we didn't play this yesterday
Katey Porter part of the freshman class
of Democrats who are have entered into
the the house and are kicking some ass
frankly here is Katey Porter talking to
Jamie Dimon at the House Financial
Services Committee and basically
particularly at a time where three point
six billion dollars they have made from
the Trump tax cuts in 2018
here's Katie Porter basically saying to
Jamie Dimon how can you possibly justify
anything about you I apologize you're
gonna need to follow early she had 24
2425 dollars a month she rents a
one-bedroom apartment she and her
daughter sleep together in the same room
in Irvine California that average one
better apartment is going to be $1,600
she spends $100 on utilities take away
the 1,700 and she has net seven hundred
and twenty-five dollars she's like me
she's a 2008 minivan and has ass four
hundred dollars for car expenses and gas
net 325 the Department of Agriculture
says a low cost food budget that is
ramen noodles a low food budget is $400
that leaves her 77 dollars in the red
she has a crooked cellphone cheapest
cell phone she can get for $40 she's in
the red one hundred and seventeen
dollars a month she's after school child
care because the bank is open during
normal business hours that's 450 a month
that takes her down to negative five
hundred and sixty-seven dollars per
month my question for you mr. Dimon is
how should she manage this budget
shortfall while she's working full-time
at your bank
I
don't know that or ignore accurate that
number they start is it generally a
starter job she is a starting employee
she has a six year old child this is her
first job you get their jobs at a high
school she may have my job one day she
named it mr. diamond she doesn't have
the ability right now to spend your
thirty-one million dollars wholly
sympathetic you short 567 what would you
suggest you do would you recommend that
she take out a JPMorgan Chase credit
card and run a deficit would you
recommend that she overdraft at your
bank and be charged over no fees so I
know you have a lot loved to call up and
have a conversation better financial
affairs and see if you can find a way
for her to live on less than the minimum
that I've described well I appreciate
your desire to be helpful but what I'd
like you to do is provide a way for
families to make ends meet
so the little kids who are six years old
living in a one-bedroom apartment with
their mother aren't going hungry at
night because they're 567 dollars short
from feeding themselves clothing that we
allowed no money for clothing we love no
money for school lunches we allowed no
money for field trips no money for
medical no money for prescription drugs
nothing she's short $567 all day mr.
Dimon you know how to spend 31 million
dollars a year in salary and you can't
figure out how to make up a five hundred
and sixty-seven dollar a month shortfall
this is a budget problem you cannot
solve because she does get full medical
we pay 90% of it we also view you know
deductible there's a deductible but for
people doing their wellness programs
okay we give to people making under
$60,000 a year at $750 account and
effectively they have no deductible
that's why I didn't let me medical and
mr. diamond I read that in your
shareholder report that's why I didn't
include any medical expenses but she's
still short five hundred and sixty-seven
dollars as are all of your employees in
Irvine al for you any ideas okay
awkward super awkward I love that oh
she's like yes that's why I I'm even
giving you the most generous read you
psychopath right how did numbers gonna
work they when he comes in saying I'd
like to come in and see her finances are
you s re I keep swearing are you
kidding me that's like that when when
Dennis Miller wanted to have like
anybody on welfare
exactly anybody who pays in income taxes
should get their own welfare person that
they get to like lord it over and make
sure they're spending money I'd like to
see if she buys her child like a candy
bar once every two weeks like where are
the expenses here that we can clearly
she's the undeserving poor feeding her
child a candy bar I love the idea too
that he his first response is well
someday she could be where I am now
first off the chances of her being where
he is just generically speaking
obviously rather low for anybody because
there's not that many people who can be
the CEO but never mind the fact that if
you were to factor in the fact that she
is a woman it becomes even a smaller but
the real point is is that if she is
running a six thousand dollar annual
deficit which would be theoretically
financed by something that's gonna
charge her interest she is just going to
get deeper and deeper into a hole so the
way that people work their way up
through society to the extent that
there's any mobility left is to have the
ability to take a chance on certain
things but as a single mother with a
child your chances your ability to take
risks are severely inhibited your your
the incentive for you to take risks the
costs of you taking risks are are much
higher because you have a child that
you're supposed to take care of you're
the sole breadwinner on top of that the
idea that you would be that much in the
hole also inhibits your ability to take
risk
and so it's just it is talk about like
the last refuge right for a scoundrel oh
she gave her as he you know she gave him
an incredibly serious disturbing
question which exemplifies how
everything works in this country and his
answer was basically an online
university ad right
well Katie Porter laid it out very
clearly the way that they take risks and
what Jamie Dimon wants you to do is to
take out a line of credit which you will
then be charged interest on so he gets
to double dip first by not paying his
employees enough to live on and then by
getting the charges when they take out
credit or have overdraft fees it's
basically like the company in the
company store right and I got it is an
upward redistribution of wealth from
that that same House Financial Services
Committee a Jana Presley also new member
of the Democratic the member of the
freshman class of Democrats coming out
of the Boston area
she asked Jamie Dimon or I guess is this
directed directly at diamond well here
she makes the point about banks and
their enormous fee structure which just
sucks money out of people this is
another good reason why we need postal
banking but I'm not going to get on that
hobby horse here's a jana presently
moving one i want to quickly touch on
another issue hurting our communities
while many banks have chosen to forego
overdraft fees Bank of America Chase and
Citigroup still cling to these practices
mr. Corbyn would you say that overdraft
fees are
core function of your banking business
another not mr. Moynahan are you aware
of what percentage your total revenue in
2018 came from these fees in overdraft
fees yes probably less than percent okay
so if the answer is less than a percent
or two percent but for a family of my
district hit with a series of overdraft
fees that is the difference between a
tailspin and getting by so your bank's
pay billions and fines dismissively and
you have convinced yourselves and
overdraft fees that make up less than 2%
of your revenue are essential to bank
operations if you can write off billions
of fines at the cost of simply doing
businesses power overdraft fees anything
other than an ideological tool to simply
further punish the poor I'm appreciative
of what you've shared here today
relative to your community programs and
development funds but this does not
shield you from criticism about
discriminatory lending or the fact that
many of you continue to practice to put
into practice overdraft fees further
punishing the poor you too could be a
CEO
congresswoman well someday I hope that
you could be a cog of a you know bank
executive and sit over here and see what
it's like to lose 1% of your your gross
revenue we have got some major bonuses
so 3.6 billion dollars and it's not just
an ideological tool either like it's
very practical and material as a tool
because when poor people are emitted
they are much easier to take advantage
of and that's he knows that I would also
imagine that I would also be very
curious to look at how many of how many
unique people get those overdraft
charges because I suspect that if you're
starting to pay
a extra fees for your overdrafts the
likelihood of you overdrafting in the
future goes up so in some respects it's
like we're creating our own market we
get them once with the overdraft fee's
we have I'm sure they have some type of
data on what the incidence of overdraft
fee's after you've charged the first set
of overdraft fees yeah it's exactly what
elizabeth warren was talking about in
her campaign ad when she says you know
these aren't cracks people are falling
through these are traps right indeed
now Katie Porter man she's really uh you
know she doesn't have the same you know
media attention as an L on Omar and AOC
but she's uh she's doing really good
work there
Equifax a couple weeks ago she's really
coming through lastly from that same
House Financial Services Committee
Cindy ACK ACKs Nate from Indiana in Iowa
is in Iowa she is basically asking Jamie
Dimon like how can you justify lowering
capital requirements when we are you
know ten years out from a massive
meltdown in the financial sector largely
because banks like yours were over
leveraged further you have said in your
annual letter that your biggest issue is
with g-sib capital requirements what I'm
assuming you'd like those to be lower
correct they should be properly done so
you think the level is too high or too
low what are you saying what was too
because America just gold-plated it and
changed a bunch of rules to make it
harder so it should be so and that would
mean you would want it to be lower so if
those were lower what would you use that
capital for I agree
that companies should invest grow their
businesses and their people customers
products or that is the number one
preserve company I don't like buying
back stock I prefer to invest when you
can't use capital in the short run
excuses to mention though you said in
your letter to shareholders that you had
excess capital this is reclaiming my
time for next year you said your letter
to shareholders that you had excess
capital and that's why you're doing
buybacks because you had excess capital
do you explain to them that you were
using that excess capital to put more
money in the pockets of shareholders
it's a short run but as we are growing
and expanding the Florida branch they're
probably coming to Iowa or expanding
small business lending which brings
about every business we have we are
starting to use that capital and over
time I'm hoping with any excess claiming
my time it just doesn't sound like
you'll be investing that capital and
making more loans or investing in your
firm it sounds to me like you're asking
for lower capital requirements which
would increase the risk to the economy
and of course to our taxpayers just so
you can buy back more stock so I briefly
just like to say that you know we've
heard a lot from banks like yours that
we can just relax this regulation or
just that capital requirement because
we're all in better shape right now but
we're not talking just about one
regulation here we've talked about
capital levels today but I didn't even
mention now the banks have to prepare
their full resolution plans just once
every four years or the way our stress
tests have been weakened so it's not
just one area and I'd like to remind
everybody the purpose of this hearing is
to look back on the past ten years and I
hope that we don't see that happen again
I'm looking out for Iowans I love the
fact that the guy is like look you can't
hold me to the lives I've told my
shareholders or in other words you can't
a congresswoman you have no idea how
difficult my job is where I have to
pretend one thing to you when I am
publicly bound when I'm bound by law to
publicly tell my shareholders you know
what's really going on that
a tough I'm having a threaded needle
here and you don't seem to have any
appreciation for that I'm talking to you
not my shareholders I would so much love
if he just got indignant was like look
I've got to be honest with my
shareholders so that makes it very
difficult for me to come here in front
of you you don't seem to appreciate any
of that you don't have any empathy and
incidentally you know what even though
you've been a total bench I would like
to say I think that you too one day
could become the CEO of a bank so there
oh i thought liberals were really
tolerant and said oh I think that's your
job I thought you were interested in
hearing my ideas clearly bigoted against
persons of means but I mean this is this
is the what this is the big lie that we
hear about these first of all like he's
arguing that the capital he wants to
lower the capital requirements so that
the bank can invest more and buy invest
more what he means is loan more get more
money back on loans and or essentially
go out and I guess because we haven't
created a firewall between their
commercial and their financial services
invest in by derivatives and whatnot
leverage themselves more gamble more
essentially with the money that
supposedly creates the stability for the
institution and we have seen time and
time again when you give corporations
particularly in this environment more
money all they do is juice their stock
value by doing stock buybacks same thing
happened with the big tax repatriation
that was supposed to we was supposed to
create all sorts of new jobs we're gonna
lower their tax rates taking money from
overseas and they all just do stock
buybacks and why do they do that because
Jamie Dimon it's fellow c-suite
executives the Board of Directors they
all have big compensation packages
that are directly a function of the
value of the stock and the reason why
they do that too is because they also
when they get paid in their own stock or
any stock for that matter their tax
rates even lower because it is subject
to the capital gains tax as opposed to
the the wage tax and so we've created
this this perverse incentive for them to
juice their stock values because it's
really just their side business that's
the way they get paid yep all signs
point to us heading for another crash it
certainly doesn't help that there were
very few meaningful restrictions and
regulations imposed on Wall Street after
the last one the silver lining is that
maybe if it happens under a president
Bernie or president Warren they might
actually nationalize the banks or take
other steps that they would need to do
in that situation well the thing is I
don't know that anyone knows right now
what the systemic risks are I don't
think you know we have a a clear
understanding of where that's growing
yet and it's it's growing somewhere it's
like you know in it's like in a dark
closet there's like mushrooms and fungus
growing in the corner we just don't know
it yet don't quite have the smell of
that but inevitably inevitably
something's going to happen and the the
you know again it gets back to that
conversation I was having with these
finance guys the other night it's just
the regulation you can you can try and
do the regulation from a surgical level
but inevitably when you try and get that
nuanced industry comes in and blows your
ability to do that out of the water so
there has to be some broad-based and
like you say Jamie nationalize the banks
maybe broad legislation that
puts up a firewall so that you cannot
stay in and this is what you hear every
time about the 21st century
glass-steagall Act it would not have
prevented the failure of the banks and
that is true but what it would have done
would have sequestered the damage
there's only so much you can do about
bubbles and crashes oh yeah they're
endemic to capitalism but what you can
do is create firewalls like you know
there's only so much you can do about
the fire risk in a building but the idea
is that we have metal doors in big
buildings that are kept shut and that
they're kept shut for a specific reason
so that there are you are maintaining
aggresses and you are able to contain
fires and that's the whole point of a
21st century Glass Steagall is so that
you are making sure that if corporations
want to go out financial entities want
to go out and gamble till 3:00 in the
morning they're not doing it with the
the kids college savings where'd you
pull that reference from I don't know I
have no idea where I got very evocative
metaphor firewalls anyway moving over on
[Applause]
[Music]
